

1201 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Europe Braces for a Shift in the Arts

BYLINE: By ROSLYN SULCAS

 BODY:
LONDON burns as disenfranchised youth loot and smash windows. Outside the Greek Parliament, the police, brandishing shields, confront screaming protesters. Tens of thousands camped in Madrid's Puerta del Sol square demonstrate against the soaring unemployment rate.
These are some of the images emblazoned across newspapers and televisions over the last weeks, painting this European summer as a season of outrage and mayhem, an ominous portent of sweeping economic and social change. But life, and art, went on. At the 10,000-seat Epidaurus Ancient Theater, performances of the Bridge Project's ''Richard III,'' starring Kevin Spacey, sold out. The Athens Festival, which presented the show, saw its tickets sales increase by 24 percent over last year, and the Barcelona Festival too found its audiences unexpectedly larger, while in France the Avignon, Montpellier and Aix-en-Provence Festivals were as large-scale and popular as ever. 
Perhaps, as a number of festival and theater directors hypothesized in recent conversations, people turn to art in difficult times. But, as they also soberly acknowledged, there is no doubt that the current crises that beset Europe are going to have a major effect on the arts. State support for culture -- long posited as a taxpayer's right, like decent roads or health care -- is showing distinct signs of erosion, with a move toward the American fund-raising model, which suggests that art is a luxury to be paid for by those to whom it matters.
It's no coincidence that this shift comes at a time of ballooning budget deficits, with governments trying to cut costs in every sector. The influence on the arts is likely to be profound and reach beyond Europe.
In conversations with artistic directors in Europe and the United States about the consequences of these changes, excerpted below, common themes emerged. Everyone is on wait-and-see tenterhooks; no one thinks art is going away.
YORGOS LOUKOS, artistic director, Athens and Epidaurus Festival
A few years ago, when things were starting to look difficult in Greece, I said to the minister of culture, let's cancel if we don't have the money. He said, no, we can't start closing things down. I think they understand that the festival makes a good impression, it shows that the country is functioning. We get about $10.4 million from the government, and we made $5.3 million in ticket sales, which goes back into the budget. There was big insecurity this year because we didn't know if we'd get the subsidies and when, and it was difficult to know how to engage people and pay them. I felt people would be poorer than the previous year, but we sold 35,000 more tickets; I think people go to the arts more than usual during a crisis. I didn't cut back artistically: we had 30 theater performances, 12 dance, lots of music, exhibitions, and the whole of Greece went crazy for Kevin Spacey. The ministry has promised they'll have the money for next year.
JOSEPH V. MELILLO, executive producer, Brooklyn Academy of Music
The impact of this economic situation is going to be felt in the 2012-13 season. If I had a metaphorical barometer and put it out there, what it would register is insecurity. People don't know if they are going to have the money, and they can't make commitments. What it means is that basic business practices that have existed in our field might not continue to exist in the same way. If the Spanish government was going to contribute airfares to our budget for a Spanish company, I can't assume now that this will happen. We will have to fund-raise more because the cost of presenting global art will be more. But the worst thing that could happen is that we retreat from providing the international community access here.
ALISTAIR SPALDING, chief cxecutive and artistic director, Sadler's Wells
When you go to Italy and Spain, you start to see how the economic situation is affecting the arts directly. In Britain, we get less government support to start with, and that's generally down, but all your other areas -- box office, fund-raising -- are under strain too. It's important for us to be part of a mutual support system between certain venues around the world that can share the costs. But that's going to get harder, because the number of theaters or festivals that can do that will shrink as budgets get put under pressure. The challenge is not to be conservative in terms of content, because it's the new that excites people, not a feeling of safety.
JONATHAN MILLS, director and chief executive, Edinburgh International Festival
I think there is a sense of apprehension about the inevitably diminished role that places like the United States and Europe might be playing in the world, but that discussion is almost exclusively defined in economic terms. The arts will always be the victim of such shortsighted thinking. I'm working with a festival that was an expression, after the Second World War, of a need to build a community, and in Scotland we are very well served by a government that understands the role that culture plays. They are doing everything they can; we get $8.2 million from the city of Edinburgh and the Scottish government, and for next year it hasn't been cut. What will affect us is that there was an inbuilt subsidy for a lot of European organizations. If an orchestra has its funds cut, it will charge more for touring, and fewer people will want to tour them. There's a knock-on effect that is very worrying.
RICARDO SZWARCER, director, Grec Festival of Barcelona
We had 5 percent cuts in salary and 25 percent budget cuts over the last two years; this year [the budget] was around $3.5 million for artistic, $5.75 million including other costs, most of which comes from the city of Barcelona. The crisis isn't over, it's just beginning to have an effect, and although this was my last year as director, it seems obvious to me that they'll have to reduce the duration of the festival, which is about seven weeks. I don't believe that the arts is a different system to anything else; people have to adjust to a different way of doing things.
SIMON DOVE, co-curator, Crossing the Line Festival, French Institute Alliance Francaise
The biggest issue here is the creation of work. There was an implicit understanding in Europe that you need to put money into the research and development part of culture. Now what's happening, most recently in the Netherlands, is that the big structures keep the resources because that provides a public illusion of culture. One of the premises of Crossing the Line was to develop an infrastructure for artists to develop work, and we've been looking for places in Europe for U.S. artists. Now we are seeing the inverse; requests from European artists to come and work [in the United States]. You are going to see artists working in emerging economies like China, Australia, Brazil, Russia. That is of great interest to presenters. It will change our notion of what is culturally relevant.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Sylvie Guillem at Sadler's Wells in London in 2010. Above, a scene from the Crossing the Line Festival in New York, featuring the troupe Faustin Linyekula. Despite a weak economy, many arts festivals have seen an increase in ticket sales. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LESLEY LESLIE-SPINKS
 AGATHE POUPENEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); THEATER (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); ATHENS, GREECE (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (91%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (94%); GREECE (92%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011



1202 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Playing Ball With the Universe

BYLINE: By MATT WEILAND. 
Matt Weiland is a book editor at Ecco and the editor, with Sean Wilsey, of ''State by State: A Panoramic Portrait of America.''

 BODY:
Baseball is a sunshine sport, in essence a daytime game whenever it's played, but there is something of the night about it: a darkness that resonates in the deepest part of the American psyche. For the batter, of course, it's a game defined by failure most of time, but on a grander scale too our national pastime often seems free of what William James called our ''national disease'': the ''exclusive worship of the bitch-goddess success.'' Failure gives baseball its pleasing, melancholic tang; the boys of summer are always in ruin, after all, and the dirge of the Cubs forever drowns out the anthem of the Yankees. It seems somehow fitting that one of the worst diseases imaginable is named after one of the greatest baseball players. ''It breaks your heart,'' the former president of Yale and commissioner of Major League Baseball A. Bartlett Giamatti said of the game. ''It is designed to break your heart.'' 
Accordingly, the best novels about baseball have been tragedies, and they dramatize the way the game dashes hopes and muddles our self-/mythology. Amid all the rawhide, leather and ash, classic baseball fiction is full of disappointment, disillusion and disaster. Consider the murderer's row of Ring Lardner's ''You Know Me, Al'' (1916); John R. Tunis's ''Kid From Tomkinsville'' (1940); Bernard Malamud's ''Natural'' (1952); Mark Harris's ''Bang the Drum Slowly'' (1956); W. P. Kinsella's ''Shoeless Joe'' (1982); and Don DeLillo's novella ''Pafko at the Wall,'' which became the prologue to ''Underworld'' (1997): sad tales of broken bodies, broken hearts, broken dreams, broken people.
Next month brings the publication of Chad Harbach's highly touted baseball novel, ''The Art of Fielding,'' and many of us eagerly await its at-bat. In the meantime, one of the best baseball novels, Robert Coover's UNIVERSAL BASEBALL ASSOCIATION, INC., J. HENRY WAUGH, PROP.(Overlook, $14) is being reissued more than 40 years after it first appeared and 25 since it first knocked me out. No doubt I was a perfect mark: I was 16, played dice baseball and read sci-fi, and ''The Universal Baseball Association'' is the sex-drenched story of an accountant named J. Henry Waugh whose fantasy dice baseball game begins to overtake his real life. Waugh is a creator-god (''J. Henry Waugh,'' ''Yahweh'': Get it? Ah, the '60s . . . ), and the novel plays out apocalyptically over the course of the league's 56th season as a phenom named Damon Rutherford -- the son of Brock Rutherford, one of the league's stars in its early years -- tries to lead his team to the pennant.
Right from the start the book nearly matches ''On the Road'' for sheer electricity: ''Bottom half of the seventh, Brock's boy had made it through another inning unscratched, one! two! three! Twenty-one down and just six outs to go! and Henry's heart was racing, he was sweating with relief and tension all at once, unable to sit, unable to think, in there, with them! Oh yes, boys, it was on! He was sure of it! More than just another ball game now: history!'' To paraphrase that great fireballer Thomas Carlyle, this is the sound of the Everlasting Hot Damn, a trumpet call to life-affirmation, appetite and the great expectations of youth.
Coover made baseball on the page seem three-/dimensional, exulting in what he called the game's ''almost perfect balance between offense and defense.'' He captured what Philip Roth, in a 1973 New York Times essay on baseball, called ''its longueurs and thrills, its spaciousness, its suspensefulness, its heroics, its nuances, its lingo, its 'characters,' its peculiarly hypnotic tedium.'' (The jury is still out on whether Roth's own madcap baseball novel, ''The Great American Novel,'' does the same.) Coover even relished the baseball-ish names of the players he invented -- Swanee Law, Tuck Wilson, Hatrack Hines. The names were what gave the league ''its sense of fulfillment and failure, its emotion,'' Coover wrote. ''The dice and charts and other paraphernalia were only the mechanics of the drama, not the drama itself. . . . Call Player A 'Sycamore Flynn' or 'Melbourne Trench' and something starts to happen. He shrinks or grows, stretches out or puts on muscle. Sprays singles to all fields or belts them over the wall.'' That's as clear and convincing a dictum for an essential part of the novelist's art as anything in Flaubert.
Waugh takes obsessive care in shaping the verisimilitude of his invented game, a fanaticism that will be familiar to anyone who grew up playing dice-and-cards baseball games like APBA, Strat-O-Matic or Statis Pro. These are games that take the raw materials and events of the real world -- actual baseball players who perform in particular ways -- and seek, through a sort of organized chance, to more or less replicate them in the imagination. Why is it that for the smallest child, the height of pleasure lies in seeing the rules of the real world playfully subverted -- the toy elephant made to fly, the playground tree made to talk -- but as we grow older we find such pleasure in seeing rule-bound reality re-enacted onstage, in a book or in a dice baseball game?
Indeed, Waugh doesn't just tally the season's statistics. He maintains what he calls ''the Book'': some 40 volumes of official archives, in which he writes a narrative account of what is happening, day by day, in the league. ''Style varied,'' as Coover writes, ''from the extreme economy of factual data to the overblown idiom of the sportswriter, from the scientific objectivity of the theoreticians to the literary speculations of essayists and anecdotalists. There were tape-recorded dialogues, player contributions, election coverage, obituaries, satires, prophecies, scandals.'' His created world is fake but true to real life; it feels real, like . . . a good book.
The genius of the novel is in how Coover revels in the sun-bright vitality of the world Waugh has created, full of drink and lust and dirty limericks and doubles down the line -- and yet brings Waugh face to face with its darkest truths. Waugh may be the league's creator, but he is also its slave, and the U.B.A. is as messy and tragic as life. Players marry and break up, start dueling political parties, grow wrinkled and diseased, and die. The young phenom Rutherford is killed by a bean ball, and Waugh's growing obsession with the league in its aftermath costs him his job, perhaps even his life. By the end, Waugh virtually disappears into the game he imagined. The extraordinary Brad Holland illustration on the cover of an earlier edition, alas not used on Overlook's reissue, captures all of this perfectly: the image is of Waugh, at once pulling the strings of his creation (players, mitts and balls, a naked woman) and being horrifically ensnared in those same strings.
There is something terrifying about the U.B.A., but as with all tragedy it is a terror that once seen, and lived through, yields a stronger sense of being alive, a firmer grasp of just how much living there can be in talk or a walk to the corner store. Reading the book as a teenager I think I felt what Julian Barnes described, in ''Nothing to Be Frightened Of,'' as the ''vicious awareness that this is a rented world.'' Errors, even the grossest of them, are part of the game; the point of being alive, insofar as there is any point at all, is that messiness is all.
There may be a kind of madness in trying to build a perfectly real-seeming fake, but there is beauty too: the pleasure of seeing the world whole. That is the pitch all the best books, baseball or otherwise, throw. ''Making reality real,'' as Eudora Welty put it, ''is art's responsibility.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OFFICE OF PAUL SAHRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (79%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (56%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Universal Baseball Association, Inc., J. Henry Waugh, Prop. (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011



1203 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; RIFF; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 1818 words

HEADLINE: 'A Sense of Wonder and a Sense of Humor'

BYLINE: By ALEX PAPPADEMAS

 BODY:
One of the many things I've learned from watching the Science Channel documentary series ''Through the Wormhole With Morgan Freeman'' is that someday, maybe, quantum physics will tell us conclusively whether God exists. If that happens, we'll be able to put that question aside and devote ourselves full time to pondering the existence of Morgan Freeman. 
Here are some generally accepted, Google-verifiable facts about Morgan Freeman: He was born in Tennessee in 1937. He started acting young but made the transition from the New York stage to movies relatively late -- he didn't make his first credited feature-film appearance until 1971, when he was 34 and played a character called Afro in a Jack Klugman vehicle called ''Who Says I Can't Ride a Rainbow!'' By then, he was already on his way to becoming a TV star, albeit in the parallel universe of children's television, as part of the cast of the PBS program ''The Electric Company,'' the funkiest educational kids' show of all time. He was on that show from 1971 until 1977, which meant that throughout the blaxploitation era in Hollywood -- when many black actors of his generation found work playing pimps and hustlers out to stick it to the Man -- he was playing characters like Easy Reader, a bell-bottomed word hippie bridging the gap between Hendrix and Hooked on Phonics.
He has occupied a unique position in the universe of screen acting ever since. He did eventually play a pimp, in 1987's ''Street Smart,'' opposite Christopher Reeve, and garnered the first of five Academy Award nominations. (He has won once.) He said that, in a way, that pimp, Fast Black, was his favorite role, because it allowed him to access a part of himself on-screen that he has never been called upon to use again. Instead, he went on to more virtuous roles. He had a great 1989, playing a Civil War hero in ''Glory,'' the baseball-bat-wielding high-school principal Joe Clark in ''Lean on Me'' and Jessica Tandy's kindly chauffeur in ''Driving Miss Daisy.'' He described that last one as ''the big mistake,'' because although it got him an Oscar nomination, it also led to his being pigeonholed as Wise, Old and Dignified. As typecasting goes, that's a pretty benign box, particularly for an African-American actor, but it's still a box. ''Freeman could play Iago as easily as Othello,'' the critic David Thomson wrote. ''But can he expect that offer?''
Even Henry Fonda, with whom Freeman has often been compared, got to use his noble, serene screen presence against itself on occasion, like when he played a coldblooded villain in 1968's ''Once Upon a Time in the West.'' He kills kids! Nobody has found a way to use Freeman as effectively in a bad-guy part (see ''Wanted'' or ''Lucky Number Slevin.'' Or don't. Seriously, don't.) His IMDb page is a roll call of avuncular, tough-yet-benevolent authority figures -- generals, presidents, veteran police detectives; the director of the C.I.A.; Nelson Mandela; and, in ''Bruce Almighty'' and ''Evan Almighty,'' a wry, white-suited God. A couple of years ago, some Internet wags created a funny, instructive org chart of ''The Morgan Freeman Chain of Command,'' which power-ranked his major roles, from God to president (in ''Invictus,'' as Mandela, and in ''Deep Impact,'' where he was totally believable as a black chief executive 10 years pre-Barack Obama) on down to prison inmate (Red, in ''The Shawshank Redemption,'' the film that made Freeman a weekend-TBS omnipresence); freed slave (''Amistad'') and, at the bottom of the chain, Miss Daisy's driver. All these characters, regardless of their social standing, seemed equally noble because they were played by Morgan Freeman.
At this point, there's a little bit of God in everything Freeman does. It's as if he has transcended race by transcending human frailty. He seems less like an actor and more like an emissary from some higher, more decorous plane, which makes him the ideal host for a show like ''Through the Wormhole,'' a brisk and accessible primer on the various ways that today's way-out-there science is becoming indistinguishable from science fiction.
In the hands of a goofier host -- and let's face it, anyone other than Freeman would by definition be a goofier host -- the series could have been ''Ripley's Believe It or Not'' with string theory, or a bottomless can of mind-Pringles for freshman-dorm Castanedas. (Representative episode titles include ''Does Time Really Exist?'' and ''Beyond the Darkness''; presumably, the producers are saving ''Have You Ever Looked at Your Hand -- I Mean, Really Looked at It?'' and ''No, Seriously, What if Our Whole Reality Is Actually Just a Cat's Dream'' for next season.) And given that it's a show about math and particle physics and speculative neuroscience built around interviews with prominent academics, it could also have been as dry and airless as deep space.
Instead, it's the best pop-science TV show since Carl Sagan's ''Cosmos: A Personal Journey'' -- a whirlwind tour of the fourth dimension with a sense of wonder and a sense of humor. And a lot has to do with Freeman. He's one of the show's executive producers, and supposedly a lifelong space buff, but he's also clearly in on the meta-joke of recruiting President God to narrate a show about whether there's a Creator. Can we travel through time? Is our universe just one bubble in a sheet of cosmic Bubble Wrap? Are there aliens? Are we all just Sims? Maybe, Freeman says, in that familiar cracked-leather baritone, and you can't not believe him a little bit.
The show's focus on actual mathematicians, physicists and neuroscientists helps distinguish it from the various strains of paranormal crackpot-tainment with which it shares the cable landscape -- all those bro-friendly ghost-hunters running around with night-vision cameras, all those fleece-clad Bigfoot-ologists tracking Sasquatch in the woods. And ''Through the Wormhole'' avoids the old science-doc cliche of brainiacs in book-cluttered offices by filming its subjects doing something physical (playing the drums or surfing or walking in nature) in order to establish them as edge-pushing explorer types. Or they're doing something prosaic/sensual, like eating in a restaurant and using bananas or chocolate souffle to illustrate the basic forces of the universe, the way Harold Ramis used a Twinkie to explain psychokinetic-energy buildup to Dan Akroyd in ''Ghostbusters.''
This is important, because despite the continuing efforts of some of the smartest people who have ever scribbled an equation on a dry-erase board, there's currently no physical evidence to support the existence of dark matter, alternate dimensions or an afterlife. All the outdoorsy-restauranty stuff serves as a visual metaphor for adventurism that's essentially philosophical.
But rendering the abstract relatable is always the first job for science-themed TV. Sagan had it relatively easy, because he had a context. ''Cosmos'' had its premiere in 1980, when Pluto was still a planet and the possibility that we might use nuclear weapons to commit mass suicide as a species was still entirely plausible; the show advanced the very PBS-ish idea that we'd be less likely to blow ourselves to hell if we understood that we were all made of stardust.
And the show was groovy, in that inadvertently groovy, early-PBS way. It had majestic, lambent theme music by Vangelis, and it had Sagan, a cosmic Magellan in a tan corduroy sport coat, pretending to set the controls of his moodily lighted spaceship for the heart of the sun. If you got bored with the mysteries of creation, you could always contemplate the question of just how your host, a Ukrainian Jew from Bensonhurst, came by that Kermit-meets-Plimpton accent. Punching the B in ''billions'' to emphasize just how big the universe was, he inspired billions and billions of hack impressionists -- but he also became a pop-culture icon, infecting TV watchers worldwide with his boyish enthusiasm for pulsars and white dwarfs. When he died, the Beastie Boys ran a story about him in Grand Royal, their magazine; in 2009, the composer John Boswell ran some of his ''Cosmos'' narration through an Auto-Tune filter to create a haunting techno-pop song, ''A Glorious Dawn,'' which the White Stripes' Jack White later released as a special-edition 45.
Since then, science has failed to produce a spokesman with Sagan's reach. Stephen Hawking came close. These days, the author and astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson is the strongest contender; he's hosting a reboot of ''Cosmos,'' set for broadcast on Fox in 2013. (Its producer is Seth MacFarlane, the creator of ''Family Guy''; there is probably a parallel dimension in which this makes sense.) Tyson has displayed a garrulous, coolest-science-teacher-ever presence as a frequent guest on shows like ''The Colbert Report,'' but can he sell space dust in prime time? It's a weird moment for pop science in this country. If you tuned in to ''Through the Wormhole'' over the summer, you probably saw promos for the Science Channel documentary special ''Last Shuttle: Our Journey,'' a misty-eyed ode to the shuttle Atlantis's final voyage and the git-r-done American know-how of the grease monkeys and calculator jockeys who made Atlantis's final voyage possible.
The day after Atlantis touched down safely, an estimated 2,000 NASA contract employees lost their jobs. Economic downturn seemed to have brought about the end of manned spaceflight in America and by extension, this country's greatest science experiment -- an endeavor that framed science in mythical terms, linking the efforts of Mission Control nerds in short-sleeved dress shirts to a tradition of exploration and cowboyish adventure.
Future generations will have to make do, inspiration-wise, with ventures like the Large Hadron Collider, which -- unless it produces a black hole that swallows Switzerland -- just doesn't sing in the same emotional key as the space program. It's a cool-looking, important yet ultimately esoteric project that produces hard-to-understand results -- the Radiohead to the space shuttle's Springsteen.
Now that we've decided, as a society, that dreaming of the final frontier is a luxury we can't afford, a show like ''Through the Wormhole'' takes on new significance. It uses trippy animation and souffle metaphors to make science seem relatable, even hip, but at heart it's really a commercial for wonder, something real life seems to offer less and less of with each passing day. When was the last time you actually felt wonder? The campaigning-in-poetry part of Obama's run? Sully's Hudson River landing? The Chilean-miner rescue? ''Avatar''? Sometimes it seems as if the only amazing thing about our world is how infrequently it amazes us. But with the help of Freeman, pop culture's most reliable narrator, ''Through the Wormhole'' advances the appealing notion that our universe isn't as small as it feels.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM GAULD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); PHYSICS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); FILM (75%); CELEBRITIES (75%); QUANTUM MECHANICS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); BASEBALL (69%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (66%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011



1204 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: The Moneymooners: Registering for Cash, Not Dishes

BYLINE: By MARIANNE ROHRLICH

 BODY:
WHILE wedding guests can scour registries and rattle their imaginations to come up with an ideal gift, what many a bride and bridegroom want most, particularly in these times, is perfectly simple -- money.
Yet many couples feel squeamish or even crass about asking. Registering for dinnerware or bed linens somehow seems more refined, even if the couple already have enough pillowcases and salad forks.
Now, though, many alternative registries allow for giving or contributing toward experiences that a couple can share. They also offer ways for faint-hearted couples to sign up for cash. 
James Therkalsen, 33, and Elizabeth Huber, 31, however, were not at all bashful before their June wedding in Rochester, Mich.
''We are thankful for any and all gifts, great and small,'' they wrote on their Web site, which included links to a few registries. ''We are also thankful that our friends and family can celebrate this day with us. We also accept checks and cold, hard cash.''
Melanca Clark, 36, and Moddie Turay, 34, of Washington, who plan to marry in Manhattan early next month, have a household complete with most of the things they need to be comfortable, so they resisted establishing an ordinary registry. They prefer money -- for themselves and for others.
Most of the alternative sites give guests the opportunity to make a financial pledge toward things a couple might want. In the end, however, in many cases, the couple may spend the value of the gift any way they wish, even for rent rather than, say, a sky-diving trip. Many sites impose a user fee of 7 percent to 10 percent to either the giver or the recipient.
Being socially conscious, Ms. Clark and Mr. Turay say on their registry, which is a hybrid called myregistry.com, that 10 percent of the money they receive for their ''honey fund'' will be donated to a charity.
''It seemed ridiculous to ask for more things since we have a lot already,'' Ms. Clark said. But for her older relatives who wanted to buy household items, they felt they should list some things like bamboo salad hands from Crate & Barrel. Myregistry.com allows for those types of more traditional gifts, which cannot be cashed out by the couple, as well as for guests to pledge money toward a honeymoon trip to India, which can be cashed out.
Ms. Clark said that her younger friends loved the idea of contributing to a trip that the couple would enjoy together.
Sara Margulis, a founder and the chief executive of honeyfund.com in San Francisco, said that her site is free, although there is a premium upgrade option of $39 that enables registrants to personalize their page and add photos. She said the most unusual request registered on the site was for contributions for fertility treatments.
Even though the giver sends a check directly to the couple, she said: ''Using honeyfund.com enables guests to print out a gift certificate to send with the check. This makes giving money seem more graceful.''
Peggy Post, the etiquette expert, said that giving money now has a wider appeal. ''In a recession money is always welcome,'' said Ms. Post, who writes a wedding-etiquette online advice column for The Times. However, she cautioned that couples be careful about how to request it. ''Be sure to ask very graciously,'' she said.
Darcy Miller, editorial director of Martha Stewart Weddings, said gift choices are generational. ''Grandmothers still like giving something for the house like a serving platter, not dancing lessons,'' she said. ''And 10 years down the road those serving pieces that seemed useless in the beginning are nice to have. They are things you would never buy for yourself.'' Her advice is a hybrid registry: some stuff, some cash.
With alternative registry sites springing up in recent years, couples can often select something that best suits them, cash or not. Foodieregistry.com of Chicago, for example, offers meals in dozens of restaurants in Chicago, New York, San Francisco and Denver. Though it's nearly as good as cash to the couple, the site is associated with the restaurants (not the couple); the giver prepays for the meal at a chosen restaurant.
At honeymoonwishes.com, couples can register for travel-related gifts. The check they receive, though, can be used for anything, not just travel. ''Eighty-five percent of the couples that register with us use the money for the experiences they ask for,'' said Kristin Stark, the company's chief executive, citing company surveys. ''Fifteen percent do not.''
The site newlywish.com offers direct payment for various experiences. It lists retailers as well as things like beauty treatments and fitness, all in New York City. Amanda Allen, one of the site's owners, said that buying an experience for a couple is more popular in urban areas where people tend to marry later and set up a household before the wedding.
Lisa Kolodny, 33, and Seth Johnson, 32, of Brooklyn plan to marry in Mystic, Conn., in late October. ''We basically have a lot of nice things in our Williamsburg apartment, and being in New York City we don't have a lot of space for more dishes,'' Ms. Kolodny said.
''We registered on foodieregistry.com for some meals,'' she added. But because they feel ''very fortunate,'' on the couple's Web site they have asked friends to give money to their favorite charity, Movember, which raises money for men's health issues, instead of to them.
While the alternative gift registries offer many possibilities, actually getting family and friends to use them is something else. Mr. Therkalsen and Ms. Huber, for instance, registered on honeyfund.com, asking for contributions -- ''We're looking for deals but some rooms will be stupid expensive'' -- toward a trip to Bali. Although they did receive money directly from guests, Ms. Huber said they did not receive any cash gifts through the Web site.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM BLOOM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); CHARITIES (73%); WEB SITES (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (70%); INDIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011



1205 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Washington Should Try a Little Prudent Self-Restraint

BYLINE: By Richard Thaler

 BODY:
AS implausible as it may seem, here is a statement that almost everyone in Washington can agree with: Congress has self-control problems.
This may just be a sign of democracy. We elect those who share our frailties. We Americans eat too much, take on too much debt, save too little and put off anything mildly unpleasant as long as possible.
Psychologists and behavioral economists have studied these kinds of problems for decades. We know, for example, that children have trouble waiting even for a few minutes to get three marshmallows if they can have one now, and they find it particularly hard if they have to look at those luscious treats while waiting. 
We also know that people are more willing to exert self-control if they can defer the pain to the future. As Augustine famously prayed: ''Lord make me pure, but not yet.'' New Year's resolutions are great examples of the resolve we can easily summon about our future selves, especially when suffering from a hangover.
Of course, experience tells us that resolutions rarely work for long. You may have to arrive early to get a spot in your Zumba fitness class the first week in January, but in a few weeks things will be back to normal at your health club. This is the essence of self-control problems. Our great intentions are fleeting.
Members of Congress realize that their institution has grave self-control problems, and they even agree about the cause: bad decisions made by previous Congresses, especially decisions made when the other party was in control.
Now, with the debt ceiling debate still fresh, it is not surprising that Congress and some voters are interested in making resolutions about the behavior of future Congresses. Unfortunately, there is little that has been done so far, or is under discussion, that should give anyone much hope that Congress's promises will be any more effective than those we make on New Year's Day.
Following Augustine's dictum, Congress has mostly opted for future austerity. The cuts that will be imposed if the Congressional ''supercommittee'' cannot agree on a plan would not actually begin until 2013, and there is nothing to prevent future Congresses from undoing these plans.
The only reason to expect commitments being made now to have any effect is that they change the status quo: Congress has to act to undo them. But that puts these plans on exactly the same footing as the so-called Bush tax cuts that are scheduled to expire at year-end, 2012. Those cuts will expire unless Congress changes its mind.
Indeed, the celebrating by conservatives regarding their ''victory'' in the debt ceiling deal is as premature as the teeth-gnashing by progressives. All that has happened is that we have wisely chosen not to voluntarily default on our debts, at least not yet.
So it may be reasonable to ask whether there is something more substantive Congress can do to deal with its budget problems. A solution favored by many Republicans is to pass a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget. The plan's appeal is easy to understand. It promises much-needed discipline, and best of all, it would take many years to approve. Maybe it should be called the Augustine amendment.
But do not be fooled. Even if the amendment could be put in place immediately, it would be a bad idea for two reasons. It wouldn't work, and we wouldn't want it to work.
To see why it wouldn't work, just look at other governments that already have such rules in place. Start with states and municipalities. Even with balanced budget rules, they collectively have debt of about $3 trillion. Most states are sensibly allowed to issue bonds to cover major building projects such as roads and schools, but this can allow debts to mount. Yet these visible obligations are just a part of the problem. Debts of roughly the same magnitude are hidden in the form of underfunded pension liabilities once the official estimates are corrected for some dubious assumptions about risk. No balanced budget rule can prevent abuse via creative accounting.
If you think such rules would work better at the national level, look at Europe. When the European Union was formed, member states were required to limit annual deficits to 3 percent of gross domestic product. We are now seeing the difficulty of enforcing such rules.
More important, even if a balanced budget rule were enforceable, it would be bad policy. Consider the case of household spending. Most of us are faced with a lifetime balanced budget constraint. Unless we manage to die with negative net worth (or declare bankruptcy), the amount we can spend and give away during our lifetimes is limited to what we earn or receive as gifts.
Now, would it be a good idea for a family to adopt a rule that spending cannot exceed earnings in any calendar year? Obviously not. A prudent household should save during good years to allow for spending to exceed income in years with unexpectedly low pay or high expenses like college tuition.
Governments should follow the same policy. In booms we should run surpluses, as we did in the 1990s, a feat achieved with a combination of spending cuts such as welfare overhaul and revenue increases, some a byproduct of a stock market bubble. Those surpluses allowed for greater spending during the recession of 2001. But when that recession ended, the federal government did not begin saving for the next one. Instead Congress cut taxes and increased spending, leaving nothing saved when the 2008 financial crisis hit.
THAT history led to our current mess. With the excess capacity in the construction industry and millions of unemployed workers, we have the unique opportunity to buy roads, bridges and schools ''on sale.'' Instead of creating jobs now and improving our infrastructure for the rest of the century, Congress is debating futile resolutions about future chastity.
The bottom line is that in matters of governmental self-control there is no real substitute for willpower. If we want to balance the budget over time we are going to have to elect adults to Congress who are prepared to invest now in our country's future and then, when the economy picks up, take the necessary steps to get spending in line with revenue. The question is whether politicians who act like adults can win elections.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JACOB THOMAS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (89%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1206 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; THE BLOG; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Mileage Champs Chase Another Mark

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEELE

 BODY:
When we last saw Helen and John Taylor back in 2009, they were breaking the fuel economy record for driving the 48 contiguous states, setting a mark of 67.9 miles per gallon in a Volkswagen Jetta TDI. 
On Tuesday, they finished another tour of the continental United States, this time in a 2012 Chevrolet Cruze Eco, averaging 64.4 m.p.g. to establish a new mark for a gasoline-powered vehicle. (The Jetta TDI was diesel fueled; Guinness, which confirmed the Taylors' 2009 record, does not distinguish between the two fuels, though diesel engines are generally more fuel efficient.)
The Taylors drove the same route they did in 2009, altering only the locations of the start and finish. The drive began on Aug. 1 in Burbank, Calif., and ended in Las Vegas after 9,564.2 miles. All told, they used 148.5 gallons of gas, with a total cost of $541.24. The Taylors drove at least 30 miles in each state, they said; the Cruze's fuel tank was sealed between each refueling, and independent witnesses were on hand at each checkpoint to help log their journey.
While Guinness will not officially recognize the couple's effort, the 64.4 m.p.g figure does exceed the Environmental Protection Agency's mileage estimate of 42 m.p.g. for the Cruze Eco by more than 50 percent and easily exceeds the recently announced corporate average fuel economy standard goal of 54.5 m.p.g. by 2025.
The Taylors were not preoccupied with breaking the 2009 record, they said. Instead, they wanted to show motorists what can be achieved by driving in a more mileage-conscious fashion. They said they believe that regular drivers can easily achieve a 10 to 20 percent decrease in fuel costs by following their tips for greater fuel economy.
''This has given us an opportunity to reach out to a wider audience, because the majority of drivers in the United States use gasoline,'' said Helen Taylor of their most recent 48-state tour. ''We want to encourage the American motorists to try to beat the record.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FUEL SIPPERS: Helen and John Taylor with their 2012 Chevrolet Cruze Eco in Las Vegas, after completing their 48-state tour. They averaged 64.4 miles per gallon on the trip. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011



1207 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: A New Civilian Conservation Corps

 BODY:
To the Editor:
One proven way to create jobs in America (''A Jobs Agenda, Anyone?,'' editorial, Aug. 15) is to reprise the Civilian Conservation Corps, which was one of the most effective and most popular programs of the New Deal. 
I have introduced legislation (H.R. 494) that would create a modern-day C.C.C. to employ currently idled Americans, with returning unemployed veterans leading civilian teams of unemployed workers in rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure, repairing our damaged environment through tree planting and other conservation projects, and revitalizing local communities.
Every dollar of investment in bricks, mortar, infrastructure and environment returns $1.59 to the economy. This is six times more ''bang for the buck'' than tax credits and other arcane policy options whose economic impact drain through the economy and yield only 30 cents for every dollar expended.
Moreover, the 21st-century C.C.C. could be quickly mobilized to address the job crisis. Its predecessor was up and running and employing almost 300,000 Americans within three months.
Rather than allowing the economy to stagnate and leaving our public assets to deteriorate, we can build our way out of this economic downturn. We simply need to remember one of the important lessons of the ''greatest generation'': useful work transforms lives and builds our nation forward.
MARCY KAPTUR Member of Congress, 9th Dist., Ohio Toledo, Ohio, Aug. 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); TAX LAW (69%)

PERSON: MARCY KAPTUR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (50%) OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011



1208 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Scrapbooking Big-Screen Memories

BYLINE: By AMANDA PETRUSICH

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
THE Fox Venice Theater in Los Angeles -- a boxy, pale-blue building topped by a jaunty red sign -- opened in 1951 with a single movie screen and 1,003 seats; it was shuttered in the late 1980s and now houses an indoor swap meet. In a note posted more than 20 years after its closing on the Web site Cinema Treasures, a former patron credited the theater with a string of personal triumphs. ''I went from being an uneducated warehouse worker to a therapist with a master's degree,'' the commenter wrote. ''The movies at the Fox showed me that there were possibilities in life. I sat there and learned from all of it.''
The commenter added: ''These theaters are much more than just buildings. Many of us grew up in them and never thought they would end.''
A movie theater can be a magical place, a portal; in the cold, quiet blackness anything is possible. That becomes clear as you pore through the Cinema Treasures site, cinematreasures.org, a riveting compendium of theaters, open or closed, from around the world that can be searched by name, city or ZIP code. 
Rediscovering an old theater can be cathartic, particularly if you once spent a lot of time in the dark, imagining new futures. ''You're there for two hours, and maybe it's a comedy, or it's something inspiring, but it changes you in a way,'' said Patrick Crowley, a founder of the site. ''A lot of times theaters are just torn down unceremoniously, but people -- lots of people -- sat and dreamed in these spaces.''
Mr. Crowley, 37, a Web designer in San Diego, and Ross Melnick, 35, an author and assistant professor of English and cinema studies at Oakland University in Rochester, Mich., met in New York in 1999, when both were working in the tech industry. They began Cinema Treasures in late 2000 as a way to preserve and celebrate what they saw as sacred space. ''I remember being 10 or 12 and going across town to see the movie 'Big' for the first time,'' Mr. Crowley recalled in a phone interview. ''The theater was pretty unremarkable, a run-down twin screen in South Carolina somewhere. But I have this very distinct memory of going home from the theater and sitting in the back of the station wagon just glowing from the experience.''
Cinema Treasures is significant as a research database -- it now lists more than 31,000 theaters in nearly 200 countries -- but it's also become a forum for cinephiles and insiders like projectionists, ushers and ticket takers, who animate its robust comment sections. Mr. Melnick often refers to the commentaries as oral histories; many read like tiny memoirs.
''In some cases people just want to remember a neighborhood in Brooklyn or Los Angeles or what have you,'' Mr. Melnick said by phone. ''They come to this site because that theater is a place where they went with their friends. It's where their high school graduation was, where their first date was.''
Roger Ebert, the film critic, said the site performs an invaluable service.
''In the previous century the movie theater was often, in smaller towns and cities, the only grand architectural statement, save perhaps for a church or courthouse,'' he wrote in an e-mail. ''They unashamedly provided a proscenium for our dreams.''
Registered users can submit new or overlooked theaters for inclusion, and once a submission is approved by Ken Roe, the site's theater editor, it joins the guide. Each entry includes a bit of historical information, photographs and statistics like the number of screens and seats; architectural context is provided by Google Maps' integrated street view.
As a visitor clicks through, it's easy to become nostalgic for the gilded picture palaces of yore: those grand, stoic-looking fixtures, elegant and transporting. In his 1961 book, ''The Best Remaining Seats,'' the film historian Ben M. Hall lamented the slow demise of the stately theater: ''One by one the stars have blinked out, their tiny bulbs blackened ... dead stars in the cold outer space of grimy atmospheric ceilings.'' Mr. Hall died in 1970, a few decades before the megaplex established pre-eminence, but even then he considered modern movie houses ''drab, antiseptic and earthbound.''
Still, like it or not, most modern moviegoers discovered the thrall of cinema in a sticky, anonymous corner of a shopping mall while eating from a smuggled sack of Reese's Pieces. As such, the denizens of Cinema Treasures are not always precious about their mythologizing. Of the 14-screen United Artists theater in Sheepshead Bay, in Brooklyn, one commenter recalls modest mayhem: ''I remember boobs shining small lasers at the screen and an idiot, sitting next to my sister, talking on a cellphone during the last scene in 'Titanic.' ''
Gordon McAlpin, 36, is the writer and illustrator of the online comic strip ''Multiplex,'' which celebrates and lampoons life at the movies. (Its first print collection, ''Multiplex: Enjoy Your Show,'' was released last year.) Mr. McAlpin, a Cinema Treasures fan, said it was possible to establish a legitimate emotional connection with even an unremarkable movie house. ''It's like an old car you've been on hundreds of road trips with,'' he wrote in an e-mail. ''It's as much a part of that journey as the destination.''
Like almost all vestiges of old media, the movie theater is under siege. Netflix and torrent sites have made laptop or television viewing standard practice, and DVDs of new releases are being pushed to market faster than ever. The idea of shuffling off to a theater, paying upwards of $10 for a ticket and sitting in the dark for two hours with your cellphone off (well, one hopes) feels nearly quaint.
Mr. Melnick is optimistic about the array of options available to filmgoers but acknowledges that the theater experience is facing economic and cultural challenges. Mr. Crowley agrees. ''When we started the site, we were trying to save these older, historic movie theaters,'' he said. ''But now it feels more like we're saving the idea of going to the movies in the first place.''
Correction: September 4, 2011, Sunday

CORRECTION-DATE: September 4, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about the Web site Cinema Treasures, devoted to old movie theaters, misidentified the location of Oakland University, where one of the Web site's founders teaches. It is in Rochester, Mich., not Rochester, Minn.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ross Melnick, left, and Patrick Crowley have documented theaters including, from top left: the Arlington, Santa Barbara, Calif.
Cinerama Dome, Hollywood
Balboa, San Francisco
 and Sunshine and the Beekman in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSS MELNICK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM SCHOOLS (77%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (71%); WEB SITES (71%); WRITERS (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (86%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2011



1209 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
WITH OPIUM ABUNDANT,
A RISE IN ADDICTS, AND RISKS
There were 900,000 drug users in Afghanistan in 2010, according to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. A vast majority take opium-based drugs, which are extraordinarily pure and very cheap in that nation. The growing drug addiction problem is yet another of Afghanistan's afflictions. Page 6
IRAN SPEAKS OUT ON SYRIA
Iran, Syria's closest ally, called on the government in Damascus to recognize its people's ''legitimate'' demands, in the first such remarks to come from Iran since the start of the five-month-old uprising against President Bashar al-Assad. Page 10 
LACKING BASIC NECESSITIES
Tripoli slid closer to a humanitarian crisis as leaders of the rebellion that ousted Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi struggled to restore basic necessities to the city's three million residents. Rebel leaders acknowledged that most of the city lacked running water and steady electricity for a second day as temperatures soared to nearly 100 degrees. Page 8
TALIBAN STRIKES IN PAKISTAN
Hundreds of Taliban fighters crossed from an area of eastern Afghanistan largely abandoned by American troops and killed more than two dozen soldiers and police officers in northwest Pakistan, the government said. Afghan officials said that the raids did not come from their side of the border. Page 12
ABKHAZIA ELECTS PRESIDENT
Aleksandr Z. Ankvab was elected president of Abkhazia, a rebel enclave of Georgia still struggling for legitimacy three years after Russia unilaterally declared it a sovereign nation. But observers said the election results would do little to alter politics in the tiny slice of subtropical land on the Black Sea that is dependent on Russia for its survival. Page 10
National
MEMORIALS FOR HEROES
NOW LARGELY FORGOTTEN
For every iconic American like Jefferson, Lincoln and F.D.R honored with a memorial, there are also lesser known figures, like Thaddeus Kosciuszko, and historical happenings, like the Arkansas Post, with their own national markers. And even the most overlooked figures have their own ardent boosters. Page 15
STABILITY ON SPENDING
While provisions to raise the debt limit and create a Congressional deficit reduction committee drew most of the attention in the legislation that allowed the government to avert a default, House and Senate leaders also used the measure to establish federal spending limits for the next two years. Members of both parties say the bipartisan compromise on overall spending makes it unlikely that an impasse will push Congress back to the brink of closing the government. Page 20
MUG SHOTS AND PRIVACY
Two young women in Cincinnati are testing the fringes of Fabulous Fifties nostalgia by selling reproductions of 1955 police mug shots. And their company, Larken Design, has found such a good response that it is expanding. But as the business grows, it raises questions about the legality and propriety of distributing government property like mug shots. Page 2 1
Metropolitan
A FIRE DEPARTMENT PUSHED
TO DIVERSIFY ITS RANKS
Salvatore J. Cassano, New York City's fire commissioner, has led an effort in a drive to recruit minority applicants that is unprecedented in the department's history. In 18 months, officials say, recruiters have sought black candidates at more than 6,100 events, all but begging them to apply for the next entrance test in January. Page 1
Sports
BRAVES RIDE BULLPEN
INTO WORLD SERIES HUNT
The Atlanta Braves have not reached the World Series in the new century, but they seem certain to have another chance this fall. The bullpen is a major reason. No bullpen in major league history has ever had three relievers with an earned run average of 1.70 or lower in at least 60 appearances. The Braves have such a bullpen now, and it provide a crucial edge in the playoffs, where lockdown bullpens with high strikeout rates tend to make a big difference. Page 1
RATING THE ROOKIES
Ivan Nova of the Yankees is the first rookie in five years to win six consecutive starts, and his 13-4 record is impressive. But awards voters have shown in recent years that a pitcher's won-lost record is no longer a major factor, which could hurt Nova's chance to win Rookie of the Year honors. Extra Bases, Tyler Kepner. Page 2
PUTTER WINNING CONVERTS
After three PGA Tour players -- Adam Scott, Keegan Bradley and Webb Simpson -- used either a belly putter or a long putter to win a tournament, it is no surprise that amateur players are suddenly eyeing the clubs with increasing curiosity. It is among the sport's oldest traditions: what works for another player, golfers think, might work for me.
Page 4
Obituaries
BUDD HOPKINS, 80
Budd Hopkins, a distinguished Abstract Expressionist artist, became the father of the alien-abduction movement after what he described as a chance sighting of something flat, silver, airborne and unfathomable, though he was also quick to point out that he had never been abducted himself. Page 22
Sunday Business
THE CHANGING FACE
OF BURNING MAN
As Burning Man, the annual counterculture arts festival, readies for its 2011 opening, debates about the organization behind the event's transition to a nonprofit are simmering. It's clear that most of the money collected by the company goes back into financing the festival; whether cash is left over each year, and how much, has always been a matter of speculation. Page 1
THE INNOVATIVE STEVE JOBS
Steve Jobs's creative force is seen as a driving force for innovation, in products like the iPod, iPhone and iPad. Studies have concluded that innovation cannot be engineered, but there are ways of increasing the odds of its occurring. And the career of Mr. Jobs can be viewed as a consistent pursuit of improving those odds, both for himself and the companies he has led. Unboxed. Page 3
SEEKING A BETTER CONGRESS
With the debt ceiling debate still fresh, it is not surprising that Congress and some voters are interested in making resolutions about the behavior of future Congresses. Unfortunately, there is little that has been done so far, or is under discussion, that should give anyone much hope that Congress's promises will be any more effective than those we make on New Year's Day. Economic View. Page 3
Automobiles
CHARGING STATIONS VITAL
FOR PLUG-IN CARS' APPEAL
With automakers like General Motors and Nissan now selling plug-in vehicles, charging stations are seen as a vital element in persuading drivers to adopt zero-pollution cars. Without a convenient place to replenish batteries away from home, electric cars would be a hard sell for consumers. Page 1
Magazine
GIVING CINDERELLA
HER OWN BLACKBERRY
For the screenwriter Aline Brosh McKenna, whose credits include ''27 Dresses'' and ''The Devil Wears Prada,'' the perfect romantic comedy forgoes glass slippers for the perfect career. Page 22
Book Review
FOR THOSE STILL HERE
AFTER THE RAPTURE
In Tom Perotta's ''The Leftovers,'' the Rapture comes with nondenominational disappearances. In short, it is the best Twilight Zone episode you've never seen, writes Stephen King. Page 1
Arts & Leisure
CHICANO PIONEERS IN ART
FINALLY GIVEN THEIR DUE
Opening at the Los Angeles County Museum is ''Asco: Elite of the Obscure, a Retrospective, 1972-1987,'' a celebration of the highly irreverent and politicized group of Mexican-American urban artists. After 40 years of being ignored by the art world, Asco is getting recognition. Page 1
Style
WALKING ON AIR
IN DOWNTOWN NEW YORK
The High Line is more than just an architectural triumph or a glimpse of where the city might go if people dreamed, and schemed, hard enough. It also transports people back to when downtown Manhattan was still cool. Page 1
Sunday Review
A SUMMER'S LESSONS
IN LIMITS AND HUMILITY
For Americans, it's been a mean season, with lessons in limits and humility, Frank Bruni writes. Some perspective: summer of 2011 seems to have been about a reckoning with our limits, a grasping for solutions and a humility in the absence of truly palatable ones. Page 1
Editorial
PENETRATING THE GIBBERISHOF HEALTH INSURANCE
The Obama administration has proposed welcome new rules that would make it a lot easier for consumers to compare one health insurance policy with another before signing up. Sunday Review, Page 10
FOR THE CASH OF THE GAME
Scandals in big-time college football call for tough and expensive penalties. Sunday Review, Page 10
DR. KING'S DREAMS
The Martin Luther King Jr. National Memorial commemorates Dr. King's fight for equality and economic justice for all Americans. Sunday Review, Page 10
Op-Ed
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
The world is cracking up. Can the United States pull it together? Sunday Review, Page 11
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
A visit with old friends makes it clear what the country's most urgent problem is: unemployment. Sunday Review, Page 11
MAUREEN DOWD
When you have a delusion that you're Captain America, it's easier to do things that hurt America. Sunday Review, Page 11
THE PUBLIC EDITOR
Is DealBook really the best use of The Times's financial news resources? Sunday Review, Page 12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); OPIUM (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICS (77%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); DEBT CEILING (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS OFFICE ON DRUGS & CRIME (84%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (70%) SYRIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); GEORGIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1210 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths NEWMANN, JOHN M.

 BODY:
NEWMANN--John M.,PhD 70, died peacefully of natural causes in Oakland, CA on August 12, surrounded by his loving family. Born July 11, 1941 in Highland Park, IL, the second son of Harold and Maxine Newmann, John will be remembered for his remarkable resilience, his ability to find humor in any situation, his staunch advocacy for patients with renal and organ failure, his ardent passion for Louis Armstrong and jazz, and his love and complete devotion to his adoring family and many lifelong friends. John graduated cum laude with a BA in Religion from Amherst College in 1963, a PhD in Economics and International Relations from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, in 1974 and a Masters in Public Health from Harvard University in 1980. He worked for the Ford Foundation from 1967-1978 on economic development, living in Indonesia from 1967-1971 until he was diagnosed with end-stage renal disease and began hemodialysis at age 30. Kidney failure transformed John's and his family's lives. 
In the early 1970s, he and his family were among the first to perform self-dialysis at home. John became a nationally recognized authority on hemodialysis, patient quality of life and organ donation, and an award-winning consultant to the medical profession, patient and research organizations and government public policy panels. He served on many national boards, including the National Kidney Foundation, the United Network for Organ Sharing, the American Kidney Fund and the American Association of Kidney Patients, of which he was president for four years. He also served on various task forces for the National Institutes of Health and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Few, if any, institutions concerned with kidney or organ failure did not benefit from John's leadership and guidance. John's first wife, Mary Misch Newmann, preceded him in death by 19 days. They are survived by their daughters, Sara (Doug Sovern), of Berkeley, CA, and Emily (John Darrah), of Cambridge, MA, and their granddaughters Maxine and Sadie Newmann Darrah. John is survived by his life partner for the last two decades, Judy Solomon Engelberg of Chevy Chase, MD, with whom he enjoyed humor, travel, music, art and their close inter-connected families. John is also survived by his second wife, Lisa Aronson Newmann of Housatonic, MA, and by his loving brothers, Fred (Carolyn Hegeler) of Madison, WI and Bill (Rachel) of Olympia, WA. The three brothers were known in the family for their zany antics and for always "sticking together." When he was 11 years old, John met and played piano with Louis Armstrong in Chicago, beginning a cherished friendship that lasted until Armstrong's death in 1971. John's devotion to Satchmo's music continued until the last moments of his own life. As Louis once said, "what we play is life" and what a wonderful life John had. "We'll keep it rolling for you." A celebration of John's life will be held October 29 at 3pm at the Cambridge Friends Meeting House in Cambridge, MA. Donations in John's memory may be made to the "John Newmann Memorial Fund" at the American Association of Kidney Patients (www.aakp.org) 800-749-2257 and the Louis Armstrong House Museum: www.louisarmstronghouse.org 718-478-8274.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); DIALYSIS (91%); KIDNEY DISEASE (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (88%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); FAMILY (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); ORGAN DONATION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); AMERICAN KIDNEY FUND (54%); NATIONAL KIDNEY FOUNDATION (54%); UNITED NETWORK FOR ORGAN SHARING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (88%); MADISON, WI, USA (76%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1211 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths NEWMANN, JOHN M.

 BODY:
NEWMANN--John M.,PhD 70, died peacefully of natural causes in Oakland, CA on August 12, surrounded by his loving family. Born July 11, 1941 in Highland Park, IL, the second son of Harold and Maxine Newmann, John will be remembered for his remarkable resilience, his ability to find humor in any situation, his staunch advocacy for patients with renal and organ failure, his ardent passion for Louis Armstrong and jazz, and his love and complete devotion to his adoring family and many lifelong friends. John graduated cum laude with a BA in Religion from Amherst College in 1963, a PhD in Economics and International Relations from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, in 1974 and a Masters in Public Health from Harvard University in 1980. He worked for the Ford Foundation from 1967-1978 on economic development, living in Indonesia from 1967-1971 until he was diagnosed with end-stage renal disease and began hemodialysis at age 30. Kidney failure transformed John's and his family's lives. 
In the early 1970s, he and his family were among the first to perform self-dialysis at home. John became a nationally recognized authority on hemodialysis, patient quality of life and organ donation, and an award-winning consultant to the medical profession, patient and research organizations and government public policy panels. He served on many national boards, including the National Kidney Foundation, the United Network for Organ Sharing, the American Kidney Fund and the American Association of Kidney Patients, of which he was president for four years. He also served on various task forces for the National Institutes of Health and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Few, if any, institutions concerned with kidney or organ failure did not benefit from John's leadership and guidance. John's first wife, Mary Misch Newmann, preceded him in death by 19 days. They are survived by their daughters, Sara (Doug Sovern), of Berkeley, CA, and Emily (John Darrah), of Cambridge, MA, and their granddaughters Maxine and Sadie Newmann Darrah. John is survived by his life partner for the last two decades, Judy Solomon Engelberg of Chevy Chase, MD, with whom he enjoyed humor, travel, music, art and their close inter-connected families. John is also survived by his second wife, Lisa Aronson Newmann of Housatonic, MA, and by his loving brothers, Fred (Carolyn Hegeler) of Madison, WI and Bill (Rachel) of Olympia, WA. The three brothers were known in the family for their zany antics and for always "sticking together." When he was 11 years old, John met and played piano with Louis Armstrong in Chicago, beginning a cherished friendship that lasted until Armstrong's death in 1971. John's devotion to Satchmo's music continued until the last moments of his own life. As Louis once said, "what we play is life" and what a wonderful life John had. "We'll keep it rolling for you." A celebration of John's life will be held October 29 at 3pm at the Cambridge Friends Meeting House in Cambridge, MA. Donations in John's memory may be made to the "John Newmann Memorial Fund" at the American Association of Kidney Patients (www.aakp.org) 800-749-2257 and the Louis Armstrong House Museum: www.louisarmstronghouse.org 718-478-8274.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); DIALYSIS (91%); KIDNEY DISEASE (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (88%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); FAMILY (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); ORGAN DONATION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); AMERICAN KIDNEY FUND (54%); NATIONAL KIDNEY FOUNDATION (54%); UNITED NETWORK FOR ORGAN SHARING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (88%); MADISON, WI, USA (76%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011



1212 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths NEWMANN, JOHN M.

 BODY:
NEWMANN--John M.,PhD 70, died peacefully of natural causes in Oakland, CA on August 12, surrounded by his loving family. Born July 11, 1941 in Highland Park, IL, the second son of Harold and Maxine Newmann, John will be remembered for his remarkable resilience, his ability to find humor in any situation, his staunch advocacy for patients with renal and organ failure, his ardent passion for Louis Armstrong and jazz, and his love and complete devotion to his adoring family and many lifelong friends. John graduated cum laude with a BA in Religion from Amherst College in 1963, a PhD in Economics and International Relations from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, in 1974 and a Masters in Public Health from Harvard University in 1980. He worked for the Ford Foundation from 1967-1978 on economic development, living in Indonesia from 1967-1971 until he was diagnosed with end-stage renal disease and began hemodialysis at age 30. Kidney failure transformed John's and his family's lives. 
In the early 1970s, he and his family were among the first to perform self-dialysis at home. John became a nationally recognized authority on hemodialysis, patient quality of life and organ donation, and an award-winning consultant to the medical profession, patient and research organizations and government public policy panels. He served on many national boards, including the National Kidney Foundation, the United Network for Organ Sharing, the American Kidney Fund and the American Association of Kidney Patients, of which he was president for four years. He also served on various task forces for the National Institutes of Health and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Few, if any, institutions concerned with kidney or organ failure did not benefit from John's leadership and guidance. John's first wife, Mary Misch Newmann, preceded him in death by 19 days. They are survived by their daughters, Sara (Doug Sovern), of Berkeley, CA, and Emily (John Darrah), of Cambridge, MA, and their granddaughters Maxine and Sadie Newmann Darrah. John is survived by his life partner for the last two decades, Judy Solomon Engelberg of Chevy Chase, MD, with whom he enjoyed humor, travel, music, art and their close inter-connected families. John is also survived by his second wife, Lisa Aronson Newmann of Housatonic, MA, and by his loving brothers, Fred (Carolyn Hegeler) of Madison, WI and Bill (Rachel) of Olympia, WA. The three brothers were known in the family for their zany antics and for always "sticking together." When he was 11 years old, John met and played piano with Louis Armstrong in Chicago, beginning a cherished friendship that lasted until Armstrong's death in 1971. John's devotion to Satchmo's music continued until the last moments of his own life. As Louis once said, "what we play is life" and what a wonderful life John had. "We'll keep it rolling for you." A celebration of John's life will be held October 29 at 3pm at the Cambridge Friends Meeting House in Cambridge, MA. Donations in John's memory may be made to the "John Newmann Memorial Fund" at the American Association of Kidney Patients (www.aakp.org) 800-749-2257 and the Louis Armstrong House Museum: www.louisarmstronghouse.org 718-478-8274.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); DIALYSIS (91%); KIDNEY DISEASE (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (88%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); FAMILY (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); ORGAN DONATION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); AMERICAN KIDNEY FUND (54%); NATIONAL KIDNEY FOUNDATION (54%); UNITED NETWORK FOR ORGAN SHARING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (88%); MADISON, WI, USA (76%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011



1213 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Dissecting the Mind of the Fed

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
David Leonhardt is an economics writer for The New York Times, who next month will become the Washington bureau chief.
Washington
IF you were to conduct a survey of the country's top economists, you would find a fair number who did not believe that the Federal Reserve should be taking more aggressive steps to help the economy. Some would worry that injecting more money into the economy might unnerve global investors or set off uncontrollable inflation. Others would wonder whether, with interest rates already so low, the Fed even had much power to lift economic growth.
But you would also find a sizable group of economists who thought the Fed could and should do far more than it was doing. This group, known as doves, tilts liberal, though it includes conservatives as well. If anything, it can probably claim a larger number of big-name economists -- J. Bradford DeLong, Paul Krugman (an Op-Ed columnist for The New York Times), Christina D. Romer, Scott Sumner and Mark Thoma, among others -- than the camp that believes the Fed has done too much.
You would never know this, however, from listening to the public debate among Federal Reserve officials. That debate is much narrower. 
On one side are people like Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, who defend both what the Fed has done and what it hasn't done. On the other side are the so-called inflation hawks, who say the Fed has been far too aggressive. Rick Perry, the Texas governor and arguably the Republican presidential front-runner, offered a particularly blunt version of this criticism when he recently accused Mr. Bernanke of flirting with treason.
Last week's annual Fed retreat in Jackson Hole, Wyo. offered the latest illustration of the debate's contours. After months of disappointing recent economic data, the Fed chose not to take major action. Instead, Mr. Bernanke defended the Fed's modest Aug. 9 announcement that it planned to hold down short-term interest rates until mid-2013.
The only public criticism of that move from within the Fed came from three hawks who voted against it, which made for the most dissents on its policy-setting committee in almost 20 years. No Fed official, by contrast, has recently dissented out of the belief that the Fed has been too timid, and no one presented a paper in Jackson Hole making that case either. For now, the Fed debate -- at least the open debate -- is one between inflation hawks and moderates, with nary a true dove in sight.
It is obviously impossible to know precisely which policy would be the best one for the struggling American economy. A dovelike injection of money into the economy would have the potential to increase incomes and inflation in a benign way, effectively reducing household debt burdens, giving people more confidence to spend money and eventually spurring hiring. But further action also brings some risk of setting off uncontrollable inflation, which, while very low historically, has been rising lately.
No doubt, some of this richer hawk-dove debate is occurring behind closed doors at the Fed and in Jackson Hole. But the public conversation still matters. It affects nothing less than the Fed's credibility. Mr. Bernanke knows that if he errs on the side of passivity -- worrying more about inflation risks than unemployment -- he risks only a modest flogging from colleagues and politicians. If he leans the other way, he risks being accused of, well, treason.
That difference has almost certainly affected Fed policy, causing it to be less aggressive on policy and more optimistic about economic growth than it otherwise would be. As Mr. Thoma, an economics professor at the University of Oregon, recently wrote, Fed officials are ''in a more precarious political position than they ever expected to be in.'' With the benefit of hindsight, we also know that the Fed has been too optimistic during the past two years, forecasting stronger growth than ultimately occurred.
Why does the Fed skew more hawkish than the economics profession as a whole? Part of the answer lies in the way the 12 voting members of the policy-setting committee are chosen. They are a mix of presidential nominees subject to Senate approval, with 14-year terms, and regional Fed presidents, who are chosen by outside boards that are made up partly of private-sector finance executives.
David Levey, a former managing director at Moody's and another critic of Fed inaction, points out that banks often have more to lose from inflation than from unemployment. Inflation reduces the future value of the money that their debtors -- homeowners, car buyers, small businesses and the like -- will repay them.
''The Fed regional banks represent, in essence, the banking community, which tends to be very conservative and hawkish,'' Mr. Levey says. ''Creditors don't like inflation -- it's good for debtors.'' Indeed, the three recent dissents all came from regional bank presidents: Richard W. Fisher of Dallas, Narayana R. Kocherlakota of Minneapolis and Charles I. Plosser of Philadelphia.
Mr. Obama, for his part, has chosen to nominate mostly moderates, rather than strong inflation doves. Most significantly, he re-nominated Mr. Bernanke, originally a George W. Bush adviser and appointee, to a second four-year term as chairman, based largely on Mr. Bernanke's aggressive steps in 2008 and 2009 to prevent another depression. The Obama administration has also been slow to fill some Fed openings. At least one of the 12 seats has been vacant since Mr. Obama took office, and two are now.
The doves outside the Fed do not all favor the same steps -- or even the label dove. Indeed, they have some significant disagreements.
Some want a more aggressive round of quantitative easing, a policy the Fed enacted in 2009 and 2010 to try to bring down long-term interest rates. Some want significantly faster near-term inflation, to make up for the low inflation of the past few years and give people an incentive to spend more money now. Some want the Fed to commit to buying up financial assets -- the functional equivalent of printing money -- until the nation's gross domestic product has recovered from the crisis. In Sweden, the central bank has engaged in more aggressive asset buying, which appears to be one reason the economy there has recovered from the crisis much better than in most other rich countries, notes Mr. Sumner, a conservative-leaning monetary-policy economist at Bentley University.
But the doves do want the Fed to move in the same direction: toward making a more energetic attack on unemployment. Mr. Sumner has become so dispirited by the Fed that, before leaving on a trip for Italy last week, he left a post on his well-read blog, The Money Illusion, under the headline, ''Not enough.'' The headline, he wrote, ''refers to my reaction if the Fed does something while I'm gone.''
Whatever one thinks of his prescription, his prediction was spot on. Mr. Bernanke concluded his Jackson Hole speech by urging other branches of government to improve their economic policies. The one Fed change he announced was a lengthening of next month's monetary-policy meeting to two days, up from the usual one, ''to allow a fuller discussion'' of the issues.
Outside the Fed's walls, of course, that fuller discussion has already been under way for a long time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); PERSONAL DEBT (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%); PAUL KRUGMAN (58%); RICK PERRY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011



1214 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNBOXED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Reaping the Rewards Of Risk-Taking

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
SINCE Steven P. Jobs resigned as chief executive of Apple last Wednesday, much has been said about him as a peerless corporate leader who has created immense wealth for shareholders, and guided the design of hit products that are transforming entire industries, like music and mobile communications.
All true, but let's think different, to borrow the Apple marketing slogan of years back. Let's look at Mr. Jobs as a role model. 
Above all, he is an innovator. His creative force is seen in products like the iPod, iPhone and iPad, and in new business models for pricing and distributing music and mobile software online. Studies of innovation come to the same conclusion: you can't engineer innovation, but you can increase the odds of it occurring. And Mr. Jobs's career can be viewed as a consistent pursuit of improving those odds, both for himself and the companies he has led.Mr. Jobs, of course, has enjoyed singular success. But innovation, broadly defined, is the crucial ingredient in all economic progress -- higher growth for nations, more competitive products for companies, and more prosperous careers for individuals. And Mr. Jobs, experts say, personifies what works in the innovation game.
''We can look at and learn from Steve Jobs what the essence of American innovation is,'' says John Kao, an innovation consultant to corporations and governments.
Many other nations, Mr. Kao notes, are now ahead of the United States in producing what are considered the raw materials of innovation. These include government financing for scientific research, national policies to support emerging industries, educational achievement, engineers and scientists graduated, even the speeds of Internet broadband service.
Yet what other nations typically lack, Mr. Kao adds, is a social environment that encourages diversity, experimentation, risk-taking, and combining skills from many fields into products that he calls ''recombinant mash-ups,'' like the iPhone, which redefined the smartphone category.
''The culture of other countries doesn't support the kind of innovation that Steve Jobs exemplifies, as America does,'' Mr. Kao says.
Workers of every rank are told these days that wide-ranging curiosity and continuous learning are vital to thriving in the modern economy. Formal education matters, career counselors say, but real-life experience is often even more valuable.
An adopted child, growing up in Silicon Valley, Mr. Jobs displayed those traits early on. He was fascinated by electronics as a child, building Heathkit do-it-yourself projects, like radios.
Mr. Jobs dropped out of Reed College after a semester and trekked around India in search of spiritual enlightenment, before returning to Silicon Valley to found Apple with his friend, Stephen Wozniak, an engineering wizard. Mr. Jobs was forced out of Apple in 1985, went off and founded two other companies, Next and Pixar, before returning to Apple in 1996 and becoming chief executive in 1997.
His path was unique, but innovation experts say the pattern of exploration is not unusual. ''It's often people like Steve Jobs who can draw from a deep reservoir of diverse experience that generate breakthrough ideas and insights,'' says Hal B. Gregersen, a professor at the European Institute of Business Administration, or Insead.
Mr. Gregersen is a co-author of a new book, ''The Innovator's DNA'' (Harvard Business School Press), based on an eight-year study of 5,000 entrepreneurs and executives worldwide. His two collaborators and co-authors are Jeff Dyer, a professor at Brigham Young University, and Clayton M. Christensen, a professor at the Harvard Business School, whose 1997 book ''The Innovator's Dilemma'' popularized the concept of ''disruptive innovation.''
The academics identify five traits that are common to the disruptive innovators: questioning, experimenting, observing, associating and networking. Their bundle of characteristics echoes the ceaseless curiosity and willingness to take risks noted by other experts. Networking, Mr. Gregersen explains, is less about career-building relationships than a search for new ideas. Associating, he adds, is the ability to make idea-producing connections by linking concepts from different disciplines -- intellectual mash-ups.
''Innovators engage in these mental activities regularly,'' Mr. Gregersen says. ''It's a habit.''
Innovative companies, according to the authors, typically enjoy higher valuations in the stock market, which they call an ''innovation premium.'' It is calculated by estimating the share of a company's value that cannot be accounted for by its current products and cash flow. The innovation premium tries to quantify investors' bets that a company will do even better in the future because of innovation.
Apple, by their calculations, had a 37 percent innovation premium during Mr. Jobs's first stint with the company. His years in exile resulted in a 31 percent innovation discount. After his return, Apple's fortunes improved gradually at first, and improved markedly starting in 2005, yielding a 52 percent innovation premium since then.
There is no conclusive proof, but Mr. Gregersen says it is unlikely that Mr. Jobs could have reshaped industries beyond computing, as he has done in his second stint at Apple, without the experience outside the company, especially at Pixar -- the computer-animation studio that created a string of critically and commercially successful movies, like ''Toy Story'' and ''Up.''
Mr. Jobs suggested much the same thing during a commencement address to the graduating class at Stanford in 2005. ''It turned out that getting fired from Apple was the best thing that could have ever happened to me,'' he told the students. Mr. Jobs also spoke of perseverance. ''Sometimes life hits you in the head with a brick,'' he said. ''Don't lose faith.''
Mr. Jobs ended his commencement talk with a call to innovation, in one's choice of work and in life. Be curious, experiment, take risks, he said. His admonition was punctuated by the words on the back of the final edition of ''The Whole Earth Catalog,'' which he quoted: ''Stay hungry. Stay foolish.''
''And,'' Mr. Jobs said, ''I have always wished that for myself. And now, as you graduate to begin anew, I wish that for you.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The creative force of Steven P. Jobs has been exhibited in products like the iPod, iPhone and the iPad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); TABLET COMPUTERS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); BROADBAND (69%); SCIENCE FUNDING (69%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (68%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (56%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (92%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1215 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Did We Drop the Ball on Unemployment?

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
YAMHILL, Ore.
WHEN I'm in New York or Washington, people talk passionately about debt and political battles. But in the living rooms or on the front porches here in Yamhill, Ore., where I grew up, a different specter wakes friends up in the middle of the night.
It's unemployment. 
I've spent a chunk of summer vacation visiting old friends here, and I can't help feeling that national politicians and national journalists alike have dropped the ball on jobs. Some 25 million Americans are unemployed or underemployed -- that's more than 16 percent of the work force -- but jobs haven't been nearly high enough on the national agenda.
When Americans are polled about the issue they care most about, the answer by a two-to-one margin is jobs. The Boston Globe found that during President Obama's Twitter ''town hall'' last month, the issue that the public most wanted to ask about was, by far, jobs. Yet during the previous two weeks of White House news briefings, reporters were far more likely to ask about political warfare with Republicans.
(I'm an offender, too: I asked President Obama a question at the Twitter town hall, and it was a gotcha query about his negotiations with Republicans. I'm sorry that I missed the chance to push him on the issue that Americans care most about.)
A study by National Journal in May found something similar: newspaper articles about ''unemployment'' apparently fell over the last two years, while references to the ''deficit'' soared.
When I'm back on the family farm in Yamhill, our very closest neighbor is one of those 25 million. Terry Maggard worked on a crew detecting underground gas, electrical or cable lines, and after 15 years on the job he was earning $20 an hour. Then at the outset of the recession in late 2008 his employer fired him and the other old-timers, and hired younger workers -- who earned only $9 or $10 an hour.
Terry has been knocking on doors everywhere, including at McDonald's, but nobody wants a 56-year-old man. ''The only call I got in two years was one asking if I could be a French chef,'' he recalled, laughing. ''I said 'Oui.' ''
Mais non, the chef's job did not come through. So although Terry earns some money breeding Pomeranians, his wife is now the main income earner. She worries that her job at a community college may be in jeopardy as well, and their standard of living has plummeted.
''It's been a 100 percent change in my lifestyle,'' Terry said. ''I used to grill rib-eye steaks on the barbecue. Now I grill hot dogs. And I can't tell you the last time I went out for a meal.''
My next neighbor beyond the Maggards is Elmer McKoon, 64, who used to work full time in construction, and more recently as a janitor. His company slashed the staff in 2008, but a kind boss kept Elmer working one night a week so he could keep his health insurance.
Another friend, Jeff, who was fired this year after 28 years in his job, notes that the biggest impact isn't the economic hit but the psychological one. Jeff, who didn't want his full name used for fear it would hurt his job hunt, said he wakes up and feels a stab in his gut as he realizes that he has nowhere to go that day -- and has lost his family's health insurance as well.
''I don't have the career that I know, and if someone gets sick then I'm homeless as well,'' he said.
Unless more people are working, paying taxes and making mortgage payments, it's difficult to see how we revive the economy or address our long-term debt challenge. While debt is a legitimate long-term problem, the urgent priority should be getting people back to work. America now has more than four unemployed people for each opening. And the longer people are out of work, the less likely it is that they will ever work again.
President Obama is saying the right things lately about creating jobs. But he is saying them far too meekly, and his jobs agenda seems anemic -- while the Republican Congress is saying the wrong things altogether.
There are no quick fixes to joblessness, but Washington could temporarily make federal money available to pay for teachers who are otherwise being laid off. We could increase spending on service programs like AmeriCorps that have far more applicants than spots.
We could extend the payroll tax cut, which expires at the end of December. Astonishingly, Republicans in Congress seem to be lined up instinctively against this basic economic stimulus. Could the Tea Party actually favor tax reductions for billionaires but not for working Americans? Could we have found a tax increase the Republican Party favors?
Mr. Obama, with 25 million Americans hurting, will you fight -- really fight! -- to put jobs at the top of the national agenda?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JON KLASSEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WRITERS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); FAMILY FARMS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011



1216 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Chief Chastises Policymakers

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
Europe weighed in at the central bankers conference in Jackson Hole, Wyo., on Saturday, with the president of the European Central Bank and president of the International Monetary Fund calling on governments to do more to address the deteriorating world economy.
''The downside risks to the global economy are increasing,'' Christine Lagarde, president of the I.M.F. and former French minister of finance, said during a joint appearance with Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank. 
In the blunter of the two presentations, Ms. Lagarde said that economic risks ''have been aggravated further by a deterioration in confidence and a growing sense that policymakers do not have the conviction, or simply are not willing, to take the decisions that are needed.''
Mr. Trichet avoided any mention of the European debt crisis that threatens the stability of the global financial system and may define his eight-year tenure, which ends on Oct. 31. Nor did he mention the extraordinary measures that the central bank has undertaken recently, buying Italian and Spanish bonds on the open market to contain runaway borrowing costs.
Instead, Mr. Trichet suggested that Europe's problems are fundamentally a question of which governments have taken steps to become competitive and which have not.
''Greece, Portugal and Ireland, in particular, had progressively lost competitiveness vis-a-vis their main trading partners in the euro area,'' Mr. Trichet said. ''Germany is now an example of how big the dividends of reform can be if structural adjustment is made a strategic priority and implemented with sufficient patience.''
Mr. Trichet and Ms. Lagarde were speaking at the annual central bankers conference in Jackson Hole, Wyo. Their calls for governments to take more responsibility for fixing the economic crisis were in line with comments Friday by Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, who on Friday blamed politicians for disrupting the financial system.
Ms. Lagarde, who perhaps has more freedom to speak her mind than a central banker, chastised political leaders for not doing more since the financial crisis began in 2008. Countries need to find a balance between cutting debt and promoting growth, she said.
''Developments this summer have indicated that we are in a dangerous new phase,'' she continued. ''The stakes are clear: we risk seeing the fragile recovery derailed.''
She said central banks should continue to pursue a loose monetary policy. ''The risk of recession outweighs the risk of inflation,'' she said.
She also said that banks, whose fragility is a key element of the crisis in Europe, should be recapitalized, forcibly and with public funds if need be. ''They must be strong enough to withstand the risks of sovereigns and weak growth,'' she said. ''This is key to cutting the chains of contagion. If it is not addressed, we could easily see the further spread of economic weakness to core countries, or even a debilitating liquidity crisis.''
She also complained about European political fractiousness. ''The current economic turmoil has exposed some serious flaws in the architecture of the euro zone, flaws that threaten the sustainability of the entire project,'' she said.
Mr. Trichet, in a scholarly discourse on the elements of economic growth, defended the beleaguered euro project, rejecting criticism that its 17 nations are too diverse to perform well together. He argued that Europe has grown almost as fast and created more jobs in the last decade than the United States.
''Adjusted for population growth, there has been virtually no difference between U.S. and euro area growth over the first decade since the introduction of the single currency,'' Mr. Trichet said. ''The euro area, though, has created more jobs: 14 million compared with 8 million in the U.S.'' He acknowledged, however, that Europe lags in deregulating its labor market.
Though too polite to criticize his hosts directly, Mr. Trichet said that income inequality is ultimately a threat to society. While the gap between rich and poor has also widened in countries like Germany, tax policies and more generous social programs mean that European countries still tend to be more economically egalitarian than the United States.
''Extremes of income inequality and restricted opportunity challenge our values and strain the fabric of our societies,'' Mr. Trichet said. ''Growth skewed towards the few (or absent for a large minority) risks social tensions, undermines institutions and encourages policy failures of one kind or another.''
Mr. Trichet was making his last appearance at Jackson Hole as European Central Bank president. He will hand the post in October to Mario Draghi, governor of the Bank of Italy.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EURO CRISIS (79%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (71%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (63%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (79%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (79%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (93%) EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); GREECE (79%); GERMANY (79%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1217 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE CHATTER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 136 words

 BODY:
''I have always said that if there ever came a day when I could no longer meet my duties and expectations as Apple's C.E.O., I would be the first to let you know.'' Steven P. Jobs, who announced his resignation as Apple's chief. Mr. Jobs, who has been on medical leave since January, will become chairman of the company. ''Absolutely, the numbers look too high to us.'' Doug Cliggott, a United States equity strategist at Credit Suisse, on analysts' earnings estimates for the second half of 2011, which have remained high even as economists have ratcheted down their growth forecasts. ''I remain confident that we have the capital and liquidity we need to run our business.'' Brian Moynihan, chief of Bank of America, after Warren Buffett, in a vote of confidence, announced plans to invest $5 billion in the company. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (86%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); SICK LEAVE (55%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (93%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (93%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (93%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (93%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (93%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (72%); BRIAN MOYNIHAN (57%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011



1218 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: The Rescue That Missed Main Street

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
FOR the last three years we have been told repeatedly by government officials that funneling hundreds of billions of dollars to large and teetering banks during the credit crisis was necessary to save the financial system, and beneficial to Main Street.
But this has been a hard sell to an increasingly skeptical public. As Henry M. Paulson Jr., the former Treasury secretary, told the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission back in May 2010, ''I was never able to explain to the American people in a way in which they understood it why these rescues were for them and for their benefit, not for Wall Street.'' 
The American people were right to question Mr. Paulson's pitch, as it turns out. And that became clearer than ever last week when Bloomberg News published fresh and disturbing details about the crisis-era bailouts.
Based on information generated by Freedom of Information Act requests and its longstanding lawsuit against the Federal Reserve board, Bloomberg reported that the Fed had provided a stunning $1.2 trillion to large global financial institutions at the peak of its crisis lending in December 2008.
The money has been repaid and the Fed has said its lending programs generated no losses. But with the United States economy weakening, European banks in trouble and some large American financial institutions once again on shaky ground, the Fed may feel compelled to open up its money spigots again.
Such a move does not appear imminent; on Friday Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, told attendees at the Jackson Hole, Wyo., conference that the Fed would take necessary steps to help the economy, but didn't outline any possibilities as he has done previously.
If the Fed reprises some of its emergency lending programs, we will at least know what they will involve and who will be on the receiving end, thanks to Bloomberg.
For instance, its report detailed the surprisingly sketchy collateral -- stocks and junk bonds -- accepted by the Fed to back its loans. And who will be surprised if foreign institutions, which our central bank has no duty to help, receive bushels of money from the Fed in the coming months? In 2008, the Royal Bank of Scotland received $84.5 billion, and Dexia, a Belgian lender, borrowed $58.5 billion from the Fed at its peak.
Walker F. Todd, a research fellow at the American Institute for Economic Research and a former assistant general counsel and research officer at the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, said these details from 2008 confirm that institutions, not citizens, were aided most by the bailouts.
''What is the benefit to the American taxpayer of propping up a Belgian bank with a single New York banking office to the tune of tens of billions of dollars?'' he asked. ''It seems inconsistent ultimately to have provided this much assistance to the biggest institutions for so long, and then to have done in effect nothing for the homeowner, nothing for credit card relief.''
Mr. Todd also questioned the Fed's decision to accept stock as collateral backing a loan to a bank. ''If you make a loan in an emergency secured by equities, how is that different in substance from the Fed walking into the New York Stock Exchange and buying across the board tomorrow?'' he asked. ''And yet this, the Fed has steadfastly denied ever doing.''
If these rescues were intended to benefit everyday Americans, as Mr. Paulson contended, they have failed. Main Street is in a world of hurt, facing high unemployment, rampant foreclosures and ravaged retirement accounts.
This important topic of bailout inequities came up in Congress earlier this month. Edward J. Kane, professor of finance at Boston College, addressed a Senate banking panel convened on Aug. 3 by Sherrod Brown, the Ohio Democrat. ''Our representative democracy espouses the principle that all men and women are equal under the law,'' Mr. Kane said. ''During the housing bubble and the economic meltdown that the bursting bubble brought about, the interests of domestic and foreign financial institutions were much better represented than the interests of society as a whole.''
THIS inequity must be eliminated, Mr. Kane said, especially since taxpayers will be billed for future bailouts of large and troubled institutions. Such rescues are not really loans, but the equivalent of equity investments by taxpayers, he said.
As such, regulators who have a duty to protect taxpayers should require these institutions to provide them with true and comprehensive reports about their financial positions and the potential risks they involve. These reports would counter companies' tendencies to hide their risk exposures through accounting tricks and innovation and would carry penalties for deception.
''Examiners would have to challenge this work, make the companies defend it and protect taxpayers from the misstatements we get today,'' Mr. Kane said in an interview last week. ''The banks really feel entitled to hide their deteriorating positions until they require life support. That's what we have to change. We must put them in position to be punished for an intent to deceive.''
Given the degree to which financial regulators are captured by the companies they oversee, prescriptions like Mr. Kane's are going to be fought hard. But the battle could not be more important; if we do nothing to protect taxpayers from the symbiotic relationship between the industry and their federal minders, we are in for many more episodes like the one we are still digging out of.
EVALUATING bailout programs like the Troubled Asset Relief Program and the facilities extended by the Fed against ''the senseless standard of doing nothing at all,'' Mr. Kane testified, government officials tell taxpayers that these actions were ''necessary to save us from worldwide depression and made money for the taxpayer.'' Both contentions are false, he said.
''Bailing out firms indiscriminately hampered rather than promoted economic recovery,'' Mr. Kane continued. ''It evoked reckless gambles for resurrection among rescued firms and created uncertainty about who would finally bear the extravagant costs of these programs. Both effects continue to disrupt the flow of credit and real investment necessary to trigger and sustain economic recovery.''
As for making money on the deals? Only half-true, Mr. Kane said. ''Thanks to the vastly subsidized terms these programs offered, most institutions were eventually able to repay the formal obligations they incurred.'' But taxpayers were inadequately compensated for the help they provided, he said. We should have received returns of 15 percent to 20 percent on our money, given the nature of these rescues.
Government officials rewarded imprudent institutions with stupefying amounts of free money. Even so, we are still in economically stormy seas. Doesn't that indicate that it's time to try a different tack?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (75%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); LITIGATION (67%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (67%); LAWYERS (66%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (63%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND (62%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); DEXIA SA (52%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (63%); RBS (LSE) (63%); RBS (AMS) (63%); DEXB (BRU) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (62%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (62%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (72%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); BELGIUM (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011



1219 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Private-Sector Jobs Are a Major Factor in Employment Growth

BYLINE: By BECCA AARONSON. 
baaronson@texastribune.org

 BODY:
It is not a mirage or a miracle; it is a fact. Nearly half of all net jobs created in the United States since 2009 have been in Texas.
It is also a fact that Texas' unemployment rate, currently at 8.4 percent, is the highest it has been since 1987, even though it is below the national rate of 9.1 percent.
As Gov. Rick Perry continues to tout Texas' low-tax, low-regulation business climate as the secret to the state's relative economic strength, critics have pointed to Texas' unemployment rate and low-wage jobs, noting that Texas ties Mississippi for the highest percentage of minimum wage workers. 
The debate raises several questions: What jobs do Texans commonly hold right now? How much do those jobs pay? And what jobs is Texas creating?
According to statistics from the Texas Workforce Commission, the annual median wage in 2010 for all occupations in Texas was $31,500, or 7 percent less than the national median.
The most common occupation sectors in Texas were office and administrative service, sales, and food service. Of the three, office jobs had the highest median wage, at $29,300. Food service had the lowest median wage of all occupation groups, at $17,700 annually. Together these occupational groups made up more than a third of employed Texans.
But the same pattern can be observed in both national numbers and nearly every state, said Ray Perryman, chief executive of a nonpartisan economic research firm based in Waco. These broad categories encompass many jobs ''necessary to run a modern economy,'' he said.
What sets Texas apart is that it is ''the only large labor market state in the nation that's shown a positive growth in private-sector jobs,'' said Tom Pauken, chairman of the Texas Workforce Commission. Mr. Perry took office at the end of 2000, and since 2001 the nation as a whole has had a net loss of private-sector jobs, while Texas had a net gain of 825,400 private-sector jobs.
The fastest-growing industry in Texas is mining and logging, which grew by 19.4 percent, or 40,500 net jobs, over the last year. Rising energy demand, along with discoveries of natural gas in shale formations across Texas, have resulted in the expansion of hydraulic fracturing and offshore drilling operations, both environmentally controversial practices.
Energy extraction flourishes in Texas because of the ''low taxes and low regulations,'' said Bill Peacock, the director of the conservative Texas Public Policy Foundation's economic center. Mr. Peacock said states cannot match Texas' success because those with resources have often prohibited offshore drilling or increased regulations on hydraulic fracturing.
''People can come here and drill,'' he said.
Texas has a large low-wage work force and an undeniably high unemployment rate, said Don Baylor, a senior economic analyst at the liberal Center for Public Policy Priorities. But the ''economy has diversified,'' he said, ''so there are a lot more opportunities that exist now than before.''
Three other industry sectors added more jobs than mining over the last year: trade, transportation and utilities increased by 57,900 net jobs; professional and business services by 53,400 net jobs; and leisure and hospitality by 44,900 net jobs.
Mr. Baylor said the Texas economy might suffer when budget cuts come in September and the state runs out of the federal stimulus funds that propped up the economy in the last budget cycle. Texas cut 9,400 government jobs in July. The Center for Public Policy Priorities estimates that the state will lose 49,000 government jobs as a result of budget cuts, primarily to education financing.
''Given the economic status of most of the country, arguments that the growth in Texas is somehow a bad thing are unlikely to be persuasive,'' Mr. Perryman said. While Mr. Perry's tax and regulatory policies have ''improved the business climate,'' Mr. Perryman said, the governor cannot take credit for recent discoveries of shale formations, the price of oil or ''many other factors that have provided Texas with a competitive advantage in recent years.''
The work force commission projected in 2008 that Texas would add nearly two million jobs by 2018. Mr. Pauken said it is difficult to trust any predictions, given the current economic climate. ''We're doing a good job of poaching jobs from other high-tax, high-regulatory states,'' he said. ''But ultimately it's a zero-sum game if the nation at large is losing jobs to other nations.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (88%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (84%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%); STATISTICS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (64%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (60%); ENERGY DEMAND (60%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (97%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011



1220 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FIRST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Not Just Between Them And Their God

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER. 
Bill Keller is the executive editor of The New York Times. Beginning Sept. 19, he will write a column for the Op-Ed page of The Times and contribute longer reports to the magazine.

 BODY:
If a candidate for president said he believed that space aliens dwell among us, would that affect your willingness to vote for him? Personally, I might not disqualify him out of hand; one out of three Americans believe we have had Visitors and, hey, who knows? But I would certainly want to ask a few questions. Like, where does he get his information? Does he talk to the aliens? Do they have an economic plan?
Yet when it comes to the religious beliefs of our would-be presidents, we are a little squeamish about probing too aggressively. Michele Bachmann was asked during the Iowa G.O.P. debate what she meant when she said the Bible obliged her to ''be submissive'' to her husband, and there was an audible wave of boos -- for the question, not the answer. There is a sense, encouraged by the candidates, that what goes on between a candidate and his or her God is a sensitive, even privileged domain, except when it is useful for mobilizing the religious base and prying open their wallets. 
This year's Republican primary season offers us an important opportunity to confront our scruples about the privacy of faith in public life -- and to get over them. We have an unusually large number of candidates, including putative front-runners, who belong to churches that are mysterious or suspect to many Americans. Mitt Romney and Jon Huntsman are Mormons, a faith that many conservative Christians have been taught is a ''cult'' and that many others think is just weird. (Huntsman says he is not ''overly religious.'') Rick Perry and Michele Bachmann are both affiliated with fervid subsets of evangelical Christianity -- and Rick Santorum comes out of the most conservative wing of Catholicism -- which has raised concerns about their respect for the separation of church and state, not to mention the separation of fact and fiction.
I honestly don't care if Mitt Romney wears Mormon undergarments beneath his Gap skinny jeans, or if he believes that the stories of ancient American prophets were engraved on gold tablets and buried in upstate New York, or that Mormonism's founding prophet practiced polygamy (which was disavowed by the church in 1890). Every faith has its baggage, and every faith holds beliefs that will seem bizarre to outsiders. I grew up believing that a priest could turn a bread wafer into the actual flesh of Christ.
But I do want to know if a candidate places fealty to the Bible, the Book of Mormon (the text, not the Broadway musical) or some other authority higher than the Constitution and laws of this country. It matters to me whether a president respects serious science and verifiable history -- in short, belongs to what an official in a previous administration once scornfully described as ''the reality-based community.'' I do care if religious doctrine becomes an excuse to exclude my fellow citizens from the rights and protections our country promises.
And I care a lot if a candidate is going to be a Trojan horse for a sect that believes it has divine instructions on how we should be governed.
So this season I'm paying closer attention to what the candidates say about their faith and what they have said in the past that they may have decided to play down in the quest for mainstream respectability.
From Ryan Lizza's enlightening profile in The New Yorker, I learned that Michele Bachmann's influences include spiritual and political mentors who preach the literal ''inerrancy'' of the Bible, who warn Christians to be suspicious of ideas that come from non-Christians, who believe homosexuality is an ''abomination,'' who portray the pre-Civil War South as a pretty nice place for slaves and who advocate ''Dominionism,'' the view that Christians and only Christians should preside over earthly institutions.
From reporting in The Texas Observer and The Texas Monthly, I learned about the Dominionist supporters of Rick Perry, including a number of evangelists to whom Perry gave leading roles in his huge public prayer service, called the Response, early this month.
Neither Bachmann nor Perry has, as far as I know, pledged allegiance to the Dominionists. Possibly they overlooked those passages in the books and sermons of their spiritual comrades. My informed Texan friends tell me Perry's relationship with the religious fringe is pragmatic, that it is more likely he is riding the movement than it is riding him. But as we have seen with the Tea Party (another political movement Perry hopped aboard in its early days), the support of a constituent group doesn't come without strings.
In any case, let's ask. In the last presidential campaign, Candidate Obama was pressed to distance himself from his pastor, who carried racial bitterness to extremes, and Candidate McCain was forced to reject the endorsement of a preacher who offended Catholics and Jews. I don't see why Perry and Bachmann should be exempt from similar questioning.
Asking candidates, respectfully, about their faith should not be an excuse for bigotry or paranoia. I still remember, as a Catholic boy, being mystified and hurt by the speculation about John Kennedy's Catholicism -- whether he would be taking orders from the Vatican. (Kennedy addressed the issue of his faith and mostly neutralized it, as Romney tried to do in a 2007 speech that emphasized his common ground with mainstream Christian denominations.) And of course issues of faith should not distract attention from issues of economics and war. But it is worth knowing whether a candidate has a mind open to intelligence that does not fit neatly into his preconceptions.
To get things rolling, I sent the aforementioned candidates a little questionnaire (which you can find on The 6th Floor blog). Here's a sample:
--Do you agree with those religious leaders who say that America is a ''Christian nation'' or a ''Judeo-Christian nation?'' and what does that mean in practice?
--Would you have any hesitation about appointing a Muslim to the federal bench? What about an atheist?
--What is your attitude toward the theory of evolution, and do you believe it should be taught in public schools?
I also asked specific questions of the candidates. I wanted Governor Perry to explain his relationship with David Barton, the founder of the WallBuilders evangelical movement, who preaches that America should have a government ''firmly rooted in biblical principles'' and that the Bible offers explicit guidance on public policy -- for example, tax policy. Since Barton endorsed Perry in the past, it would be interesting to know whether the governor disagrees with him.
And what about John Hagee, the Texas evangelist who described Catholicism as a ''godless theology of hate'' and declared that the Holocaust was part of God's plan to drive the Jews to Palestine? In the 2008 campaign, John McCain disavowed Hagee's endorsement. This time around, the preacher has reportedly decided to bestow his blessing on Perry's campaign. I wonder if it will be accepted.
My note to Representative Bachmann asked about the documentary produced last year by a group now known as Truth in Action Ministries, in which she espoused the idea that all money for social welfare should come from charity, not government taxation. Is that a goal she would pursue as president?
And I'm curious if she stands by her recommendation of that biography of Robert E. Lee by J. Steven Wilkins, who contends the Civil War was a clash between a Christian South and a godless North. Wilkins writes that in the South, contrary to the notion that slaves were victims, there was a ''unity and companionship that existed between the races'' because they shared a common faith.
We'll be posting the campaigns' answers -- if any -- on nytimes.com. And if they don't answer, let's keep on asking. Because these are matters too important to take on faith.
Correction: August 28, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an essay on Page 11 this weekend, about the religious beliefs of Republican presidential candidates, misstates the proportion of Americans who believe that extraterrestrials live among us. It is about a third, not a majority. The essay also erroneously includes Rick Santorum among politicians affiliated with evangelical Christianity. Mr. Santorum is Catholic.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICH SCHLEGEL/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); RELIGION (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (75%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (75%); POLYGAMY (75%); CULTS & SECTS (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); CHURCH & STATE (70%); MUSICAL THEATER (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); RICK SANTORUM (54%); RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2011



1221 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Investors Opt for Vintage Chrome

BYLINE: By ROB SASS

 BODY:
MONTEREY, Calif.
AN unnerving summer that has included a debt ceiling standoff, extreme volatility in the financial markets and fears of a double-dip recession might seem a poor time to buy or sell expensive, impractical collectible cars. Yet more than $200 million of vintage automobiles changed hands on the Monterey peninsula this month, a 16 percent jump from the record set last year when the economic climate seemed somewhat brighter.
David Gooding, president of the Gooding & Company auction house, interpreted the results as further evidence that amid erratic financial markets, tangible assets like rare automobiles are viewed as sound investments. Indeed, 32 cars sold for $1 million or more at the auctions held around Monterey in conjunction with the Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance. 
Mr. Gooding's company had the high sale of the weekend, $16.4 million (including commission) for the 1957 Ferrari Testa Rossa prototype. It also set a world record as the most expensive car ever sold at public auction.
In an interview, Mr. Gooding said, ''While we're thrilled and proud of the result, I think that this was the car out of all of those in the sale that will appreciate the most.'' Alluding to private-party sales of Ferrari 250 GTOs well in excess of $16 million, he added, ''I believe that the Testa Rossa is currently undervalued,'' given its greater success on the racetrack.
Gooding also set a world record for the most expensive American car sold at auction: a 1931 Duesenberg Model J coupe brought $10.3 million.
Gooding's total sales were $78 million, slightly less than the $80 million tallied by RM Auctions of Blenheim, Ontario. RM's sale included an astonishing 14 cars that brought seven-figure prices, including several from a notable collection of prewar Mercedes-Benz models.
RM's European managing director and auctioneer, Max Girardo, said that the buyers were predominantly collectors rather than investors and that the number of individual bidders vying for each lot was larger than in past years.
RM offered two cars previously featured in The New York Times, with mixed results. It failed to attract enough buyer interest in a historic hot rod, the Edelbrock Highboy Roadster. But a 1960 Chrysler 300F meticulously restored by David Clelland of Delanco, N.J. -- the subject of the Auto Ego feature on Feb. 7, 2010 -- sold for $220,000.
Bonhams had $8.8 million in sales, including a 1979 BMW M1 that the artist Frank Stella transformed into artwork. It sold for $854,000.
Buyers of more modest means found attainable cars at the sales by Russo & Steele and Mecum Auctions -- although Mecum did have one notable large sale, the Miller racecar that won the 1931 Indianapolis 500, which brought $2,140,000.
Mecum's sales totaled about $21 million and Russo & Steele's $8.2 million.
Nonauction events on the Monterey peninsula included the Quail Motorsports Gathering, which celebrated the 50th anniversary of the Jaguar E-Type. The popular Concorso Italiano benefited from the support of Fiat, which brought new 500 minicars to display alongside their predecessors.
The satirical Concours d'LeMons provided a foil to the pretensions of other events by featuring automotive misfits and open bribery of judges.
The crown jewel was again the Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance, where last Sunday a normally conservative group of judges surprised many of those in attendance with their soundly unconventional pick for Best of Show: a 1934 Voisin C-25 Aerodyne owned by Peter Mullin of Los Angeles. The cars of Avions Voisin, a French aircraft manufacturer, are exceedingly rare and oddly Gallic; the Mullin car is a spectacular Machine Age example of Art Deco.
A 1957 Ferrari 250 GT, originally commissioned for Prince Bernhard of the Netherlands, won its class at Pebble Beach. The unique Ferrari was featured in an Aug. 14 article about how the Rare Drive restoration shop in New Hampshire was preparing the car for the concours.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FRENCH DECO: 1934 Voisin C-25 Aerodyne won Best of Show at the Pebble Beach Concours. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIMBALL STUDIOS/PEBBLE BEACH CONCOURS D'ELEGANCE)
 A DUESY INDEED: 1931 Duesenberg Model J set a record. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAWEL LITWINSKI/GOODING & COMPANY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); SPORTS CARS (73%); RECESSION (73%); DEBT CEILING (73%); AUTO RACING (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); INDIANA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2011



1222 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Posted a Trade Surplus in Solar Technologies, Study Finds

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- A study sponsored by the solar power industry has concluded that the United States ran a trade surplus of $1.88 billion in solar technologies last year, as exports of raw material and factory equipment for the solar sector outpaced imports of finished solar panels. 
The report is clearly aimed at addressing worries about the rapid rise of Chinese solar panel manufacturers, who now represent 58 percent of the world's solar panel manufacturing capacity.
American solar panel makers have been struggling, including Evergreen Solar, which filed for bankruptcy this month and had already moved early this year to shut down most of its production in the United States.
It takes up to two years for a conventional blue solar panel to produce as much electricity as it took to manufacture the device, prompting critics to suggest that solar panels in some ways resemble batteries as well as power generation technologies. Much of the electricity for making a solar panel goes into producing the main material, polysilicon.
Cheap hydroelectric power from dams on rivers in the Pacific Northwest region has turned the United States into a big exporter of polysilicon. The country exported $2.52 billion worth of polysilicon last year while importing $179 million worth of polysilicon, the report said.
Figures in the report appeared consistent with United States Customs data from Global Trade Information Services, a data service based in Columbia, S.C.
GTM Research, a renewable energy market analysis firm based in Boston, produced the report, which was sponsored by the Solar Energy Industries Association and scheduled for release on Monday. The association is a trade group representing solar power companies, including the American subsidiaries of Chinese solar panel manufacturers.
The United States also ran a large surplus last year in factory equipment used to manufacture photovoltaic devices like solar panels, exporting $2.55 billion worth of the equipment while importing $428 million
Shayle Kann, a managing director of solar power studies at GTM Research, said in an interview Sunday that American exports of factory equipment to manufacture photovoltaic devices might slow this year. But he attributed this to a weak global economy that had slowed growth in demand for solar power.
''It's not necessarily anything to do with the U.S. being competitive,'' he said.
China is trying to build its own industry to produce solar manufacturing equipment, however, and has lured companies like Applied Materials of the United States to set up large research labs in Chinese cities like Xi'an.
The bilateral surplus in the sector with China was at least $247 million last year, despite $1.15 billion in solar panel imports, the report said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (93%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELL MFG (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (74%); PLANT CAPACITY (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); INTERVIEWS (67%)

COMPANY: GLOBAL TRADE INFORMATION SERVICES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SOLAR ENERGY INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION (54%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%) WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1223 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: Ground Zero Rebuilding

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''9/11's White Elephant,'' by Joe Nocera (column, Aug. 20): 
Given the design constraints, it is true that 1 World Trade Center may not be the most lucrative real estate investment ever made. But contrary to Mr. Nocera's assertion, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey's investment will be cash positive within several years (not ''decades'').
He blames 1 World Trade Center for the recent toll and fare increase, ignoring the real drivers of the increase: the historic recession that decimated agency revenues; the tripling of security costs since 9/11; and the need to overhaul the region's 80-year-old infrastructure.
Mr. Nocera scoffs that ''only the government could love'' 1 World Trade Center. If this were true, why would the Durst Organization, one of the world's top developers, make such a significant equity investment in the building?
It is hard to know what Mr. Nocera would do differently at this stage. We saw what happened when the private sector had its chance to rebuild downtown. It didn't. For five years after 9/11, very little happened. It was only after the Port Authority stepped in, with a strong public-private partnership, that the rebuilding became real, even with the admitted challenges along the way.
CHRISTOPHER O. WARD Executive Director, Port Authority of New York and New Jersey New York, Aug. 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1224 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: New York Spared Brunt of Storm; Suburbs Hit Hard

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK; Reporting was contributed by Peter Applebome, Joseph Goldstein, Michael M. Grynbaum, Sarah Maslin Nir and Jennifer Preston.

 BODY:
Tropical Storm Irene swept through the desolate streets of New York on Sunday, flooding low-lying areas and leaving millions of homes without power along the Eastern Seaboard as it continued on to New England. Most New Yorkers emerged from their makeshift bunkers to find little of the widespread devastation the authorities had feared.
But the aftermath of the storm, at least in New York and its suburbs, could be most felt on Monday in the early-morning commute -- which, for some people, was a nonstarter.
Although most of the city subway's 22 lines were running by 6 a.m. on Monday, the experience could not be more different outside the city, where fallen trees and downed wires caused problems throughout suburban New York and Connecticut. There was no service whatsoever on the Metro-North Railroad, and no commuter service into New York on New Jersey Transit. The Long Island Rail Road had extremely limited train service; Amtrak was not running any trains between Boston and Philadelphia, and service between New York and Albany was also stopped. 
PATH trains did resume on Monday; New Jersey Transit buses also were running on a truncated weekday schedule. But for many suburban commuters, getting to New York meant doing something out of their normal routine: taking ferries, commuter vans or finding instant car pool partners.
The storm, which was downgraded from a hurricane shortly before it hit New York, attacked in a flurry of punches. A police station in Cranford, N.J., flooded and had to be evacuated. Firefighters paddling in boats rescued more than 60 people from five-foot floodwaters on Staten Island. New York's major airports were closed, and at least five storm-related deaths were reported in New York State and New Jersey.
But after wide-ranging precautionary measures by city officials that included shutting down New York's mass-transit network, sandbagging storefronts on Fifth Avenue and issuing evacuation orders for 370,000 people across the city, Hurricane Irene is likely to be remembered by New Yorkers more for what did not happen than for what did.
Windows in skyscrapers did not shatter. Subway tunnels did not flood. Power was not shut off pre-emptively. The water grid did not burst. There were no reported fatalities in the five boroughs. And the rivers flanking Manhattan did not overrun their banks.
Still, when the center of the storm arrived over New York City, about 9 a.m., winds had reached 65 miles per hour, making Irene the largest storm to hit the city in more than 25 years, even as the bulk of the storm's power was reserved for the suburbs.
''All in all, we are in pretty good shape because of the exhaustive steps I think we took to prepare for whatever came our way,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said at a news conference on Sunday afternoon.
Before striking New York, the storm left a path of wreckage that killed at least 16 people in six states, paralyzed most modes of transportation across the Northeast and caused flooding in several states.
''Many Americans are still at risk of power outages and flooding,'' President Obama said, ''which could get worse in the coming days as rivers swell past their banks.''
New York's economic costs have yet to be calculated, but with Broadway dark, storefronts covered in plywood and virtually the entire population shuttered indoors, the weekend's lost sales and storm damage could end up costing the city about $6 billion, said Peter Morici, a business school professor at the University of Maryland. The total national cost could reach $40 billion, Mr. Morici added.
Outside New York City, the storm's wrath was stark. In New Jersey, more than 800,000 customers were without power on Sunday, and the state's largest utility, Public Service Electric and Gas, estimated it could take a week to restore electricity to all of its customers. In Connecticut, 670,000 customers had lost power -- roughly half the state -- which surpassed power failures caused by Hurricane Gloria in 1985.
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey said more than 300 roadways were blocked, but he warned that dire problems were still to come, particularly along the Delaware, Ramapo and Passaic Rivers. ''The real issue that we are going to have to deal with now is flooding,'' Mr. Christie said.
Flooding in Philadelphia reached levels that had not been seen in that city in more than 140 years. Vermont was also struck particularly hard; even as the worst of the winds had dissipated, flooding forced officials to evacuate parts of southern Vermont, and floods were expected in the northern portion of the state as late as Monday.
In New York, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said it could take a week to fully restore power to the 750,000 customers without electricity. That included 457,000 on Long Island, 50,000 in Westchester County and 34,000 in Queens, officials said. Consolidated Edison said power was not cut in Manhattan.
Mr. Obama said that though the storm had not proved as strong as many feared, the aftermath would be substantial. ''The impacts of this storm will be felt for some time,'' he said Sunday from the White House. ''And the recovery effort will last for weeks or longer. I want people to understand that this is not over.''
But despite the lack of power, flooding and foiled weekend plans, the soggy Northeast's collective mood shifted Sunday from dread to relief.
In New York, joggers, not floodwaters, were spotted along the East River. Restaurants, bookstores and bars reopened. Traffic picked up, and officials at the United States Open announced that the tournament would begin on Monday after all.
By 11 a.m., with the sun peeking out, tourists flocked to Central Park even though police officers shooed them away for fear of falling branches.
''I slept like a baby,'' said Steven Boone, a homeless man who rode out the storm in a shelter in the East Village. ''Nowhere near as bad as I thought.''
Despite the region's relative good fortune, many applauded the preparations for a worst-case disaster. Mr. Bloomberg strongly defended the drastic measures, which saw 9,000 evacuees enter 81 emergency shelters.
''I would make the same decisions again without hesitation,'' he said. ''We're just not going to take any risk with people's lives, and the best scenario possible is you take the precautions and it turns out they're not needed.''
The city lifted a highly unusual evacuation order of low-lying neighborhoods a day after residents of Zone A -- including Coney Island, the Rockaways and Battery Park City -- were ordered to leave for their own safety. (The city's zoned labels showed signs of outlasting the storm's more tangible effects. Viktoriya Gaponski, a fashion blogger, said on Twitter that she planned to ''only date Zone B men from now on. Less dangerous than Zone A, but edgier than Zone C.'')
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey reopened the city's three major airports on Monday morning.
The storm caused several deaths in the region, including at least three in New Jersey. Celena Sylvestri, 20, was driving to her boyfriend's house when she was caught in flood waters in Salem County. Ms. Sylvestri called police to say she was trapped in water up to her neck, but by the time rescue workers found her, eight hours later, she was already dead inside her car.
In Buena Vista, N.J., in Atlantic County, officials scrambled to evacuate three dozen elderly residents from trailer homes that were threatened by sudden flooding.
The police also said a 39-year-old volunteer rescue worker for Princeton Township's Rescue and First Aid squad was in critical condition on Sunday after he was injured while trying to make a rescue in swift-moving water at 4:30 a.m.
There were close calls in New York City, as well. In the Bulls Head section of Staten Island, dozens of people stood on their nearly submerged porches to flag down firefighters who took them to safety in their rafts. The flood waters had swallowed rows of parked cars, angering at least one resident.
''I was like, 'This hurricane isn't cool anymore,' '' said Safina Skaf, 27, who woke up to find her new sport utility vehicle underwater. ''Please go away now.''
In Brooklyn on Sunday afternoon, bars flung open their windows and sidewalk cafes set up outdoor tables as businesses and patrons looked to make up for a lost Saturday night. The Greenlight Bookstore in Fort Greene said it was packed less than 10 minutes after opening around 2:30 p.m. Across the street, Habana Outpost served margaritas and planned to play a movie outdoors as long as the weather cooperated.
Others found poetry in the gales of wind and sheets of rain.
''You may not see this again in your lifetime,'' said Teddy Ferris, 55, an East Village resident who had refused to evacuate and had taken a seat along the East River on Sunday morning. ''This is beautiful. This is nature at its best.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE BRONX: Tropical Storm Irene brought down trees and branches on 231st Street in Riverdale. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
WESTCHESTER: Workers cleaned up after the storm flooded a restaurant in Rye, N.Y. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
NEW ENGLAND: Homes on Wilbur's Point in Fairhaven, Mass., were battered by huge waves. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER PEREIRA/THE STANDARD TIMES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A1)
STATEN ISLAND: Ida Tserlina, 54, checked her mail on Croft Place near Saybrook, where residents had been evacuated because of severe flooding. Ms. Tserlina's basement was flooded. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
LONG ISLAND: A lifeguard station was washed off its foundation and landed on the Boardwalk in Long Beach, drawing a throng of spectators on Sunday after Tropical Storm Irene moved north. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
BROOKLYN: Evacuees at a shelter in Roosevelt High School, on 20th Avenue in Bensonhurst. Officials had issued evacuation orders for 370,000 people across the city, but many chose to stay put. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 QUEENS: Natasha Devine, left, her mother, Sharon Devine, and her son Anthony Jackson took in the storm's aftermath from their stoop in Rosedale as residents waited for the waters to recede. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); WEATHER (90%); SUBURBS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); FLOOD ZONES (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); HURRICANES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); CITIES (75%); POLICE FORCES (72%); BOATING & RAFTING (69%); AIRPORTS (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2011



1225 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Reports this week will include personal income and spending for July, and pending home sales for June (Monday); S.& P./Case-Shiller housing price index for June and the second quarter; consumer confidence for August (Tuesday); ADP employment for August; Chicago P.M.I. for August, and factory orders for July (Wednesday); revised second-quarter productivity; weekly jobless claims; I.S.M. manufacturing index for August; and construction spending for July (Thursday); unemployment for August (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Barnes & Noble and Dollar General (Tuesday); Ciena Corporation and H&R Block (Thursday); and Campbell Soup (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES The Federal Reserve will issue the minutes from its Aug. 9 meeting (Tuesday); automakers report monthly sales for August (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); PRODUCTIVITY (88%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); AUTOMAKERS (50%)

COMPANY: CIENA CORP (71%); DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (57%); H & R BLOCK INC (57%)

TICKER: CIEN (NASDAQ) (71%); DG (NYSE) (57%); HRB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (71%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (57%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2011



1226 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: New York Subway Plans Limited Morning Service; Commuter Lines Hobbled

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM and CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
The New York City subway, whose closure in the lead-up to Tropical Storm Irene was perhaps the most unsettling element of a prodigious storm preparation effort, reopened on a limited schedule on Monday morning.
Nearly all of the subway's 22 lines, including express and local service, have restored, according to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority Web site. Fewer trains will run than in a normal morning rush.
Still, other parts of the region's mass transit network are likely to remain partially paralyzed for the morning commute, including the suburban commuter rail networks that carry thousands of workers to hospitals, investment houses and corner bodegas alike. 
The Metro-North Railroad said that it would operate no trains at all on Monday on all three of its lines, which serve areas of New York and Connecticut. Its tracks sustained extensive damage from flooding, fallen trees, and mudslides. The Long Island Rail Road said that it is ''operating near-normal service this morning on six of its branches,'' but with service suspended to certain stops.
Although the city escaped a punishing blow from the storm, New York's ability to return to its usual humming self will rely largely on how quickly its lifeblood mass transit system can recover.
''Transit is the economic life, the cultural life of the city,'' said Mitchell Moss, director of the Rudin Center at New York University. ''If you don't have that infrastructure working, you can't have a meal, you can't make a living, you can't get a prescription filled.''
The consequences could quickly spread around the nation: with reduced transit options to the airports, some airlines said they had been reluctant to restore flights into the New York region. Departures will resume at 7 a.m. at La Guardia Airport, and at noon at Kennedy and Newark Liberty International Airports.
Fallen trees and flooded tracks rendered some stretches of the regional rail network impassable on Sunday, and officials said it could be several days before full train service is restored to upstate New York, Connecticut and Long Island, parts of which were hit much harder by the storm than the city.
Speaking to New Yorkers at a news conference on Sunday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said bluntly, ''You're going to have a tough commute in the morning.''
But he praised the Metropolitan Transportation Authority for its decision to pre-emptively shut down the transit network ahead of the storm, saying the agency had taken the right actions to preserve its equipment and would be better positioned to expedite the recovery.
Several subway train yards were flooded on Sunday afternoon, and workers were trying to pump out water so that trains could run on their proper routes. But there were minimal signs of damage to the overall system, officials said, and the underwater tunnels that were considered vulnerable to the storm were mostly untouched.
Many trains had been removed from low-lying yards in advance of the storm, which made it easier for workers to restore them to service for Monday. The volume of service may still be affected by transit workers' ability to reach those train yards, given the remaining difficulties with transportation.
It is perhaps a sign of New Yorkers' impatience that many incorrectly believe the subway system can be restored at the flick of a switch. Before trains can start running again, transit workers must manually inspect hundreds of miles of track, pumping out water and checking on thousands of individual signals. (Waterlogged tracks are sometimes restored with hair dryers.)
There were other signs late Sunday that the system was beginning to stir from its self-imposed slumber. Buses began to crawl out of their depots in Manhattan and the Bronx in the afternoon, and the transportation authority offered free rides for the day. Brooklyn and Queens were expected to have some buses back on the streets in the evening, but blocked and flooded roadways prevented service on Staten Island.
Delta Air Lines rented hotel rooms for several hundred employees during the storm so they could quickly return to work on Monday. The airline is also hiring shuttle buses to pick up employees in Brooklyn and Queens on Monday morning.
Late Sunday, Amtrak officials said they did not know when service in the Northeast Corridor would be restored. Gov. Chris Christie said there would be no New Jersey Transit commuter rail service on Monday except for the Atlantic City line. There will be modified schedules for buses, Light Rail and PATH service, which was scheduled to resume at 4 a.m.
The less-than-severe impact that the storm had on the city led to some skepticism about whether the subways should have been pre-emptively closed, although Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Cuomo praised the transportation authority for its actions.
Casilda Johnson, 41, a security guard who had just finished a 26-hour stretch of work at the Manhattan Municipal Building, was walking across the Brooklyn Bridge on Sunday afternoon. She planned to meet a relative on the other side who was to drive her home to Nostrand Avenue in Crown Heights.
''It's hard for us to get home,'' she said, her MetroCard dangling from a lanyard around her neck.
Speaking of the mayor, she said: ''He went overboard this time. You can't shut this big city down. You've got to think of the people who don't have cars. How are we supposed to get to work, and get home?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: M.T.A. workers assessing flood damage to the Brooklyn shuttle train between Park Place and Botanic Garden in Crown Heights. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Penn Station was virtually empty Sunday afternoon. Outside Grand Central Terminal, police tape blocked a subway entrance. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (92%); WEATHER (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); AIRLINES (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); SUBURBS (70%); PARALYSIS (70%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2011



1227 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: A Small Country -- Finland -- Casts Doubt on Aid for Greece

BYLINE: By JACK EWING AND LOUISE STORY; Jack Ewing reported from Frankfurt and Louise Story from New York.

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- France and Germany may effectively run the European Union, but Finland has demonstrated how even a small country can disrupt their grand designs.
By insisting that it receive collateral from Greece in return for aid, Finland is threatening to upend an agreement that euro zone countries made in July to expand the European Union bailout fund.
That agreement is crucial to restoring confidence among bondholders that Europe can find a lasting solution to its sovereign debt troubles. But the continued squabbling in Europe has alarmed policy makers around the world, and the dispute over collateral provides one more measure of market uncertainty this week as the summer lull ends and trading regains a more normal volume. 
Spain and Italy, whose beleaguered economies are receiving support from the European Central Bank, are scheduled to conduct debt auctions this week.
The possibility that euro zone members will not agree on an expansion of the bailout fund is a concern for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, according to a person briefed on issues there. Matthew Ward, a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined to comment.
Christine Lagarde, president of the International Monetary Fund, warned European leaders on Saturday that their fractiousness was threatening the common currency.
''The current economic turmoil has exposed some serious flaws in the architecture of the euro zone, flaws that threaten the sustainability of the entire project,'' Ms. Lagarde, the former finance minister of France, said in Jackson Hole, Wyo., where makers of economic policy were meeting.
Finland would contribute less than 2 percent of the guarantees provided to the fund, known as the European Financial Stability Facility. But the country's demands, the subject of intense negotiations in recent days, threaten to derail the fragile consensus that is preventing Greece from defaulting on its debt.
Finland is the most vivid example of the way parochial domestic politics can become Continental problems, threatening the unity of the 17 euro zone members as they face their deepest crisis ever. But Germany, the Netherlands and Austria -- all wealthy countries with strong economies -- also harbor deep opposition to bailing out Greece, Portugal, Ireland or any other country that may become overwhelmed by debt.
Finland is just one of 17 countries whose parliamentary approval is needed for the expanded bailout fund and whose domestic politics could upset the process. And Finland points to a bigger governance problem in Europe, said James D. Savage, a professor at the University of Virginia who has published a book on European monetary union.
''You have all these multiple veto points, so they can't come to a reasonable conclusion, at least not easily,'' Mr. Savage said. ''You have increasingly less efficient decisions that are being made.''
Even if European leaders solve the Finnish problem, analysts in the United States say traders have accepted that Europe may face similar squabbles in the future.
''This specific issue is just part of a broader mural that Europe will be wrestling with for years to come,'' said Ward McCarthy, the chief financial economist at Jefferies & Company, an asset management and investment banking firm based in New York. ''The general perception is that European financial issues are not going to be resolved soon and they will provide periodic disruptions to global financial markets for years.''
Officials from European finance ministries spent much of Friday in long-distance negotiations about the collateral issue but did not reach an agreement. Conflicting reports about the negotiations have fed market confusion. The news media in Germany and other countries reported on Friday that Finland had dropped its demands, but the reports were swiftly denied by Finnish officials.
The climate created by the collateral dispute could make it more difficult for the European Central Bank to continue to defend Italy and Spain in bond markets and contain their borrowing costs. This month the bank has spent 36 billion euros ($52 billion) intervening in debt markets in an effort, so far successful, to cap bond yields for the two countries.
The bank's task could prove more difficult when trading volume picks up, especially since Spain and Italy are scheduled to try to sell debt this week. A steady drip of bad economic news has helped further depress investor sentiment, most recently on Friday, when the European Central Bank released data showing that bank deposits and lending remained weak.
Meanwhile, there are continuing signs that banks are becoming increasingly suspicious of each others' creditworthiness and are reluctant to lend to each other. The so-called three-month Libor-OIS spread, considered an indicator of interbank tension, has doubled this month, according to Bloomberg data. A wider spread points to increased tension.
In Finland, Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen faces discontent within his governing coalition as well as pressure from a nationalist opposition group, the True Finns, which rode euro-skepticism to big gains in April parliamentary elections.
Finnish officials say they want to resolve the collateral issue and contribute to the bailout fund. But they are also adamant that the country must receive guarantees.
''In countries like Finland, the opposition to what are described as bailouts is huge,'' said Philip Whyte, senior research fellow at the Center for European Reform in London. ''Governments are politically constrained.''
European government officials say they have to take Finland's concerns seriously.
''We have to listen to the people of Finland,'' said a government official, who requested anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue. ''Collateral is an absolute condition for Finland to be involved.''
Any concessions made to Finland would probably then be demanded by other countries like Austria, where citizens are also grumpy about having to provide tax dollars to support Greece.
The collateral dispute is not the only threat to the bailout package. The plan that leaders worked out in July also calls for banks and other investors to swap some of their existing holdings for new bonds that would be worth less but carry guarantees. The plan is designed to cut Greek debt by 37 billion euros.
But on Friday, in what was probably a tactical move to put pressure on bondholders to accept the deal, Greece said it would back out of the debt relief plan unless 90 percent of investors agreed, Reuters reported.
The alternative would probably be a default by Greece, with more severe losses for creditors.
Given the deepening divisions within Europe, some economists argue that a default would be the best solution to prevent Greece from dragging the rest of the euro zone down.
''Greece should be allowed to fail,'' Robert J. Aumann, who has a Nobel in economics, said at a recent conference in Lindau, Germany, according to a text of his remarks. ''They should repay the debts they feel able to pay and not pay the others.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (91%); EURO (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); POLITICS (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); BONDS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%); WYOMING, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); FINLAND (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (93%); GREECE (92%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); AUSTRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1228 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: The Ghosts Of Wagers Past Linger On Across the City

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
It took OTB a long time to be born. And it is taking a long time to die.
Make no mistake: the 50 or so Off-Track Betting Corporation parlors across the city have been closed since December. But very few of the spaces have found new tenants -- not in this economy, and not in their condition. So OTB lives on in ghostly apparition.
The corner parlor at Queens Boulevard in Forest Hills still wears its 1971 livery, the original OTB logo, like strands of spaghetti on a Kelly green platter. A field of blue ponies still thunders across the facade of the parlor and teletheater on Avenue U in Marine Park, Brooklyn. At Seventh Avenue and 38th Street in Manhattan, a red neon sign still blazes ''Off-Tra,'' as if noir set designers had been through. And stacks of fresh betting slips still sit in the window of the parlor at 7206 13th Avenue in Dyker Heights, Brooklyn. 
But the bettors have dispersed, and with them so has another small ''d'' democratic New York community -- or communities, really, since the parlors were distinctly local. Puerto Rican on Westchester Avenue in the Bronx; Chinese on Chatham Square in Manhattan; Caribbean on Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn. All vanished.
Which is just fine with Elaine Camerada, 71, the Grandma of Grandma's Bakery at 7208 13th Avenue, next to the parlor in Dyker Heights.
''Thank God they're gone,'' Ms. Camerada said early one morning as she shuttled loaves of freshly baked bread from racks to shelves. ''The language. The fights. The filth. The screams. So they do it over the Internet or go to the casinos.'' Then she raised her eyebrows, as if to say, ''Who cares how they're losing their money now?''
Michael Lan, 51, the manager of Dinastia China, a restaurant on the Upper West Side, recalled patrons smoking outside the parlor next door, at 143 West 72nd Street. They littered on the sidewalk, called out rudely to women, demanded free water and sometimes solicited money from his customers. ''The bottom line is we're glad they left,'' Mr. Lan said.
In Sunset Park, Brooklyn, however, Raquel Ramos, 75, who works at a nearby senior center, took a more charitable view of the clientele at the parlor on Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street.
''This place was always packed,'' Ms. Ramos said outside the parlor, where the wood-paneled betting window bays are still visible through the storefront. ''There were a lot of seniors who liked to gamble. I liked to see them having fun in there. Now, they're just standing around on the corner.''
Fun was not what the individual calling himself the Birdman of Bensonhurst observed in the parlor under the el tracks on 86th Street, near Bay 29th Street, in Brooklyn.
''I watched people throw away millions and millions of dollars,'' he said. ''Billions.'' He declined to give his real name and would identify the blue parakeet on his left shoulder only as Puffy. ''It's a sickness. You have to get help.''
The idea of channeling gambling proceeds into the city treasury -- and out of the hands of illegal bookmakers -- had been floated many times before the first OTB windows opened in April 1971, at Grand Central Terminal and on Queens Boulevard.
In practice, the idea proved unwieldy and, at last, unprofitable. After the New York City Off-Track Betting Corporation filed for bankruptcy protection in 2009, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg made it clear that its days were numbered. ''Only in government can you run a bookie operation and actually lose money every year,'' he said last October.
Two months later, after the State Senate declined to pass a rescue bill, the corporation closed its parlors and laid off about 1,000 workers.
Most outlets now have ''for rent'' signs on them. The two-story parlor on Second Avenue in Manhattan, between 52nd and 53rd Streets, has more than that. It is wrapped entirely in vinyl siding that depicts an imaginary cafe and boutique.
''I don't mind telling people that it's a former OTB,'' said Jeffrey D. Roseman, an executive vice president of Newmark Knight Frank Retail, the real estate company that is marketing the space. ''But I don't want them to see it was an OTB when they're standing in front of it, because it was so God-ugly.''
Though the parlors could be unpleasant, Jessica Chapel said on her horse-racing blog, Railbird, that she felt at home among the oddball collection of characters. ''On particularly unhappy days,'' she wrote, ''I'd slip into a parlor downtown, and enjoy the anonymous companionship of others staring intently at programs and talking horses and hoping for that one big win.''
Could reminiscences like this set the stage for a preservation movement?
Elisabeth de Bourbon, the communications director at the Landmarks Preservation Commission, gave the matter some thought before offering a personal observation.
''Isn't it possible for a memory of a place to live on without a physical remnant?'' she asked. ''Does every place have to be remembered? I'm sure there are a lot of people who'd rather forget a place where they may have lost every dime they made.''
Correction: August 31, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about sites across the city that housed Off-Track Betting Corporation parlors but have not found new tenants since the parlors closed misstated the name of the street where one parlor was located. It is Westchester Avenue in the Bronx, not Winchester Avenue.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A closed OTB parlor on 86th Street near Bay 29th Street in Brooklyn. Most of the 50 or so parlors that closed late last year have not found new tenants.
At Third Avenue and 45th Street.
On 48th Street between Avenue of the Americas and Fifth Avenue. Many parlors are in poor shape.
Betting slips in a window. The poor economy is keeping the old parlors empty.
On Avenue U near East 29th Street in Brooklyn. A field of blue ponies still thunders across the facade.
On Chatham Square in Chinatown. The parlors were distinctly local, serving a range of ethnic groups. (A18)
 The former OTB parlor on Roosevelt Avenue near 63rd Street in Queens. Many are happy that the betting has ended. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (89%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (71%); BAKERIES (65%); RESTAURANTS (61%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2011



1229 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: In Nevada, Apathy Is a Front-Runner

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
RENO, Nev. -- Do not come here expecting to find optimism. Unemployment in the state is at 13 percent, and foreclosure rates remain among the highest in the country. Ask people about the future, and they speak of fear and dread. They may have come to the state with big dreams, but these days they are just trying to get by.
Ask them about the federal government, and the disdain quickly gives way to contempt. 
So it is not surprising that there is little interest in the coming special election in the state's Second Congressional District. The Democratic candidate, Kate Marshall, the state treasurer, has spent much of the campaign boasting about a jobs bill she wrote in the spring. The Republican, Mark Amodei, a former state senator and the state party chairman, has repeatedly criticized the federal stimulus and says government should get out of the private sector's way.
But for many voters, the arguments sound like white noise. Few here have any hope that whoever they elect will be able to improve things for them.
''For me, it's just a lesser of two evils,'' said Susan Ramstad, a 59-year-old former health care worker.
A registered Democrat, Ms. Ramstad voted for President Obama but has grown increasingly disappointed with him. ''It's gotten to the point where I don't believe anything,'' she said. ''I'm terribly concerned about our economy and Medicare and Social Security, and I don't have the impression that anyone knows what to do about any of it.''
The election to succeed Dean Heller, who was appointed to the Senate after John Ensign resigned in the spring, is the first House special election in the state's history. In another time, it might have been the kind of race that inspired fierce debate and impassioned activism. Now, even as early voting began on Saturday, it evokes a mere shrug.
Ms. Ramstad's frustrated ambivalence was echoed again and again in interviews with more than two dozen voters here, in the largest city in the district.
''The question I get asked the most is, 'Why would you want to go back there?' '' Mr. Amodei said. ''People don't have a lot of trust in what is going on in Washington.''
The district encompasses nearly all of the state outside Las Vegas and includes rural areas that have long been conservative strongholds. No Democrat has ever represented the district, and Republicans outnumber Democrats by 30,000 registered voters. Most polls show Mr. Amodei with a comfortable lead.
But many here worry about turnout, saying they expect roughly 25 percent of registered voters to show up at the polls on Sept. 13. The National Republican Congressional Committee has spent more than $500,000 on the race, and a conservative group said late last week that it would spend an additional $250,000 on campaign commercials that tie Ms. Marshall to Mr. Obama, who is deeply unpopular here.
The fierce battle for the Republican presidential nomination, meanwhile, is casting no shadow whatsoever on the race. None of the contenders have come to campaign for Mr. Amodei -- though Speaker John A. Boehner came in for a fund-raiser this month -- and neither Mr. Amodei nor Ms. Marshall has made the contest a part of their message.
But Democrats say Ms. Marshall could be the candidate to turn history around. If Republicans are not motivated to show up at the polls, she could be the beneficiary. Some say that the large amount of spending by Republicans is evidence of such a fear. But Democrats have not spent any outside money on the campaign so far, which many here see as a sign that they do not think Ms. Marshall can win.
''Nobody wants this to be seen as a test case that they fail,'' said Jon Ralston, a longtime political analyst in the state. ''But the Democrats really have demographics against them. To win this would take a very strong candidate, and Marshall hasn't shown herself to be that strong.''
Republicans are trying to frame the race as a referendum on the president and Democrats. Ms. Marshall has been more than willing to try to distance herself from both Mr. Obama and the party.
''With all respect to the president, if he has done a lot, he has done a poor job of explaining it,'' she said in an interview here. ''He seems to be a day late and a dollar short on a lot of things.''
Her voice rises. ''For the middle class in this country, where is he?''
She has played up her conservative bona fides, boasting of support from the National Rifle Association and saying she would have voted against the increase in the federal debt ceiling.
She has also repeatedly criticized Mr. Amodei for voting to raise state taxes in 2003, although every Democrat in the Legislature also supported the increase. Since then, Mr. Amodei has signed the no-new-taxes pledge pushed by the activist Grover Norquist.
Mr. Amodei sees the race as a harbinger. If he wins by a comfortable margin, he said, it will help build momentum for the 2012 Senate and presidential races, where Nevada is expected to be an important battleground.
''We've got to win this first round,'' he said. ''People have seen what it looks like with Democrats in charge, and they are not happy. We know they aren't happy with a lot of things.''
Still, Mr. Amodei has voters in his own party he still has to convince.
Rodger Moller and Frank Avera have met at a coffee shop every Friday for the last two years to discuss the economy and politics, and they have grown more exasperated by the week. Mr. Moller's home was foreclosed on this year, and both men lost their jobs in construction. Now they are enrolled in master's degrees programs -- Mr. Avera, 44, plans to become a health care economist, and Mr. Moller, 51, is studying to be a nurse.
Mr. Moller has voted Republican for as far back as he can remember. Now, he said, he is frustrated by gridlock in Congress and has grown weary of the ''change, change, change'' trope in each election cycle.
''Everything is an ugly battle, and it's sickening,'' he said. ''We need to be spending money on education to get people jobs, not just saying no to everything. I want someone to come in with a plan, with some ideas. I don't hear any of that anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jaron Hildebrand, left, and Cory Hunt put up a campaign sign in Reno for Mark Amodei, who is running against Kate Marshall in a special House election.
Ms. Marshall, right, talking to Diane Stark, a supporter. The district has many conservative strongholds, giving Ms. Marshall, a Democrat, long odds.
 Charlotte Brothwell, a volunteer for Ms. Marshall, at campaign headquarters in Reno. Expected low voter turnout may work in Ms. Marshall's favor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); MEDICARE (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (75%); POLITICS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (70%); HISTORY (50%)

PERSON: MARK AMODEI (89%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); DEAN HELLER (55%); JOHN ENSIGN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (90%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1230 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: A Vision of How People Should Live, From Desert Revelers to Urbanites

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
GERLACH, Nev. -- How many city planners get to see their ideas take shape all around them?
The short list includes Georges-Eugene Haussmann, who bulldozed much of Paris in the mid-19th century, and Robert Moses, who remade New York during the 20th.
And Rod Garrett, who, beginning in 1997, laid out Burning Man, the annual festival of self-expression in the parched northern Nevada desert. 
Mr. Garrett died last week at 74, just short of the 25th anniversary of Burning Man's founding.
But his handiwork will be on display to thousands as the yearly festival begins Monday. Mr. Garrett arranged the grounds, called Black Rock City, in a series of concentric semicircles. At their center is the Man, a giant effigy meant to be immolated on the last night of the weeklong gathering.
Until then the Man is to Black Rock City what the Empire State Building is to Manhattan: a locating device and a reassuring beacon.
Within the inhabited section of the city -- a C shape tracing 240 degrees of the circle and comprising some 41 million square feet -- Burners, as participants in the festival are known, erect everything from circus tents to lavish nightclubs trucked in, piece by piece, from California.
One of the many ways in which Black Rock City epitomizes thoughtful city planning, Mr. Garrett said in a 2010 interview, is that people are responsible for managing their own waste. (''Leave no trace'' is a Burning Man mantra.) Another is that cars are sidelined, thanks to a layout that makes walking and biking far less onerous than driving.
In that approach Mr. Garrett had allies among the New Urbanists, the town planners sometimes labeled reactionary for promoting quaint enclaves like Seaside, Fla. He also had a soul mate in Janette Sadik-Khan, New York City's transportation commissioner, who is responsible for closing some streets to vehicular traffic.
Certainly Mr. Garrett had many fans among the Burners. Yves Behar, a professor of industrial design at the California College of the Arts and a prominent designer himself, called Mr. Garrett ''a genius in creating a city plan for 50,000 Burners that was expressive, practical and a source of inspiration to all visitors of Burning Man.''
Mr. Behar, who has been attending Burning Man since 2006, added: ''A circular temporary city plan built around the spectacle of art, music and dance: I wish all cities had such a spirit of utopia by being built around human interaction, community and participation.''
City planning wasn't on the agenda during the first ''Burn,'' on Baker Beach in San Francisco in 1986 that attracted about 20 people. In 1991 the festival, then drawing some 10,000 revelers, moved to the Nevada desert; in 1997 it decamped from federal to private land. That meant that officials of Washoe County had jurisdiction over what was built. County commissioners, who reportedly called the Burners ''human locusts,'' demanded to see plans.
But there had never been any plans. So Will Roger, a Burning Man founder, turned to Mr. Garrett, his close friend and a Bay Area resident who had been working as a landscape designer for more than 30 years.
''I'd had quite a lot of experience with planning and building departments and dealing with cities and counties, at least more than they had,'' Mr. Garrett said of Burning Man's organizers in the 2010 interview. ''They were in trouble, and I helped.''
His help that year made the advantages of planning clear. Whereas in previous years random sites had brought feelings of dislocation, the new design, which he developed with Larry Harvey, another Burning Man founder, ''expressed and abetted a sense of communal belonging,'' Mr. Garrett said. So in 1998, when the event was to be held on a vast swath of public land, he was again asked to draw up plans.
Because the location was so remote it was doubly important that his plan be functional. ''You couldn't just go back to the hardware store for something you forgot,'' he said.
Mr. Garrett made a list of almost 200 planning goals and began trying to find a way to satisfy as many of them as he could. When he sketched a circle, with the Man in the middle and the system of radial roads, things started falling into place. The area closest to the Man would be reserved for art installations, creating a parklike zone that complemented the ''residential neighborhoods'' in the same way Central Park makes Manhattan livable. City services like an ice dispensary and a medical station would be concentrated under a temporary roof within the inhabited zone. (Each year Mr. Garrett designed the vast, tentlike structure, which is known as Center Camp.)
In the early 2000s theme camps -- elaborate enclaves built by groups of longtime Burners -- filled the innermost of the inhabited circles, with the best views of the Man. A 2005 rezoning spread them out along the radial streets. The result was that the most fully developed sites now anchor peripheral neighborhoods, an approach any city could emulate.
Achieving the right population density has been a continuing challenge. In 2008 some burners thought the city was too spread out; Mr. Garrett shrunk it slightly for 2009 (which worked well when the recession brought about a 10 percent drop in attendance). This year ticket sales hit record levels, with more than 50,000 Burners expected to begin arriving Monday.
When they drive into Black Rock City they will find the circle around Center Camp named Rod's Road, for a man most of them never met.
Burning Man, Mr. Garrett said in 2010, ''has shown that anyone can be an artist.'' And perhaps, he added modestly, ''that anyone can be an urban planner.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A 2006 image of the grounds at the Burning Man festival, called Black Rock City, in Nevada. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEOEYE)
Burning Man in 2006. The annual festival that began in 1986 with about 20 people is expected to draw 50,000 this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Rod Garrett in 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN CURLEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITIES (89%); DESERTS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); DANCE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1231 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: A Subtle Emotional Appeal to Luxury Travelers

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
DESPITE an unsettled economic climate, the Luxury Collection, an upscale brand of Starwood Hotels and Resorts, is updating its advertising to attract new guests.
Created internally, the new print and online campaign adopts a tagline developed by the brand's former agency, Atmosphere BBDO, now Atmosphere Proximity, part of the Omnicom Group: ''Life is a collection of experiences. Let us be your guide.'' It also features photographs of still-life vignettes that contain framed snapshots of a variety of Luxury Collection hotels, plus travel souvenirs, all displayed on a credenza.
Paul James, global brand leader for Luxury Collection -- a group of 79 hotels that comply with brand service standards, of which Starwood manages 41 and owns 10 -- said the company ''has not seen any immediate change in demand'' in the wake of the stock market's recent gyrations. 
''We're confident that even if there is turbulence in the market, it's the right time to talk about the Luxury Collection, to remind people about our great destinations,'' Mr. James said. ''We will keep our eye on the market, and if we see any change in our business, at that time we'll adjust our strategy.''
According to Jan Freitag, senior vice president for global development at Smith Travel Research, a lodging research company, ''luxury hotels are alive and well.'' Demand for luxury hotels in the United States is strong, he said, which has allowed them to increase rates an average of 6.4 percent in the first seven months of this year, compared with an average 3.5 percent rate increase for the industry as a whole.
''After coming out of the '09 recession,'' he said, luxury travelers ''are psychologically prepared to take the wild gyrations of the stock market in stride. We don't expect there to be an impact on high-end leisure and business travelers because of short-term stock market changes.''
Bjorn Hanson, divisional dean of the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University, said now was a ''great time'' for Starwood to promote the Luxury Collection, because luxury lodging demand in the United States would increase more than 5 percent this year.
''Volatility in the stock market has become the new norm among higher-income travelers. Their underlying wealth has not changed to the point where it would affect their lifestyle issues,'' he added.
The five full-page executions of the new campaign, by the photographer David Prince, feature different hotels in the Luxury Collection, including beach and golf resorts and others with old-world European or contemporary design.
The ad for the golf resorts contains framed photographs of the Equinox in Vermont, the Al Maha Desert Resort and Spa in Dubai, and the Turnberry Resort in Scotland, as well as golf clubs, a golf trophy and a small wooden boat model representing activities available at the resorts.
Another ad, meant to promote the brand in general, features all types of hotels in Mexico, Italy, India, the United States and Peru. Souvenirs and decorative items in this ad include coral, a starfish, a clock, a small statue, a glass of wine and golf tees.
All ads also feature a selection of books whose spines face outward; instead of titles, these show the names of the hotels in the ads' framed snapshots. Mr. Prince said the campaign ''is about the trigger points that stimulate your emotions and your memories, and the moments that inspire us when we travel.''
Most luxury hotel advertising, he added, tries ''to present the big picture, your room, your bedding, where you're going to eat,'' but the new Luxury Collection campaign is ''about the personal touches that make a hotel great, the elements that resonate and inspire you.''
Starwood ran a full-page teaser version of the new advertising in the May issue of The Financial Times's ''How to Spend It'' magazine and in the July issue of Departures. The ads will run this fall in both publications, and this fall and winter in Conde Nast Traveller UK, ForbesLife, Robb Report, Bentley Magazine and Luxury Travel Advisor, a trade publication.
In addition, banner versions of the advertising will run on the Web site of the Five Star Alliance, an online travel agency specializing in luxury hotels, and on the tablet version of the 40th anniversary edition of Travel & Leisure.
Individual hotels within the Luxury Collection also have the option to customize the advertising, inserting photographs of their choice into the frames in the brand advertising. So far, hotels in Mauritius, Portugal, Argentina and Greece have opted to do this.
The budget for the global print campaign is $400,000, while the budget for online advertising, both for the brand globally and for its North American hotels, is $300,000. Neither figure includes advertising by individual hotels.
Promoting hotel collections like the Luxury Collection can be challenging, Mr. Hanson said, because they lack consistency in features, like design. ''Therefore, themes become one of the core messages to establish the image of collections. The idea that life is a collection of experiences at the luxury level is a good theme,'' he said.
Other experts panned the campaign's creative execution.
Henry Harteveldt, travel analyst for Forrester Research, said the advertising was ''unimpressive because it's not distinctive. You could cover up the logo, and it could be advertising for almost any high-end luxury hotel.''
''They talk about experience, but there are no pictures of people, no experiences shown. It's too obtuse. This is not the kind of ad campaign that will cause Web sites to hum and phones to ring,'' he added.
Similarly, Andrew Sacks, president of AgencySacks, a New York branding and marketing agency for the affluent market, said that although ''the strategy certainly makes sense, they've made the ads a little unemotional. It gives me a taste of what a Luxury Collection hotel looks like, but it doesn't necessarily help me understand what the experience of staying there would be.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Luxury Collection Hotels & Resorts ad conveys a quiet sense of wealth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUXURY COLLECTION HOTELS & RESORTS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTEL CHAINS (90%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); RESORTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); BRANDING (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (67%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (61%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (58%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%); HOT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1232 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1661 words

HEADLINE: Irene Adds To Bad Year For Insurers

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH; Motoko Rich contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The total damage inflicted by Hurricane Irene may reach $7 billion by the time the storm dissipates in the coming days, making one of the insurance industry's worst years even tougher, according to an early estimate by the Kinetic Analysis Corporation in Silver Spring, Md.
Most of the loss will very likely come from property in New York and New Jersey, according to industry experts. Although Irene had diminished to a tropical storm by the time it reached New York early Sunday, those two states have the most valuable coastal property on the Atlantic Coast.
At $7 billion in possible losses, Irene would be among the 10 costliest catastrophes in American history, according to the Insurance Information Institute.
The most expensive disaster by far was Hurricane Katrina in 2005, which caused $45 billion worth of damage, not counting costs that were covered by the National Flood Insurance Program. The second, at about $23 billion, was the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon, which the institute counts as a single event. 
All but one of the remaining top 10 were hurricanes, ranging in cost from $22 billion for Hurricane Andrew in 1992 to $6 billion for Hurricane Rita in 2005.
Insured losses in the Carolinas from Hurricane Irene were estimated Sunday at $200 million to $400 million by Eqecat, a company in Oakland, Calif., that models the effects of natural disasters. The company said that parts of North Carolina and Virginia had received 20 inches of rain, more than had been forecast, and that more than a million people were without power after Irene, which was ranked a Category 1 hurricane when it came ashore there.
In the Caribbean, Irene caused an estimated $500 million to $1.1 billion worth of damage, most of it in the Bahamas, where it was a Category 2 hurricane, but also in Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic and other territories, according to AIR Worldwide, a Boston company that analyzes the cost of storm damage.
Even before the current Atlantic hurricane season started in June, American property insurers had run through a typical year's worth of catastrophe payouts because of an unusual string of severe natural disasters. Their losses could grow even more, because forecasters have been predicting an above-average hurricane season this year.
The A. M. Best Company, which rates the financial strength of insurers, called the level of natural disasters this year ''unprecedented'' in a report on the American insurance industry issued last week. The company, based in New Jersey, said disaster-related losses this year had already exceeded the total for all of 2010. It estimated the losses at $27 billion through June 30, compared with $11.9 billion in the first six months of last year and $19.6 billion for all of 2010. The company based its findings on a survey of roughly 150 insurers, which it said accounted for 80 percent of the industry.
A. M. Best said the year's series of major disasters would hurt insurers' earnings, but was unlikely to threaten their capital. It noted, though, that the industry would ''be tested through the remainder of 2011, as budgets for catastrophe-related losses already have been exhausted.''
Moody's Investors Service said many property and casualty insurers were still profitable in the storm-ridden second quarter of this year, but their profits often shrank compared with the second quarter of 2010, and their reserves to pay claims had diminished and would have to be rebuilt at some point. A few, with large operations in the Midwest and Southeast, swung from profits to losses, Moody's said, including Allstate, Hartford Financial Services, Travelers and Cincinnati Financial.
Moody's research covered only the publicly traded insurers, not mutual companies like State Farm, which has the largest share of the personal insurance market in the United States. State Farm has disclosed payouts of more than $2.5 billion through May of this year.
Some of the losses for American companies grew out of catastrophes in other countries, including the powerful earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan in March and an earthquake in New Zealand in February that was followed by floods and destructive aftershocks.
In the United States, there were blizzards in the Midwest, fires in the Southwest, severe tornadoes in the Southeast, a hailstorm in Oklahoma that did more than a billion dollars' worth of damage and flooding along the Mississippi and other rivers. The worst losses arose from the tornadoes and hailstorms that hit in April and May, including the tornado that struck Joplin, Mo., on May 22 and the one in Tuscaloosa, Ala., on April 27.
Eqecat said tornadoes alone were costing insurers up to $18 billion so far this year, with up to $7 billion of that from just three days, April 25 through 28. Most of the claims involved damage to homes and cars, and companies that sell personal insurance are taking a bigger blow than those that sell coverage to businesses.
Eqecat said those three days were ''likely the most expensive tornado outbreak ever in the United States.''
Property and casualty insurers are also having a difficult year because of low investment income, a result of the Federal Reserve's efforts to use low interest rates to stimulate the economy. In addition, insurers have been struggling with what is known as a ''soft'' market, in which competition for new business is intense and companies have a hard time raising premiums enough to cover all the risks they bear. Some analysts have been wondering whether the year's storms will be the catalyst that changes those market conditions.
''To the extent that carriers perceive greater catastrophe risk, we expect that they will manage their exposures down,'' Moody's said in a research report this month. In other words, they would charge more, underwrite more strictly or buy more reinsurance so that some of their losses would be reimbursed.
Although painful for insurers and property owners, hurricanes rarely cause more than a blip on the national economy.
The biggest categories of loss are property damage and the disruption to business. For companies that suffer both, ''there obviously can be some layoffs associated with natural disasters if businesses are forced to shut down,'' said James F. O'Sullivan, chief economist at MF Global.
For the broader economy, those losses tend to be offset by increases in spending from cleanup activity and rebuilding. With so many construction workers currently unemployed, rebuilding can provide short-term jobs.
Allen L. Sinai, chief global economist at the consulting firm Decision Economics, said that with the potential for some companies to be shut down for up to a week after a hurricane hits, he would most likely downgrade his third-quarter growth forecast for economic output, or gross domestic product, between a half and a full percentage point.
But, he said, ''we'll probably get most of it back'' in the fourth quarter on the ''rebound effect.'' He said that insurance payments to cover repairs of storm damage would show up as extra economic activity after the storms.
Any slowdown in the growth rate, of course, could have a further dampening effect by depressing already sluggish consumer confidence, which is hitting lows not seen since the middle of the most recent recession.
In general, said Mark Skidmore, an economist at Michigan State University who has studied the long-term economic effects of natural disasters, wealthier countries tend to be able to recover quickly and relatively efficiently because insurance steps in. Haiti is still reeling from the 2010 earthquake, Mr. Skidmore said, in large part because the ''economic base was so fragile to begin with.''
Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR Inc., warned against those who argue that disasters can ultimately spur growth as cities and businesses rebuild. Some say that such activity actually leads to growth because governments, homeowners and businesses often install new technology or other improvements when they rebuild after a disaster.
''The ultimate impact is still negative because you're starting from a lower level of activity or assets and you're repairing them,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''If you're looking at growth for the month or two afterward, obviously things are growing faster because it's engendering all this activity, but you're just trying to get back to where you were.''
If it really were true that natural disasters led to growth, he said, ''if you're in the middle of recession you just wander around blowing up buildings and that would be your path to prosperity.''
''And clearly that's not the case,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''It's not the case with a natural disaster, either.''
Charles C. Watson Jr., president of Kinetic Analysis, said Irene hit at a time when small businesses and homeowners ''can't handle another shock to the budget.''
''Their reserves are lower than normal, insurance won't be covering as much, government budgets are stretched, and there is a question mark as to if banks will want to loan money to repair or cover operating losses in vulnerable areas,'' Mr. Watson said. ''For coastal businesses dependent on tourism, losing this weekend and potentially the big Labor Day weekend due to cleanup could be devastating, given the tight margins this year.''
Mr. Watson also said Irene was causing more than the usual level of uninsured losses, which meant governments, businesses and the public would bear a bigger burden than in other natural disasters.
Much of the damage was being caused by rain-induced and coastal flooding, something private insurers seldom cover, he said. Also, insurance companies with coastal exposures have been shifting away from fixed deductibles on homeowners' insurance, and replacing them with deductibles for storm damage that move up and down with the value of a home. This change means many homeowners will have to cover more of their repair costs themselves before their insurance kicks in.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Irene had become a tropical storm when it flooded Saybrook Street in Staten Island on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (92%); HURRICANES (91%); WEATHER (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (78%); SPECIALTY LINES INSURANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (78%); FLOOD INSURANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); TERRORISM (73%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RANKINGS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); HISTORY (54%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%)

COMPANY: BOSTON CO INC (64%); A M BEST CO INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (64%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (63%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%); BAHAMAS (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1233 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: When Roommates Were Random

BYLINE: By DALTON CONLEY. 
Dalton Conley, a sociologist, is the dean of social sciences at New York University and the author, most recently, of ''Elsewhere, U.S.A.''

 BODY:
EAGER to throw off my nerdy past and reinvent myself at college, I wrote ''party animal'' on my roommate application form where it asked incoming freshmen whether they wanted to bunk with a smoker or a non-smoker. When I told my mother about this later, she laughed and bought me a T-shirt that sported the image of Spuds MacKenzie, the 1980s Budweiser beer mascot, under the words ''the original party animal.''
I ended up with Tony from Sacramento, a very quiet, Republican son of a judge. (I suppose it's good policy to separate the party animals from those who request them.) I learned to appreciate his taste in music (U2 and The Smiths, as opposed to my predilection for reggae and jazz), and we agreed to disagree about politics during the reelection campaign of Alan Cranston, then one of the most liberal members of the United States Senate. I had never met anyone like Tony. And I'm pretty sure he hadn't come across many half-Jewish, Democratic children of New York artists. We learned to get along that first year at Berkeley, and every now and then even tried on each other's values and beliefs, just to see how they fit. 
Today I am a college professor, and I am sad that most of my students will not experience what I did back when Mark Zuckerberg was in diapers. While the Internet has made it easy to reconnect with the lost Tonys of our lives, it has made it a lot more difficult to meet them in the first place, by taking a lot of randomness out of life. We tend to value order and control over randomness, but when we lose randomness, we also lose serendipity.
As soon as today's students receive their proverbial fat envelope from their top choice college, they are on Facebook meeting other potential freshmen. They are on sites like roomsurf.com and roomsync.com, scoping out prospective friends. By the time the roommate application forms arrive, many like-minded students with similar backgrounds have already connected and agreed to request one another.
It's just one of many ways in which digital technologies now spill over into non-screen-based aspects of social experience. I know certain people who can't bear to eat in a restaurant they haven't researched on Yelp. And Google now tailors searches to exactly what it thinks you want to find.
But this loss of randomness is particularly unfortunate for college-age students, who should be trying on new hats and getting exposed to new and different ideas. Which students end up bunking with whom may seem trivial at first glance. But research on the phenomenon of peer influence -- and the influences of roommates in particular -- has found that there are, in fact, long-lasting effects of whom you end up living with your first year.
David R. Harris, a sociologist at Cornell, studied roommates and found, in 2002, that white students who were assigned a roommate of a different race ended up more open-minded about race. In a 2000 study, the economist Bruce Sacerdote found that randomly assigned roommates at Dartmouth affected each other's G.P.A.'s.
(Of course, influences can sometimes be negative. Roommates can drive each other's grades up or down. In 2003, researchers at four colleges discovered that male students who reported binge drinking in high school drank much more throughout college if their first-year roommate also reported binge drinking in high school.)
These studies are important because we know that much education takes place not through the formal classroom curriculum but in the peer-to-peer learning that occurs in places like dorm rooms.
Other than prison and the military, there are not many other institutions outside the college dorm that shove two people into a 10-foot-by-10-foot space and expect them to get along for nine months. Can you think of any better training for marriage? In fact, in my research with Jennifer A. Heerwig, we have found that Vietnam-era military service actually lowers the risk of subsequent divorce. It's possible that the military teaches you how to subsume your individual desires for the good of the collective -- in other words, how to get along well with others.
The drive to tame randomness into controllable order is a noble impulse, but letting a little serendipity flourish isn't such a bad thing. Nor is getting to know someone different from yourself. All colleges should follow the lead of Hamilton, where roommate choice is not allowed. And if you end up with the roommate from hell? You'll survive, and someday have great stories to tell your future spouse, with whom you'll probably get along better.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDY REMENTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); SMOKING (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); LIBERALISM (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%)

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (57%); GOOGLE INC (54%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1234 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: A Flash Future In Data Storage

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Flash memory has taken over the world of consumer computing as the storage technology used in iPods, iPads, smartphones and digital cameras.
It is light, fast, energy-efficient and increasingly inexpensive when used in the comparatively small doses required by consumers.
Flash had made inroads in data-center computing, but mainly for specialized applications and in hybrid systems. What has held up the advance of flash for industrial-strength computing has been price. It has traditionally been 5 to 10 times more expensive to store a comparable chunk of data on flash than on hard disks. 
But the cost handicap is eroding. And a start-up, Pure Storage, that is opening its business on Tuesday, makes a strong claim for the changing economics of flash.
It asserts that its flash-and-software technology can store data for less than the cost of hard-disk storage. In addition, data access and retrieval is 10 times faster, and its systems use one-tenth the power and space of conventional hard-disk storage.
A couple of early customers are impressed, and so are a few analysts who got briefings recently.
Take Pure Storage's claims with a large grain of salt, to be sure. But the company, founded in 2009 and based in Mountain View, Calif., points to the direction data-center storage is headed, whether Pure Storage is a big success or not.
Scott Dietzen, the chief executive, is refreshingly candid on that point. ''Our recipe is not going to be unique to Pure for the long term,'' he said. ''But this change is going to come. This market is going to tip.''
Pure Storage is joining a growing crowd of start-ups seeking to bring flash storage to the data-center market. Their ranks include Violin Memory, Nimbus Data, Nimble Storage, Tintri and WhipTail Technologies.
Fusion i-o, a flash-storage start-up, had a successful public offering in June. And the giant of the data storage industry, EMC, has an initiative, called Project Lightning, to accelerate its move into flash.
For its part, Pure Storage has attracted ample funding: an additional $30 million fund-raising round announced on Tuesday brings its total to $55 million from venture capitalists, individual investors and Samsung, the big Korean maker of flash chips.
The company's leadership team is deep in technical talent, with veteran experts in storage-management software and flash design from Veritas, Yahoo and Apple. Mr. Dietzen, a co-founder of Zimbra and former chief technology officer at BEA, holds a Ph.D. in computer science from Carnegie Mellon.
Pure Storage says it achieves gains in the economics of flash partly by using less-costly consumer-grade chips that are surrounded by smart software so its systems attain data-center-level reliability.
Second, Pure Storage has developed sophisticated software that reduces the amount of data that must be stored. This code parses the data coming in and recognizes duplicate blocks, so those do not have to be stored repeatedly. The technique is called in-line deduplication.
At Fenwick & West, a law firm based in Silicon Valley, the Pure Storage technology made it possible to store 50 to 90 percent less data than with conventional storage, said Matt Kesner, the chief information officer.
In test deployments of server applications like e-mail, the lawyers, who often send and open huge attachments, noticed the difference.
''For the users, everything happened instantaneously,'' Mr. Kesner said, adding that when the test ended and the firm went back to the older storage technology, ''the lawyers complained.''
At eMeter, which makes software for handling and analyzing the data flowing from utility smart meters, the Pure Storage flash systems sharply improved the computing performance on data-intensive chores. ''We're talking about pure speed and transfer rates,'' said Bryan Bond, a senior systems administrator for eMeter.
Flash stores data in the cells of semiconductor chips instead of on spinning magnetic disks. The data-storing density of hard disks has improved at an extraordinary pace, like the exponential improvement in microprocessors over the years. But the performance bottleneck has been the scant improvement in the speed of finding and transferring the data from the spinning disks -- the mechanical side of hard-disk storage.
As companies grapple with a flood of new data -- from the Web, social networks, sensors and video -- the constraint of traditional storage only becomes greater. That, analysts say, is a crucial reason flash will sooner or later become a mainstream technology in data centers.
''It will become increasingly difficult to do tomorrow's work with today's storage technology,'' said Mark Peters, an analyst at Enterprise Storage, a research firm. ''Flash is the only way to deal with big data-crunching challenges ahead.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); MEMORY CHIPS (89%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); SMARTPHONES (78%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (74%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (73%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); FUNDRAISING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2011



1235 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Stricter Visa Rules in U.K. Put Some Colleges in Bind

BYLINE: By JONATHAN J. LI

 BODY:
Less than six months after the British government announced tighter restrictions on student visas, at least one university has said it is being forced to close one of its campuses as a result of the new regulations.
Schiller International University, which is based in Florida and has four other international campuses, is closing its London campus and will not start its autumn semester, which was to begin on Tuesday, officials said last week.
The university would not provide enrollment figures but said 80 to 85 percent of its students were from non-European Union countries, which means that they required visas to study in Britain. A person who answered the main office phone at Schiller's London campus said about 35 students enrolled there last year. 
''The decision to close our London campus was directly related to the new U.K. immigration rules,'' William Moore, executive vice president of the university, said in an e-mail.
The university, founded in 1964, offers degrees in business, economics and tourism, with the London campus located in the borough of Southwark. The other campuses are in Largo, Florida; Heidelberg, Germany; Madrid; and Paris.
The new visa rules were announced in a speech to Parliament in March by Home Secretary Theresa May, in which she said the government was ''cracking down on bogus colleges'' and ''bogus students.'' The first of the changes went into effect in April, with more restrictions to be imposed through April 2012.
Reducing immigration has been a major policy issue for David Cameron's Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government since it came to power in 2010. In a speech made in September of that year, Immigration Minister Damian Green said that although Britain benefited from immigration, ''unsustainable levels of net migration seen in recent years must be brought down.''
But the British Home Office subsequently released a report in June saying that the British economy stood to lose $:1.3 billion to $:3.6 billion, or $2.1 billion to $5.8 billion, over the next four years, largely as a result of lost productivity from foreign students, graduates and their dependents.
Universities also stand to lose $:170 million from tuition fees, while the UK Border Agency would lose $:160 million in visa processing fees, the report said.
A spokeswoman for the UK Border Agency, which is responsible for carrying out the government's immigration policy, said in a statement that the estimate focused only on student and graduate jobs, which could be filled by British workers, and explained the need for visa reform.
''A significant proportion of the impact is due to less work being done by students, poststudy workers, and their dependants,'' said the spokeswoman, who declined to give her name, following agency policy. ''This is a worse-case scenario dependent on this work not being filled by the U.K. labor market.''
''The old student visa regime,'' she added, ''was open to widespread abuse and failed to protect legitimate students from being exploited by poor quality colleges.''
Gina Hobson, chief executive of the British Accreditation Council, an independent accreditation body for independent colleges, said the changes could have an effect the institutions in the future.
''We're aware of a couple of other institutions that have decided that it's no longer viable to run,'' she said this month in a telephone interview.
''Given the impact the immigration policies will have on the sector, I expect to see further closures in the private education sector, which may include institutions with partnerships with U.K. universities,'' Ms. Hobson said.
Under the new, more stringent framework of ''educational oversight,'' all higher education institutions will be required to obtain so-called Highly Trusted Sponsor status from a much smaller list of official accreditation bodies before they can sponsor prospective foreign students for their visa applications.
Highly Trusted Sponsor status requires institutions to satisfy criteria like minimum enrollment rates and course completion rates, as well as being subject to periodic inspections by the British Home Office.
The British Accreditation Council is one of several independent bodies that will lose their power to accredit higher education institutions.
Nicola Dandridge, chief executive of Universities UK, a body representing Britain's public universities, said the further impact would be unclear.
''It remains to be seen what long-term impact these changes will have on the numbers of international students applying to come to study at U.K. universities,'' she said this month in a statement.
According to the British Home Office, the education industry is worth $:40 billion annually to the British economy, of which international students contribute $:12.5 billion.
In 2010, a total of 334,815 student visas were issued by the British government, but the British Home Office has predicted that the new measures will result in 67,000 fewer per year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED KINGDOM (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1236 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 863 words

PERSON: Charles C. Edwards 

HEADLINE: Dr. Charles C. Edwards, Influential F.D.A. Commissioner, Dies at 87

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
By the early 1970s, public alarm over health threats had prompted Congress to pass a barrage of laws requiring the government to ride closer herd on the multibillion-dollar food and drug industries. Dr. Charles C. Edwards, as head of the Food and Drug Administration, led the regulatory charge.
New legislation required the F.D.A. to determine for the first time not only if drugs were safe, but also if they actually worked. Dr. Edwards, who had been appointed commissioner by President Richard M. Nixon in 1969, ordered the review of hundreds of thousands of prescription and over-the-counter drugs. A particularly visible action concerned birth control pills, which were revolutionizing sexual behavior but seemed to be causing worrisome side effects. 
He ordered that a message be inserted in each package discussing the pills' benefits and hazards, including the possibility of blood clots and breast cancer. It was the boldest step yet taken under a 1966 law requiring accurate labeling.
Planned Parenthood objected to the warnings because it believed that the pills' benefits far outweighed what it said were unproved dangers. At the same time, doctors complained that the action encroached on their role of instructing and guiding patients. Later, Dr. Edwards ordered that two brands of birth control pills be removed from the market as unsafe.
''It is the only prudent course,'' he said.
Dr. Edwards died on Aug. 7 in San Diego after a long illness, his family said. He was 87.
After focusing on the pill, Dr. Edwards acted more forcefully than any previous commissioner by removing a host of products from the shelves, at least temporarily. These included highly publicized cases of vichyssoise suspected of carrying botulism and mercury-tainted swordfish and tuna.
Dr. Edwards also oversaw the introduction of nutrition labels on foods, a consumer-protection campaign that was originally voluntary, though many food processors followed the guidelines. After 1990, expanded nutritional information on labels was required.
Dr. Edwards's flurry of activity followed a period of disarray at the agency, which had three commissioners in the three years before he arrived. He successfully lobbied to double the budget and reorganized its management structure.
He also struggled to maintain a regulatory balance between protecting consumers' health and guarding against hurting the economic health of industry, a juggling act prescribed by law. He worried that ''we can with a stroke of a pen wipe out an industry.'' Consumer advocates said that despite his toughness he could have done more to enforce the new laws in the public's interest.
After three years of leading the F.D.A., Dr. Edwards was promoted in March 1973 to assistant secretary of health in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, making him, in effect, the medical czar of the Nixon administration. He supervised the Public Health Service, the surgeon general, the National Institutes of Health and the F.D.A.
At H.E.W., as it was commonly known, he gave greater independence to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and folded the semi-autonomous National Institute of Mental Health into the National Institutes of Health. In 1975, however, having stayed on to serve under President Gerald R. Ford after Nixon's resignation, Dr. Edwards quit in protest over budget cuts to health programs that would especially hurt the poor and unemployed. He said the Ford administration's plans to shift costs to the states were particularly damaging.
Charles Cornell Edwards was born on Sept. 16, 1923, in Overton, Neb., and grew up in Kearney, Neb., where his father was a country doctor. He attended Princeton before transferring to the University of Colorado, where he earned bachelor's and master's degrees. After a medical internship in Minneapolis, he worked at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.
He was later a Marine medical officer in Korea and earned a master's degree in surgery from the University of Minnesota before taking up a general surgical practice in Des Moines. In the 1960s he was a manager for the American Medical Association and a vice president of Booz Allen Hamilton, the management consulting firm. He also taught at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington.
After leaving government in 1975, Dr. Edwards worked for private companies, including Becton, Dickinson & Company, a New Jersey medical device maker. Two years later he moved to the La Jolla area of San Diego to become president and chief executive of the Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation, a predecessor of the Scripps Research Institute, a leader in biomedical research.
He ultimately led the Scripps Institutions of Medicine and Science, building it into a large regional health care concern with 1,600 physicians and 6,200 employees.
After retiring from Scripps in 1993, he was president and chief executive of the California Healthcare Institute, a research and advocacy organization for California's biomedical industry, until 1995.
Dr. Edwards is survived by his wife of 66 years, the former Sue Cowles Kruidenier; three sons, Timothy, Charles Jr. and David; a daughter, Nancy Edwards Schned; and eight grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles C. Edwards in 1970. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (77%); FOOD LABELING (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); CONTRACEPTION (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (72%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (60%); BREAST CANCER (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (93%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (55%)

RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1237 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Prime Time Ambitions

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
CULVER CITY, Calif. -- In October 2001, an exasperated Howard Stringer, the chief executive of Sony, ordered a substantial downsizing at the company's studio here.
Moviemaking would continue apace, but the production of new television shows -- buffeted by soaring costs and industry consolidation -- would nearly cease.
''There just had to be a better way,'' recalled Mr. Stringer in an interview by phone. ''The trail of destruction I found really depressing.''
A decade later, Mr. Stringer's mood has lightened considerably. Sony's television business -- rebuilt brick by brick, or at least time slot by time slot -- is now driving profitability at the broader studio. 
Part of the reason is weakness on the movie side of Sony Pictures Entertainment; high marketing costs and a shortage of franchise films have severely dented its performance. But the small-screen side is also surging because of an improved hit-to-miss ratio, a leaner structure and overseas channel growth.
''Quietly and inexorably, Steve has expertly evolved that business,'' Mr. Stringer said of Steve Mosko, Sony's television chief.
Even so, Mr. Mosko still cannot boast of a completed turnaround. The Sony stable now includes money minters like ''The Dr. Oz Show'' and critical darlings like ''Breaking Bad,'' but the studio has struggled to score a home run in prime time on a major broadcast network -- still the industry's sweet spot. The best Mr. Mosko has been able to muster are doubles like the Joel McHale comedy ''Community.''
This fall, Mr. Mosko is hoping to hit one out of the park with ''Pan Am,'' a stylish period drama about spying stewardesses that arrives on Sept. 25 on ABC.
The stakes are considerable for Sony, which spent an estimated $10 million to make the ''Pan Am'' pilot, a staggering sum by industry standards. A flop would underscore why Mr. Stringer got out of this risky game a decade ago and call into question the studio's current direction. Sony's other new shows for the fall are less ambitious, but also costly. They include a remake of ''Charlie's Angels'' for ABC and ''Unforgettable,'' a co-production with CBS that is centered on a detective with a memory affliction.
If this pressure is weighing on Mr. Mosko, whose contract expires next year, he is not showing it. When asked about the price tag for ''Pan Am'' in an interview, he coolly adjusted a Buddhist-style bracelet adorning his left wrist and said, ''We're not going to spend like drunken fools, but it needs to look a certain way for ABC to be happy and advertisers to be happy and deliver great results for Sony.''
Sony's revival comes as entertainment companies across the board lean more heavily on television to cope with an atrophying film business. Movie executives have been laying off employees and cutting back on production as a result of imploding DVD sales, piracy and weakening sales of old films to cable networks.
Meanwhile, the television part of the studio trade has strengthened. Netflix has emerged as a new buyer. Cable outlets like ABC Family and Starz continue to ramp up on original programming. Foreign channels are booming. Even advertising sales, hammered during the recession, have come roaring back.
Sony discloses financial results only on a combined movie-television basis, so it is unclear how much money Mr. Mosko's group generates. But analysts say it is considerable. Of the $466 million in operating income that Sony Pictures Entertainment reported for its last fiscal year, which ended March 31, television contributed well over 50 percent.
Michael Lynton, chairman of Sony Pictures Entertainment, noted that Mr. Mosko's unit had thrived despite its small size -- it has 27 shows in production compared with Warner Brothers' 54 -- and despite being the only studio left that does not have a broadcast network or major North American cable channel as a corporate sibling.
As for Sony's hopes of infiltrating prime time on ABC, CBS, NBC or Fox, Mr. Lynton urges patience. There are ''Pan Am,'' ''Charlie's Angels'' and ''Unforgettable.'' And Sony's domestic programming presidents, Zack Van Amburg and Jamie Erlicht, in recent weeks have sold more than two dozen scripts for potential shows to the Big Four.
''While we haven't yet had a breakout hit, some strong performers are finally hitting syndication and more will come,'' Mr. Lynton said. ''I think it's a terrific, terrific start.'' (''Rules of Engagement'' will start its syndication run in a few weeks.)
Mr. Mosko, known for his Incredible Hulk physique, is a true show business character. He comes accessorized with an endless rotation of funky reading glasses, holds court at the celebrity-clogged Sherwood Country Club (where the initiation fee is $160,000) and comes ready for a bare-knuckled fight over renewals of his shows -- like the one he recently won with Fox over a Christian Slater comedy called ''Breaking In.''
Early in his career, while selling ads for a TV station in his native Baltimore, Mr. Mosko once closed a deal by plying a client with flaming shots of Sambuca and then literally arm-wrestling him for the business.
''Whatever works,'' he said.
Mr. Mosko, 55, brought that verve to resuscitating Sony's television operation starting in 2001. He laid off about 35 percent of the work force, merged departments like business affairs and slashed expensive development deals with producers. Virtually all that remained after he finished was a handful of profitable, but aging shows like ''Wheel of Fortune'' and ''The Young and the Restless,'' and still-lucrative distribution rights to sitcoms like ''Seinfeld.''
Then he set about persuading writers, producers and agents to take a smaller Sony seriously.
''Everyone questioned and doubted,'' he said. ''We had to roll up our sleeves and meet endlessly with people and repeat our strategy over and over.''
The centerpiece of that plan involved heading away from the pack and the expensive prime-time business. Noticing the shift by cable networks to original series, Mr. Mosko and his team concentrated firepower there. Successes like ''The Shield'' and ''Rescue Me'' followed.
Another turning point came in 2008, when Harpo, the production company based in Chicago owned by Oprah Winfrey, needed a distributor and co-producer for ''The Dr. Oz Show.'' Harpo didn't even want to meet with Sony, instead preferring a bigger studio.
But Mr. Mosko flew to Chicago anyway and made an aggressive sales pitch. On a follow-up visit, he bumped into Ms. Winfrey in a hallway. ''She asked me what we were doing back there, and I told her we weren't leaving until we had her business,'' Mr. Mosko recalled. The hard sell worked.
Around the same time, Mr. Lynton and Amy Pascal, the co-chairwoman of Sony Pictures Entertainment, moved to increase the studio's global focus and create more cooperation between departments. In 2009, for instance, they folded Sony's foreign TV business into Mr. Mosko's portfolio to improve, among other things, how shows were exported. The international side includes localized production in places like Russia and 120 channels; Sony's channels business is particularly strong on its home turf of Asia.
Indeed, those international networks, particularly several in India, where Mr. Lynton recently helped secure a lucrative contract to televise cricket matches, now account for a significant part of the television division's growth.
''You can't look at this business in the same unsophisticated way you did a decade ago,'' said Andy Kaplan, president of Sony's channels operation. ''Well, I guess you can -- a lot of people still do. But we certainly don't.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steve Mosko, president of Sony's television unit. The studio is betting big on its new ''Pan Am.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
PATRICK HARBRON/ABC)(B1)
''Breaking Bad,'' with Bryan Cranston, left, and Aaron Paul, has been a critical hit for Sony. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN LUENER/AMC)
 Howard Stringer, chief of the Sony Corporation, cut back the studio drastically in 2001. It has been rebuilt in the past decade. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAFIQ MAQBOOL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (72%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: SONY CORP (93%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%); SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC (56%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%); PANASONIC (NSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (56%)

PERSON: HOWARD STRINGER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1238 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Against Science

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Jon Huntsman Jr., a former Utah governor and ambassador to China, isn't a serious contender for the Republican presidential nomination. And that's too bad, because Mr. Hunstman has been willing to say the unsayable about the G.O.P. -- namely, that it is becoming the ''anti-science party.'' This is an enormously important development. And it should terrify us.
To see what Mr. Huntsman means, consider recent statements by the two men who actually are serious contenders for the G.O.P. nomination: Rick Perry and Mitt Romney. 
Mr. Perry, the governor of Texas, recently made headlines by dismissing evolution as ''just a theory,'' one that has ''got some gaps in it'' -- an observation that will come as news to the vast majority of biologists. But what really got peoples' attention was what he said about climate change: ''I think there are a substantial number of scientists who have manipulated data so that they will have dollars rolling into their projects. And I think we are seeing almost weekly, or even daily, scientists are coming forward and questioning the original idea that man-made global warming is what is causing the climate to change.''
That's a remarkable statement -- or maybe the right adjective is ''vile.''
The second part of Mr. Perry's statement is, as it happens, just false: the scientific consensus about man-made global warming -- which includes 97 percent to 98 percent of researchers in the field, according to the National Academy of Sciences -- is getting stronger, not weaker, as the evidence for climate change just keeps mounting.
In fact, if you follow climate science at all you know that the main development over the past few years has been growing concern that projections of future climate are underestimating the likely amount of warming. Warnings that we may face civilization-threatening temperature change by the end of the century, once considered outlandish, are now coming out of mainstream research groups.
But never mind that, Mr. Perry suggests; those scientists are just in it for the money, ''manipulating data'' to create a fake threat. In his book ''Fed Up,'' he dismissed climate science as a ''contrived phony mess that is falling apart.''
I could point out that Mr. Perry is buying into a truly crazy conspiracy theory, which asserts that thousands of scientists all around the world are on the take, with not one willing to break the code of silence. I could also point out that multiple investigations into charges of intellectual malpractice on the part of climate scientists have ended up exonerating the accused researchers of all accusations. But never mind: Mr. Perry and those who think like him know what they want to believe, and their response to anyone who contradicts them is to start a witch hunt.
So how has Mr. Romney, the other leading contender for the G.O.P. nomination, responded to Mr. Perry's challenge? In trademark fashion: By running away. In the past, Mr. Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, has strongly endorsed the notion that man-made climate change is a real concern. But, last week, he softened that to a statement that he thinks the world is getting hotter, but ''I don't know that'' and ''I don't know if it's mostly caused by humans.'' Moral courage!
Of course, we know what's motivating Mr. Romney's sudden lack of conviction. According to Public Policy Polling, only 21 percent of Republican voters in Iowa believe in global warming (and only 35 percent believe in evolution). Within the G.O.P., willful ignorance has become a litmus test for candidates, one that Mr. Romney is determined to pass at all costs.
So it's now highly likely that the presidential candidate of one of our two major political parties will either be a man who believes what he wants to believe, even in the teeth of scientific evidence, or a man who pretends to believe whatever he thinks the party's base wants him to believe.
And the deepening anti-intellectualism of the political right, both within and beyond the G.O.P., extends far beyond the issue of climate change.
Lately, for example, The Wall Street Journal's editorial page has gone beyond its long-term preference for the economic ideas of ''charlatans and cranks'' -- as one of former President George W. Bush's chief economic advisers famously put it -- to a general denigration of hard thinking about matters economic. Pay no attention to ''fancy theories'' that conflict with ''common sense,'' the Journal tells us. Because why should anyone imagine that you need more than gut feelings to analyze things like financial crises and recessions?
Now, we don't know who will win next year's presidential election. But the odds are that one of these years the world's greatest nation will find itself ruled by a party that is aggressively anti-science, indeed anti-knowledge. And, in a time of severe challenges -- environmental, economic, and more -- that's a terrifying prospect.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BIOLOGY (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); EVOLUTION THEORY (69%); CONSPIRACY (68%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (89%); RICK PERRY (79%); MITT ROMNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1239 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Squabbling Casts a Pall Over Europe

BYLINE: By JACK EWING and LOUISE STORY; Jack Ewing reported from Frankfurt and Louise Story from New York.

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- France and Germany may effectively run the European Union, but Finland has demonstrated how even a small country can disrupt their grand designs.
By insisting that it receive collateral from Greece in return for aid, Finland is threatening to upend an agreement that euro zone countries made in July to expand the European Union bailout fund.
That agreement is crucial to restoring confidence among bondholders that Europe can find a lasting solution to its sovereign debt troubles. But the continued squabbling in Europe has alarmed policy makers around the world, and the dispute over collateral provides one more measure of market uncertainty this week as the summer lull ends and trading regains a more normal volume. 
Spain and Italy, whose beleaguered economies are receiving support from the European Central Bank, are scheduled to conduct debt auctions this week.
The possibility that euro zone members will not agree on an expansion of the bailout fund is a concern for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, according to a person briefed on issues there. Matthew Ward, a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined to comment.
Christine Lagarde, president of the International Monetary Fund, warned European leaders on Saturday that their fractiousness was threatening the common currency.
''The current economic turmoil has exposed some serious flaws in the architecture of the euro zone, flaws that threaten the sustainability of the entire project,'' Ms. Lagarde, the former finance minister of France, said in Jackson Hole, Wyo., where makers of economic policy were meeting.
Finland would contribute less than 2 percent of the guarantees provided to the fund, known as the European Financial Stability Facility. But the country's demands, the subject of intense negotiations in recent days, threaten to derail the fragile consensus that is preventing Greece from defaulting on its debt.
Finland is the most vivid example of the way parochial domestic politics can become Continental problems, threatening the unity of the 17 euro zone members as they face their deepest crisis ever. But Germany, the Netherlands and Austria -- all wealthy countries with strong economies -- also harbor deep opposition to bailing out Greece, Portugal, Ireland or any other country that may become overwhelmed by debt.
Finland is just one of 17 countries whose parliamentary approval is needed for the expanded bailout fund and whose domestic politics could upset the process. And Finland points to a bigger governance problem in Europe, said James D. Savage, a professor at the University of Virginia who has published a book on European monetary union.
''You have all these multiple veto points, so they can't come to a reasonable conclusion, at least not easily,'' Mr. Savage said. ''You have increasingly less efficient decisions that are being made.''
Even if European leaders solve the Finnish problem, analysts in the United States say traders have accepted that Europe may face similar squabbles in the future.
''This specific issue is just part of a broader mural that Europe will be wrestling with for years to come,'' said Ward McCarthy, the chief financial economist at Jefferies & Company, an asset management and investment banking firm based in New York. ''The general perception is that European financial issues are not going to be resolved soon and they will provide periodic disruptions to global financial markets for years.''
Officials from European finance ministries spent much of Friday in long-distance negotiations about the collateral issue but did not reach an agreement. Conflicting reports about the negotiations have fed market confusion. The news media in Germany and other countries reported on Friday that Finland had dropped its demands, but the reports were swiftly denied by Finnish officials.
The climate created by the collateral dispute could make it more difficult for the European Central Bank to continue to defend Italy and Spain in bond markets and contain their borrowing costs. This month the bank has spent 36 billion euros ($52 billion) intervening in debt markets in an effort, so far successful, to cap bond yields for the two countries.
The bank's task could prove more difficult when trading volume picks up, especially since Spain and Italy are scheduled to try to sell debt this week. A steady drip of bad economic news has helped further depress investor sentiment, most recently on Friday, when the European Central Bank released data showing that bank deposits and lending remained weak.
Meanwhile, there are continuing signs that banks are becoming increasingly suspicious of each others' creditworthiness and are reluctant to lend to each other. The so-called three-month Libor-OIS spread, considered an indicator of interbank tension, has doubled this month, according to Bloomberg data. A wider spread points to increased tension.
In Finland, Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen faces discontent within his governing coalition as well as pressure from a nationalist opposition group, the True Finns, which rode euro-skepticism to big gains in April parliamentary elections.
Finnish officials say they want to resolve the collateral issue and contribute to the bailout fund. But they are also adamant that the country must receive guarantees.
''In countries like Finland, the opposition to what are described as bailouts is huge,'' said Philip Whyte, senior research fellow at the Center for European Reform in London. ''Governments are politically constrained.''
European government officials say they have to take Finland's concerns seriously.
''We have to listen to the people of Finland,'' said a government official, who requested anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue. ''Collateral is an absolute condition for Finland to be involved.''
Any concessions made to Finland would probably then be demanded by other countries like Austria, where citizens are also grumpy about having to provide tax dollars to support Greece.
The collateral dispute is not the only threat to the bailout package. The plan that leaders worked out in July also calls for banks and other investors to swap some of their existing holdings for new bonds that would be worth less but carry guarantees. The plan is designed to cut Greek debt by 37 billion euros.
But on Friday, in what was probably a tactical move to put pressure on bondholders to accept the deal, Greece said it would back out of the debt relief plan unless 90 percent of investors agreed, Reuters reported.
The alternative would probably be a default by Greece, with more severe losses for creditors.
Given the deepening divisions within Europe, some economists argue that a default would be the best solution to prevent Greece from dragging the rest of the euro zone down.
''Greece should be allowed to fail,'' Robert J. Aumann, who has a Nobel in economics, said at a recent conference in Lindau, Germany, according to a text of his remarks. ''They should repay the debts they feel able to pay and not pay the others.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jyrki Katainen, the prime minister of Finland, faces pressure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGES GOBET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - GETTY IMAGES)(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (91%); EURO (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); POLITICS (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); BONDS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%)

PERSON: JYRKI KATAINEN (79%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (91%); WYOMING, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); FINLAND (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (93%); GREECE (92%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); AUSTRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1240 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: American Theocracy Revisited

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
During George W. Bush's presidency, many liberal and secular Americans came to regard religious conservatives not merely as their political opponents, but as a kind of existential threat. The religious right, they decided, wasn't a normal political movement. Rather, it was an essentially illiberal force, bent on gradually replacing our secular republic with what Kevin Phillips's 2006 best seller dubbed an ''American Theocracy.''
These anxieties dissipated once the Republican majority imploded. In the Obama era, debates over the economy and health care crowded out arguments about sex education and embryo destruction, and liberals found a new set of right-wing extremists to worry about: Tea Party activists, birth certificate obsessives, the Koch brothers. 
But with the rise of first Michele Bachmann and then Rick Perry in the presidential polls, and the belated liberal realization that many Tea Partiers are also evangelical Christians, the fear of theocracy has suddenly returned. Beginning with Ryan Lizza's profile of Bachmann in The New Yorker, a spate of recent articles have linked the Republican presidential candidates to scary-sounding political theologies like ''Dominionism'' and ''Christian Reconstructionism,'' and used these links to suggest that Christian extremism is once more on the march.
In this week's New York Times Magazine, The Times's outgoing executive editor, Bill Keller, argues that Perry and Bachmann should face tough questions about their religious beliefs. The Republican hopefuls' associations, he writes, should force us to ''confront our scruples about the privacy of faith in public life -- and to get over them.''
Keller is absolutely right. The separation of church and state in the United States has never separated religion from politics, and the ''private'' beliefs of politicians have often had very public consequences. When candidates wear their religion on their sleeve, especially, the press has every right to ask how that faith relates to their political agenda.
But here are four points that journalists should always keep in mind when they ask and then write about religious beliefs that they themselves don't share.
First, conservative Christianity is a large and complicated world, and like other such worlds -- the realm of the secular intelligentsia very much included -- it has various centers and various fringes, which overlap in complicated ways. Sometimes teasing out these connections tells us something meaningful and interesting. But it's easy to succumb to a paranoid six-degrees-of-separation game, in which the most radical figure in a particular community is always the most important one, or the most extreme passage in a particular writer's work always defines his real-world influence.
Second, journalists should avoid double standards. If you roll your eyes when conservatives trumpet Barack Obama's links to Chicago socialists and academic radicals, you probably shouldn't leap to the conclusion that Bachmann's more outre law school influences prove she's a budding Torquemada. If you didn't spend the Jeremiah Wright controversy searching works of black liberation theology for inflammatory evidence of what Obama ''really'' believed, you probably shouldn't obsess over the supposed links between Rick Perry and R. J. Rushdoony, the Christian Reconstructionist guru.
Third, journalists should resist the temptation to apply the language of conspiracy to groups and causes that they find unfamiliar or extreme. Republican politicians are often accused of using religious ''code words'' and ''dog whistles,'' for instance, when all they're doing is employing the everyday language of an America that's more biblically literate than the national press corps. Likewise, what often gets described as religious-right ''infiltration'' of government usually just amounts to conservative Christians' using the normal mechanisms of democratic politics to oust politicians whom they disagree with, or to fight back against laws that they don't like.
Finally, journalists should remember that Republican politicians have usually been far more adept at mobilizing their religious constituents than those constituents have been at claiming any sort of political ''dominion.'' George W. Bush rallied evangelical voters in 2004 with his support for the Federal Marriage Amendment, and then dropped the gay marriage issue almost completely in his second term. Perry knows how to stroke the egos of Texas preachers, but he was listening to pharmaceutical lobbyists, not religious conservatives, when he signed an executive order mandating S.T.D. vaccinations for Texas teenagers.
This last point suggests the crucial error that the religious right's liberal critics tend to make. They look at Christian conservatism and see a host of legitimately problematic tendencies: Manichaean rhetoric, grandiose ambitions, apocalyptic enthusiasms. But they don't recognize these tendencies for what they often are: not signs of religious conservatism's growing strength and looming triumph, but evidence of its persistent disappointments and defeats.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); WRITERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); JOURNALISM (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CHURCH & STATE (78%)

PERSON: MICHELE BACHMANN (78%); RICK PERRY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1241 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM VIETNAM; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Vietnam Embraces an Old Enemy

BYLINE: By ALBERT R. HUNT BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
HANOI -- Pham Binh Minh, whose father fought to force the United States out of Vietnam, is working fervently to elevate the interest and involvement of his country's former enemy.
Vietnam wants a U.S. presence for economic reasons and as a balance to China, the regional superpower. Mr. Minh is the new foreign minister; his father was part of Ho Chi Minh's Communist regime during the bitter conflict of the 1960s and 1970s; later, he was foreign minister when Vietnam clashed with China.
''One cannot imagine how fast the relationship between the United States and Vietnam has developed,'' Mr. Minh, 52, said in Hanoi. 
''After 16 years of normalization, we've come to the stage where we've developed the relationship in nearly all aspects.''
While the United States hasn't fully erased the pain of that war, the Vietnamese, who suffered far more, have embraced their old adversary.
Economic ties between the nations are growing; the United States is the largest importer of Vietnamese goods. There are regular military contacts, and this month the two countries signed their first defense pact regarding military medicine. Last year, Vietnamese officers observed a U.S. military operation aboard a destroyer, the John S. McCain, named after two admirals, the father and grandfather of Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, who was a prisoner of war in Hanoi for six years.
Now, the foreign minister said, the two countries are discussing upgrading their strategic relationship to ''a new level.'' That, he declared, would be ''good for the stability of the region,'' in accord with Vietnam's ''multilateral'' approach.
None of this, the top Vietnamese diplomat insisted, is intended to counter China. Still, talk of multilateralism and encouraging the U.S. role in the stability of the region isn't appreciated by the Beijing regime.
Vietnam has a long history of conflict with China; the most recent outbreak was in 1979, when it turned back a cross-border incursion. The Vietnamese know China is a superpower that isn't going away and prefer to have good relations with the big guy next door.
Nevertheless, there are tensions, particularly over territory in the South China Sea. Recently, there have been public protests in Vietnam against China, though the Hanoi government wants these to stop, fearing that nationalistic fervor could spiral out of control.
Common interests aside, the relationship with the United States is complicated.
Vietnam isn't sure that the United States is committed to Asia for the long run, and officials privately complain that the region is a low priority for Washington. In a one-hour interview with Charlie Rose, an American television host, that was broadcast July 21, President Barack Obama's national security adviser, Thomas E. Donilon, spoke at length about China, but never mentioned Vietnam.
Mr. Minh said he'd like ''more consistency'' in U.S. policy, which should ''pay more attention'' to Southeast Asia. More troubling is the continuing friction over Vietnamese policies on human and political rights.
Progress has been made, especially in the area of religious freedom: Senator Jim Webb, Democrat of Virginia and a Vietnam veteran, noted during a visit to Hanoi the other day that when he first attended a Catholic service in Vietnam 20 years ago there were a handful of worshipers; a few years ago, there were 2,000 people at a Christmas Mass he attended. Still, a few dozen dissidents have been jailed over the past several years, and crackdowns on the news media are routine.
The record is better than China's. The realpolitik, however, is that with about 90 million people and a gross domestic product of $102 billion, Vietnam is treated differently than the colossus China.
Yet U.S. policy makers, who worry about the aggressiveness of an increasingly confident China, want deeper alliances with Vietnam. They look to a younger generation epitomized by Foreign Minister Minh, who remembers that as a teenager he would dash ''to the shelters when the bombs were dropped.'' As an adult, he received a graduate degree at Tufts University's Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy in Massachusetts and spent several years at the United Nations in New York and at the Vietnamese Embassy in Washington.
The depth of the association in the years ahead depends on the evolution of Vietnam's economic, legal and political system. There have been striking gains since the Communists opened the system to private enterprise more than two decades ago. Per capita income is about $1,200, almost 10 times what it was more than a quarter century ago; the country has fully joined the global economic community. U.S. foreign investment is $10 billion, small but growing rapidly. Companies like Intel and Chevron are making major investments.
The economy, however, is still driven largely by inexpensive labor. The Communist Party bureaucracy stifles the entrepreneurial spirit. Corruption is rampant. Though he said that it was a ''top priority'' of the regime, Mr. Minh admitted that reducing corruption ''is hard.''
Paradoxes persist: Internet use per capita is among the highest in the region and the illiteracy rate is relatively low; yet the educational system is inferior.
One of the few jewels is the small public-policy center based in Ho Chi Minh City that is affiliated with Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government. This is part of Harvard's Vietnam program, directed by Tom Vallely, a veteran who has spent much of his life since the war trying to improve U.S.-Vietnam relations.
A few years ago, the center published a study on the challenges facing Vietnam. It concluded that the hallmarks of the successful East Asian economies of Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan -- transparency, little corruption, first-class health and education systems and a viable legal structure -- all are lacking in Vietnam.
''Countries that compete on the basis of cheap labor cannot, by definition, move beyond lower-income status,'' it said.
Younger leaders like the foreign minister face daunting challenges.
Among the biggest: walking the delicate line between maintaining decent relations with the superpower next door and strengthening ties with Washington; and dramatically curbing corruption and changing an educational system the Harvard study described as abysmal.
That raises an interesting possibility, one the foreign minister said he would welcome: Harvard, the institution that produced many of the architects of the U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War, could take the lead in creating a first-class Vietnamese university.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); CHARLIE ROSE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (51%) UNITED STATES (97%); VIET NAM (96%); CHINA (96%); VIETNAM (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1242 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: As a States' Rights Stalwart, Perry Draws Doubts

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ and EMILY RAMSHAW; Emily Ramshaw writes for The Texas Tribune, which produces a twice-weekly local section in the Texas editions of The New York Times.

 BODY:
AUSTIN, Tex. -- As Gov. Rick Perry of Texas begins his presidential campaign, he is working hard to position himself as the leading Republican champion of states' rights, using his high-profile battles with Washington and his book on the dangers of federal power to build an ideological and constitutional rationale for his fierce anti-Obama message.
From his lawsuits challenging federal health care and environmental programs to his suggestions that Texans were so angry with Washington that they might consider secession, Mr. Perry has repeatedly invoked the 10th Amendment -- reserving to the states the powers not explicitly given to the national government.
Mr. Perry uses the issue of states' rights to give his candidacy an overarching theme, tap into the frustrations that have fueled the Tea Party movement and highlight the substance behind his swaggering style. 
Though the governor has a claim to acting on these principles, he has come to publicly embrace states' rights as a defining issue only in the past few years, a period when the 10th Amendment has been a rallying cry for many Tea Party supporters, libertarians and others who make up his party's conservative base. And he has been inconsistent in applying those beliefs, drawing criticism from some states' rights advocates and raising questions even among fellow Republicans about whether his stance is as much campaign positioning as a philosophical commitment.
In one of his more well-publicized shifts, Mr. Perry proclaimed that gay marriage was an issue for individual states to decide, but backtracked in recent weeks and now says he supports a federal amendment banning gay marriage. He has also signaled support for various federal actions to restrict abortion rather than leaving the issue to states. And he used $17 billion in federal stimulus money to balance the state's last two budgets.
Despite his vocal opposition to what he has called ''the unprecedented and massive federal overreach'' of President Obama's health care overhaul, Mr. Perry accepted a $1 million federal grant last October for planning to carry out one of its key provisions. (Other Republican governors, including Rick Scott of Florida, have refused to use the grants.)
Although his 2010 book, ''Fed Up! Our Fight to Save America from Washington,'' describes his outrage that federal bureaucrats distributed more than $245 billion in farm subsidies from 1995 to 2009, the governor received some of that money. Mr. Perry, a former West Texas cotton farmer, received at least $83,000 in federal farm subsidies between 1987 and 1998, during the time he was in elected office, according to his tax returns.
At the Republican Leadership Conference in June, Mr. Perry said that while government plays an important role in helping a city recover from a disaster, ''the real recovery'' stems from hard-working individuals. Unfortunately, he added, Mr. Obama believed government was the answer to every need, a sign of the ''arrogance and audacity'' of the White House.
Three weeks earlier, in a letter to Mr. Obama, Mr. Perry struck a different tone as wildfires ravaged Texas. The Federal Emergency Management Agency had approved grants to reimburse some of the local and state costs of fighting the fires, but Mr. Perry was seeking the additional federal aid that comes from a presidential disaster declaration. ''Your favorable consideration of this appeal would be greatly appreciated,'' the governor wrote to the president, who ultimately granted Mr. Perry's request.
Mr. Perry's aides and supporters defend the governor's record, praising him for taking bold stands to strengthen state autonomy and fight federal overregulation. In 2009, Mr. Perry rejected $556 million in federal stimulus dollars for the state's unemployment insurance program, saying that the money came with too many strings attached that would require Texas to broaden its rules on who is eligible to receive benefits. Days before he announced his presidential candidacy, Mr. Perry formally requested that the federal government reimburse Texas $350 million -- the estimated cost of incarcerating illegal immigrants in county jails and state prisons in 2009 and 2010.
When asked whether the governor saw any of these examples as inconsistent with his states' rights stance, Mr. Perry's spokesman, Mark Miner, said absolutely not. If anything, he said, Texas -- a so-called donor state that pays more in federal taxes than it receives -- has done more than its part, stepping in when the federal government has shirked its responsibilities.
''The governor is a strong advocate of the 10th Amendment, of giving more power to states to make decisions on these issues,'' Mr. Miner said. ''Whether it's transportation or border security, which are federal issues, the State of Texas has had to step up to the plate where the federal government has failed at its responsibilities.''
Mr. Perry began embracing states' rights as a major part of his political identity after Mr. Obama was elected president. It was a time when issues like government bailouts and the federal debt made the concept resonate among conservatives nationwide and helped fuel the rise of the Tea Party movement.
Bill Ratliff, a Republican who served alongside Mr. Perry as lieutenant governor from late 2000 to early 2003, said that states' rights were not a priority for Mr. Perry in those years.
''He probably always had a level of skepticism about federal intervention and federal programs, but then when the Tea Party movement began, he sensed that this was going to be the place where he could participate,'' said Mr. Ratliff, 75, now a lobbyist for public education. ''I think he's the best I've ever seen at picking up on a trend, a movement, and getting out in front of it very early.''
Critics say that there are inconsistencies between Mr. Perry's message and his record and that this has eroded his support among some of those in Texas who share the same limited-government beliefs, including libertarians, moderate Republicans and Tea Party activists. ''What he says in the book and what he does are not the same,'' said Dave Nalle, national chairman of the Republican Liberty Caucus, a group of libertarian Republicans whose Texas chapter has never endorsed Mr. Perry for governor. ''He's a good salesman, no question about it. But he's selling something that's mostly a fiction, I think.''
But even as some conservatives say he does not go far enough in adhering to a states' rights philosophy, Democrats are already using his stated positions to portray him as an extremist who would gut popular government functions like Social Security and Medicare.
Mr. Perry has described the defense of the 10th Amendment as the battle for the soul of America. In his book, he called Social Security a failure that was ''set up like an illegal Ponzi scheme'' and described Congress as ''arguably one of the most incompetent regimes with one of the worst track records of mismanagement in the history of mankind.'' In two statements in 2009, he suggested that frustrated Texans might consider secession.
''We've got a great union,'' Mr. Perry said at a Tea Party rally in Austin in April 2009. ''There's absolutely no reason to dissolve it. But if Washington continues to thumb their nose at the American people, you know, who knows what might come out of that.''
In his book, he sets out a view that the founders intended a federal system that allowed ''people of like mind'' in the states to make their own decisions about how to live, while the national government's role was properly focused on national security. ''From marriage to prayer, from zoning laws to tax policy, from our school systems to health care, and everything in between,'' he wrote, ''it is essential to our liberty that we be allowed to live as we see fit through the democratic process at the local and state level.''
The history of Mr. Perry's anti-Washington beliefs is complicated by the fact that over much of his time in office during the last decade he had little interest in publicly challenging his predecessor as governor, President George W. Bush, alongside whom Mr. Perry served as lieutenant governor. Mr. Bush oversaw a substantial increase in the size and scope of the federal government, both in post-9/11 security programs and in social programs like the creation of a prescription drug benefit for Medicare.
Though in his book he criticizes Mr. Bush's No Child Left Behind Act and suggests it is unconstitutional, Mr. Perry accepted financing for the education program as governor. This fiscal year, Texas received $2.03 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Rick Perry in South Carolina. He has come to publicly embrace states' rights as a defining issue only in the past few years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAVIS DOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Dave Nalle (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); MARRIAGE LAW (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); BUDGETS (68%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (68%); ABORTION (64%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (64%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (64%); MARRIAGE (64%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (92%); RICK SCOTT (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (96%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1243 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Making It No Secret: He'll Endorse Quinn in 2013

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
It is the worst-kept secret in City Hall. Michael R. Bloomberg has told almost everyone who asks -- but only privately, so far -- that he hopes the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, will succeed him as mayor in 2013.
While Mr. Bloomberg brings unprecedented personal resources to his political agenda, few other New York City mayors have succeeded in anointing a successor.
Mr. Bloomberg, in fact, was the only mayoral candidate in recent memory for whom an endorsement by the incumbent proved instrumental, even if it was a begrudging, last-minute nudge from Rudolph W. Giuliani.
Mr. Bloomberg, an independent, has refrained from specifying an heir publicly, since he seems to prefer to keep Ms. Quinn, a Democrat, and other prospective candidates as compliant as possible in the two years remaining before the next mayoral election. 
Jamie McShane, a spokesman for Ms. Quinn, said, ''She has never asked for nor has he offered his support.''
A spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg said the same.
Still, the mayor has made it plain in private conversations with other politicians and civic leaders that he prefers the City Council speaker.
''There's no question in my mind that of all the candidates, he sees Chris Quinn as far better for the city of New York,'' said former Mayor Edward I. Koch, who has spoken to Mr. Bloomberg about the race to succeed him.
A mayor is typically well situated to place a potential successor in the spotlight. ''He can arrange events, he can promote her for the next two and a half years, he can make her the 'vice mayor' so people will think she's the No. 2 person in city government, which, to some extent, she is,'' said Henry J. Stern, a Koch confidant and the director of New York Civic, a government watchdog.
On Saturday, he trotted out Ms. Quinn, who unlike his commissioners has no operational authority, during a Hurricane Irene update at the city's emergency command center, introducing her as the ''great'' Council speaker.
How much clout would Mr. Bloomberg's endorsement carry? According to a New York Times/CBS News poll released earlier this month, his approval rating has sunk to a six-year low, and nearly as many Democrats disapprove of his performance as approve.
And while self-financed candidates can spend whatever they want to on a mayoral campaign (Mr. Bloomberg spent a total of about $250 million in three elections), they can give no more than $4,950 to someone else in the 2013 campaign.
Mr. Bloomberg, however, could wield enormous influence as a fund-raiser (his approval ratings are highest among New Yorkers who make more than $100,000), although Ms. Quinn has already raised close to the public financing system's spending limit for a Democratic mayoral primary.
''You cannot anoint; you can influence; you can impact,'' Mr. Koch said. ''It is not an overriding endorsement that assures you of success.''
Most of Mr. Bloomberg's predecessors in the 20th century were ill situated to anoint a successor because their parties' nominees were chosen by party leaders with their own agendas or were challenged in Democratic primaries.
In addition, many mayors were so unpopular by the end of their terms that they wielded little influence.
Legend has it that in 1945, during the era of ethnically balanced tickets, Democratic leaders supporting William O'Dwyer chose his running mate for City Council president by searching the index of the Green Book, the official city directory, for the longest Italian name they could find. Five years later, their designee, Vincent R. Impellitteri, became mayor when Mr. O'Dwyer resigned.
Nearly two decades earlier, Mayor James J. Walker succeeded in appointing his predecessor, John F. Hylan -- not as mayor again, but to a judgeship, accompanied by a backhanded compliment. Naming Mr. Hylan a judge in Children's Court, Mr. Walker declared, ''The appointment of Judge Hylan means that the children can now be tried by their peer.''
In 2001, Mr. Giuliani's belated endorsement of Mr. Bloomberg was generally considered crucial.
''When Rudy put his arm around Mike, literally, that was the campaign,'' David Garth, a media consultant who brokered the deal, once recalled about their embrace on the steps of City Hall.
The television advertisement featuring the endorsement was taped in a suite at the Waldorf-Astoria that had been decorated to look like Mr. Giuliani's old office in City Hall.
''At that time, after 9/11, the city wanted some continuity in leadership, and with the fear of Wall Street collapsing, looked to a leader in the business community to steer the economy in the right direction and get New York City back to work,'' recalled Basil A. Smikle, a Democratic political consultant. ''They shunned the old-style machine-constituency politics in favor of a management approach to government.''
In 1989, after losing the Democratic primary to David N. Dinkins, Mr. Koch, the incumbent, endorsed him -- an endorsement that carried considerable weight in a race against a popular prosecutor (Mr. Giuliani) who was challenging a candidate who needed every white vote he could win to be elected the city's first black mayor.
''He wouldn't have been elected if I hadn't endorsed him,'' said Mr. Koch, who, in a rematch four years later, reversed himself and endorsed Mr. Giuliani.
In 1989, Mr. Dinkins was the last Democrat elected mayor, but the 2013 race will feature potentially strong Democratic candidates besides Ms. Quinn.
Several of them, including the city's public advocate, Bill de Blasio; Comptroller John C. Liu; and Mr. Liu's predecessor, William C. Thompson Jr., declined to speculate publicly on the impact of an endorsement by the mayor.
But Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, said Mr. Bloomberg's imprimatur might not be that desirable for Democrats. ''Personally, I have great respect for the mayor,'' Mr. Stringer said. ''But 'Bloomberg 3' has run its course.''
For Ms. Quinn, a Bloomberg endorsement might prove a double-edged sword, some political analysts said. It could help with business leaders, those involved in arts and culture, white voters outside Manhattan, independents and Republicans (who cannot vote in a Democratic primary).
But it could hurt Ms. Quinn among liberals who opposed some of Mr. Bloomberg's budget cuts and may believe she did not do enough to resist them.
Mr. Bloomberg, of course, is not only the incumbent, but also an influential businessman and philanthropist and, by some counts, the richest New Yorker. As such, he is a political novelty.
Said Chris McNickle, who wrote ''To Be Mayor of New York'': ''You could say Giuliani anointed Bloomberg after a fashion, who, in turn, anointed himself for Term 3.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, an independent, and the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, a Democrat, on an East River ferry in June. Their spokesmen say that she has not asked for an endorsement and that the mayor has not promised one. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (93%); MAYORS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); FUNDRAISING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); HURRICANES (61%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2011



1244 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Dangerous White Stereotypes

BYLINE: By PATRICIA A. TURNER. 
Patricia A. Turner is a professor of African American studies and the vice provost for undergraduate studies at the University of California, Davis. Her most recent book is ''Crafted Lives: Stories and Studies of African American Quilters.''

 BODY:
Davis, Calif.
ONE of the most noteworthy movies of the summer is ''The Help.'' Set in Jackson, Miss., in the early 1960s, it focuses on the relationships between white upper-middle-class women and the black domestics who took care of them and their children. Although many reviews of the film were quite positive, numerous critics, including some African-American commentators, have lashed out against it, arguing that the film does not deserve the accolades it has received.
To some extent, they have been angry that the movie is based on a novel by a white woman, Kathryn Stockett, and they question whether she is capable of telling that particular story. Some have also complained that the movie reinforces stereotypes about black Southern households. The black heroines speak with a dialect that disturbs some viewers; the audience never sees an intact black household, and a black man's abuse of his wife is all the more chilling because we never see him, only the pots he hurls and the scars he leaves. 
One maid's close bond with the white toddler she cares for has been decried as a re-enactment of the misconception that maids nurtured their white charges while denigrating their own black offspring.
Not all blacks are unmoved by ''The Help.'' Indeed, among my friends, relatives and colleagues a wide range of views have been shared, including comments that some of us might want to establish a support group for strong black women who liked ''The Help.''
It is unfair to the filmmakers and cast to expect a work of fiction to adhere to the standards of authenticity we would want for a documentary. But we also recognize that precious few works of art tackle the Civil Rights era, and what people coming of age in the 21st century learn about this era often stems from fictive rather than nonfictive sources.
Forty-eight years after Martin Luther King Jr. was accompanied by tens of thousands of black domestic workers to the National Mall in Washington to demand economic justice, it is not all that difficult to render black fictional characters with appealing attributes and praiseworthy talents. What is more difficult to accomplish is a verisimilar rendering of the white characters.
This movie deploys the standard formula. With one possible exception, the white women are remarkably unlikable, and not just because of their racism. Like the housewives portrayed in reality television shows, the housewives of Jackson treat each other, their parents and their husbands with total callousness. In short, they are bad people, therefore they are racists.
There's a problem, though, with that message. To suggest that bad people were racist implies that good people were not.
Jim Crow segregation survived long into the 20th century because it was kept alive by white Southerners with value systems and personalities we would applaud. It's the fallacy of ''To Kill a Mockingbird,'' a movie that never fails to move me but that advances a troubling falsehood: the notion that well-educated Christian whites were somehow victimized by white trash and forced to live within a social system that exploited and denigrated its black citizens, and that the privileged white upper class was somehow held hostage to these struggling individuals.
But that wasn't the case. The White Citizens Councils, the thinking man's Ku Klux Klan, were made up of white middle-class people, people whose company you would enjoy. An analogue can be seen in the way popular culture treats Germans up to and during World War II. Good people were never anti-Semites; only detestable people participated in Hitler's cause.
Cultures function and persist by consensus. In Jackson and other bastions of the Jim Crow South, the pervasive notion, among poor whites and rich, that blacks were unworthy of full citizenship was as unquestioned as the sanctity of church on Sunday. ''The Help'' tells a compelling and gripping story, but it fails to tell that one.
I have dim recollections of watching Dr. King in 1963, with the black maid who raised me -- my mother. If my father wasn't in the room, he was working to make sure there would be opportunities in my future. I have benefited enormously from their hard work and from the shift that American culture has undergone as the scaffolding of discrimination was dismantled.
My parents, and the countless other black Americans who not only endured but thrived within the limited occupational sphere granted them, would have been proud of what has been accomplished since 1963, but they would not have wanted us to whitewash that earlier world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); FILM (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); WOMEN (77%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); BOOK REVIEWS (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); REALITY TELEVISION (68%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (92%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011



1245 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Unlike Banks, This Wall St. Group Embraces Dodd-Frank

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Firms that broker the trading of derivatives consider the law a boon to their bottom line, cementing their longtime business model into the regulatory code.

 BODY:
While the United States military has Defcon, the tiered alert system used during times of national crisis, Wall Street has fashioned a critical event of its own, Sefcon.
The industry conference known as Sefcon is devoted to the relatively obscure swap execution facility, or SEF, the electronic derivatives marketplace designated under the Dodd-Frank Act, the sweeping financial regulatory overhaul. With Washington cracking down on derivatives, Sefcon's nod to Defcon was not coincidental.
"I thought that Sefcon would give people a sense of urgency," said Chris Ferreri, a co-founder of the event and a managing director at ICAP, the largest derivatives broker for banks, which plans to register with regulators as a swap execution facility.
 As regulators complete new derivatives rules in the next few months, more than 30 companies - including Bloomberg L.P. and Tradeweb Markets - are maneuvering to qualify for SEF status, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. To ramp up for the regime, the firms are spending millions of dollars to hire lawyers and lobbyists, form trade groups and develop conferences like Sefcon.
Unlike banks that loathe Dodd-Frank, the derivatives trading platforms consider the law a boon to the bottom line, cementing their longtime business model into the regulatory code.
"Most of what we're doing is preparing for the future," said Richard M. McVey, chief executive of MarketAxess, which plans to become a swap execution facility.
Although the term SEF first appeared in Dodd-Frank, electronic derivatives marketplaces have existed for several years. Some $600 billion worth of derivatives trade privately on these platforms - through the phone or online. The rest are bought and sold on regulated exchanges owned by stalwarts like the CME Group.
"We're not Johnny-come-latelys," said J. Christopher Giancarlo, an executive vice president at the GFI Group, which plans to register as a swap execution facility.
But after the financial crisis, when derivatives nearly caused the downfall of once-mighty firms like the American International Group, lawmakers and regulators moved to keep a closer eye on the industry. Under Dodd-Frank, companies must now trade many credit-default swaps and other derivatives through established exchanges or SEFs, a tightly regulated version of the existing platforms.
The firms have spent the last two years getting organized for the new oversight.
In June 2009, five of the largest derivatives brokerage firms huddled at Bayard's, the historic Lower Manhattan restaurant in the India House at Hanover Square. Over lunch in the Jewel Room, the competitors came together for the inaugural meeting of their industry's first trade group.
"We decided it was time to speak with one voice in Washington," said Mr. Giancarlo, of the GFI Group.
GFI has since added three senior compliance officers, and has plans to hire a dozen or so more. MarketAxess has tripled its swaps technology team since Dodd-Frank was enacted.
Former policy makers and Congressional staff members are in high demand, as trading platforms look to increase their influence in Washington. In April, ICAP hired Patrick McCarty, the former top lawyer for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and a Senate staff member who helped write Dodd-Frank's derivatives section. Robert Paul, once the general counsel for the commodities regulator, recently joined Tradeweb to head up its SEF compliance efforts. And MarketAxess recently retained the prominent derivatives lawyer Mark Young, a partner at Skadden Arps and a former regulator.
The firms, and their recent hires, have focused their attention - and resources - on lawmakers and regulators. The Wholesale Markets Brokers' Association Americas, the trade group formed at Bayard's, spent more than $1.3 million on lobbying over the last year and a half.
During the same period, the industry has sent more than four dozen comment letters and secured private meetings with top officials in Washington. Mr. McVey of MarketAxess met about Dodd-Frank earlier this year with representatives of Senator Charles E. Schumer and Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, both Democrats of New York.
The industry's efforts are yielding results. Representative Scott Garrett, a Republican from New Jersey, teamed up with a group of New York Democrats in July to sponsor the Swap Execution Facility Clarification Act, which would force regulators to back off some harsher regulations. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is weighing softer rules after receiving a flurry of complaints about its plan to curb Wall Street's control over derivatives exchanges, according to people with knowledge of the discussions.
While the firms await final rules from regulators, they have started an aggressive public relations campaign. In March, Scott O'Malia, a Republican member of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, hosted a SEF technology showcase, an event that some industry officials called Sefapalooza. Earlier this month, MarketAxess held its annual summer cocktail event for analysts and journalists at the rooftop bar of a New York hotel.
Now the industry is gearing up for Sefcon II on Oct. 3 in New York, during which the Commodity Futures Trading Commission chairman, Gary Gensler, is slated to give the keynote address. Firms are sparing little expense, doling out $3,500 to operate a booth and $12,000 to be a "gold" sponsor.
"My vision was to have a conference that would allow a venue for market participants to better understand the challenges that the new category of SEFs face," said Mr. Ferreri, the Sefcon co-founder. And as for the Sefcon name? "I'm a big brand guy, and it just stuck."

        
Derivatives Market Faces New Capital Rules
        
Democrats Defend Futures Regulator's Budget

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (94%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LOBBYING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TRADE SHOWS (77%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); CONSUMER LAW (71%) Bloomberg LP; Chris Ferreri; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Derivatives; Dodd-Frank; Dodd-Frank Act; Gary Gensler; GFI Group; ICAP; J. Christopher Giancarlo; Mark Young; MarketAxess; Patrick McCarty; Richard M. McVey; Robert Paul; Scott D. O'Malia; Sefcon; Swap Execution Facility Clarification Act; Tradeweb; Wholesale Markets Brokers' Association Americas; Derivatives (Financial Instruments); Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); GFI Group Inc; GFI Group Inc|GFIG|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (69%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC (54%); CME GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (91%) Bloomberg LP; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; GFI Group Inc

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); MKTX (NASDAQ) (54%); CME (NASDAQ) (53%) GFI Group Inc; GFIG; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (69%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (69%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1246 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Aug. 29, 1991 | Soviet Parliament Suspends Activities of Communist Party

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: On Aug. 29, 1991, the Soviet Parliament voted to suspend the activities of the Communist Party in the USSR.

 BODY:
On Aug. 29, 1991, the Soviet Parliament voted to suspend the activities of the Communist Party in the USSR. Ten days earlier, party officials staged a failed coup in an attempt to remove Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev from office.
The New York Times article about the vote, reported, "While Parliament settled scores with the past, newly unfettered leaders of the republics searched for interim arrangements to prevent chaotic disintegration."
On August 19, 1991, the day before Mr. Gorbachev was to sign the "New Union Treaty" to convert the Soviet Union into a federation of independent republics, he and his closest advisers were blockaded by an armada of ships and troops at his vacation home in the Crimea. 
Organizers of the coup opposed the New Union Treaty on the grounds that it would weaken the Soviet State. They seized the seat of government, expecting broad support, but instead met staunch opposition from the public and from Russian President Boris Yeltsin. 
The coup fell apart after three days. The organizers were arrested, and ultimately the party they aimed to preserve was dismantled. In the meantime, Mr. Yeltsin, who climbed atop a tank outside the Russian parliamentary building and called for resistance against the coup, emerged a hero.
Following the failed coup, Mr. Gorbachev was restored to his office, though his authority was effectively destroyed. 
On Dec. 8, 1991, Boris Yeltsin of Russia, Leonid Kravchuk of Ukraine and Stanislav Shushkevich of Belarus formed a Commonwealth of Independent States.
The Russian legislature ratified the agreement on Dec. 12 and eight other Soviet republics joined the CIS nine days later. Gorbachev resigned on Christmas Day and the Soviet Union was officially dissolved the following day.
Connect to Today:
In the twenty years since the Soviet collapse, the region has faced a number of challenges, including civil conflicts and economic instability. In a recent poll, "few people said they viewed the events of 1991 as a victory for democracy."
In an
op-ed piece published on Aug. 21, 2011, Victor Sebestyen, a Hungarian-born journalist and author, considered the situation in Russia after the collapse of the Soviet Union:
"There was a fleeting opportunity for liberal democracy and genuine free markets to emerge in Russia after the Soviet Union collapsed. But Yeltsin did little to develop civil society, the rule of law, the emergence of viable political parties or a modernized economy after the failed 1991 coup."
What lessons do you think leaders of current revolutions might learn from that chapter in history? How can countries like Libya, Egypt, Libya, Syria, Tunisia, and Yemen avoid "lost opportunities"? 
Learn more about what happened in history on August 29
Learn more about Historic Headlines and our collaboration with findingDulcinea 

        
Aug. 30, 1963 | Communications 'Hot Line' Connects Soviet and U.S. Heads of State
        
Aug. 23, 1927 | Sacco and Vanzetti Executed in Boston
        
PUB-DATE: June 30, 1997
        
Teaching 'The Crucible' With The New York Times
        
On the Brink: Teaching About Tension in North and South Korea

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); COUPS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); LIBERALISM (68%); WRITERS (66%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (58%); ARRESTS (52%) communism; Soviet Union; Historic Headlines

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); UKRAINE (92%); BELARUS (79%); SYRIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2011



1247 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: As Expected, Hurricane Fallout Puts a Damper on Broadway Box Office

BYLINE: PATRICK HEALY


HIGHLIGHT: Weekly Broadway box office took a hit from hurricane cancellations.

 BODY:
Broadway musicals and plays grossed only $11.6 million last week, a sharp drop from overall tickets sales of $20.1 million during the previous week - the result of New York City's shutdown over Hurricane Irene, which led to the cancellation of typically profitable performances on Saturday and Sunday. Nearly 131,000 people saw Broadway shows before theaters went dark for the storm, compared to about 218,000 the week before.
The box office data, released on Monday afternoon by theater owners and producers through their trade association, the Broadway League, were the best measures of the economic consequences of Irene on the nation's unofficial theater capital. 
All 23 musicals and plays on Broadway were closed after New York officials announced that city subways and other mass transit would stop running on Saturday. The storm, while severe in swaths of the suburbs and some sections of the city, ended up packing a weaker wallop in the theater district, where skies had begun to brighten by the usual time of Sunday matinees.
As another point of comparison with last week's $11.6 million haul, Broadway shows grossed $18.1 million during the same playing week last summer. If last weekend's performances had not been canceled, productions probably would have grossed in the range of $20 million, based on the number of shows now running and seasonal and year-to-year trends. The productions offered ticket refunds or exchanges for other performances.
The financial data offered a rare opportunity to assess the box office strength of Broadway shows excluding Saturday and Sunday performances. That said, the strongest-selling productions during weeknights last week were the usual top-grossing shows: "The Lion King," "Wicked," "Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark," and "The Book of Mormon." The weakest: "Master Class," "Rock of Ages," "Baby It's You," and "Hair." 

        
A Touch of Broadway in a New Ticketing App
        
Boston Symphony Orchestra Performance Is Canceled
        
Storm Threat Closes Broadway
        
Theater Talkback: The Good That Comes From Bad Reviews
        
New York Fringe Festival Report: 'Sammy Gets Mugged!'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); HURRICANES (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (79%); MUSIC (79%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); TRENDS (73%); FESTIVALS (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%) Broadway League; Hurricane Irene; Theater; Hurricane Irene (2011); New York City

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1248 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Time, Money and Unemployment

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: While many unemployed people spend their time on home projects and child care, their productivity is lower than in paid jobs, an economist writes.

 BODY:
What do people do after they lose their jobs, other than look for a new one? The unemployed put more time into unpaid household work, including child care, according to an important new study by Mark Aguiar, Erik Hurst and Loukas Karabarbounis. Their findings dramatize the limitations of conventional measures of economic well-being based entirely on market income.
When Benjamin Franklin advised us that "time is money," he was living a world in which many individuals were self-employed and could at least grow their own food. In our world, it's hard to convert time into money if you can't find a paying job.
Still, Americans 15 or older (including students and retirees) devote, on average, almost as much time to unpaid work as they do to paid work (about 23 hours a week on household activities, purchasing goods and services, caring for and helping others, and volunteering, compared with about 25 hours a week on paid work and related activities, according to data from the 2010 American Time Use Survey).
Time applied to unpaid work can provide a partial substitute for consumer expenditures. Individuals can cut down on restaurant spending by preparing their own meals, care for family members rather paying for day care or elder care, clean the house instead of hiring a maid or fix their own roof instead of hiring a roofer.

Shopping may be fun sometimes, but it's also foraging work in which increased time and effort can save money. In previous research, Professors Aguiar and Hurst have shown that households that shop twice as frequently as others pay prices that are 7 to 10 percent lower.
Retired people seem particularly adept at stretching their budgets. In addition to shopping more carefully, they typically reduce spending on food - a pattern that once led many economists to assume that they had not saved enough for retirement. But Professors Aguiar and Hurst have shown that retirees' actual food consumption does not decline. Rather, they increase the time devoted to food preparation, cooking more (and presumably better) meals for themselves.
Previous studies of the impact of unemployment on time allocation showed little effect, generating at least one news article about the unemployed "frittering their time away." Professors Aguiar, Hurst and Karabarbounis provide a very different picture in their recently released paper for the National Bureau of Economic Research, "Time Use During Recessions."
In a sophisticated econometric analysis of data from the American Time Use Survey, they controlled for underlying trends and also compare differences in time-use across states with differing levels of unemployment. (See this blog post for more details).
They found that about 30 percent of the forgone market work hours during the recession were reallocated to housework and about 5 percent to child care. An additional 10 percent were reallocated to education, health care and civic activities. Time devoted to job searches increased, but remained relatively small, perhaps because there's not that much people can do when jobs aren't available.
Most of the remaining time went to increased sleep time and leisure, including more television viewing. Not surprisingly, women were more likely than men to reallocate time to housework. They were also more likely to increase their sleep time.
The overall increase in non-market work implies that household consumption among the unemployed fell less than market income, but it's hard to put a dollar value on the unpaid work. When people make a voluntary decision to substitute time for money, we can infer something about the relative value they place on it.
But most unemployment is involuntary, and some unpaid work probably represents an effort to stay busy more than a significant contribution to household living standards.
The authors emphasize the relatively large impact of unemployment on unpaid work, in part because this is a new finding, and in part because it counters the wrong impression that, as Professor Hurst put it, the Great Recession was a Great Vacation.
But it is also important to note that most of the unemployed can't allocate more of the free time they gain to productive uses, even if they want to. They lack the capital, land, tools and skills needed to flexibly shift from wage employment to production for their own use. Even when they can make a partial shift, their productivity is likely to be lower in unpaid work than paid work.
That's why involuntary unemployment represents such a waste of human capabilities and loss of productive output for the economy as a whole.
And that's why Benjamin Franklin, were he alive today, would be wagging his finger at policy makers who don't consider unemployment our most urgent economic problem.

        
Unemployment? Who Cares?
        
Along the Minimum-Wage Battle Front
        
How Many Jobs Do We Need?
        
Why Is New York's Unemployment Rate (Relatively) Low?
        
Local and National Stimulus

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); TRENDS (89%); RECESSION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FAMILY (78%); BUDGETS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (75%); AGING (74%); RESTAURANTS (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%) Child Care; Daily Economist; employment; Nancy Folbre; Productivity; Retirement; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; National Bureau of Economic Research; United States; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (84%) National Bureau of Economic Research

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1249 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: In Irene's Wake, Banks Make Adjustments

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: JPMorgan Chase says it will waive A.T.M. fees for those in hurricane-affected areas through Sept. 4, while Bank of America deploys mobile A.T.M.'s.

 BODY:
As people and businesses assess the damage left in Hurricane Irene's wake, some banks are trying to help.
On Monday, JPMorgan Chase told its customers that it would waive A.T.M. fees through Sept. 4 for those in hurricane-affected areas. In an e-mail to customers, the bank said it would not charge fees related to overdraft, the use of non-Chase A.T.M.'s, late payments on credit cards and loans and early withdrawal on certificates of deposit. In addition, the bank will extend branch hours and increase the number of employees at branches "in severely affected areas." 
A JPMorgan spokeswoman, Kristin Lemkau, said that branch employees were instructed to reach out to local businesses and use their "good judgment" in helping consumers secure loans at flexible terms.
"We've given them the green light to act on the spot," Ms. Lemkau said. "They can accelerate the loan approval process and give favorable financing terms when they can."
Employees who can travel safely are expected to report to work on Monday, but JPMorgan has made "backup childcare" services available.
Many firms resisted blanket policies on Monday, and instead, favored assistance on a case by case basis. Capital One, which has more than 1,000 branches in the region, said it was willing to work with customers to grant interest rate reductions and fee waivers, depending on their situations. In a statement to DealBook, Bank of America said it was actively working with customers "to help them with their specific needs." The company expects "minimal" disruptions to its operations and plans to deploy mobile A.T.M. units to affected areas as necessary.
On Monday, Wells Fargo announced it will suspend fees associated with using non-Wells Fargo A.T.M.s and for early withdrawals on C.D.s, through Sept. 2. 
A representative for PNC Financial Services said the firm was still reviewing the impact of the storm and its options.
Their actions come as the banks themselves grapple with the fallout of Hurricane Irene.
Although the storm slowed down as it pushed through the Northeast corridor on Sunday, it still damaged power lines and caused severe flooding in certain regions. As of Monday morning, JPMorgan reported 103 branches without power, about 10 percent of its presence in the greater New York area. About 30 locations reported flooding or physical damage to the building. 
PNC said 55 branches were still without power. At the height of the storm, about 200 were affected. While 25 are expected to get power on Monday, at least one branch, its location in New Hope, Penn., is still inaccessible because of flooding.

        
Big Banks Approaching the TARP Exit Ramp
        
Market Doing Its Job When It Comes to Bank Stocks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (90%); POWER FAILURES (89%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); APPROVALS (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); CHILD CARE (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Bank of America; Capital One Financial; Hurricane Irene; JPMorgan Chase & Company; PNC Financial Services Group; Hurricane Irene (2011); Bank of America Corporation; PNC Financial Services Group Inc; Northeastern States (US); Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; JPMorgan Chase & Company; PNC Financial Services Group Inc

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); PNC (NYSE) (53%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Northeastern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1250 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Goal)

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011

SECTION: SPORTS; soccer

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Arsenal's Embarrassment Leads to Free Ticket Offer

BYLINE: JACK BELL


HIGHLIGHT: Embarrassed by an 8-2 loss at Manchester United, Arsenal officials offered their thousands of traveling fans tangible payback by offering to pay for their match ticket to another away game if they dare go.

 BODY:
Arsenal Manager Arsene Wenger began Sunday's late-afternoon disaster in Manchester wearing his familiar full-length down parka. By the end of the game, the coat was gone as Manchester United turned Old Trafford, often called the Theater of Dreams, into Wenger's unabashed house of horrors.
If the damage from a record 8-2 loss in the English Premier League was not enough, Arsenal officials on Monday offered their thousands of traveling fans tangible payback for the team's sad performance by offering to pay for their match ticket to another away game if they dare go.
Led by Wayne Rooney's hat trick, Manchester United sent Arsenal to its worst loss in the last century - the 19th century, as in 1896.
"We went about our job from the first minute all the way through to the last," Manchester United's Ashley Young, who scored twice, told his team's television network. "We were terrific. We found an Arsenal team who weren't so good on the day and we've punished them."
With a break next weekend while his players are off on international duty, Wenger told the club's Web site that "the players go away for two weeks and maybe that is a good thing."

Arsenal returns to play at newly promoted Swansea City on Sept. 10.
"When they come back we'll have to prepare," Wenger said. "Big scores are humiliating and difficult to swallow, but I don't think they have a special meaning. They are always under special circumstances. I can only apologize for the score. It hurts very much."
The cerebral French coach (he has university degrees in electrical engineering and economics) is facing the biggest challenge since taking over the Gunners in 1996, a run that included the "Invincible" season of 2003-4, when the Gunners won the Premier League by 11 points without losing a game. But this year is different. For one, Arsenal has a new owner in the American businessman Stan Kroenke. Second, Wenger has been a net loser during the current transfer period, which ends on Wednesday. Cesc Fabregas departed for Barcelona and Samir Nasri for Manchester City, both talking about the club's failure to win any significant championship since the magical season that seems so long ago.
Sunday's one-sided loss left Arsenal in 17th place in the 20-team Premier League, with a draw and two losses from three games, and a minus-8 goal differential. With the transfer period set to end Wednesday, Wenger and Arsenal will be under pressure to try and find help on defense, but they have little chance of finding suitable replacements for Fabregas and Nasri. On Sunday, the Gunners were without several injured players, including Jack Wilshere, Thomas Vermaelen and Bacary Sagna, and the suspended Gervinho, Alex Song and Alex Emmanuel Frimpong. And for the fourth third time in three games, another Arsenal player was shown a red card, this one going to Carl Jenkinson.
"This was the strongest team we had," the captain Robin van Persie told Arsenal's Web site. "We gave our maximum but it was clearly not good enough. I don't think we can hide behind injuries or suspensions. It is no excuse. They had injuries too. This is football."
Wolverhampton
As Arsenal struggles, one of the most surprising teams in the first month of the English season is also one of the 12 founding members of the Football League, in 1888 - Wolverhampton Wanderers.
After Saturday's 0-0 draw against Aston Villa in Birmingham, Wolves are unbeaten and have seven points, as many as Liverpool, Chelsea and Newcastle.
One of the men behind the club's resurgence from years living in the lower divisions has been Mick McCarthy, the former manager of Sunderland and Ireland's national team.
"We've started well and have looked solid at the back, but I know how quickly that can change in this league," McCarthy told the club's Web site. "You can lose three, four, five games on the bounce even when you're playing well. As I've already said, we'll enjoy the start but be wary of the 35 games to come."
Wolverhampton has been especially adept and successful grooming young players in its academy in recent years. Graduates include Robbie Keane (now with Los Angeles in M.L.S.), Joleon Lescott, Matt Murray and Lee Naylor. Current first-team starters, all younger than 25, include goalkeeper Wayne Hennessey, Ashley Hemmings and Johnny Gorman. A handful of the club's developing players are out on loan.
Could this be the start of something big? Stay tuned.
Notes

 After losing twice and tying three games in their last five, the Red Bulls actually "won" by not playing last weekend. Their sold-out match against visiting Los Angeles, scheduled to be played Sunday night, was postponed until Oct. 4 because of Hurricane Irene. But the idle Red Bulls saw their Eastern Conference rivals, all of whom had played fewer games, either lose or fail to notch three points. First-place Columbus was blitzed, 6-2, at Seattle; Sporting Kansas City gave up three goals in the final minutes, losing to Dallas, 3-2; and expansion Vancouver won only its fourth game of the season, beating Houston, 1-0. The Red Bulls (6-6-14) remain in fourth place and do not play again until Sept. 10 against the visiting Whitecaps. Coach Hans Backe has given the team off until Monday.
 Jamaica-born Jeff Cunningham, 35, a much-traveled striker who began his M.L.S. career with Columbus from 1998-2004 and played for four other clubs before returning to the Crew this year, eclipsed Jaime Moreno's league career goal-scoring record when he converted a penalty kick in Saturday's 6-2 loss at Seattle. It was the 134th goal of Cunningham's M.L.S. career.
 The American midfielder Stuart Holden, who has missed six months because of a knee injury, will see his first action Tuesday since last season playing for Bolton's reserves in a game against Fulham's reserves. "I'm buzzin'," Holden wrote on his Twitter feed. Michael Bradley, 24, another American midfielder, is expected to sign with Chievo of Italy's Serie A, leaving Borussia Monchengladbach before the transfer period ends on Wednesday.

        
This Weekend's Top European Matchups
        
For Man United and Barcelona, a High Bar
        
Manchester United 8, Arsenal 2
        
Weekend Roundup: Fabregas Moving, United Limping, Mexico Celebrating
        
Top 10 Transfer Possibilities

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); THEATER (77%); SPORTS INJURIES (66%) Arsenal; English Premier League; Manchester United; Soccer; Arsenal Football Club; Wolverhampton Wanderers

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Arsenal Football Club; Wolverhampton Wanderers

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (90%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (93%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (88%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (88%) ENGLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1251 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1630 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: The Economy Stinks

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: Do you participate in any online communities?

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
Hurricane Damage Watch
Nate Silver does the math.
Red Tape Update: Black Market Lemonade
The White House unveils a plan to help small businesses cut red tape, but business groups are lukewarm to the proposal. Congress introduces a Web tax bill while the House G.O.P. is getting closer to finalizing its regulatory rollback agenda for the fall. But hold on, three-quarters of our leaders lack a business background (pdf). Chicago, meanwhile, requires a license to help people to get a business permit, and Alabama's new immigration law is irking businesses. A few brave kids buy illegal lemonade. A new survey finds that nearly one of every 10 midsize or big employers expects to stop offering health coverageto workers once federal insurance exchanges open in 2014. Felix Salmon discusses the regulations facing electronic paymentcompanies. United States Department of Agriculture energy grants go to 900 farmers and small businesses.
The Fed: The Chairman Speaks
Ben S. Bernanke offers nothing to boost the economy. Cullen Roche thinks "you almost have to have been asleep over the last year to conclude that more QE (quantitative easing) is now going to save the day. As I said before it even started, QE2 was a monetary nonevent. QE3 will almost certainly be more of the same unless Bernanke substantially alters the form in which it is implemented." Turns out that even though the Wall Street "aristocracy" got $1.2 trillion from the Fed during the last crisis, thousands of layoffs are expected on Wall Street this fall.
The Data: Wait. What Was That About Richard Branson?
Durable goods orders come in strong. Consumer delinquency rates fall to pre-crisis levels. But weekly unemployment claims continue to increase. June auto traffic decreased 1.4 percent. We may be looking at the worst yearever for new home sales. However, commercial property prices rise. The Chicago Fed reports improved activity (pdf) for July, and American auto dealers grewin 2011 for first time in a decade. And a naked Richard Branson saves Kate Winslet.
The Economy: The Economy Stinks (and So Do the Marlins)
A study finds that more than 20 percent of small businesses are seeing drops in profit of more than 25 percent. An investor site lists nine signs that a new global recession has arrived. But Adam Shell says that a recession is unlikely. Ezra Klein says, "It's the household debt, stupid." Scott Grannis reports that falling bond yieldsare revealing the market's pessimism. James Pethokoukis says the economy is poised to make President Obama a one-termer. Michelle Hirsch and Eric Pianin offer eight ideas to save the president and the economy. The Congressional Budget Office says that our economic outlook is more direthan previously reported, but there are a few countries that are in worse debt situations. Rick Newman says the slowing economy is not bad for everyone - except in Miami where only 347 fans showed up for a last-place Marlins game.
Around the States: No More Funny Business
Devastated East Coast earthquake survivors clean up and Tweet things like: "I think Chris Christie just jumped into the race." A new report says that delinquent debt is on the rise for very small and large businesses. But New York businesses are reporting improved finances. Business confidence in Texas is growing. New Jersey businesses plan more hiring. American City Business Journals reports that all but six states posted job gains in the past 12 months. And several states are reporting surpluses. A comedian gives an award to a Maryland barber shop.
Starting Up: This Start-Up Could Change the Way We Read Books
A new company aims to help businesses sell physical goods via subscription. NPR says that many workers dream about starting a new business and find it's not so easy. Startup America announces its board and sponsors. Investors are keeping an eye on these five start-ups from Y Combinator's Summer 2011 class. Missourians create the world's largestBLT. A fuel-cell start-up scores $73.5 million from investors. AngelList, a Silicon Valley company that connects start-ups with investors, is opening operations in New York. Tinypay.me raises $1 million and bills itself as the easiest way to sell stuff online. Hopper, a start-up focused on travel searchfor consumers is raising $8 million. This start-up could change the way we read books. Mega Startup Weekend is coming.
Marketing: The Dark Side of Viral Content
Heidi Cohen explains how to get more from every sale. For example: "upsell customers with services associated with your offering." Texting service Tatango says that 44 percent of Americans have opted into a text-messaging campaign. Daniel Alexandre Portoraro puts a human faceon the act of telemarketing: "We each call about a hundred and fifty people an hour; that's twelve hundred a day. Some are faulty numbers, others answering machines, many are immediate hang-ups. But regardless, this is the truly grueling part of telemarketing: the constant repetition." Michelle Dunn explains how to make collection calls. Glen Stansberry warns us of the dark side of viral content. John Jantsch helps us get creative with Foursquare. Fox Business's David Asman likes this entrepreneur's products!
Management: Talk About Going Down With the Ship
Here are 18 amazing facts about small businesses in America. A new survey lists America's Top 100 small-business influencers (recognize any names?). In a new video, Gap International's founder discusses a "relentless innovation" video series. Ernests Stals says the secret ingredient to success is a "healthy mixture of stubbornness and flexibility." A ferry runs agroundbecause the captain gets stuck in the toilet. Beth Kowitt explains why McDonald's always wins: "Every new item that ends up on customers' trays has to have a strong business case that examines its profitability, the capital it requires, and how it can be built out nationally." Marcia Kaplan believes that Internet sellerswill weather the recent Standard & Poor's downgrade better than others: "The dollar will be weaker than other currencies so small businesses that export goods or sell online to foreign customers will have a greater price advantage." Jane Morrison lists five surefire ways to ensure business longevity.
Your People: Surfing for Productivity?
A Capital One Bank survey suggests an improved job outlook for small businesses. But an Office Depot survey finds that 79 percent of businesses do not plan to add staff members in the next six months. Web surfing at work can boost productivity. A survey reveals that millions of people will waste time manually entering contacts into mobile phones. Forty-four percent of working Americans describe themselves as "free agents." The president is mulling a plan to allow businesses to train the unemployed without having to pay them. Steve Blank shares a great process for choosing the right job candidate: "start with a pie chart." Elizabeth Sile says August is a great time for employee reviews and offers five tips. Beware of these seven sites where your employees can burn bridges after leaving you.
Technology: Don't Tell the Chinese We're Using Tablets Now
China climbs past the United Statesto become the world's largest PC market. As Steve Jobs resigns as Apple's chief executive, here's a fond memory. An infographic explains how voice recognitionworks. Will Google's purchase of Motorola Mobility usher in the dark ages? Small Business Computing's Christian Gielber lists four technologies for small business. Epson introduces three projectorsgeared toward small business. IT Business Edge recommends five features to keep in mind when buying a laptop. Skype acquiresGroupMe. Bill.com introduces a printed invoice mailing service.
The Week Ahead: Consumer Data Coming
Look for personal spending and income numbers on Monday, followed by the Conference Board's consumer confidence index on Tuesday. A.D.P.'s nonfarm employment numbers are released Wednesday, followed by weekly unemployment claims on Thursday. On Friday we find out the official unemployment rate.
The Week's Bests
Explanation for Why That Cat Grooming Shop Closed Hugh MacLeod says there are three types of businesses. First example: "The lost causes. New ones open and close all the time. Well meaning people who don't really get what they're doing, don't really get what their customers are after, don't really get much, in spite of their often valiant and kind-hearted efforts. Retired school teachers from Dallas, who never run a business before, who just moved out here recently because they liked the scenery, who suddenly decided to go into the restaurant business or whatever. These places usually close down in less than nine months."
Ways to Become a Better Listener Celestine Chua offers seven tips to become a better listener. Example: "At every stage of the conversation, clarify to ensure you got the message right. This can be done by simply paraphrasing what he/she just said, in your own words."
Way To Expand Your Newsletter's Reach Dan Lewis explains how he grew his newsletter from zero to 10,000 subscribers in 13 months. One tip: "I participate in online communities. Here's a poorly kept secret of the Internet: If you participate (properly) in a community, opportunities spring up. Reddit is an obvious one. I've been a redditor for five years, collecting 15,000 "link" karma over the span, and another 6,000 or so comment karma. I keep an eye out for Now I Know issues which are posted there (and sometimes post them myself, although in the case, the below does not apply) and when I find it, I thank the submitter and then point out where the article came from."
This Week's Question Do you participate in any online communities?
Marks GroupTwitter

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RECESSION (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (76%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TRENDS (76%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); TAX LAW (72%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); BONDS (69%); DURABLE GOODS (69%); PERSONAL DEBT (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); LAYOFFS (63%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (63%); NEW CAR DEALERS (62%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (61%); IMMIGRATION (55%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Entrepreneurship; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Small Business; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1252 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1761 words

HEADLINE: How Irene Lived Up to the Hype

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: The news media coverage of Hurricane Irene was proportionate to the amount of death and destruction it caused.

 BODY:
Do hurricanes receive too much media coverage? Are they more or less newsworthy than airplane crashes? The avian flu? The iPhone 5? Shark attacks? The Dominique Strauss-Kahn case? The Libyan civil war? The royal wedding? Global warming? Anthony Weiner? The Dallas Cowboys?
I don't know. What's easier to evaluate is how much coverage Hurricane Irene received in comparison with other hurricanes. By that standard, the coverage was quite proportionate to the amount of death and destruction that the storm caused.
The Web site NewsLibrary.com is a searchable database of millions of news accounts -- mostly newspaper and magazine articles, but also some sources like television transcripts. While it lacks representation of things like blogs and social media, it contains a highly comprehensive sample of what we might think of as the traditional media.
It's easy enough to conduct a series of searches on NewsLibrary.com in order to determine how much press coverage past Atlantic hurricanes have received. The only tricky part is that the further you go back in time, the fewer sources the database has available, so we'll have to adjust for this.
We'll accomplish this by creating a statistic which I'll call the News Unit (or NU). This is defined by taking the total number of stories that mentioned the storm by name (for instance, "Hurricane Hugo" or "Tropical Storm Hugo"; either one is considered acceptable) and dividing by the average number of stories per day that were available in the NewsLibrary.com database during that period. I then multiply the result by 10 just to make things a little bit more legible -- so essentially, a News Unit consists of one-tenth of all the stories published on a given day.
For instance, there were 13,326 stories published that used the term "Hurricane Gustav" or "Tropical Storm Gustav" during the period when that storm was active, from Aug. 25 through Sept. 4, 2008. And on average, there were 56,200 stories published per day during that period in the NewsLibrary.com database. Dividing 13,326 by 56,200, and then multiplying by 10, gives a result of 2.37. So Gustav produced 2.37 News Units worth of coverage while the storm was active.
Irene's score by this measure is 2.25 News Units, which is on the high side but not extraordinary.
Specifically, it ranks 10th from among the 92 named tropical cyclones that made landfall in the United States since 1980.
To be sure, this is quite a lot of press coverage, and most of it was concentrated in a 72-hour period over the weekend. (Irene had received rather little attention before Friday, despite having a fairly dangerous-looking forecast track.) One unflattering comparison is to Hurricane Katrina, which received just 1.56 News Units worth of coverage while the storm was active, ranking it only 14th from among the 92 storms. (Katrina received lots and lots of coverage the full effects of the storm had become manifest, but that's not what we're looking at here -- instead, how much coverage each hurricane received while it was still in the atmosphere.)
Nevertheless, there are nine storms that rank ahead of Irene and which got as much or more media attention. What did they look like?
All nine were at least Category 4 hurricanes at some point during their lifespans, which Hurricane Irene never was (it topped out as a Category 3). And all but one made landfall as a Category 2 storm or higher, which Irene did not; it was a Category 1 when it hit land, first in North Carolina and then again in New Jersey. (The other exception is Hurricane Gilbert, which made landfall as a tropical storm in 1988 -- but which had once been a very powerful Category 5 storm that did a lot of damage to the Caribbean.)
So Irene was not as powerful as most of these other storms -- as measured by wind speed. On the other hand, it was at least as destructive as many of them.
So far, 21 fatalities have been directly attributed to Irene. It's plausible that the number will rise some, particularly given that there is still quite a bit of active flooding in New England, New Jersey, and upstate New York. (Flooding, not wind, is normally responsible for most deaths in hurricanes.) Even if we're fortunate and the number does not increase any further, 21 deaths would put Irene in a tie for the 10th-worst United States death toll for all Atlantic hurricanes since 1980.
Note that these figures reflect directly induced fatalities in the United States only; there have been several storms during this period that had tragic effects in the Caribbean. Hurricanes in the United States just don't kill that many people unless they're Hurricane Katrina, which is responsible for about 70 percent of all United States hurricane fatalities since 1980.
What hurricanes do cause is a lot of economic damage: about $365 billion in direct and indirect economic losses since 1980, according to a technique that adjusts for inflation and other factors.
Loss estimates for Irene are going to take some time to calculate -- but the early figures are quite bad. Estimates in an ABC News article are of property losses of between $7 billion and $13 billion -- and the rule of thumb is that total economic losses are equal to about twice property losses, which would imply a total price-tag of between $14 billion and $26 billion.
Using the low end of that range -- $14 billion in total losses -- would rank Irene as the 8th-most destructive storm since 1980, adjusted for inflation and the growth in wealth and population.
So Irene right now ranks as the 10th-deadliest storm since 1980, with some possibility of that number going higher. And it ranks as the 8th most destructive storm economically, give or take. Meanwhile, it received about the 10th-most media coverage.
What's the problem with that? Actually, I don't see any problem with it whatsoever. The level of coverage given to Irene received seems quite appropriate given what we know about its impact.
But you can find some plenty of critiques of the press coverage given to Irene - like from Howard Kurtz, the media critic for The Daily Beast, who decried "the tsunami of hype" in the media coverage of the storm.
There are some things in Mr. Kurtz's article that I agree with. Certainly the tone and tenor of media coverage could be improved when it comes to hurricanes and other types of disasters. In particular, as you might expect, I think the coverage could stand to be a quite a bit more data-driven and less narrative-driven (if you can call it "narrative" to have some television correspondent mugging for the camera in his Windbreaker from the middle of a storm zone).
Data-driven, among other things, would imply informing the public when the prognosis had gotten better -- as it did, for instance, on Friday afternoon, when it became apparent that Irene was failing to add much strength over the open ocean, and was unlikely to hit the Carolinas as more than a strong Category 1 storm or the Northeast as more than a weak Category 1. On the other hand, wind speeds don't tell the whole story about a hurricane. Irene was likely to be much more damaging than implied by its wind speed alone for three basic reasons that I outlined on Friday: because it was an unusually large storm, because it was an exceptionally slow-moving storm, and because it was headed for the most populous part of the country.
On average, hurricanes that make landfall in the United States as Category 1 storms have produced about $600 million in economic damage. The losses from Irene look as though they'll be something like 25 times that. In terms of the amount of economic damage it caused, in fact, Irene is much more like a typical Category 3 hurricane than a weak Category 1.
Could it have been worse? Sure -- but I'm not sure if that really bolsters Mr. Kurtz's critique.
The computer models that projected Irene's track actually did very well. They had predicted several days ago that the most likely scenario was that Irene would come quite close to New York City and would be right on the fringe of a strong tropical storm and a weak Category 1 hurricane when it did. That's pretty much exactly what happened.
Computer models of hurricane trajectories have gotten a lot better over the years -- however, there is uncertainty in any forecast, including this one. The difference with a hurricane is that, because economic damage accumulates as a very steep exponential function of wind speed, the impact of the uncertainty is asymmetrical.
Imagine, for instance, if Irene had been about 20 percent stronger when it hit New York -- that it had wind speeds of about 90 miles an hour instead of 75 miles an hour. That doesn't sound like a huge difference and from a meteorological perspective, and it isn't.
But from an economic perspective, that may have mattered quite a lot. Some of the scholarly literature suggests that the economic damage resulting from hurricanes is a function of wind speeds raised to the . I'll spare you the math: what that means is that hurricane with wind speeds of 90 miles an hour might be as much a 4 or 5 times more destructive as one with wind speeds of 75 miles per hour. So if Irene had been just a bit stronger, we might be talking about economic losses on the order of $55 billion to $70 billion, rather than a "mere" $14 billion.
Fortunately, that does not mean that every hurricane with wind speeds of 90 miles per hour would present that much of a threat to New York. But it does mean that Irene, because of its size, speed and trajectory, was an exceptionally dangerous storm. Had its wind speeds been only a little higher, Irene could have caused monumental problems. One does get the sense that we narrowly avoided the worst; there was quite a bit of flooding in Manhattan and Brooklyn on Sunday morning despite the storm surge having come in toward the low end of published estimates. Had Irene not nicked New Jersey on its way up the coast ... who knows.
As it stands, the problems are really pretty bad. There may not have been as many fireworks as the Weather Channel might have implied. But there is a lot of flooding, there are a lot of people without power, and there is economic damage tantamount to a Category 3 hurricane. A couple dozen families have lost loved ones.
It wasn't the worst-case scenario - either for Irene in particular or for hurricanes hitting New York in general. But I don't see how you dismiss it as hype. If, as Mr. Kurtz says, "the prophets of doom were wrong," I'm not looking forward to seeing what happens when they're right.

        
A New York Hurricane Could Be a Multibillion-Dollar Catastrophe

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (93%); WEATHER (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); STATISTICS (74%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); TRANSCRIPTS (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (57%) hurricanes; News and News Media; Hurricane Irene (2011)

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS COWBOYS (58%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (90%); ANTHONY D WEINER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1253 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: Alan Krueger Chosen as Obama's Top Economic Adviser

BYLINE: HELENE C. COOPER


HIGHLIGHT: Alan Krueger, a Princeton University economist, has been chosen to succeed Austan Goolsbee ans chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers.

 BODY:
President Obama will nominate Alan B. Krueger, a Princeton University labor economist, to be his top economic adviser, a White House official said Monday.
Mr. Krueger, 50 years old, would succeed Austan Goolsbee as chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers. Mr. Goolsbee is leaving the White House to return to the University of Chicago.
With the economic recovery flagging, the White House was eager to name a successor to Mr. Goolsbee. If confirmed by the Senate, Mr. Krueger will bring a background in labor economics to the ongoing White House debate on how aggressive the government should be in confronting Congress about pushing for more government action to confront the high unemployment rate.
Mr. Krueger's appointment, expected to be announced today, was first reported in the Wall Street Journal. Typically chairmen of the Council of Economic Advisers do not serve long given that many are on leave from professorships.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%) The White House

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%)

PERSON: AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1254 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Congress Returns for Another Round on Jobs, Spending

BYLINE: JENNIFER STEINHAUER


HIGHLIGHT: Even as the 12 members of a bipartisan Congressional committee are talking quietly behind the scenes about how to get started on its deficit reduction recommendations, Republicans and Democrats appear poised to pursue fairly polarized economic agendas.

 BODY:
So, when we last met on the Hill, Republicans were focused on un-doing a slew of federal regulations, many of them created by the Obama administration, as the foundation of their job-creation strategy while the White House was pushing for the extension of a payroll tax cut and tax credits for employers. The two sides were also fighting over how to best reduce the deficit.
Get ready for round two. 
Even as the 12 members of a bipartisan Congressional committee are talking quietly behind the scenes about how to get started on its deficit reduction recommendations, Republicans and Democrats appear poised to pursue fairly polarized economic agendas. 
On Monday, presaging the return of Congress next week, Representative Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, released some details of the "regulatory relief agenda" that House Republicans will pursue over the coming months. 
In their regulation-cutting cross hairs are everything from environmental protection regulations -- beating back impending readjustments of the current ozone standards and regulations on coal ash -- to some components of the Obama health care law, which the House voted earlier this year to repeal. Republicans are also preparing to take on the National Labor Relations board for injecting itself into a labor dispute involving the Boeing Company in South Carolina. 
While the bipartisan committee is expected to ponder large questions about the nation's tax code, Republicans will vote on a proposal to allow small business people to take a tax deduction equal to 20 percent of their income, Mr. Cantor said. 
"What we're looking to do as we return to Washington next week is focus on how we stop the federal government from making it so difficult for small business people to create jobs," Mr. Cantor said in an interview with Fox News. 
Democrats, who are waiting President Obama to lay out his job agenda while pushing Republicans to go along with an extension of a payroll tax cut for middle class workers, reacted with the same hostility as they reserved for the Republican budget cutting of last winter. 
"House Republicans are struggling to play catch up on jobs after Chairman Bernanke called for more aggressive fiscal policies than they have supported so far," said Senator Charles Schumer of New York in a statement, referring to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, who warned last week that political gridlock continued to "pose ongoing risks to growth." Mr. Schumer added, "Their agenda seems intended only to provide cover for blocking the kind of pro-growth proposals needed to make a difference."
Even on questions where Republicans and Democrats agree -- the value of three free trade agreements sitting at the White House -- they are bogged down in a dispute over a program to offset the impact of the agreements on American workers. 
As Congress reconvenes next week, Mr. Obama is expected to give a major speech laying out his plan to revive the moribund jobs market. Expect Republican news releases deriding his plans; for months they have hammered the president for failing to come up with something analogous to their proposals, which, like the repeal of the health care law, seem largely doomed to fail in the Senate. 
It is entirely possible that public attention will shift away from partisan fighting toward the work of the bipartisan committee, charged with finding $1.2 trillion in savings, which may serve as the last great test of divided government's ability to address the fiscal crisis before the 2012 election.

        
Congressional Week Ahead: Debt Limit Votes
        
Congressional Week Ahead: More Budget Maneuvering
        
Congressional Week Ahead: Budget Agreement
        
Pelosi Names 3 to Obama's Deficit Panel
        
In Many Venues, Economy Will Take Center Stage

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); POLITICS (74%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); AIR QUALITY (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%) deficit reduction panel; week ahead; Cantor, Eric; Schumer, Charles E; Federal Budget (US); United States Politics and Government; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Congress

COMPANY: BOEING CO (67%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (55%) House of Representatives; Republican Party

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (67%); BAB (BRU) (67%); BA (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (67%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%)

PERSON: ERIC CANTOR (89%); CHARLES SCHUMER (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BEN BERNANKE (54%) Cantor, Eric; Schumer, Charles E

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1255 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: Innkeepers Sues Cerberus for Backing Out of Deal

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Innkeepers USA Trust sued Cerberus Capital Management and its partner over a failed $1.1 billion deal that would have lifted the hotel operator out of bankruptcy.

 BODY:
7:29 p.m. | Updated 
Innkeepers USA Trust sued Cerberus Capital Management in bankruptcy court on Monday after the private equity firm walked away from a $1.1 billion deal to buy most of the hotel operator out of bankruptcy.
The lawsuit against Cerberus and its partner, Chatham Lodging Trust, came one week after the two companies backed out of the agreement to buy 64 Innkeepers hotels. The deal, which a federal judge approved in June, was meant to lift Innkeepers out of Chapter 11 protection.
Cerberus and Chatham invoked a "material adverse change" in the Innkeepers business as the reason for pulling out of the deal, resurrecting a provision that private equity firms had used to back out of takeovers struck during the debt boom.
In its lawsuit, filed in Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, Innkeepers contended that Cerberus and Chatham had no basis for their claims, since the recent market volatility did not constitute a material adverse change and did not specifically affect the company.
"The defendants' last-minute change of heart has nothing to do with any change in the performance or prospects of the fixed/floating debtors' business and everything to do with a calculated effort to renegotiate the terms of the parties' deal," the company wrote in its complaint.
According to the lawsuit, all three parties were ready to close the deal on Aug. 5. But Cerberus changed its mind late that afternoon, refusing to complete the transaction. The buyout firm resurfaced on Aug. 9, citing the recent market volatility and demanding a price cut, but not providing evidence that Innkeepers' business specifically had been impaired, the suit said.
Cerberus and Chatham defended their decision to walk away, arguing in a statement on Monday evening that Innkeepers had suffered a material adverse change in its business.
The so-called MAC clause as a means to exit a deal has become a relative rarity since the financial crisis. But beginning in 2007, several buyout firms sought to use them to back out of transactions they had agreed to. Among the most prominent examples was J. C. Flowers & Company's plan to buy the SLM Corporation along with two banks. The collapse of the offer for SLM, better known as Sallie Mae, led to a prolonged and bitter legal fight between the onetime buyers and the student loan giant. The matter was later settled.
Cerberus itself has walked away from a deal before. In late 2007, the firm sought to end a $4 billion deal for United Rentals. Cerberus did not cite a MAC clause but offered to pay a $100 million breakup fee. United Rentals sued Cerberus, but lost.

Innkeepers Lawsuit Against Cerberus Over Failed Deal

        
The MAC Is Back, but Does It Kill a Deal?
        
Cerberus Kills $1.1 Billion Deal With Innkeepers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); DIVESTITURES (76%); JUDGES (73%); STUDENT LOANS (69%) Cerberus Capital Management; Chatham Lodging Trust; Innkeepers USA Trust; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Suits and Litigation; Chatham Lodging Trust|CLDT|NYSE; Legal/Regulatory; Mergers & Acquisitions; Real Estate; Restructuring/Bankruptcy; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: JC FLOWERS & CO LLC (84%); SLM CORP (81%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (58%); CHATHAM LODGING TRUST (58%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Cerberus Capital Management; Chatham Lodging Trust; Innkeepers USA Trust

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (81%); CLDT (NYSE) (58%) Chatham Lodging Trust; CLDT; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (84%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (84%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (81%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (81%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1256 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: China Takes Aim at Rural Influx

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Shi Da contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Xie Zhenqing spent 12 years transforming a collection of ramshackle houses into Red Star, a privately run, low-cost school for 1,400 children of migrants from poor rural areas. It took just a few hours this month for a government-dispatched demolition crew to turn the place into a jagged pile of bricks.
''What the government did to us is unconscionable,'' Ms. Xie, Red Star's principal, said angrily as parents of her students scrambled to find other arrangements before the start of the new school year on Thursday. ''I'll never work for a migrant school again.''
Red Star is one of 30 technically illegal private schools in Beijing that have been torn down or closed in recent weeks in an official campaign billed as a war against unsafe and unhygienic school buildings. In all, more than 30,000 students have lost their classrooms this summer. Advocates for the migrants warn that many of the capital's 130 other unlicensed schools could be next. 
Some observers see other motives behind the campaign, including the municipal government's unceasing pursuit of land sales to fill its coffers. The site where Red Star once stood is already surrounded by a crop of expensive high-rise apartment towers and a new subway station.
But school administrators, parents and many Beijingers view the bulldozing as nothing more than a roughshod exercise in population control. According to the Beijing Bureau of Statistics, more than one-third of the capital's 19.6 million residents are migrants from China's rural hinterland, a figure that has grown by about 6 million just since 2000.
Numbers like these worry the governing Communist Party, which has a particular aversion to the specter of urban slums and their potential as cauldrons for social instability.
Though the quality of education they offer may be questionable, private schools like Red Star are often the only option for the children of low-skilled migrant laborers, who for the most part are ineligible for the free public education available to legal Beijing residents. Known derisively as ''waidi ren,'' or outsiders, the migrants are the cut-rate muscle that makes it eminently affordable for better-off Chinese to dine out, hire full-time nannies and ride new subway lines in places like Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen.
''The middle class hates to see that kind of poverty, but they can't live without their cheap labor,'' said Kam Wing Chan, a professor at the University of Washington who studies China's rural-migrant policies.
To manage the huge population flows -- and its own fears -- the government relies on an internal passport and registration system dating from the Mao years that ties access to education, health care and pensions to the birthplace of a person's parent. The hukou system, as it is called, has created a two-tiered population in many Chinese cities: those with legal residency and those without.
Though urbanization is a central tenet of the party's latest five-year economic plan for the country, Mr. Chan says, the 250 million rural migrants who are expected to move to cities in the next 15 years could become a source of social unrest unless the hukou system is reformed. ''Having that many second-class citizens in Chinese cities is dangerous,'' he said.
Obtaining an urban residence permit, called a hukou, is possible only for those with deep pockets or top-notch connections, so struggling migrants live in a gray zone of pay-as-you-go medical care, dingy rented rooms and unregistered schools where the education is middling at best. Byzantine property ownership and bank-loan rules mean that most rural hukou holders are frozen out of the housing market even if they can afford a down payment on an apartment.
The challenges become even more heart-rending after middle school, when the children of migrants must either return to their parents' hometown for high school -- and thus live separated from their parents -- or drop out. ''It's a cruel, unfair system that stops people from pursuing their dreams,'' said Song Yingquan, a researcher at the Rural Education Action Project, an advocacy group.
Policy makers have been discussing hukou reform for two decades, but beyond limited experiments in Shanghai, Chongqing, Chengdu and a smattering of second-tier cities, the National People's Congress, China's lawmaking body, has declined to act.
Resistance comes from factory owners who want migrant laborers to remain insecure and cheap to exploit, and from urban elites who fear an even greater deluge of migrants from the countryside if it becomes easier to live in the city. But the most formidable opposition may be that of local governments, which worry about paying for the health care, education and other benefits that migrants and their children would qualify for as legal residents.
In a rare act of coordinated defiance, more than a dozen newspapers across the country jointly published an editorial last year calling on the government to take on the nettlesome process of reform. ''We believe in people born to be free and people possessing the right to migrate freely,'' the editorial declared. Within hours, however, the editorial was pulled from the papers' Web sites and several editors were punished.
Since then, some Chinese scholars have been reluctant to speak out on the issue -- indeed, a half-dozen experts on the subject each declined to comment for this article. Others, who were willing to discuss the matter, warned that the status quo was producing the very situation China's leaders want to avoid.
As income gaps widen and inflation takes its toll on the paltry incomes of big-city migrants, many workers are becoming increasingly bitter. ''The system as it stands now is only feeding instability,'' said Jia Xijin, a public policy expert at Tsinghua University. ''Rural and urban residents contribute to our nation, and they both pay taxes. But they don't equally benefit. The injustice is glaring.''
Although education bureaucrats insist that the closings of the migrant schools in Beijing are a matter of safety, many parents raised questions about the timing and the lack of alternatives. Some parents, especially those whose children have been displaced more than once, admitted defeat and said they would either return to their hometowns or send their children back to be raised by relatives.
''If officials don't want our kids to be educated in the capital, then we should all go back to the places where we truly belong,'' said a recyclables collector who sent his two school-age children back to Henan Province this month. ''I don't see why we should live here without dignity.''
More of the families, however, vowed to stick it out in Beijing. Two weeks ago, as devastated parents and their children gathered at the rubble of their former schools, local newspapers eagerly captured their despair. Compounding popular ire were news media reports about a government-affiliated charity that is spending more than $300 million to construct 1,000 schools in Africa.
The public backlash was immediate, prompting education officials in several districts to relax restrictions that bar nonresident students from enrolling in Beijing's public schools. Still, many parents complained that the remedies were inadequate or elusive, and said that similar promises after a spate of school demolitions in 2006 proved to be hollow.
Li Haixin, 32, a math teacher at Red Star who sent her 6-year-old son to the school, said the boy was still shaken from seeing the desks, chairs and student art projects buried under a mound of broken masonry. Although she is now unemployed, Ms. Li said she would try to send him to a more expensive but legally registered private school, borrowing the money to pay the fees, rather than enroll him in a slapdash building that the authorities said would open as a replacement school for some of the students.
''This is a ruse,'' she said of the campaign against illegal schools. ''Let's face it, they just want to elbow us out of the city.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Parents outside a demolished school in Beijing. Many schools attended by migrants to the city have been closed recently, displacing thousands of students.
 Li Haixin, a teacher, and her husband have been in Beijing for 11 years, and are looking for a new school for their son. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DU BIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); MIGRANT WORKERS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (66%); CITIES (66%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (95%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (55%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1257 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: At Last, A Label Goes Digital

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
For years Dan Storper would get an occasional phone call from an executive at iTunes or the Amazon MP3 store, asking the same question every time: ''Have you changed your mind yet?''
The calls were about Mr. Storper's record label, Putumayo World Music, which has developed a multimillion-dollar franchise around the idea of making the sounds of distant corners of the planet accessible to everyday Western shoppers. World music releases often end up as a particularly low-selling species of esoterica, but Putumayo's colorfully decorated, novice-level compilations, like ''Acoustic Brazil'' and ''French Cafe,'' have sold 27 million copies around the world.
The label's CDs are sold in record stores, as well as through a network of thousands of clothing boutiques, museum gift shops and Whole Foods markets. Until now, however, Putumayo has been behind the commercial curve in one important aspect: as one of the last holdouts on digital music, it has made none of its albums available as downloads. That will finally change on Tuesday, when the label releases its first two digital albums, ''African Beat'' and ''Latin Beat.'' 
The digital revolution has been a struggle for plenty of record companies, but for Mr. Storper, Putumayo's co-founder and chief executive, deciding to take that plunge was as much a personal matter as a professional one.
''I've built a business focused on creating compelling physical packages that combine music, culture and travel, that make great gifts and that sound very good,'' he said. ''I'm 60 years old. I still don't own an iPod or iPad. I like reading physical books, magazines and newspapers, and buying CDs that have interesting liner notes. I'm certainly not an early adopter.''
The physicality of Putumayo's products has been central to its success. Each album has a cover designed in the same folk-art-inspired style, along with detailed yet non-egghead liner notes sometimes spiced with local recipes. The label supplies retail stores with branded display cases for its CDs, which are drawn from material released by record companies around the world. And while world-music purists have never quite accepted Putumayo, its albums have proved reliable impulse buys for millions of curious shoppers.
''The world of music is an ocean,'' said Mr. Storper, who has a shaggy tuft of white hair and no shortage of stories about traversing the globe for music and crafts. ''Part of what we do is curate, and try to find songs that are universal.''
Putumayo had its beginnings in 1975, when Mr. Storper, a freshly minted Latin American studies graduate, opened a handicrafts shop in Manhattan that grew into a clothing line supplying hundreds of boutiques. (The store became so popular that it was even featured in a ''Seinfeld'' episode.) In 1993 he started the label, teaming up with Rhino Records for its first releases. Rhino distributed the albums to record stores, and Mr. Storper worked his specialty shop connections, eventually building that side of his business into an alternative distribution network that is the envy of the music industry, said Richard Foos, a founder of Rhino who is now with the reissue label Shout! Factory.
''Our feeling at Rhino was that we could sell 10 times the amount of product if we could really get in front of the consumer at record stores,'' Mr. Foos said. ''Dan did the exact opposite in that he found everywhere to sell his product.''
By the mid-2000s, Mr. Storper's employees were urging him to go digital, but he resisted. He had a good thing going at brick-and-mortar retail and had never been at the forefront of technology anyway. (''I was one of the last people to get out of cassettes,'' he said.) In recent years, though, as thousands of record stores have shut down, and retailers of all kinds have been hit by the recession, a transition to digital sales has seemed inevitable.
There was a hurdle: licensing. Most record companies, afraid of cannibalizing their own sales, have been willing to license songs for Putumayo's digital compilations only if they were sold as part of a complete album, not as individual tracks; meanwhile, Mr. Storper said, iTunes usually requires that at least 85 percent of the tracks on an album be available for individual download. Lately some labels have become more lenient about licensing, Mr. Storper added, but it still took months to clear the tracks for ''African Beat'' and ''Latin Beat.''
Putumayo still faces challenges of its own in going digital. How will a label used to browser-friendly physical packages at retail shops adapt to a market of ones and zeroes, where there are fewer opportunities for the last-minute impulse buy at the register? Scott Ambrose Reilly, a former Amazon executive now with the X5 Music Group, which has sold some 150 million tracks through digital compilations, said that many of the traditional marketing rules for compilations do not apply online. A cover, for example, must immediately convey the concept behind an album, and in a block of pixels no bigger than a postage stamp.
''You don't have the luxury of people picking it up and looking at it for even 15 seconds,'' Mr. Reilly said. ''You have 2 or 3.''
If ''African Beat'' and ''Latin Beat'' are any indication, Putumayo has already learned that lesson. Unlike the covers on older albums, which usually feature multiple human figures and an appropriate location, these simply show stylized close-ups of instruments. The digital versions of these and future albums will contain only the songs; for the full liner notes and other goodies, a customer will have to buy the CD versions.
The list of artists and labels still holding out on digital is getting shorter all the time. Putumayo did not make it online before the Beatles, whose music went on sale at iTunes late last year. But it did beat Aerosmith, whose classic 1970s and '80s albums will be available on iTunes for the first time next week.
''I think it will be written on my tombstone,'' Mr. Storper said. ''Better late than never.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DAN STORPER: Co-founder and chief executive of Putumayo World Music (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MORALES/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RECORD RELEASES (78%); MUSIC STORES (78%); BESTSELLERS (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1258 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; FINDINGS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Fresh and Direct From the Garden an Ocean Away

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
Charles C. Mann has faced up to the locavore's dilemma. At his home in the Berkshires, he likes to eat food that has traveled directly from his own garden: heirloom tomatoes, eggplant, bell peppers, kale, chard, lettuce and other foods for his table. He and his family belong to a farm-share program in which they advance money each year to a farmer a few miles away in return for the farm's crops. He loves local food, but he knows too much about it to be a truly devout locavore.
Mr. Mann realizes that none of the foods in his garden or at the local farm originated within 1,000 miles of his home. They grow today in the Berkshires only because of farmers and plant breeders and traders throughout the world. While today's locavores worry about the sustainability of the globalized modern system of agriculture, Mr. Mann sees today's food system as nothing new.
The foods we consider local are results of a globalization process that has been in full swing for more than five centuries, ever since Columbus landed in the New World. Suddenly all the continents were linked, mixing plants and animals that had evolved separately since the breakup of the ancient supercontinent Pangaea. 
What resulted, Mr. Mann argues in his fascinating new book, ''1493: Uncovering the New World Columbus Created,'' was a new epoch in human life, the Homogenocene. This age of homogeneity was brought on by the creation of a world-spanning economic system as crops, worms, parasites and people traveled among Europe, the Americas, Africa and Asia -- the Columbian Exchange, as it was dubbed by the geographer Alfred W. Crosby.
''The Columbian Exchange,'' Mr. Mann writes, ''is the reason there are tomatoes in Italy, oranges in the United States, chocolates in Switzerland and chili peppers in Thailand. To ecologists, the Columbian Exchange is arguably the most important event since the death of the dinosaurs.''
The consequences were devastating for many ecosystems and people conquered by Europeans. Before the exchange, Beijing was the world's largest city, and nearly all the other large ones were in warm regions outside Europe. Columbus was seeking a new route to Asia because of the technologically advanced economies that were thriving there.
After the Columbian Exchange, the cities of Europe became the planet's boom towns, and it wasn't just because of the Europeans' culture and guns. Europeans prevailed by changing ecosystems, often in inadvertent ways that have only recently been measured by scientists.
The earthworms that traveled with the English settlers to Jamestown played havoc with the forests and the crops of the Indians. The island of Hispaniola was overrun by fire ants after the Spanish arrived. Throughout the Americas, the settlers introduced organisms that spread horrific epidemics of malaria, yellow fever, smallpox and other diseases.
Meanwhile, people in Europe were reaping nutritional benefits from the Columbian Exchange. Europeans' diets improved radically from the introduction of potatoes and what Edward D. Melillo of Amherst College identified as the first green revolution: the widespread use of fertilizer, made possible by the importing of guano from Peru.
As always, there were trade-offs. In China, the introduction of maize and sweet potatoes to the highlands provided vital sustenance -- and erosion that flooded rice paddies. A ship carrying guano fertilizer to Europe was probably also the source of the organism that blighted the potato crops in Europe and led to the great famine in Ireland in the 1840s.
Mr. Mann has come to sympathize with both sides in the debate over globalization. The opponents of globalization correctly realize that trade produces unpredictable and destructive consequences for the environment and for society, he says, but globalization also leads to more and better food, better health, longer life and other benefits that affluent Western locavores take for granted.
''There are these huge catastrophes that constantly threaten the gains, but I think they only threaten the gains,'' he said in an interview. ''The lesson of history is that the costs are high -- and higher than the advocates of free trade often admit -- but the gains are higher still.''
That lesson, though, has always run counter to the intuition of people all over the world. Like today's locavores, monarchs in Spain and China during the 16th century were deeply suspicious of becoming dependent on foreign food (although the rulers kept failing in their attempts to restrain trade). The monarchs also resented parting with their own crops, a feeling that persists today.
''People in Brazil still talk bitterly about the Brits stealing their rubber seeds and planting them in Asia,'' Mr. Mann said. ''Brazilians will denounce this horrible 'bio-piracy' while they're standing in front of fields of bananas and coffee -- plants that originated in Africa.'' Two other leading crops in Brazil, soybeans and sugar, he noted, are from Asia.
Of course, the 19th-century rubber barons of Brazil had good personal reasons to resent losing their monopoly. But those seeds transplanted to Asian plantations increased the world's supply of a product essential for the belts and gaskets in machines.
''There's no way the Industrial Revolution could have so occurred so quickly and so widely if the world had depended solely on Brazilians tapping rubber trees,'' Mr. Mann said. Indeed, the Asian plantations proved crucial when Brazilian trees were struck by blight.
''On the whole, there are lots more winners than losers from the Columbian Exchange,'' Mr. Mann said. ''I don't want to tell Italians they can't have tomatoes, or people in Sichuan they can't have peppers. People have a way of taking things and making them their own. I know nothing in my garden is native, but I still have this idiotic feeling that it's my home.''
How does he reconcile this feeling with this book? What's a locavore to do? Mr. Mann doesn't presume to dictate anyone's food preferences, but he does offer one piece of advice for locavores: go easy on the preaching.
''I'm willing to pay more to get fresh vegetables grown by nice people farming nearby,'' he said. ''It's incredible to eat lettuce an hour after it was picked.
''But if your concern is to produce the maximum amount of food possible for the lowest cost, which is a serious concern around the world for people who aren't middle-class foodies like me, this seems like a crazy luxury. It doesn't make sense for my aesthetic preference to be elevated to a moral imperative.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 7, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Findings column on Aug. 30, about the locavore food movement and the globalization process that began when Columbus landed in the New World, misattributed the notion that the first ''green revolution'' was brought about by the widespread use of fertilizer, made possible by the importing of guano from Peru. Edward D. Melillo, a history professor at Amherst College, put forth that idea, as noted in the book the column cited, ''1493: Uncovering the New World Columbus Created,'' by Charles C. Mann; Mr. Mann was not the originator of that idea.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VIKTOR KOEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); GARDENING (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (87%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (86%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (85%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (73%); GEOGRAPHY (71%); ANIMALS (71%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (69%); TROPICAL DISEASES (69%); MALARIA (69%); CITY LIFE (65%); SMALLPOX (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); ASIA (92%); THAILAND (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

TITLE: 1493: Uncovering the New World Columbus Created (Book)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011



1259 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; METS 2, MARLINS 1 (1ST GAME), METS 5, MARLINS 1 (2ND GAME); Pg. 15

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: For the Mets, a Long Day's Journey Ends Promisingly

BYLINE: By MARK VIERA

 BODY:
The Mets hosted the Florida Marlins on Monday for a twi-night doubleheader that essentially functioned as a showcase of inconsequential baseball. Still, although the games may have been an afterthought, the Mets managed to have a promising evening.
The Mets received good news about their injured stars in the afternoon, then played well at night, sweeping the doubleheader. R. A. Dickey pitched seven stellar innings in the opener, a 2-1 win, then Dillon Gee nearly matched him over six innings in the nightcap, a 5-1 victory. 
The most significant development was the return of Jose Reyes, who had been on the disabled list since Aug. 8, for the evening's second game. That followed a fairly hopeful update on the health of the injured stars Johan Santana and Ike Davis.
Reyes's return from a strained left hamstring was successful, if relatively anticlimactic. He went 1 for 4, with a single and a run. He also made an error.
''Not what I wanted, but it was O.K.,'' Reyes said. ''I had no problems with the leg; that's the good news. The other stuff comes later.''
As for Santana and Davis, General Manager Sandy Alderson sounded cautiously optimistic about their progress. He said Santana, who could make a rehabilitation appearance next weekend, might be able to pitch for the Mets at the end of September.
Alderson said the Mets were less certain about the outlook for Davis, who has been out with an injured left ankle. Labor Day is the deadline for Davis to have surgery on the ankle and still be ready for the start of spring training next year.
''The last few days have been encouraging,'' Alderson said of Davis's running program. ''But we'll wait and see what happens over the next couple of days.''
In the first game, Dickey threw a superb knuckleball for his first win since July 25. Dickey's 6-11 record belies his effectiveness. On Monday, he allowed no runs and seven hits over seven innings, striking out six and walking one.
''What's frustrating is when we don't play well collectively,'' Dickey said of earning the win. ''Wins and losses are nice. But it's not the metric I measure my season by.''
The teams started play a combined 46 1/2 games out of first place in the National League East. Additionally, the city was still returning to normal after Tropical Storm Irene, and the United States Open was getting under way across the street from Citi Field.
That context fueled apathy for the games. At points, there seemed to be more fans headed to the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center than to Citi Field when they got off the No. 7 train at the Mets-Willets Point station.
Before the first game, Clarence and Lindsay Diggles were the only people sitting in a swath of four adjacent left-field sections. Both unemployed, they were seeking cheap entertainment on their visit from Binghamton, N.Y. The found it at Citi Field: $2 tickets.
''It's a rough economy,'' Lindsay Diggles said.
There were only a few thousand fans at the first pitch of the opening game, but the stadium was nearly halfway full by the start of the second game. The announced crowd was 29,335 for both games.
The late-arriving fans witnessed Reyes's return in a game in which Gee (12-5) became the first Mets rookie since Ron Darling in 1984 to win 12 games. Gee allowed one run and six hits over six innings.
''Tonight, I was able to locate everything,'' Gee said. ''The fastball command was there, and I could throw the curveball for strikes. I was throwing everything.''
There were flashes that Reyes was in form: a nice defensive stab in the seventh inning. But his legs also showed some signs of weariness, with an example being his failure to track a bloop single by Bryan Petersen that went over his head in the second.
''You're going to feel a little bit nervous,'' Reyes said. ''But the more you play, the more comfortable you're going to feel.''
Manager Terry Collins acknowledged watching Reyes closely after he made athletic plays. He has said he will try to give him more days off to keep him healthy. The Mets had to be heartened to know that Reyes did not feel sore after playing nine innings.
That ended a long, languid day at Citi Field, but one that ultimately provided a few bright spots -- and a pair of Mets victories.
INSIDE PITCH
A boy was hit in the head with a line drive when the Marlins' Greg Dobbs pulled a foul ball past the Mets' dugout in the ninth inning of the first game Monday. The boy was bleeding profusely, and medical workers immediately tended to him, placing him in a wheelchair. The Mets' Justin Turner handed over his jersey to the boy's mother as a souvenir.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jason Isringhausen struck out the three Marlins he faced in the eighth inning of the opener of a twi-night doubleheader.
 In the second game, shortstop Jose Reyes, who had been on the disabled list since Aug. 8, had one hit in four at-bats. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATHY KMONICEK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS INJURIES (78%); TENNIS (74%); SPORTS (74%); US LABOR DAY (70%); WEATHER (61%); RUNNING (58%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA MARLINS (90%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (50%); C (BMV) (50%); 8710 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1260 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Down and Out at the Post Office

 BODY:
Neither rain nor snow may stop the United States Postal Service, but will the abysmally divided Congress? The service is reeling toward default and urgently needs the Capitol's help to modernize and pay its bills. 
Congress allots no money to support the service. But lawmakers control its practices -- particularly in shooting down repeated requests to eliminate costly Saturday mail deliveries. A combination of the recession and the public's shift to e-mail and online bill payment has devastated the service. Amid steep declines in mail handling, deficits are running to $9 billion this year in a $67 billion budget.
To stay in business, the Postal Service is again calling for doing away with Saturday deliveries to save an estimated $40 billion across a decade. It also wants to cut more than a third of its work force -- 220,000 jobs over three years -- and study the replacement of 3,650 of its 32,000 post offices with locally contracted retailers.
The Postal Service has already maxed out on its borrowing limit and expects to default next month on a $5.5 billion prepayment for employee health benefits. There are proposals for a quick fix of more borrowing authority, but that hardly deals with the deepest problems.
Like any supposedly self-sustaining business, the Postal Service deserves a chance to modernize. The most controversial proposal would let it tap into a federal retirement fund that managers claim is far overpaid because of a faulty formula. That needs very careful review.
Both houses have bills at the ready and sponsors promising action, even as union forces vow to protect jobs and rural forces vow to protect their post offices. Congress needs to surprise the country and mount a swift and serious debate and then pass a reasonable menu of reforms. Americans want their lawmakers to work for the common good. And they want their mail delivered.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (77%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1261 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Unlike Banks, This Wall St. Group Embraces Dodd-Frank

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
While the United States military has Defcon, the tiered alert system used during times of national crisis, Wall Street has fashioned a critical event of its own, Sefcon.
The industry conference known as Sefcon is devoted to the relatively obscure swap execution facility, or SEF, the electronic derivatives marketplace designated under the Dodd-Frank Act, the sweeping financial regulatory overhaul. With Washington cracking down on derivatives, Sefcon's nod to Defcon was not coincidental.
''I thought that Sefcon would give people a sense of urgency,'' said Chris Ferreri, a co-founder of the event and a managing director at ICAP, the largest derivatives broker for banks, which plans to register with regulators as a swap execution facility. 
As regulators complete new derivatives rules in the next few months, more than 30 companies - including Bloomberg L.P. and Tradeweb Markets - are maneuvering to qualify for SEF status, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. To ramp up for the regime, the firms are spending millions of dollars to hire lawyers and lobbyists, form trade groups and develop conferences like Sefcon.
Unlike banks that loathe Dodd-Frank, the derivatives trading platforms consider the law a boon to the bottom line, cementing their longtime business model into the regulatory code.
''Most of what we're doing is preparing for the future,'' said Richard M. McVey, chief executive of MarketAxess, which plans to become a swap execution facility.
Although the term SEF first appeared in Dodd-Frank, electronic derivatives marketplaces have existed for several years. Some $600 billion worth of derivatives trade privately on these platforms - through the phone or online. The rest are bought and sold on regulated exchanges owned by stalwarts like the CME Group.
''We're not Johnny-come-latelys,'' said J. Christopher Giancarlo, an executive vice president at the GFI Group, which plans to register as a swap execution facility.
But after the financial crisis, when derivatives nearly caused the downfall of once-mighty firms like the American International Group, lawmakers and regulators moved to keep a closer eye on the industry. Under Dodd-Frank, companies must now trade credit-default swaps and other derivatives through established exchanges or SEFs, a tightly regulated version of the existing platforms.
The firms have spent the last two years getting organized for the new oversight.
In June 2009, five of the largest derivatives brokerage firms huddled at Bayard's, the historic Lower Manhattan restaurant in the India House at Hanover Square. Over lunch in the Jewel Room, the competitors came together for the inaugural meeting of their industry's first trade group.
''We decided it was time to speak with one voice in Washington,'' said Mr. Giancarlo, of the GFI Group.
GFI has since added three senior compliance officers, and has plans to hire a dozen or so more. MarketAxess has tripled its swaps technology team since Dodd-Frank was enacted.
Former policy makers and Congressional staff members are in high demand, as trading platforms look to increase their influence in Washington. In April, ICAP hired Patrick McCarty, the former top lawyer for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and a Senate staff member who helped write Dodd-Frank's derivatives section. Robert Paul, once the general counsel for the commodities regulator, recently joined Tradeweb to head up its SEF compliance efforts. And MarketAxess recently retained the prominent derivatives lawyer Mark Young, a partner at Skadden Arps and a former regulator.
The firms, and their recent hires, have focused their attention - and resources - on lawmakers and regulators. The Wholesale Markets Brokers' Association Americas, the trade group formed at Bayard's, spent more than $1.3 million on lobbying over the last year and a half.
During the same period, the industry has sent more than four dozen comment letters and secured private meetings with top officials in Washington. Mr. McVey of MarketAxess met about Dodd-Frank earlier this year with representatives of Senator Charles E. Schumer and Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, both Democrats of New York.
The industry's efforts are yielding results. Representative Scott Garrett, a Republican from New Jersey, teamed up with a group of New York Democrats in July to sponsor the Swap Execution Facility Clarification Act, which would force regulators to back off some harsher regulations. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is weighing softer rules after receiving a flurry of complaints about its plan to curb Wall Street's control over derivatives exchanges, according to people with knowledge of the discussions.
While the firms await final rules from regulators, they have started an aggressive public relations campaign. In March, Scott O'Malia, a Republican member of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, hosted a SEF technology showcase, an event that some industry officials called Sefapalooza. Earlier this month, MarketAxess held its annual summer cocktail event for analysts and journalists at the rooftop bar of a New York hotel.
Now the industry is gearing up for Sefcon II on Oct. 3 in New York, during which the Commodity Futures Trading Commission chairman, Gary Gensler, is slated to give the keynote address. Firms are sparing little expense, doling out $3,500 to operate a booth and $12,000 to be a ''gold'' sponsor.
''My vision was to have a conference that would allow a venue for market participants to better understand the challenges that the new category of SEFs face,'' said Mr. Ferreri, the Sefcon co-founder. And as for the Sefcon name? ''I'm a big brand guy, and it just stuck.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gary Gensler of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission at Sefcon, a 2010 conference for derivatives brokers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TRADE SHOWS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); RESTAURANTS (72%); FUTURES (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (69%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC (54%); CME GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); MKTX (NASDAQ) (54%); CME (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (69%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (69%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1262 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Scenes, and Lessons, From Irene

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''New York Spared Brunt of Storm; Suburbs Hit Hard'' (front page, Aug. 29):
New York City residents were fairly lucky to have been spared the fury and devastation left by Irene.
The large-scale pre-emptive arrangements and evacuation ordered by the city and state authorities must be complimented along the lines of the time-tested wisdom ''better safe than sorry.'' Much credit goes to our city workers, firefighters, police officers, medical and emergency personnel and volunteers who heeded the call to keep New York prepared and safe for all. 
As the clouds disperse and the sun emerges and shines again on New York, I am sure that many fellow New Yorkers will be proud to be a part of this extraordinary city!
ATUL M. KARNIK Woodside, Queens, Aug. 29, 2011
To the Editor:
Re '' 'Some Hurricane,' New Yorkers Grumble as Danger Passes'' (news article, Aug. 29):
It is shocking to hear complaints about Irene's turning out not to be as serious in some areas as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg had predicted, and about the costly preparations New Yorkers made that turned out to be unnecessary.
The expectation that the mayor could predict the exact behavior of a storm throughout this topographically complex region is as childish as the expectation of infants that mother can always make everything right.
The mayor did his job well in positing a worst-case scenario; if he had done otherwise and the storm turned out to be as devastating as predicted, the mayor would have been deservedly criticized.
Some New Yorkers need to do some growing up!
INGEBORG OPPENHEIMER Bronx, Aug. 29, 2011
The writer is a social worker.
To the Editor:
Those complaining of officials being too safe about Hurricane Irene overprotect themselves in their everyday lives; they lock their front doors and wear seat belts. They know that there's a very small chance they need to, but they still do it.
DEAN MORRIS New York, Aug. 29, 2011
To the Editor:
Observing how our country has reacted in such a coordinated, cohesive manner to Hurricane Irene -- on both a government and a personal level -- I find that the remarkable power of America comes into view.
Imagine what we could accomplish if we dealt with our political issues in the same unified manner.
I just returned from a business trip to India, where chaos, confusion and poverty reign. Yet India is still able to maintain phenomenal economic growth. We have so much more capacity and upside in the United States. Imagine what we could do here to solve all of the issues of the day if we could somehow take politics out of the equation.
ROBERT M. MILLER New York, Aug. 29, 2011
To the Editor:
The Federal Emergency Management Agency and state disaster officials should post the following announcement at hurricane relief distribution centers:
''To all Tea Party members, Michele Bachmann or Rick Perry supporters: Being aware of your desire to keep the government out of your lives, aware also of your objection to any more government spending, aware that you feel so strongly about our debt that you were willing to let the nation default rather than raise the debt ceiling, you need not apply for any disaster relief funds. Have a nice day!''
JOHN E. COLBERT Chicago, Aug. 29, 2011
To the Editor:
While scientists may disagree as to whether global warming caused Irene (''Seeing Irene as Harbinger of a Change in Climate,'' news article, Aug. 28), they agree that global temperatures are rising as a result of trapped greenhouse gases and that a major contributor of greenhouse gases is the burning of fossil fuels.
It is within our power to slow or reverse this destructive trend, which threatens our very existence. Why take the risk, since even if some claims turn out to be exaggerated, we will all live in a cleaner, greener, sustainable world?
TOM MILLER President, Green Cities Fund Oakland, Calif., Aug. 28, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TED MCGRATH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); HURRICANES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1263 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON FOOTBALL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Five Years of Accomplishment and Acrimony

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
In Oakland, Terrelle Pryor prepares to begin a five-game suspension for violating N.C.A.A. rules. In Tampa and Nashville, Aqib Talib and Kenny Britt just learned that they will not join Pryor on the sideline for violating the N.F.L.'s personal conduct policy during the lockout. And in New York on Thursday, a week before the league kicks off a wildly anticipated season, Commissioner Roger Goodell will mark his fifth anniversary in the job.
That it will come at a time when Goodell is making high-profile -- and highly controversial -- decisions seems fitting.
The N.F.L. has record-setting television ratings and rising revenues, and Goodell has put his fingerprints, as much as any of his predecessors, all over the game. Codes of conduct for players, coaches and even fans. Changes in rules that govern postseason overtime, kickoffs and the handling of concussions. 
His time has been studded with remarkable accomplishments, most recently the completion of a collective bargaining agreement that brought labor peace, and almost certainly extraordinary prosperity, to the league for the next decade.
But his tenure has also included periods of intense criticism, much of it from players, as Goodell has used the blurry boundaries of the commissioner's powers to shape everything from off-field behavior to on-field tackles.
''He's done some things that have angered everybody, but that's part of life,'' said Dan Rooney, the Pittsburgh Steelers' chairman, who headed the search committee that selected Goodell as commissioner. Rooney is now the ambassador to Ireland.
''If you're doing things, you get people angry,'' Rooney said. ''Definitely owners, too. Present company included.''
Goodell declined to be interviewed for this article. But in his presentation to team owners in August 2006, he gave broad indications of how he would lead the league, clues to his vision for active leadership to sculpture not just how the N.F.L. runs, but also how it appears to outsiders.
''Change before you're forced to change,'' he said. ''I believe you have to address issues directly; look around the corners; challenge assumptions; and don't assume you know the answers.''
Later, he said: ''You have an incredibly strong brand -- the N.F.L. shield and the 32 individual club brands -- with a massive audience. Companies will exploit this and try to redefine the N.F.L. image to their own advantage. We know we are held to higher standards and have to meet those standards on a consistent basis.''
Enhancing and expanding the N.F.L.'s reach has been a defining characteristic of Goodell's tenure. The N.F.L. has slowly colonized much of the sports calendar, elevating the late-winter scouting combine into more must-see television, pushing the start of the college draft into prime time and, in a switch that met with some resistance from within the N.F.L., flooding fans with the information they wanted. He has allowed replays of action -- some controversial, some that might make coaches look bad -- to be shown on stadium big screens, overriding objections from some coaches.
Goodell started his N.F.L. career in public relations, but he maintains a low profile. He is not moved by the trappings of his job -- the N.F.L. will move to cheaper, less plush office space soon -- but cares deeply about the game and for players, said several people who have worked with him.
That makes particularly striking how Goodell has become a lightning rod, especially in the last two years, for those unhappy with his handling of player conduct and player safety issues.
His detractors, and sometimes his supporters, question whether he is inconsistent in applying rules and whether he overreaches in using his vast authority.
How, they wonder, can Pryor be disciplined for actions he committed in college? Why wasn't Seattle Coach Pete Carroll similarly disciplined? Why was Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger suspended last year, even though he was never charged with a crime after allegations of inappropriate behavior with women? Why was Pittsburgh linebacker James Harrison fined thousands of dollars for what the league deemed to be improper hits to the head, but an N.F.L. Web site briefly sold pictures of one of the hits before it was removed? How can players locked out by the league this off-season be considered for discipline?
Goodell's reply, in almost every case, has been a variation on a theme: he is doing what he thinks is in the best interests of the game.
But many players, and some fans, have been dismayed by what they consider a heavy-handed, and perhaps cynical, approach to managing the game.
''From the few times we've spent together, the commissioner actually seems like a pretty solid guy,'' Cleveland Browns linebacker Scott Fujita, who is active in the players' union, wrote in an e-mail. ''I don't doubt that the commissioner has the best interests of the game in mind. But at what cost?
''I feel like the league office spends so much time highlighting the handful of bad things that happen in this league, rather than glorifying all the great things people are doing every single day. I feel like so much time and effort is poured into 'protecting the shield' and 'cleaning up our game' that we've lost sight of what's good about our league.
''Players continue to be wary of the commissioner's intentions because they feel like the league office is littered with hypocrisy. My hope was that player cynicism toward Goodell would have been at least partly resolved with the new C.B.A., but I'm afraid it might still take some time. Players are concerned about the abuse of power and how far all this might go. These are the kinds of things players think about, and it's a shame it has to be that way.''
People on the outside view Goodell differently. Andrew Zimbalist, a Smith College sports economist who wrote a book about Bud Selig, the Major League Baseball commissioner, takes issue with Goodell's handling of the Pryor suspension -- he calls it ''mind-boggling and fatuous'' -- but otherwise praises the positions Goodell has taken.
''He introduced a player conduct rule and he has penalized players who have violated it, that's positive, although many players are angry about it,'' Zimbalist said. ''But that's O.K. That's leadership, and it's basically a sound policy.
''He's made some important strides on safety, and that's not an easy thing to deliver. Good for him that he's able to do something not many leaders can do -- put out a policy and even though it's unpopular, stick to it.''
It is hard to imagine that Goodell will complete anything more important than the new labor deal -- which included increases in the portion of revenue owners will receive -- no matter how long he remains in the job. But large challenges remain. There are television contracts to be renewed in the next few years, and there will undoubtedly be more player conduct issues.
Nothing, though, figures to consume Goodell more than how to make going to games attractive for fans who might rather stay home and watch them on television.
The fan behavior policy is one step in that direction, but as ticket prices rise and technology makes staying home appealing, this promises to test Goodell's vow to change before the N.F.L. is forced to change.
''That is a huge challenge and it's vital because if the stadium simply becomes a stage, the game will have lost a vital element,'' said Marc Ganis, a sports consultant in Chicago who has worked with teams and the league. ''I believe this is the next great issue -- how to make games important to people when they can sit in their living room? It's a multiyear major challenge.''
For the future of the N.F.L., it might make Goodell's next five years even more important than the first five.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Roger Goodell speaking to fans at Carolina Panthers training camp. Some of his decisions gave fans information they wanted. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHUCK BURTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); ETHICS (78%); LOCKOUTS (77%); SPORTS FANS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (69%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (68%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (56%); BRAIN INJURIES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CAROLINA PANTHERS (59%); PITTSBURGH STEELERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1264 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: U.A.W. Urges Automakers to Raise Entry-Level Pay in New Labor Deal

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Contract talks between the United Automobile Workers and the Detroit carmakers are entering a more intense phase, with the union pressing for wage increases for entry-level workers as a critical part of a new national labor agreement.
The U.A.W.'s president, Bob King, said on Monday that the union had made a formal proposal for an increase in the $14-an-hour wage for entry-level workers, also known as second-tier employees. Full U.A.W. wages are about $28 an hour. ''We are very concerned about the entry-level member having a higher standard of living,'' Mr. King told reporters after a speech to the Detroit Economic Club. 
The entry-level jobs were created in 2007, when the companies negotiated their current contracts, which expire on Sept. 14. Only about 3 percent -- or fewer than 4,000 workers -- of the 112,000 union workers employed by the Big Three automakers are paid the lower wage.
But Mr. King said he was mindful of the need to improve the second-tier wages as part of a broader effort to win gains from the Detroit companies, which are now healthy financially.
He stopped short of saying that the union had asked General Motors, Ford and Chrysler for any base-pay hikes or cost-of-living adjustments for its full-paid workers.
''What we have to do is figure out how we raise income in whatever way is possible, whether it's cost of living or base wage or profit sharing,'' Mr. King said.
Executives at the auto companies have indicated a willingness to improve profit-sharing formulas to avoid across-the-board pay increases that add long-term structural costs.
It would be difficult, however, for the companies to resist a specific wage increase for entry-level employees, analysts predicted.
''The lower tier is only slightly above eligibility for food stamps if you have a family,'' said Harley Shaiken, a labor professor at the University of California, Berkeley. ''It's the working poor rather than the middle class.''
Over all, Mr. King described the tenor of negotiations as ''upbeat,'' and reiterated previous pledges that the union did not want to cripple Detroit's comeback with an onerous contract.
''We are committed to the long-term success of Ford, General Motors and Chrysler,'' he said. ''The facts are that our companies face a lot competition.''
The negotiations traditionally accelerate after Labor Day, and the union often chooses one of the companies to bargain with exclusively until a deal is reached.
This year's talks are colored by no-strike clauses agreed to by the union as part of the government's bailout of G.M. and Chrysler. Ford, which turned around financially without the benefit of federal aid, does not have such a clause, and its workers are voting this week on whether to authorize a strike if an acceptable contract cannot be reached. One of the first votes was taken at a Ford plant near Kansas City, Mo., where workers voted 3,049 to 18 in favor of the authorization.
''I think it sends a pretty strong message,'' said Jeff Wright, president of U.A.W. Local 249.
But Mr. Wright added that he thought a strike was unlikely. The last national walkout at Ford was in 1976, and Mr. King said he was hopeful that Ford workers would support a contract that offered parity with G.M. and Chrysler.
''I'm confident that if we get a good contract, we'll get it ratified,'' he said.
Analysts expect the companies to entice workers to approve a deal.
''There's going to be a signing bonus and it could be significant,'' said Arthur R. Schwartz, a former G.M. negotiator and the president of Labor and Economic Associates, a consulting firm. ''If that money is hanging out there it will be very hard for members to vote no.''
If a deal cannot be reached at G.M. or Chrysler, their contracts would be settled by an arbitration process. Because of the uncertainty in an arbitration proceeding, Ford may choose to wait until G.M., for example, sets a pattern on economic issues like profit sharing before agreeing to the same terms.
And although both management and labor have said talks were moving smoothly so far, analysts discounted the notion that the talks would wrap up before the Sept. 14 expiration date.
The union needs to extend the discussions to the last minute to prove it has achieved the best deal possible, Mr. Shaiken said. ''An early deal,'' he said, ''implies that if you'd been at the table a few more days, then you could have gotten more.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bob King, president of the U.A.W., said the union was concerned about raising the living standard for entry-level workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLARENCE TABB JR./THE DETROIT NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); COST OF LIVING (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); US LABOR DAY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); FOOD STAMPS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (94%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1265 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Broadway Box Office Hurt by Hurricane

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Broadway musicals and plays grossed only $11.6 million last week, a sharp drop from overall tickets sales of $20.1 million during the previous week - the result of New York City's shutdown over Hurricane Irene, which led to the cancellation of typically profitable performances on Saturday and Sunday. Nearly 131,000 people saw Broadway shows before theaters went dark for the storm, compared to about 218,000 the week before. 
The box office data, released on Monday afternoon by theater owners and producers through their trade association, the Broadway League, were the best measures of the economic consequences of Irene on the nation's unofficial theater capital.
All 23 musicals and plays on Broadway were closed after New York officials announced that the city subway and other mass transit would stop running on Saturday. The storm, while severe in swaths of the suburbs and some sections of the city, ended up packing a weaker wallop in the theater district, where skies had begun to brighten by the usual time of Sunday matinees.
As another point of comparison with last week's $11.6 million haul, Broadway shows grossed $18.1 million during the same playing week last summer. If last weekend's performances had not been canceled, productions probably would have grossed in the range of $20 million, based on the number of shows now running and seasonal and year-to-year trends. The productions offered ticket refunds or exchanges for other performances.
The financial data offered a rare opportunity to assess the box office strength of Broadway shows excluding Saturday and Sunday performances. That said, the strongest-selling productions during weeknights last week were the usual top-grossing shows: ''The Lion King,'' ''Wicked,'' ''Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark,'' and ''The Book of Mormon.'' The weakest: ''Master Class,'' ''Rock of Ages,'' ''Baby It's You,'' and ''Hair.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); MUSIC (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); HURRICANES (77%); TRENDS (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1266 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: The Keystone XL Pipeline

 BODY:
To the Editor:
You published three editorials about the Keystone XL pipeline (''Tar Sands and the Carbon Numbers,'' Aug. 22; ''Wrong Pipeline, Wrong Assessment,'' July 21; ''No to a New Tar Sands Pipeline,'' April 3) that did not mention the findings of a United States Energy Department study that concluded that construction of the pipeline is necessary to replace the declining imports of heavy crude from Venezuela and Mexico. 
The study found that the pipeline would substantially reduce American dependency on oil from volatile regions, including the Middle East. Keystone XL will also carry stranded Bakken crude from North Dakota and Montana to major American refineries.
Finally, the study concluded that Keystone XL would not appreciably increase global life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions. These findings were reinforced by the final Environmental Impact Statement issued by the State Department on Friday.
There are tremendous economic benefits to the United States from an integrated energy strategy. There are more than 900 American companies exporting equipment and supplies to the oil sands; 70 of them are from New York and New Jersey.
The construction of Keystone XL would create 20,000 direct and 118,000 indirect jobs, providing the kind of infrastructure stimulus that your editorials have promoted.
GARY DOER Ambassador of Canada Washington, Aug. 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SANDS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (77%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GREENHOUSE GASES (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1267 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; DOCTOR AND PATIENT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Many Health Plans, Many Hours Spent Haggling

BYLINE: By PAULINE W. CHEN, M.D.

 BODY:
A former colleague from Canada who practiced medicine with me here in the States never hesitated to make one thing clear to me: He couldn't wait to get back.
It wasn't the cultural life that he missed, nor was it the ex-girlfriend I always suspected he pined for. It was the medicine.
''It's different,'' he would say wistfully, without elaborating. ''Practicing medicine is just different over there.'' 
A study published this month in the journal Health Affairs made me think of my colleague again and offered one likely possibility for his return to Canada: There, he had more time to focus on his patients.
Researchers asked hundreds of physicians and administrators in private practices across the United States and Canada how much time they spent each day with insurers and other third-party payers, tracking down information for claims that were denied or incorrectly paid, resolving questions about insurance coverage for prescription drugs or diagnostic tests, and filing the different forms required by each and every insurance company.
Physicians in Canada, where health care is administered mainly by the government, did spend a good deal of time and money communicating with their payers. But American doctors in the study spent far more dealing with multiple health plans: more than $80,000 per year per physician, or roughly four times as much as their northern counterparts. And their offices spent as many as 21 hours per week with payers, nearly 10 times as much as the Canadian offices.
''The amount of time we spend on this is just crazy,'' said Dr. Sara L. Star, a partner in a three-physician pediatrics practice in suburban Chicago. ''But each insurance company has its own language, its own set of rules and specific contracts with certain laboratories, hospitals, physicians and pharmaceutical companies.''
And when those companies offer multiple ''insurance products,'' the convoluted coverage grid acquires yet another level of complexity. Each ''product'' comes with its own unique permutation and combination of authorization requirements, rules for claims and list of approved prescription drugs.
Large practices often choose to outsource the job to firms that specialize in wading through the labyrinthine rules and regulations. Some hire several nurses or administrators to work exclusively with insurers, with each specializing in the arcane rules of a single insurer. But most primary care providers in this country -- clinicians who are part of practices with five or fewer physicians -- cannot afford to pay for additional help. Instead, they must make their way through the thicket of insurers and rules by themselves.
The complicated task inevitably gets in the way of patient care.
A young patient complaining of extreme fatigue, for example, might benefit from a $40 blood test that could confirm infectious mononucleosis in 10 minutes. But a doctor cannot order the simple test without first checking with the insurance company to see if it is covered and if there are any constraints on where the patient's blood can be drawn and the test run.
Tracking down answers often means phone calls with long periods on hold, digging up old patient information and even recruiting office workers to act as specimen couriers to other labs and hospitals in order to expedite results or save frail patients or harried family members the hassle of traveling to an ''approved site'' for a test or procedure. ''If someone comes in with a sick infant who needs a test, we often eat the costs and draw the blood ourselves,'' Dr. Star said. ''We aren't going to tell them to put that kid in a car seat, drive a mile to an approved lab, park, register, then wait in line.''
Even more confusing are frequent changes in health care plans, particularly regarding prescription drugs. Every week, payers send physicians' offices notifications of changes in their list of approved medications, lists that run to hundreds of different drugs. The sheer volume of new information makes it impossible for doctors to keep up. ''Physicians get into medical school because we can follow rules,'' said Dr. Marian Bouchard, a family doctor who practices with two other physicians and a nurse practitioner in Bristol, Vt. ''But none of us can or want to follow the minutiae of a hundred rules at once, especially when we are trying to be present for our patients.''
The authors of the study offer several recommendations to reduce the confusion and inefficiency of interactions between physician practices and payers. Not surprisingly, they propose simplifying the forms and procedures that add to costs without improving quality. ''There are rules that really save money or improve patient care that health plans won't want to change,'' said Sean Nicholson, one of the study authors and an economist in the department of policy analysis and management at Cornell University. ''But there are also a lot of things that don't matter that they could and should standardize.''
The insurance industry, for example, could embrace a single set of universal standards to measure quality rather than the dozens that are currently used. They could adopt a uniform process of obtaining authorization for tests, procedures or consultations. And while widespread adoption of electronic medical records and changes in how doctors are reimbursed may eventually decrease some administrative burdens, the results of the study leave little doubt as to the costs now and in the foreseeable future for doctors and patients.
''We aren't saying that we should go to a single-payer system,'' Dr. Nicholson added. ''But it's important to know exactly what all the benefits of the current costs are.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (75%); BLOOD DISORDERS (75%); PEDIATRICS (74%); HOSPITALS (74%); HEALTH CARE (74%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%) ILLINOIS, USA (74%) CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1268 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
PROSPERITY IN BRAZIL
BRINGS DRUG VIOLENCE
In the southeast region of Brazil, the murder rate dropped by 47 percent between 1999 and 2009, according to a study by Jose Maria Nobrega, a political science professor at the Federal University of Campina Grande. But in the northeast, a poor region that benefited most from the wealth-transfer programs that Brazil's former president championed during his eight years in office, the murder rate nearly doubled in the same 10-year period. Page A4
VIDEO LEAK OF SPY TALK 
Video of a Chinese officer discussing sensitive spying cases has been leaked onto the video-sharing site YouTube, in what appears to be an embarrassing failure of secrecy for the usually tight-lipped Chinese military. It was unclear when or where the officer, Maj. Gen. Jin Yinan, made the comments, and the Defense Ministry did not immediately respond to questions about the video. Page A9
JAPAN'S NEXT PRIME MINISTER
Japan's governing party elected Finance Minister Yoshihiko Noda to become the next prime minister, choosing a relative political unknown to lead the shaken nation's recovery from the tsunami and nuclear accident in March and to revive its moribund economy. It was a surprise victory for Mr. Noda, who had been seen as running a distant third before the internal vote by the Democratic Party. Page A10
ELECTION DATE SET IN RUSSIA
President Dmitri A. Medvedev set a Dec. 4 date for a parliamentary election that will almost certainly be dominated by the governing United Russia party and will set the stage for a presidential election early next year. But Mr. Medvedev's announcement was overshadowed by the continuing political intrigue between him and his mentor, Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, over which of them will run for president. Page A10
National
GUIDELINES FOR MEMORIAL
ISSUED BY THE WHITE HOUSE
The White House has issued detailed guidelines to government officials on how to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, with instructions to honor the memory of those who died on American soil but also to recall that Al Qaeda and other extremist groups have since carried out attacks elsewhere in the world, from Mumbai to Manila. Page A12
QUAKE RATTLES NUCLEAR PLANT
The earthquake in Virginia may have produced stronger shaking at the North Anna nuclear plant than the reactors were built to withstand, and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has sent additional inspectors to determine what steps are needed to determine if there is damage. No significant damage has been identified so far. Page A12
New York
NOMINEE DROPS OUT
OF DEBATE, BLAMES STORM
The closely watched race to fill Representative Anthony D. Weiner's Congressional seat took a strange and stormy turn after the Democratic nominee blamed Tropical Storm Irene for his last-minute decision to pull out of a highly anticipated candidate debate. The cancellation by the Democrat, Assemblyman David I. Weprin, touched off angry denunciations from the event's sponsors and from his Republican opponent, Bob Turner. Page A18
Science
STUDY SAYS BREAST-FEEDING
HAS NO EFFECT ON ECZEMA
Prolonged breast-feeding is widely believed to protect infants against developing eczema and other allergic diseases. But a new study conducted by researchers in Britain found that even among children who had been breast-fed for six months or longer, there was no evidence that breast-feeding prevented eczema or limited its severity. Page D6
Business
BANK OF AMERICA SELLS STAKE
IN CHINA CONSTRUCTION BANK
Bank of America announced that it would sell about half of its China Construction Bank holdings to a group of unidentified investors, in a deal expected to raise $8.3 billion. The deal, just days after Warren E. Buffett agreed to invest $5 billion in the bank, is the latest asset sale for the beleaguered financial company. Page B3
A JET'S IDENTITY PROBLEM
When Sukhoi, a Russian company best known for making supersonic fighter jets, delivered one of the first of its new 100-seat Superjets to Aeroflot in June, a piece of safety equipment immediately broke down. Although the plane was fixed and is flying again, the lapse shows just how difficult a path Sukhoi faces to persuade Western airlines to buy jets from a Russian state company. Page B1
COMPANIES REVISIT LUXURY
Two years ago, corporations clamped down on employee travel and canceled meetings in droves. The chilling effect was most pronounced at luxury hotels, which were eschewed entirely by many companies in the wake of the disclosures about a lavish retreat held by the American International Group right after it accepted a government bailout. Now business travelers and corporate event planners say they are trying to define the limits of acceptable luxury. Page B1
Arts
PUTUMAYO WORLD MUSIC
TO RELEASE DIGITAL ALBUMS
Putumayo World Music has developed a franchise around making the sounds of the distant corners of the planet accessible to Western shoppers, but not via MP3s. But a long resistance to digital music will change this week, when the label releases its first two digital albums, ''African Beat'' and ''Latin Beat.'' For one of the founders, Dan Storper, the plunge was as much a personal matter as a professional one. Page C1
Sports
SELLOUT STREAK EXPECTED
TO REACH 700 GAMES
Fenway Park's sellout streak is scheduled to hit 700 games on Friday night when Texas will again be Boston's opponent. It has been more than eight years since a seat went unsold at Fenway, which, as streaks go, is not quite as impressive as Joe DiMaggio's 56-game hitting feat, but formidable nonetheless. The Fenway streak, is almost 250 games longer than the previous record held by the Cleveland Indians.
Page B15
Another Disqualification
Dayron Robles of Cuba was disqualified for obstruction in the 110 hurdles at the world championships, giving the American Jason Richardson the victory. Page B11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Statistics

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (92%); ESPIONAGE (90%); MURDER (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (87%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (75%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); POWER PLANTS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); ENERGY REGULATION (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (66%); NATURAL DISASTERS (66%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (64%); EARTHQUAKES (64%); WEATHER (63%); ANNIVERSARIES (62%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (61%); AL-QAEDA (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (57%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); ANTHONY D WEINER (57%); YOSHIHIKO NODA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (95%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1269 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Spending Rises, Easing Fears of Recession

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Consumer spending rose at its fastest rate in five months in July, easing concerns that the economy was falling back into recession.
Consumer spending increased 0.8 percent on strong demand for motor vehicles as Japan-related supply restraints faded, a Commerce Department report showed Monday. Spending slipped 0.1 percent in June. 
The size of the increase in spending beat economists' forecasts for a 0.5 percent advance. When adjusted for inflation, spending was up 0.5 percent last month, the largest gain in 1 1/2 years and the first increase since April.
''It's a little far-fetched to truly believe that we are headed into another recession. This data doesn't support that view at all,'' said Joel Naroff, chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pa.
The spending data was the latest to suggest the economy started the third quarter with some strength after growth slowed to a near halt in the first half of the year.
But the risks of a new recession have risen this month as stock prices plunged and consumer sentiment eroded.
The spending report showed inflation-adjusted after-tax incomes fell in July, while data from the Dallas Federal Reserve Bank indicated factory output in Texas ground to a near halt this month.
The Texas factory index dropped to 1.1 from 10.8 in July, while a business confidence gauge slid to 11.4 from 2.0. The decline in sentiment was in line with other recent regional manufacturing surveys. In those indexes, zero is the dividing line between growth and contraction.
Separately, the number of contracts signed for purchases of previously owned homes fell 1.3 percent last month, according to the National Association of Realtors.
Pending home sales usually lead existing home sales by a month or two, and the decline in signed contracts pointed to a fall in August sales.
So far data from industrial production to retail sales and employment has been consistent with a slow-growth situation rather than an outright contraction in economic output. Data for August will give an idea of how much damage the stock market turmoil inflicted on the already wounded economy.
The economy grew at a tepid 1 percent annual rate in the second quarter, with consumer spending rising at its weakest pace since the fourth quarter of 2009. The economy expanded 0.4 percent in the first three months of the year
The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, left the door open for further monetary stimulus in a speech on Friday in which he said bringing down the high level of joblessness was crucial to ensuring the economy's long-term health.
Although the spending report showed core inflation moving higher, analysts did not think this would tie the central bank's hands.
The core personal consumption expenditures price index -- which strips out food and energy costs -- rose 0.2 percent for a second straight month, taking the year-on-year reading to 1.6 percent, the highest since May 2010, from 1.4 percent in June.
Over all, inflation jumped 0.4 percent in July after dropping 0.1 percent in June.
''This does not rule out additional Fed stimulus when policy makers meet in September. But it doesn't exactly rule it in,'' said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in New York.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Personal Income: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.
 Personal Income and Spending (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER SPENDING (92%); RECESSION (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (63%); RETAIL SALES (62%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (55%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1270 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: The Cost of Business Lost And Property Damaged

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN; Sydney Ember and Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A day after Tropical Storm Irene blew through, New York City wrung itself out on Monday under a blue sky and started getting back to business.
While officials worked to calculate the storm's costs, residents navigated flooded streets in Queens and a limping commuter rail system to return to their offices and shops. Government agencies and the financial markets opened on time, but some businesses struggled to regroup, while repair companies were overwhelmed by demand for basement pumping and roof patches.
The recovery was aided by the reopening of the subways. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority was able to restore service to relatively normal levels, calming fears that transit problems would hobble the city for days. 
In Coney Island, mechanics at Deno's Wonder Wheel Park began reattaching eight cars to the giant Ferris wheel after taking them off to reduce its wind resistance. Dismantling the Wonder Wheel was a first in the park's 91-year history, as was closing for an entire summer weekend, said Dennis D. Vourderis, a co-owner.
''That was very painful, both mentally, physically and in the pocket,'' Mr. Vourderis said as workers rushed to get the park's wilder rides ready for the Labor Day weekend. He estimated that the lost revenue would approach $100,000.
New York's governor, Andrew M. Cuomo, said the toll on the state's economy would be significant but could not yet be determined. He cited damage to both private and state-maintained property, saying that ''these economic consequences are going to be very difficult.''
In the city, the medical examiner's office confirmed that the storm had a human cost: the first New York City death linked to it, that of Jose Serra, 68, who drowned in a City Island marina while checking on his boat.
At the city's Economic Development Corporation, analysts had just begun tallying the impact on the economy, but Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg described it as ''a mixed bag.'' With the airports closed and no trains or buses running for most of the weekend, he said, ''there were tourists who couldn't get here, but there were tourists who couldn't get out and still spent money.''
Still, from the time the subways stopped running at noon on Saturday, visitors and residents could not partake of many of the city's attractions. Broadway theaters canceled shows, reducing sales for the week by more than one-third, or as much as $8 million. Halting travel to the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island for three days cost the vendors that transport and feed the throngs almost $1 million in revenue, they estimated.
While city residents did not face the kind of heavy flooding and other catastrophic damage that occurred in upstate New York and other parts of the Northeast, some found their basements flooded. In some neighborhoods, trees fell on houses, cars and power lines.
At Aqua House, a Japanese restaurant on Jamaica Bay, rising water damaged a wooden deck. Raymond Lai, the restaurant's manager, estimated that repairs would cost nearly $150,000, in addition to about $25,000 to fix the flooded floor in the dining area.
Mr. Lai said he hoped to start serving takeout again on Wednesday or Thursday and put his lost revenue at $50,000 or more. But he said he was thankful that the restaurant did not lose power, spoiling its meat and fish, which could have cost another $10,000.
Thousands of residents remained without electricity on Monday. Consolidated Edison had restored power for most of the 187,800 customers who lost it in the city and in Westchester County, but more than 17,000 in Queens still had none. An additional 2,000 customers in the Bronx were advised that they might be without power until Thursday.
Dan Andrews, a spokesman for the Queens borough president, Helen M. Marshall, said the power failures were the worst problem in the borough. But he said all small businesses in Broad Channel, an area that was flooded on Sunday, had reopened.
Of course, the losses were bound to yield gains for others, like Joe Kielbasa.
Mr. Kielbasa, who runs a flood-response service on Staten Island, said he had received hundreds of calls since Saturday night, when the storm began battering the city. His half a dozen employees were on call all weekend and have been working nonstop since the storm hit.
''It's unfortunate, but a lot of people are not covered for the damages that the storm created,'' Mr. Kielbasa said. ''And a lot of people are in very dire straits.''
John Plotke, who owns a roofing company on Long Island, was busy boarding up windows for clients before the storm struck and knocked out his phone service. When it was restored on Monday morning, his Web site had logged twice as many requests for service in a day as it would in a normal week, he said.
Mr. Bloomberg said businesses might recoup some losses through insurance or through aid from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
''It's built into most people's business plans, and we'll try to get as much federal monies as we can,'' the mayor said. ''There will be some who are badly hurt, and we'll have to try to find some ways to help them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); TRAINS (77%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (77%); RETAILERS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); US LABOR DAY (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1271 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Filmmakers' First Opus Stars Everyone on Earth

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
SANTA MONICA, Calif. -- From a basement here, a cramped one with exposed pipes wrapped in blue Christmas lights, two friends -- one a pony-tailed California dude and the other a buttoned-down business type -- are trying to change the world.
Or at least document every corner of it with video cameras.
Kyle Ruddick, 32, surfer, and Brandon Litman, 30, serial entrepreneur, are the forces behind ''One Day on Earth,'' an effort to use the Internet to amass footage from across the globe and turn it into a free online archive and feature-length film. Another component involves building and maintaining what they call ''a global online community.''
So far they have the footage, captured by volunteers during the 24 hours of Oct. 10, 2010, and the archive is up and running. A trailer for the film is finished. That related social network has more than 17,000 members. The future film itself? Plans for distribution will be announced this fall, they hope. 
Attempting to pull off a project this ambitious would be daunting for the most veteran of documentarians; these are two guys who have never made a movie before. But they have faced an even greater hurdle: a rival team of filmmakers -- led by Ridley Scott (''Blade Runner,''''Alien,'' and ''Gladiator,'' to name a few) and backed by the gorilla of Web video, YouTube -- popped up after Mr. Ruddick and Mr. Litman had gotten started but beat them with a finished film.
Mr. Scott's ''Life in a Day,'' a film made in a virtually identical crowd-sourced manner, was released on July 29 by National Geographic Entertainment. Over two dozen researchers worked on ''Life in a Day,'' which got a splashy premiere at last year's Sundance Film Festival and benefitted from publicity generated by 42West, one of Hollywood's top public relations firms.
But the competing venture only renewed Mr. Ruddick and Mr. Litman's vigor, and in the end it may be ''One Day on Earth'' instead of the deep-pocketed ''Life in a Day'' that has more of an long-term impact.
Mr. Ruddick and Mr. Litman, partly to differentiate their project from the one supported by YouTube, forged partnerships with over 60 charities and humanitarian organizations. These allies include the United Nations Development Program, Human Rights Watch, World Wildlife Fund and Oxfam International.
The United Nations agency, pleased with how the archive of video submissions turned out, recently committed to make updating the ''One Day on Earth'' archive an annual event through 2015; this year participants will be asked to submit video captured on Nov. 11 (for 11-11-11). The United Nations does not lend financial support but rather rallies its field offices around the globe to contribute material. Mr. Ruddick and Mr. Litman provided 120 cameras.
''Often the images we see of humanitarians come via the media,'' said Anna K. Nelson, a member of the strategic projects team at the International Committee of the Red Cross, a new partner. ''But 'One Day on Earth' encourages everyone to get involved in telling the story. Moreover it's not just about making a film or a documentary.''
On Tuesday the Red Cross plans to announce that it will encourage its estimated 13 million volunteers to participate in this year's snapshot.
Mr. Ruddick, a graduate of the University of Southern California School of Cinematic Arts, said he came up with the idea for the film in 2008 at a world music festival. ''All of these styles of music came together and, although it was kind of awkward at first, it turned into something incredible,'' he said. ''I wanted to do the same thing with film.''
Last week Mr. Ruddick and Mr. Litman, who graduated from the University of Southern California with a business degree, were holed up in the Santa Monica basement looking at footage. Sorting through all of the submissions has been an enormous task: more than 7,000 people sent about 3,000 hours worth of video -- something from every country, according to Mr. Ruddick.
Participants ranged from teenagers with cellphones to professional cinematographers with high-definition cameras. Some of the standout scenes include a high-profile military parade in North Korea (captured by a Chinese tourist), views of Mecca and the Galapagos Islands, a scuba dive in the Red Sea and a 10th birthday party for a Dutch boy with a rare genetic disease and a life expectancy of 10 years.
''I can't explain how much hope comes through,'' said Mr. Ruddick, who is directing the film. ''It's a beautiful thing.''
A big part of ''One Day on Earth'' involves examining the not-so-inspiring corners of the world, however: the environmental disasters, like a tire dump outside of Madrid, and the extreme poverty of India and elsewhere. Mr. Litman, the project's executive producer, won't reveal how much it has cost. He said 95 percent of the budget has so far been covered by himself and Mr. Ruddick, who briefly worked as an animator at Lucasfilm after graduation. ''We're definitely living on the cheap right now, let's put it that way,'' said Mr. Litman, who is based in New York, where he is a co-owner of a marketing company called Alien Kung Fu.
The two men hope that a distribution deal will cover their outlay. Any profit will be invested in a related foundation they recently established, said Mr. Litman, who added that $60,000 has been raised through DVD pre-sales.
Although Mr. Litman said there is ''serious interest'' from multiple distributors, so far no deal has materialized. ''Life in a Day'' may hurt in this case: That film has been a hit on YouTube but has taken in just $207,324 in theaters. ''It's a hard movie to engage with or even sit through,'' Mike Hale wrote in The New York Times of ''Life in a Day.''
''Whenever you're on the front end of a curve you learn a lot,'' said Daniel Battsek, president of National Geographic Films. Regarding ticket sales, he said, ''I wouldn't say I'm ecstatic, but I'm satisfied.''
Mr. Litman and Mr. Ruddick received technological support from Vimeo.com, a competitor to YouTube, and Ning.com, a social network organizer. Other corporate partners are a possibility, but the men are stepping carefully. ''One reason we were able to team with the United Nations, which is extremely difficult, is that it wasn't a logoed-up, corporate project,'' Mr. Litman said.
Making money, at least for themselves, is a secondary aim of the project, they insist. ''We don't want to just create a film,'' Mr. Litman said. ''We're trying a create a movement.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Footage has been pouring in from all over the world, including, from left, Slovenia, Kenya and South Africa. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KRIYA SRAJ/''ONE DAY ON EARTH
PHIL MOORE/''ONE DAY ON EARTH
MDONI AND VU/ ''ONE DAY ON EARTH'') (C1)
Kyle Ruddick, above left, and Brandon Litman in the alley outside their basement office in Santa Monica, Calif., headquarters of an ambitious film project, their first. Top left, a tourist captured a North Korean military parade for the film, ''One Day on Earth.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
DAN CHUNG/''ONE DAY ON EARTH)
 The veteran filmmaker Ridley Scott and his team have completed another project of worldwide vignettes, titled ''Life in a Day.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ''LIFE IN A DAY) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); INTERNET VIDEO (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (74%); CROWDSOURCING (70%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); FESTIVALS (68%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); SLOVENIA (74%); KENYA (74%)

TITLE: One Day on Earth (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1272 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing a Recovery

BYLINE: By SUSAN HOCKFIELD. 
Susan Hockfield, a neuroscientist, is the president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a director of General Electric.

 BODY:
Cambridge, Mass.
THE United States became the world's largest economy because we invented products and then made them with new processes. With design and fabrication side by side, insights from the factory floor flowed back to the drawing board. Today, our most important task is to restart this virtuous cycle of invention and manufacturing.
Rebuilding our manufacturing capacity requires the demolition of the idea that the United States can thrive on its service sector alone. We need to create at least 20 million jobs in the next decade to offset the effects of the recession and to address our $500 billion trade deficit in manufactured goods. These problems are related, given that the service sector accounts for only 20 percent of world trade. 
To make our economy grow, sell more goods to the world and replenish the work force, we need to restore manufacturing -- not the assembly-line jobs of the past, but the high-tech advanced manufacturing of the future.
Advanced manufacturing relies on the marriage of science and engineering in cutting-edge fields. Cepheid, a company in Sunnyvale, Calif., with a market capitalization of more than $2 billion, designs and manufactures sophisticated instruments that use DNA analysis to detect infectious disease and cancer; its products are used by hospitals for diagnoses and by the Postal Service to screen mail for anthrax.
A young company called Lilliputian Systems has developed handheld chargers for mobile devices. The chargers use a recyclable high-energy butane cartridge to replenish cellphones and laptops more efficiently than wall chargers. The company has a pilot manufacturing plant in Wilmington, Mass., plans to expand its production capacity and uses an Intel component that is also made in Massachusetts.
A decade ago, with help from an Energy Department grant, Yet-Ming Chiang, an M.I.T. professor, made a nanotechnology breakthrough by manipulating lithium battery electrodes. He helped start a company, A123 Systems, that now makes millions of batteries each year for hybrid-electric cars and buses and large-scale energy storage systems. The company recently hired its 1,000th employee. About half the workers at its plant in suburban Detroit were unemployed before A123 Systems came to town.
Like the jet aircraft made by Boeing, one of the country's largest exporters, products like these require sophisticated manufacturing equipment, operated by skilled workers, and benefit from the tight integration of design and production. With goods like these, the United States can reassert an economic advantage. If we can find ways for companies of every size to exploit the possibilities of nanofabrication, advanced materials, robotics and energy efficiency, we can create networks of innovation, joining lab research to new production processes and business models.
The United States remains a top producer of advanced technology products. But our dominance has eroded. Ten years ago, we enjoyed a trade surplus in advanced technology manufactured goods; today, that category accounts for an $81 billion annual trade deficit. Countries that used to make inexpensive goods at low cost have developed the capacity to produce high-value goods, making it ever more tempting for American companies to design at home but manufacture abroad.
This not only destroys manufacturing jobs, but also saps our inventive advantage. Manufacturers conduct 70 percent of private-sector research and development and employ 64 percent of the nation's scientists and engineers. But factories abroad attract design and engineering talent; over time, manufacturing off shore leads to innovation off shore. To make matters worse, as the President's Council of Advisers on Science and Technology recently reported, other nations are investing heavily in manufacturing, while our investments lag.
President Obama asked me and Andrew N. Liveris, the chief executive of Dow Chemical, to lead the Advanced Manufacturing Partnership, a group of industry, academic and government representatives that will find ways to speed up research in advanced materials and processes and increase our pool of skilled labor.
The private sector cannot do this alone. Since World War II, federal investments in scientific research have set off waves of job-creating innovation in aviation, electronics, computing, the Internet and biotechnology.
We need major innovation investment if we are to achieve similar breakthroughs today. But the recent debt-ceiling compromise could compel some 10 percent in cuts to federal research and development money in 2013. That could lead to a decade of stagnation. We must recommit to innovation if we want to re-energize our economy.
A new era of advanced manufacturing also requires more graduates with greater proficiency in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. The National Association of Manufacturers, together with community colleges, recently announced a program to certify a half-million skilled workers in five years and to connect them with manufacturing jobs. We need more initiatives like this.
The prospect of good manufacturing jobs in the United States is not a fantasy. Germany and Japan enjoy high wages and run major surpluses in manufactured goods; so can we. Our economy will thrive only when we make what we invent.
NOTE TO READERS: The Sunday Review section and the Op- Ed page (Monday through Saturday) welcome unsolicited manuscripts sent to oped@nytimes.com We regret, however, that because of the volume of submissions, we cannot reply to all messages. If a manuscript is accepted for publication, the author will be notified within three business days.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (89%); PLANT CAPACITY (89%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INSTRUMENTS MFG (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); ANTHRAX (71%); ROBOTICS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (69%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (69%); DNA (67%); CANCER (66%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (66%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%); HYBRID VEHICLES (61%); DNA TESTING (51%); POSTAL SERVICE (51%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: A123 SYSTEMS INC (53%); INTEL CORP (53%); BOEING CO (52%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3691 STORAGE BATTERIES (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1273 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Casino Town Puts Its Money on Hispanic Market

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
PRIMM, Nev. -- For decades, a patch of casinos on the western edge of Nevada has relied on geography to lure California gamblers reluctant to drive the extra 45 miles for the glamour and glitz of Las Vegas.
But as the economy took a dive, this desert spot suffered the same economic woes as its larger, flashier neighbor. And the troubles were exacerbated by the proliferation of Indian casinos in California, which offered much of the same attractions as any town in Nevada. The company that ran the trio of casinos here declared bankruptcy in 2009.
Now Primm Valley Casino Resorts is betting that aggressively courting Latinos in Southern California will help lead to success. 
They have blackjack games with bilingual dealers and rules printed in Spanish on the tables, the first casinos in the state to do so. Last year, they began a series of concerts featuring popular Spanish-speaking musicians, which fill the arena to capacity nearly every time. On those weekends, the casino floor of Buffalo Bill's buzzes with an energy that executives say rivals New Year's Eve.
''People have always said things like, 'That demographic doesn't gamble,' '' said Jay Thiel, the vice president of casino operations, who has worked in the industry for more than 30 years. ''But we looked around one day and realized that that's who was here. We had no idea how wrong that idea was.''
If any Latino organizations see a downside to this, they have not spoken out. Many Latino leaders say they are delighted with the attention to Hispanic consumers and have not expressed fears about introducing gambling into their lives.
Mary Cuadrado, an associate professor of criminal justice at University of Texas at El Paso who has studied Latinos' seeking treatment for gambling addiction, said, ''The issue is not that people are going to become suddenly addicted, but there is evidence that Latinos are less likely to look for treatment if they do have a problem.''
Stuart Richey, the assistant general manager and vice president for marketing at Primm Valley, said that while it had marketed to other niche demographics, like country music fans and retirees, ''no other group has inspired this much change in the way we do business. The impact is really just staggering.''
When Espinoza Paz, a Mexican pop singer and composer, played to a nearly sellout crowd last weekend, every one of the resort's 2,600 rooms was booked.
''People in Vegas would kill for those numbers,'' Mr. Richey said.
The ways that the hotel has shifted to cater to that market can be spotted everywhere -- there are countless signs in Spanish: ''Juegue blackjack en su idioma,'' one announces -- ''Play blackjack in your language.'' Another wishes diners ''buen provecho.'' Managers are trying to find more dealers who speak Spanish, so they can teach those more comfortable with slots how to put down at least $5 a hand at a card table. The casino bar band has conga drums and roaming cocktail waitresses offering shots of top-shelf tequilas.
''It feels comfortable here, like we're welcome and we belong,'' said Pascual Campos, 45, who came from Palmdale, Calif., with his mother, his cousin, his wife and their two children. ''I don't pay for rooms, I don't pay for meals, I don't pay for concerts. I just pay to play 21. They treat me like a king for that. Of course I want to come back.''
Many of the guests coming in for the weekend were something of regulars. Like its counterparts in Las Vegas, the hotel tries to cultivate a kind of loyalty among gamblers by offering free meals, rooms and other perks to those who spend the most money. Here, someone who spends $1,000 in a weekend is seen as a high roller. In Las Vegas, that kind of spending would not even catch a pit boss's eye. Clearly, one of the main goals of the marketing is getting people through the casino doors who might not otherwise be there, or at least not as often.
While the casino has put considerable effort into the Spanish-speaking tables, the slots are the game of choice here. There are scores of penny slots. ''You don't need to spend a lot of money to win,'' said Lourdes Pena, 26, sounding like a commercial for the casino as she instructed her friend Maria Ramirez, 24 and a gambling rookie, to stick with two slot machines at a time.
But there are times when gambling can feel beside the point. Children run freely through a video arcade, the line for the buffet stretches 100 people back and the area around the bar becomes an impromptu dance floor. Nobody seems to mind.
The moments before the concert began looked like something like a multigenerational fashion show -- little girls in sparkling lacy dresses, women in figure-flaunting dresses and stilettos, men in rhinestone-encrusted belts and pointy snakeskin boots (the same kind Espinoza Paz favors). The elderly women using canes and wheelchairs donned perfectly pressed pantsuits.
The crowd screamed out the lyrics along with the singer, and he was soon taking dozens of adoring fans onstage. A couple of especially eager women tossed their undergarments to him, prompting the singer to invite them onstage and croon a few bars to them. There were more than a few infants in the arms of their mothers, who eagerly danced to the band, which included a robust horn section.
The first time the casino executives saw this kind of crowd last fall, they were taken aback. That concert, which featured the Mexican country singer Ramon Ayala, has taken on almost legendary status among the executives. None of them had even heard of the accordion-wielding singer, but the show drew a sellout crowd. More than three quarters of the casino's slot machines were occupied -- more than double a usual ''good night,'' Mr. Richey said.
As the show ended Saturday night, dozens of fans stayed inside the arena to pose for pictures with the performer, who was happy to oblige. But the bigger crowd was already back in the casino. Within a few minutes, the slot machines that had sat unoccupied for the last couple of hours were all filled. The visitors, now lubricated with a few more shots of tequila, were eagerly feeding the slots.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Buffalo Bill's casino in Primm, Nev., which courts Latino patrons, singers like Espinoza Paz draw capacity crowds. (A1)
 Casinos like Buffalo Bill's on the California- Nevada border have started offering Spanish- speaking dealers and marketing events catering to Latino gamblers. More photos at www.nytimes.com /national. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); GAMING (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CARD GAMES (89%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (88%); MUSIC (88%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (88%); RESORTS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); COUNTRY MUSIC (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); MULTILINGUALISM (74%); CRIMINAL LAW (74%); POP & ROCK (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); EL PASO, TX, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011



1274 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: A Stigma Lifts For Luxury Hotels

BYLINE: By MARTHA C. WHITE

 BODY:
Two years ago, corporations clamped down on employee travel and canceled meetings in droves. The chilling effect was most pronounced at luxury hotels, which were eschewed entirely by many companies in the wake of the disclosures about a lavish retreat held by the American International Group right after it accepted a government bailout.
This so-called A.I.G. effect was so extreme that some hotels even took the drastic step of rebranding to sound less luxurious. ''In 2009, you had this huge wave of hotels changing their names,'' said Jeff Doane, vice president for hotel sales at Fairmont Hotels & Resorts. ''We saw a lot of hotels drop the word 'resort' or the words 'and spa' from their names.'' 
Now upscale hotels have shed some of that stigma, although vestiges of the downturn remain. Business travelers and corporate event planners say they are trying to define the limits of acceptable luxury, and may even have to retool it a little again given the recent market turmoil.
Bruce Duff, vice president for sales and professional services at Arcos, a software company that serves the utilities industry, says his firm toned down its annual user conference in 2009 and 2010. ''We take really good care of them while they're there,'' he said.
During the recession, Mr. Duff had to be careful that these four-day events would not be viewed as frivolous by his utility company clients, a market hard-hit by the economic downturn.
''It's not even the money, it's the perception that you're going somewhere warm and taking time out of the office when revenues are going down,'' he said. ''The immediate thought is you're not going to be doing anything,'' he added. ''It's time off, it's luxury travel, you're going to be down there on a junket.'' Traditionally held at waterfront resorts in Florida, the 2009 and 2010 conferences took place in Savannah, Ga., and Mobile, Ala., respectively.
This year, Arcos is back in Florida, although not at a beachfront resort, Mr. Duff said. ''We're definitely willing to go the extra mile, but even in planning this year's, we're still sensitive to where it is, how we talk about the event and what we're doing.''
Mr. Duff recruited higher-caliber speakers and increased the event's educational component, saying he expected the agenda to be scrutinized carefully by managers before they agreed to let their employees participate.
Meeting planners hired by companies to organize their events say their clients are definitely more attuned to the message they send with resort events. ''There was probably less of a thoughtful business case made in the past with regard to the use of luxury properties,'' said Mary MacGregor, vice president for account development at BCD Meetings & Incentives. ''The residual impact from the A.I.G. effect has been to ask some questions about what is selecting this property going to do for the overall business result.''
Ms. MacGregor added that because luxury hotel prices have not rebounded to their prerecession rates, companies may be able to justify holding meetings in opulent surroundings.
Individual business travelers say they now have more financial leeway when booking lodging. David Seaman, founder of a Web site for credit card promotion, said that for a business trip to New York in early 2010, he booked a no-frills hotel a half-hour by train from Manhattan. ''It was really tough when I started,'' he said. ''You had to be absolutely bootstrap budget about everything.''
For a trip to Houston in June, Mr. Seaman stayed at a boutique hotel in the city center, enabling him to meet a client right in the hotel's restaurant. While cost was still a consideration, he said he was able to factor other considerations like location into his decision-making. Also, staying at a higher caliber of hotel ''just sends an impression that you're doing well,'' he said.
This is a relief for luxury hoteliers. ''We no longer see cancellations due to perception,'' said Chris Gabaldon, corporate managing officer for sales and marketing for the Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company. ''The sentiment has really changed.'' Statistics back up his view, showing that more companies are comfortable booking their employees into high-end hotels and resorts again. According to Cvent, an event-management software company, requests to book luxury hotels have increased by 14 percent more than requests for other kinds of properties.
Bharet Malhotra, Cvent's vice president for sales, said there had been a ''tremendous increase'' in the number of bids to host an event. Prices at these hotels, while still low by relative standards, are climbing; luxury hotel managers don't have to offer the kinds of aggressive incentives and discounts they did two years ago to win business, although meeting planners still can get ancillary fees waived in many negotiations.
In spite of this increase, the use of luxury hotels differs from the heyday of the boom years. ''Now, you're starting to see more teambuilding activities,'' said Fairmont's Mr. Doane. Instead of golf or spa sessions, companies are sponsoring activities that combine teamwork with philanthropy, like building bicycles for underprivileged children or working in a local food bank. Mr. Gabaldon said that demand for such programs had spurred his sales team to put together a selection of volunteer-based team activities from which meeting planners can choose.
While almost no one in the industry predicts a return anytime soon to the opulence and one-upmanship that characterized events in the immediate prerecession years, some hope that the harsh scrutiny of business travel will ease soon. Mr. Duff of Arcos said that while he was already working on an even more intense curriculum for the company's 2012 conference, there is another change in store for guests: they will be back at a coastal Florida resort.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Arcos, a software company that serves the utilities industry, held a conference at the Epic Hotel in Miami this year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); SALES MANAGEMENT (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); RESORTS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (66%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); FAIRMONT HOTELS & RESORTS INC (57%); FAIRMONT RAFFLES HOTELS INTERNATIONAL INC (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (57%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (78%); MOBILE, AL, USA (52%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1275 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: Labor Board's Exiting Leader Responds to Critics

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Rarely has a federal agency been attacked with as much vitriol as the National Labor Relations Board now faces.
Conservative newsletters describe the presidentially appointed board as ''Marxism on the march'' and its members as ''socialist goons.'' Business groups denounce it as a handmaiden of union bosses, while Representative Michele Bachmann, a Republican presidential candidate, says she will shut down the agency if elected.
And Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, vowed to cripple the board by blocking confirmation of any future Democratic nominees after the agency's top lawyer sought to block a Boeing plant in his state.
All this has deeply troubled Wilma B. Liebman, who constantly defended the board in her position as its chairwoman -- a post she gave up on Sunday when her term expired. In an interview last week, Ms. Liebman insisted that the agency was misunderstood. 
''The criticism is grossly out of proportion to what has happened and what has been done,'' said Ms. Liebman, who was first appointed to the board by President Bill Clinton in 1997. ''We knew we were going to have a boxing match, but we didn't expect our opponents to come in with a baseball bat.''
The board's role is to enforce the National Labor Relations Act, a 76-year-old law that sets the rules for unionization efforts and collective bargaining in the private sector. But in practice, it has always moved with the political tides. With its five members appointed by the president, the board has alternately leaned toward helping or hindering unions, depending on which party controlled the majority of seats.
Ms. Liebman said that under the Obama administration, the Democratic-controlled board had reversed only a handful of rulings made by the Republican-controlled board appointed by President Bush.
''The perception of this agency as doing radical things is mystifying to me,'' she said. ''The rhetoric is so overheated.''
Ms. Liebman, 61, said she asked not to be reappointed and was ready to move on.
In her view, a major reason for all the venom is that many people have never accepted the National Labor Relations Act (or the New Deal when it was enacted), and its embrace of unions and collective bargaining.
She said numerous law firms, business associations and partisan groups were forever warning about how dangerous the N.L.R.B. was because that would help them attract clients or contributions. She said that as soon as President Obama was elected, such groups began sending out alarmist warnings about all the evil the ''Obama board'' would do.
But many business associations and conservative groups argue that the labor board has lurched well to the left. For example, the agency is pushing a major rule change that would speed up unionization elections, which would most likely make it harder for employers to fight unionization and easier for unions to win organizing drives. Critics were also quick to denounce an action that the board took last Thursday: for the first time, it ordered all private sector employers to post notices about their employees' rights to unionize and bargain collectively.
Peter C. Schaumber, an appointee of President George W. Bush who served on the board for eight years, said, ''There has always been a certain arc in the board's decisions when control changes between parties. Certain cases would go back and forth, but what we're seeing now goes well beyond that arc.''
Generally considered an independent agency, the board typically has five members, who are appointed by the president, although with Ms. Liebman's departure, the board will be down to three members. On Saturday, the Obama administration announced that the president had designated a current member, Mark Pearce, as the new chairman.
After Craig Becker's appointment expires in December, the board will shrink to two members. If Republicans follow through on their threat not to confirm any Democratic nominees, the board will be largely paralyzed because it cannot legally make decisions with just two members, a situation it endured for 26 months beginning in 2008 when both parties blocked each other's nominees.
The agency also has a general counsel, who is appointed by the president and is independent of the five-member board. The general counsel acts as the agency's chief prosecutor, responsible for bringing civil cases against employers and unions that violate the National Labor Relations Act.
In recent months, the board's critics have been particularly upset by a case filed by its acting general counsel, Lafe Solomon, that accuses Boeing of illegally retaliating against union members in Washington State when it decided to build a $750 million aircraft assembly plant in South Carolina. Although Mr. Solomon has said the White House played no role in the case, President Obama had nominated Mr. Solomon to be general counsel. Irate Senate Republicans say that they have no intention of confirming him.
In an unusual move, Darrell Issa, the California Republican who is chairman of the House Oversight Committee, has subpoenaed all the N.L.R.B.'s papers in the Boeing case. Mr. Issa has described the case as an ''unprecedented'' job-killing effort that interferes with corporations' freedom to decide where to locate operations.
Mr. Solomon has agreed to turn over many papers, but not all, calling the subpoena improper interference in a pending case.
Marshall Babson, who served on the labor board under President Ronald Reagan, criticized Mr. Issa's move. ''The principle of Congressional oversight is sound and important, but this particular undertaking transcends all bounds,'' he said.
Ms. Liebman declined to comment on the Boeing matter because it was expected to eventually reach the board after hearings before an administrative judge.
In the interview, she said that many of the board's decisions were incremental, often furthering her goal of adapting an industrial-era law to changing times.
But Randel Johnson, senior vice president for labor policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce, sees things differently.
''Each one of these actions is like the Chinese water torture, individually,'' he said. ''The act has been around since 1935, and all of a sudden we're seeing all these big things come to fruition over the last four or five months.''
Samuel Estreicher, a law professor at New York University who sometimes represents employers, said that none of the board's recent rulings had been ''out of the norm.''
But he added that the Boeing case and the push to issue the new rules for unionization elections were bold departures, bound to anger employers. ''The board has been trying to do too much too fast,'' he said.
In seeking to explain the vitriol, Mr. Estreicher said that as organized labor declined in importance, companies that were still affected by unions had mobilized aggressively against them. Moreover, he said that as the Republican Party moved to the right, it grew more hostile than ever to unions.
Ms. Liebman said her firm goal as chairwoman had been to ''further the policy of this statute, which is to further the practice of collective bargaining, obviously collective bargaining freely chosen.''
''Some say collective bargaining is antithetical to the economy,'' she added. ''I don't buy that at all. This was a statute that worked. It created the middle class. It created good jobs.''
She said the nation's sagging economy would benefit from having more, not less, collective bargaining because it would put more money in workers' pockets. ''If you increase workers' purchasing power, that can create a stronger, more sustainable economy,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wilma Liebman was chairwoman of the National Labor Relations Board. (B1)
 ''We didn't expect our opponents to come in with a baseball bat,'' said Wilma B. Liebman, about the criticism of the labor board. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); LAWYERS (71%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (91%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011



1276 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Statistics, Beloved by Mayor, Show a Slump in City Services

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
''In God we trust,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is fond of saying, before invariably adding a caveat: ''Everyone else, bring data.''
Mr. Bloomberg, after all, became a billionaire by founding a company that was built on mining statistics.
And since becoming mayor nearly a decade ago, he has minutely quantified virtually every detail of his government, from the number of mentally ill inmates in city jails to the days left in his current term. A video screen at City Hall regularly updates the progress of dozens of agencies in meeting their goals.
But for a mayor who advertised his managerial expertise to win a third term, some of his administration's own numbers show a clear slump in the performance of agencies Mr. Bloomberg oversees as the city's chief executive. 
While many performance indicators registered gains since 2001, a higher share declined and fewer improved during most of the last fiscal year than in any year since Mr. Bloomberg's first term. The slump, magnified in the past two years, has apparently not been lost on his constituents. Before the mayor's timely, aggressive, reassuring and highly visible response to Tropical Storm Irene -- in contrast to his administration's lackadaisical handling of last December's blizzard -- his job approval rating had declined to its lowest point since 2005, according to a recent New York Times/CBS News poll.
''Clearly you get a sense of a city straining, certainly in some areas,'' said Doug Turetsky, chief of staff of the city's Independent Budget Office. ''You can see families staying longer in shelters. Child welfare workers' caseloads are creeping up. It certainly gives pause.''
For most of the fiscal year that ended June 30, according to the Citywide Performance Reporting system initiated by the mayor, responses to emergencies by the Police, Fire and Buildings Departments were slower than in the year before. More water mains broke, the streets were dirtier, the backlog of broken hydrants increased and the time it took to arrange for a home health attendant doubled to 26 days, according to the administration's report card on how city services were delivered. Medical examiners took a week longer to sift DNA evidence in sexual assault cases. The average time between a passenger's request for a taxi complaint hearing and a final decision rose to 63 days from 56 the year before.
Among seven broad services provided by the city, a majority of indicators improved in only a single category: economic development. In two categories, public safety and education, more indicators declined than improved.
Among all of the 478 indicators or measurements of progress monitored by the mayor's office, about 48 percent improved and 45 percent declined, according to an analysis by The New York Times -- a record that may undercut Mr. Bloomberg's reputation for applying business skills to city government even during a recession. Administration officials defended their performance, saying the sagging economy inevitably led to some service cuts, even as agencies are still expected to show year-to-year improvements.
''It's very important to remember the premise here,'' said Stu Loeser, the mayor's chief spokesman, referring to the online color-coded Citywide Performance Rating. ''The dashboard is designed with the expectation that we do better than the previous year -- if agencies don't do as well as before, they get a yellow or red. Green only goes for significant improvements -- hard to do. It's a high standard we set for ourselves.''
Henry J. Stern, a former parks commissioner who is the director of New York Civic, a nonpartisan government watchdog group, said the decline in services was self-evident. ''The snow wasn't picked up,'' he said, referring to the city's slow response to the blizzard in December. ''People know that; you don't need statistics.'' Some of the sheen of Mr. Bloomberg's business acumen has also faded as a result of the corruption charges and investigation involving CityTime, the administration's automated payroll project and another data-driven effort embraced by the mayor.
''Given the magnitude of the CityTime scandal, I think the mayor has already squandered most of his smart management reputation,'' said James A. Parrott, chief economist for the Fiscal Policy Institute, a labor-supported research and advocacy group.
Of course, even if some services have started to slip, most New Yorkers are experiencing a generally safer and cleaner city than the one Mr. Bloomberg inherited.
Since 2001, when Mr. Bloomberg was first elected, major felony crimes have declined by 39 percent (though murders have increased since 2009) and traffic fatalities have declined by nearly 40 percent, according to a 10-year snapshot of indicators chosen by the mayor's office.
The response time for crimes in progress is 8 minutes 54 seconds, better than in 2001, when it was 10 minutes 6 seconds, but is climbing again. So is the response time to medical emergencies (a full minute higher than in 2001 after declining). Street cleanliness is higher, but slipping again. The number of children in foster care, civilian fire fatalities and the infant mortality rate have all plunged and the number of families placed in permanent housing has increased.
More potholes have been repaired (305,001 in 2011 compared with 121,331 in 2001), and response times to complaints about clogged sewers have improved.
''While overall performance is important, we think New Yorkers care most about key quality of life measures like crime and cleanliness, which have dramatically improved over the past 10 years,'' said Julie Wood, a mayoral spokeswoman.
Elizabeth Weinstein, director of the Mayor's Office of Operations, said that the raw accounting of declining and improving performance could be misleading. For example, the number of building-related fatalities has declined, but is that because of better safety monitoring or because the economy has put a crimp in construction? That senior centers are serving fewer lunches is considered a decline, but maybe it means fewer elderly people are hungry or more are relying on food stamps or other substitutes.
Moreover, managing a city is not necessarily the same as running a business, where improved productivity might generate more sales and revenue that could be invested to improve results further.
''If they have one fabulous February, then this year you're going to be yellow or red unless you match it,'' Ms. Weinstein said, referring to the color codes the city uses to grade agencies.
Some analysts gave Mr. Bloomberg credit for being transparent about his administration's performance, be it good or bad, especially compared with some of his City Hall predecessors.
''I was surprised when I saw the amount that was declining,'' said Mr. Turetsky of the Independent Budget Office, ''but you could actually give the Bloomberg administration a high mark for honesty when you think back to the Giuliani era, when the sun was always shining.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The city's handling of a blizzard in December contrasted with the mayor's highly visible response to Tropical Storm Irene. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) CHARTS: Half Full: By many measures, New York City has improved during Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's tenure.
 Or Half Empty: But there has been a falloff in some critical areas in the last two years. (Source: Mayor's Office of Operations) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FAMILY (77%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); WEATHER (71%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CHILD WELFARE (63%); SEX OFFENSES (62%); FORENSICS (62%); WATER MAIN BREAKS (62%); EVIDENCE (60%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (60%); DNA (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1277 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; U.S. OPEN 2011; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: A Cheering Section, And a Support Team

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

 BODY:
Novak Djokovic scanned his guest box at the 2010 United States Open and was struck by the same feeling many couples experience when they glance at their wedding guest list. He wondered who some of the people were and why they were sharing his stage.
When Djokovic played Rafael Nadal last year in his first Open final, and again last month in his first Wimbledon final, his box -- where his entourage was seated -- included a few guests who were friends of his parents, Srdjan and Dijana.
''I had too many people, and it was somehow expected,'' he said. ''But look, it was my first Wimbledon final, last year was my first U.S. Open final. So I did have lots of people that wanted to come, friends of the family and lots of people who want to support me. Of course, it's always nice when you have a big support, but sometimes, it gets too crowded. So I assure you, I will not have that many people ever again.''
As tournament purses have grown, so have the players' entourages. In addition to having a coach and assorted family members, players now are often accompanied by a combination of the following: physiotherapist, trainer, psychologist, masseuse, agent, stringer, publicist, nutritionist, chef and clothing representative. 
With 9 victories in 10 finals appearances this year, Djokovic, the No. 1-ranked men's player in the world, has won more than $8 million in prize money. He and the game's other top earners can afford to travel with a small village, so no matter where they are in the world, they feel at home.
''When you look at how much is at stake financially,'' said Jim Curley, the United States Open tournament director, ''it makes sense that you're going to see more coaches, trainers, physios, chiropractors and other support staff traveling with the players.''
In the 1990s, when Arthur Ashe Stadium was designed and built, the players' boxes were expanded to 15 seats -- up from eight at Louis Armstrong Stadium, the previous No. 1 show court -- because the United States Tennis Association, Curley said, ''was accounting for entourages increasing in size because we had seen the trend.''
What seemed spacious then is starting to feel cramped. During Wimbledon, a reporter from The Daily Mail, a London newspaper, spent two days frantically asking other journalists for help identifying the 14 people photographed in Serena Williams's guest box. The entourage included Williams's personal assistant and her sister Venus's personal assistant, a Nike representative, Williams's agent, her hitting partner, her trainer, six relatives and two family friends.
Williams, whose cheering section has included celebrities like the singers Gladys Knight and Dionne Warwick, said U.S.T.A. officials were accommodating when she had more guests than there were seats in the box.
''They'll put them in the box they have, and it's great,'' Williams said. ''We never turn them away.'' Players began to supersize their entourages in the 1980s. Leading the way were Andre Agassi and Jennifer Capriati, among the first players to become de facto chief executives overseeing the growth of their personal brands.
Agassi's following at one time included a bodyguard and a spiritual guru, John Parenti. In his 2009 autobiography, ''Open,'' Agassi said he surrounded himself with people to offset the isolation of the sport.
''They say I travel with all these people because it feeds my ego,'' Agassi wrote. ''They say I need this many people around me because I can't be alone. They're half right. I don't like to be alone. But these people around me aren't an entourage, they're a team. I need them for company, for counsel and for a kind of rolling education.''
Many of today's players are their families' primary breadwinners at an age when their peers are studying introductory economics in college. Mats Wilander, who won seven Grand Slam singles titles and became No. 1 in the world with an entourage that could fit inside a Mini Cooper, says he worries about the players who surround themselves with people who are there to make all their decisions for them.
''Do we let the players grow or mature as human beings?'' Wilander said. He added, ''Just because you can afford to have all these people around you, it doesn't mean you should.''
The typical entourage can be broken into two groups: those who are tied emotionally or economically, or both, to a player's success, and those who want to bask in it. At No. 8 in the world, Mardy Fish is the top-ranked American, man or woman. He has seen his popularity rise in recent months, with more people clamoring to shake his hand and make his acquaintance.
To all the boldface names attending the Open who might be tempted to hitch their publicity wagons to his star, he is flattered, he says, but please don't bother. Fish does not want a sea of attention; he'll stick to the small pond of his coach, agent, wife and family.
''To be honest, you want people you're comfortable with in your box, faces you know,'' Fish said. ''In tough situations, you don't want to look up and see random people who aren't invested in you, who haven't been on the journey with you.''
Sometimes, even the familiar face can be a jarring sight. In 1990, Boris Becker faced Stefan Edberg in the Wimbledon final. As he walked onto the court, Becker, the defending champion and a three-time Wimbledon titlist, looked up at his box, expecting to see his usual pillars of support: his manager and his coach. They were there, but so was the East German Olympic figure skating star Katarina Witt.
Witt was in the box as a guest of someone in his group, but Becker knew the London tabloids would pounce on her presence and fixate not on his final but on his ''love match'' with Witt, whom he said he knew only in passing.
Those who were there that day can still recall, with perfect clarity, the startled look that crossed Becker's face when he saw Witt. A clearly distracted Becker lost the first two sets on his way to a five-set defeat.
The drama on the court is reflected in the faces in the guest box, which makes for riveting television. On occasion, the people in the box are more entertaining than the players.
In an Australian Open final, Marat Safin was cheered on by an entourage that included a row of buxom blondes. Rafael Nadal's Uncle Toni sometimes appears to be signaling like a third-base coach. In a match against Nadal, Roger Federer once became so frustrated by Uncle Toni's antics, he shouted at him to stop coaching.
In the book ''Hard Courts,'' an account of the 1990 tennis season, John Feinstein wrote that at the Open that year, the sunglasses maker Ray-Ban attempted to capitalize on the television cutaways to the players' boxes by paying members of the entourages $500 apiece to wear the company's hot-pink baseball caps.
Twenty-one years later, entourages in the guest boxes are photographed wearing caps and shirts with the logo of their players' clothing sponsors, as if to propagate the image of tennis as one big, happy family.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Friends and family supported Novak Djokovic during his victory in this year's Wimbledon final against Rafael Nadal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLIVE BRUNSKILL/GETTY IMAGES) (B12) GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (87%); TOURNAMENTS (87%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (87%); TRENDS (73%); SPORTS AWARDS (72%); CELEBRITIES (72%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (71%); RANKINGS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (65%); WRITERS (63%); JOURNALISM (63%)

PERSON: NOVAK DJOKOVIC (90%); SERENA WILLIAMS (79%); RAFAEL NADAL (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1278 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: NATO's Teachable Moment: The alliance helped topple Qaddafi -- but had to struggle to keep up the campaign

 BODY:
The hunt for Muammar el-Qaddafi goes on, but his tyrannical 42-year rule over Libya is finished. The Libyan people bore the brunt of the fighting and dying that brought him down. But NATO air power played an important role. Airstrikes in March stopped Colonel Qaddafi's forces from storming Benghazi and slaughtering its inhabitants. Continued pounding degraded the regime's firepower, giving the rebels time to organize and train. NATO's refusal to back away -- and its decision to bring the fight to the skies over Tripoli -- helped push Qaddafi cronies to switch sides. 
The Western allies, especially the British and French forces backed up by the United States, can be justly proud. So can Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and President Obama, who ignored the naysayers who claimed that Libya was a quagmire and the battle not worth fighting.
But it would be a mistake to deny the serious problems revealed by the six-month campaign. This was NATO's first attempt at sustained combat operations with the United States playing a support role. Europe's military capabilities fell far short of what was needed, even for such a limited fight.
President Obama, who pressed hard for NATO involvement, rightly insisted that Europe, along with Canada, take the lead. It is reasonable to expect the wealthy nations of Europe to easily handle a limited mission in their own backyard that involved no commitment of ground troops. Reasonable, but, as it turned out, not realistic.
Shortfalls of specialized aircraft, bombs and targeting specialists plagued NATO operations. The effects would have been even more damaging if Washington had not stepped in to help plug some of these critical gaps.
Apart from Britain and France, most European militaries have failed to keep up with technological advances in battlefield management and communications. They train their forces to defend largely unthreatened borders at home, leaving them unwilling and unprepared to defend common interests abroad, from Afghanistan to Libya.
Even Britain and France have skimped on munitions and targeters, making it hard for them to carry out multiple missions (both are also fighting in Afghanistan). Now, Britain and France are planning force and equipment cuts that threaten their capacity to take part in future extended foreign operations.
For decades, European nations have counted on a free-spending Pentagon to provide the needed capabilities they failed to provide themselves. The Pentagon is now under intense and legitimate pressure to meet America's security needs more economically. It can no longer afford to provide affluent allies with a free ride.
In June, Defense Secretary Robert Gates pointedly told European NATO allies that they risked becoming militarily irrelevant unless they stepped up investment in their forces and equipment. His successor, Leon Panetta, needs to drive that message home.
European leaders need to ask themselves a fundamental question: If it was this hard taking on a ragtag army like Qaddafi's, what would it be like to have to fight a real enemy?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (57%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (54%); DAVID CAMERON (54%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); ROBERT M GATES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (58%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1279 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Obama Taps Jobs Expert As Adviser

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In tapping Alan B. Krueger on Monday to lead the Council of Economic Advisers, President Obama has picked an economist well known for his studies of labor markets just as the president is about to announce a renewed push for job creation policies as early as next week.
Among the stimulus policies Mr. Obama is considering is a temporary tax credit for employers adding to their work force, an idea that Mr. Krueger championed in his earlier stint in the administration. Mr. Krueger was an assistant secretary and chief economist at the Treasury Department for 17 months, before he returned to teaching at Princeton in 2010. 
A more modest version of the hiring credit became law, but Congressional Republicans blocked its extension last year.
Mr. Krueger, if confirmed by the Senate, will find Republicans a force to be reckoned with against the sorts of ideas he is associated with, including a higher minimum wage. Republicans have taken control of the House since he left Washington, and party leaders say they will oppose further stimulus measures. Their focus is on spending cuts, despite widespread calls from economists, including the chairman of Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, for a more expansive fiscal policy in a period of weak economic growth and stubbornly high unemployment.
Mr. Obama, in a speech planned for next week, will call for both temporary tax cuts and spending measures to spur hiring in the short term, and also long-term steps to reduce spending and raise revenue once the economy fully recovers. But in nominating Mr. Krueger, with his expertise in policies that affect job creation, Mr. Obama passed over some economists better known for deficit reduction policies, including Alan J. Auerbach of the University of California, Berkeley.
The choice of Mr. Krueger more broadly reflects Mr. Obama's desire to strike a balance between job creation and deficit reduction after months in which Congressional Republicans successfully forced action only on spending cuts. Mr. Krueger, who first joined the administration amid the recession, helped design other early stimulus proposals, including the ''cash for clunkers'' rebate for new-car purchasers, the Build America Bonds program to finance infrastructure projects and a credit fund for small businesses.
''As one of this country's leading economists, Alan has been a key voice on a vast array of economic issues for more than two decades,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Alan understands the difficult challenges our country faces, and I have confidence that he will help us meet those challenges as one of the leaders on my economic team.''
The ability to win confirmation in the Senate was a consideration; Mr. Krueger was confirmed for his prior post with the Treasury. But the chairmanship of the Council of Economic Advisers is a higher position, and Republicans have become more aggressive about blocking nominees to demonstrate their opposition to White House policies generally. Mr. Obama's pick for the commerce secretary, John E. Bryson, remains in limbo three months after his nomination.
If confirmed, Mr. Krueger, who turns 51 next month, would replace a longtime Obama adviser, Austan Goolsbee, who returned to the University of Chicago for the academic year. Mr. Krueger ''is going to be able to hit the ground running immediately,'' Mr. Goolsbee said. ''And B, he's a world-class, respected researcher on job market policies, job creation and things of that nature. So in that sense he's a perfect match to the moment,'' Mr. Goolsbee said.
Mr. Krueger would be the second former adviser to the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, to take one of the four positions at the core of Mr. Obama's economic circle; the other is Gene B. Sperling, a former Treasury counselor who replaced Lawrence H. Summers as director of the National Economic Council at the White House. That Mr. Geithner has two former underlings on Mr. Obama's economic team is further evidence of his influence as the sole remaining member of the president's original economic team.
It also reflects Mr. Obama wish for a collegial economic team after the fractiousness in his first two years, which were marked by tension especially between Mr. Summers and the former White House budget director, Peter R. Orszag. Then, Mr. Summers questioned the likely effectiveness and cost of the job credit proposal associated with Mr. Krueger, administration officials say.
Mr. Orszag was a student of Mr. Krueger's at Princeton, where Mr. Krueger began teaching in 1987.
''He was one of my best professors,'' Mr. Orszag wrote in an e-mail. ''He taught labor economics and was very clear in explaining the field. He was also very engaged with the class, and used compelling real-world examples to illustrate his points -- very empirical. He also had the whole class over to his house for a cookout.''
Conservative economists also applauded the choice, including the top economic advisers under Presidents Reagan and George W. Bush -- Martin Feldstein and Gregory Mankiw, respectively. ''Congratulations, Alan. An excellent choice by President Obama,'' Mr. Mankiw wrote on his blog.
The cooler reception came from some on the left, who said the moment called for a big-picture macroeconomist who would push for more ambitious initiatives to reduce unemployment. ''The kind of action he's an aggressive and creative thinker about is relatively small bore, supply-side changes rather than big-picture efforts to fill the gap,'' Matthew Yglesias, a senior fellow at the liberal Center for American Progress, wrote in a blog.
The Council of Economic Advisers generally provides presidents with research to justify or counter economic proposals. Its influence, and that of its chairman, has varied with administrations. Mr. Obama has been more inclusive in providing a seat at his White House table, even though Christina D. Romer, his first appointee, often had to protest to the men around Mr. Obama to maintain her place.
Mr. Krueger is best known for his studies testing widely held economic assumptions about the labor market, like a study with the economist David Card about the impact on jobs of a higher minimum wage.
Economists widely assumed that raising the minimum wage meant more money for some workers but fewer jobs for others as employers cut payrolls to cut costs. Mr. Krueger and Mr. Card studied 400 fast-food restaurants in two states after New Jersey raised its minimum wage during a recession to a level significantly higher than neighboring Pennsylvania.
New Jersey restaurants added workers, while those in Pennsylvania cut jobs. The economists concluded that such businesses routinely operate with vacancies for lack of workers willing to work at the low wages; if the minimum wage goes up, more people apply for jobs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama on Monday with Alan Krueger, who was once an assistant Treasury secretary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1280 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Innkeepers Sues Cerberus For Backing Out of Deal

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
8:29 p.m. Updated
Innkeepers USA Trust sued Cerberus Capital Management in bankruptcy court on Monday after the private equity firm walked away from a $1.1 billion deal to buy most of the hotel operator out of bankruptcy. 
The lawsuit against Cerberus and its partner, Chatham Lodging Trust, came one week after the two companies backed out of the agreement to buy 64 Innkeepers hotels. The deal, which a federal judge approved in June, was meant to lift Innkeepers out of Chapter 11 protection.
Cerberus and Chatham invoked a ''material adverse change'' in the Innkeepers business as the reason for pulling out of the deal, resurrecting a provision that private equity firms had used to back out of takeovers struck during the debt boom.
In its lawsuit, filed in Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, Innkeepers contended that Cerberus and Chatham had no basis for their claims, since the recent market volatility did not constitute a material adverse change and did not specifically affect the company.
''The defendants' last-minute change of heart has nothing to do with any change in the performance or prospects of the fixed/floating debtors' business and everything to do with a calculated effort to renegotiate the terms of the parties' deal,'' the company wrote in its complaint.
According to the lawsuit, all three parties were ready to close the deal on Aug. 5. But Cerberus changed its mind late that afternoon, refusing to complete the transaction. The buyout firm resurfaced on Aug. 9, citing the recent market volatility and demanding a price cut, but not providing evidence that Innkeepers' business specifically had been impaired, the suit said.
Cerberus and Chatham defended their decision to walk away, arguing on Monday evening that Innkeepers had suffered a material adverse change in its business. ''The sponsors will establish the basis for their position in an appropriate manner and will not litigate the issue in the media as the company has chosen to do,'' Mark Neporent, senior managing director and chief operating officer of Cerberus, said in a statement.
The so-called MAC clause as a means to exit a deal has become a relative rarity since the financial crisis. But beginning in 2007, several buyout firms sought to use them to back out of transactions they had agreed to. Among the most prominent examples was J. C. Flowers & Company's plan to buy the SLM Corporation along with two banks. The collapse of the offer for SLM, better known as Sallie Mae, led to a prolonged and bitter legal fight between the onetime buyers and the student loan giant. The matter was later settled.
Cerberus itself has walked away from a deal before. In late 2007, the firm sought to end a $4 billion deal for United Rentals. Cerberus did not cite a MAC clause but offered to pay a $100 million breakup fee. United Rentals sued Cerberus, but lost.
Innkeepers Lawsuit Against Cerberus Over Failed Deal
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); JUDGES (73%); STUDENT LOANS (69%)

COMPANY: JC FLOWERS & CO LLC (84%); SLM CORP (80%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (58%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (58%); CHATHAM LODGING TRUST (58%)

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (80%); CLDT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (84%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (84%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (80%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (80%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1281 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Market Indexes Rise Sharply in a Broad Wall Street Rally

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Wall Street surged in a broad rally on Monday as a merger between big Greek banks provided rare encouraging news from debt-stricken Europe, while a rebound in American consumer spending calmed fears of a new recession.
At the close, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 33.28 points, or 2.8 percent, at 1,210.08. The Dow Jones industrial average of 30 blue-chip stocks rose 254.71 points, or 2.26 percent, to 11,539.25. The Nasdaq composite index was up 82.26 points, or 3.32 percent, at 2,562.11.
Since Aug. 8, when the S.& P. 500 hit its recent low of 1,119.46, the index has risen about 8 percent. 
Since the Dow's recent low of 10,719.94 on Aug. 10, the average has gained about 7.4 percent and is within about 50 points of where it started the year.
Financial stocks were the greatest gainers on Monday after Alpha Bank and Eurobank EFG sealed a merger that was expected to prompt more deals to shore up a sector battered by the euro zone's debt crisis and recession.
The banks ''need to strengthen their balance sheets, and this would help with that, making the sector less worrisome,'' said David Ruff, portfolio manager at the Forward Select EM Dividend Fund in San Francisco.
''We'll probably need to see greater policy action in the region,'' Mr. Ruff said. ''But the merger needs to be done, and that's why we're seeing a pause in the recent selling pressure.''
The S.& P. financial index was up 3.4 percent and the KBW Banks index added 3.6 percent. Bank of America rose 8.12 percent to $8.39 and JP Morgan Chase gained 4 percent to $37.64. New York-listed shares of National Bank of Greece soared 37.7 percent to $1.15.
Insurers also rose as property damage from Hurricane Irene was less than feared, according to early estimates. Travelers rose 5.1 percent to $50.75, while Allstate jumped 7.6 percent to $26.30.
Oil prices were up $1.90, to $87.27 a barrel. They extended gains from Friday, when they rose on the possibility of new stimulus from the Fed. The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, left the door open for such stimulus in a speech on Friday in Jackson Hole, Wyo.
Mr. Bernanke, in his annual address to central bankers, gave no details on whether the Fed was planning to flood markets with more dollars to help the economy. But he said the central bank's policy panel would meet for two days next month instead of one to discuss additional monetary stimulus, offering hopes of a move then.
Some analysts say it may be hard for Mr. Bernanke and the Fed to follow through with another round of bond buying after the $600 billion program that expired in June.
''He has a much, much harder decision this time,'' Jim Walker, founder of Asianomics, told Reuters television. ''What he's got to do is convince the dissenting voices in the Fed -- and there are now three of them -- that economic growth is so bad that it is time to use even more extraordinary measures.''
Commodities around the world have had a volatile month, and gold prices fell again on Monday. Gold futures were down $5.70 to $1,788.40. ''With a possibility of a stimulus package from the Fed in the weeks ahead, risk appetite seems to have returned to the markets and safe havens are being dumped,'' said Pradeep Unni, senior analyst at Richcomm Global Services.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 21/32, to 98 25/32. The yield rose to 2.26 percent, from 2.19 percent late Friday.
Consumer spending recorded its largest increase in five months in July, supporting views that the economy was not falling back into recession. While the number of signed contracts for home sales in July fell 1.3 percent, the decline matched forecasts and topped year-ago levels.
''Consumer spending has been focused on the past couple of months, so any kind of strength there is a good thing for the economy and the market,'' said Brian Lazorishak, portfolio manager at Chase Investment Counsel in Charlottesville, Va.
The New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq opened on schedule, but trading volume was light. Many workers were stuck at home because many commuter rail and bus lines were not operating the day after Hurricane Irene swept the region.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The New York Stock Exchange early on Monday, a day when all three major indexes rose. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MERGERS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); HURRICANES (73%); INSURANCE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); EURO ZONE (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); MONETARY UNIONS (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); TROPICAL STORMS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); NATIONAL BANK OF GREECE SA (58%); EUROBANCSHARES INC (55%); ALLSTATE CORP (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); NBGA (LSE) (58%); NBG (NYSE) (58%); ETE (ATH) (58%); ALL (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GREECE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1282 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: An East Village Symbol of Survival Succumbs to Irene

BYLINE: COLIN MOYNIHAN


HIGHLIGHT: The toppling of a willow tree resonates for its neighbors, who invoked the tree as a symbol of their fight against developers.

 BODY:
Hundreds of trees were toppled when Tropical Storm Irene moved through New York City.
But some longtime East Village residents felt particularly sharp pangs upon glimpsing an uprooted willow that stood for more than 30 years in a community garden on East Ninth Street.
The tree, which rose about 60 feet inside La Plaza Cultural de Armando Perez, at the corner of Avenue C, was widely seen as a symbol of the garden's survival. 
The gardeners who run La Plaza, as it is called in the neighborhood, staved off several attempts at the garden's development in the 1980s and '90s. During those battles, the tall willow was embraced as a symbol of resistance and its likeness appeared on fliers and posters urging neighbors to oppose planned takeovers. 
On Monday afternoon, a stream of passers-by stopped by the garden to gaze at the fallen tree. Among them was Carolyn Ratcliffe, a longtime local resident who said it was painful to see the willow toppled.
"Everybody loved that tree," she said. "It had a very special place in the hearts of people around here."
In many ways, La Plaza reflects a history of clashes over property and gentrification that has played a large role in defining the neighborhood.
The willow was one of three planted in the garden in the 1970s by members of a local group called Charas. That group, which included former members of the Young Lords, also ran a community center in an old schoolhouse on East Ninth Street that was eventually sold by the Giuliani administration to a developer. 
The garden is named partly after Armando Perez, a Charas leader who was murdered in 1999 while fighting the transfer of the building.
The first attempt to turn the garden into housing came in the late 1980s, when developers planned to build a complex for the aged called Casa Victoria on the site. The project came under scrutiny when an economist for the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development said he had planned to reject the development, which included a $7 million HUD loan, then had been improperly pressured to approve the project by agency administrators who had been sponsored for their jobs by Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato. 
The contractor chosen for Casa Victoria project, Jobco, was a major campaign contributor to Mr. D'Amato and also employed Mr. D'Amato's brother.
That is when the tall willow was first invoked as a symbol. Gardeners and others contrasted the tree and its elegantly drooping boughs with what they portrayed as a series of greedy and unseemly deals orchestrated by political cronies.
The gardeners sued HUD to block the project, and the resulting attention helped spare the garden and the willow, which flourished.
Over the years, as the gardeners defeated other attempts to build on top of La Plaza, various events were held next to the willow. There were theatrical performances and poetry readings. 
At one point a soup kitchen was set up in the garden, and squatters held a pig roast there in 1995. There was also tension that year between some gardeners and a group of punk rockers who held an unplanned event in La Plaza called the Beer Olympics, which resulted in skirmishes with the police.
Events these days are more apt to include film screenings, and ballet classes for children, though the occasional bonfire is still held in the garden on wintry evenings.
Ross Martin, a member of the group that runs the garden, said he did not know what the group would do with the fallen willow. One possibility, he said, involved leaving part of the trunk where it landed and hoping that it would take root again.
On Monday afternoon, Rolando Politi, an artist who created a series of sculptures that adorn the top of the garden fence said he was planning to add a new piece in the shape of a tree that would honor the willow.
And Don Yorty, a poet, who helped lead the campaigns to preserve La Plaza, posted a tribute to the willow on Vimeo. 
"It was so alive," Mr. Yorty said. "This has been kind of like the death of a friend."

        
Building a Model New York, Only to Torch It
        
On Day 2, Commuter Trains Limp Back
        
In Southampton, Irene Blew In the First Hints of Fall
        
Bronx Boater, 68, Is City's First Irene-Related Death
        
Shaken, but Now Stirring Back to Normal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TROPICAL STORMS (90%); GARDENING (90%); WEATHER (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); HURRICANES (78%); CITIES (73%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); APPROVALS (61%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (60%) Community gardens; East Village; Hurricane Irene; Offbeat; Tropical Storm Irene; Gardens and Gardening; Young Lords; East Village (NYC); Highlights; Manhattan; People & Neighborhoods

ORGANIZATION: Young Lords

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) East Village (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1283 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: How to Deflate a Gold Bubble (That Might Not Even Exist)

BYLINE: STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF


HIGHLIGHT: As with booms in housing prices and Internet stocks, the four-year surge in gold prices raises the same fundamental question for market regulators: how should they react?

 BODY:
Gold is caught in a frenzy.
The price of gold reached a record high of $1,917.90 an ounce last week, not adjusted for inflation, and then promptly plummeted by about $120 an ounce. The volatile trading is again spurring claims that gold is in a bubble, one that will pop badly.
As with past booms in housing prices and Internet stocks, the four-year surge in gold prices raises the same fundamental questions for market regulators. How should they react? Should they react at all? How do they even know if a bubble exists?
It is clear that speculation has been driving gold's rise. People are buying gold as either a hedge against inflation or economic calamity or solely because they think the price will rise. As evidence of this speculation, the World Gold Council reports that demand for gold bullion bars more than doubled from 2009, to about 850 metric tons a year. This is largely gold that is bought and sits there as people wait for price increases. Indeed, demand for gold in industry and for jewelry has actually declined by 18 percent from 2004, to about 2,500 metric tons a year, according to the World Gold Council.
 This speculation is aided by the financial revolution. Previously, gold could be bought by retail investors only through dealers and street shops. Now anyone can go on the Internet, click and buy gold in the market through exchange traded funds. These funds will buy gold on the investor's behalf, and now hold about 2,250 metric tons of gold - or nearly a year's worth of output.
Speculation alone doesn't necessarily mean that gold is in a bubble. Gold is historically viewed as a protection against inflation and tumultuous economic times. It is a way to diversify a portfolio and hedge these risks. The price rise can be explained by people's rational betting that these phenomena will occur. This is particularly true in light of the heightened risks to the economy because of events in Europe and the still-lingering effects from the financial crisis in the United States.
But like paper money, gold is worth only what people believe it is worth, and because of this, it is sometimes referred to as the barbarous relic. You can't eat gold. Its industrial uses are limited. If someone else doesn't assign the same value to gold that you do, you are out of luck. For those who predict it will be valuable if society completely collapses, guns and canned goods might come in handier.
Gold's relative uselessness has helped spur talk of a bubble. The problem for regulators is whether this speculation is natural, prudent hedging or people irrationally piling ever more into a bubbly asset.
After all, Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, speculated that the stock market might be "irrationally exuberant" in 1996, well before the actual bubble took hold. As with the Internet bubble, we will know if a bubble truly existed only if and when gold falls.
In his book "Irrational Exuberance," Robert J. Shiller of Yale University tried to set forth a test for spotting bubbles. Bubbles are created when people buy in to the next great thing. They accept that this is a game-changing asset - like housing or the Internet - that cannot fail. As more people buy the asset, the speculation and frenzy increase.
According to Professor Shiller, a crucial driver of a bubble in today's modern age is the Internet and media.
If you watch cable television, it would certainly appear that gold is in a bubble. Commercials abound for buying gold. Commentators on CNBC talk about gold hitting $2,400 an ounce, which would be a genuine record (the previous high of $850 in 1980 would be about $2,300 today, adjusted for inflation). In fairness, other CNBC commentators have said that this is foolish and that gold prices are too high. Still, the marketing of gold to the masses is an ominous sign.
Even after the downturn in prices last week, it is not clear if gold has hit its peak. Is gold still being driven by fundamentals or is it a speculators' delight?
Because of this uncertainty, regulators have acted as hesitantly as they did in the case of the Internet and housing bubbles. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange recently raised margin requirements for gold, the amount of money you can borrow to buy gold. The Singapore exchange also raised margin requirements last week. Other exchanges in other countries have not acted similarly, leading to differences that will drive gold trading to those markets.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the primary regulator of the gold market in the United States, does not appear to want to act. The agency is following form, as it also refused to act forcefully when oil jumped to more than $145 a barrel in 2008. It seems hesitant to quash speculation. The commodities regulator, though, could force American exchanges to further raise margin requirements, reducing leverage and the ability of investors to buy more gold. The agency would also have to act to limit the gold acquired individually and by the E.T.F.'s. All of these measures would have to be coordinated and put into effect on a global basis.
Those would also be very aggressive acts to attack a problem that some say doesn't even exist. This analysis could be applied to other commodities that have had huge run-ups in past years, including oil, food and other metals like silver.
In other words, not only is it hard to spot a bubble, but the measures to fight it, like restrictions on leverage and holdings, are hard and controversial to put into effect. Limiting the type of media barrages we see is also impossible in a free society.
Yet if regulators are going to stop the next bubble, they will need to act aggressively. Of course, they shouldn't act in every circumstance, but when we see volatility and speculation as is the case of gold, acting to curb these forces through limiting leverage in cooperation with international regulators would be a prudent course. This would ensure that if a crash does come, it does not have aftereffects on banks and other institutions. Even if the Commodity Futures Trading Commission is hesitant to take such steps, it could, as an initial foray, take to the media to try to "talk down" the speculation.
Otherwise, we're left hoping, without much basis, that people have learned that this time will not be different, something not much in evidence in the case of gold.

        
Unlike Banks, This Wall St. Group Embraces Dodd-Frank
        
Court Ruling Offers Path to Challenge Dodd-Frank

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOLD MARKETS (92%); PRICE INCREASES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%) Bubbles; Chicago Mercantile Exchange; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Gold; World Gold Council; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Basic Materials; Deal Professor; Top Headline 1

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (84%) Chicago Mercantile Exchange; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; World Gold Council

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1284 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Preparing for the Next Disaster

BYLINE: BARBARA TAYLOR


HIGHLIGHT: Do you have a disaster plan in place for your business?

 BODY:
The gods must be crazy, or at the very least they seem extremely perturbed this year. Each season of 2011 has been one for the record books as far as weather events. Here in the state of Arkansas we had record cold and snowfall this winter, followed by historic flooding and tornado damage in the spring. In states throughout the south central United States, the Mississippi river went on a flooding rampage the likes of which had not been seen since the 1930s. A tornado outbreak ripped across several states, with Alabama bearing the brunt. Texas and Oklahoma are still being oppressed by relentlessly hot temperatures, and now Irene has come barreling up the eastern seaboard. Dare I ask what's next?
While I confess to knowing nothing about climate change, I do know that -- for those of us who own small businesses -- the beat must go on, if not during a disaster than as soon as possible thereafter. Yet few of us seem to have a plan in place for our businesses should disaster strike. Even as I write this blog post, I am aware that -- other than storing all of my office files, data and e-mail in the cloud -- there isn't much to my own disaster preparedness beyond Google Apps and a flashlight.
I have little excuse after what happened just 45 minutes to the north of me in Joplin, Mo., just three months ago. On Sunday, May 22, Joplin was hit by an EF5 multiple-vortex tornado. It was the deadliest tornado to hit the United States in decades and could be one of the most expensive, with some estimating the cost to rebuild Joplin topping out at $3 billion. 
The urge to drive up to Joplin within hours of the tornado was overwhelming for those of us in neighboring cities who wanted to help, but we were warned not to "self deploy" until formal relief efforts had been completed. It was about two weeks later that my husband and I made a trip north to check on a friend's property. While we were there, we paid a visit to the Joplin Area Chamber of Commerce where we were introduced to Randy and Shelly Kraft.
The Krafts have been Joplin residents since 1986. They established Kraft Insurance Services -- an independent brokerage serving 8,000 customers in 11 states -- in 1989. Their building was located just four blocks east ofSt. John's Regional Medical Center in the hardest-hit part of town. "I couldn't get within about three miles of the building," Randy recalled of those first hours after the tornado. The streets wereunrecognizable. Miraculously, about 50 percent of the Kraft Insurance building was left standing. According to Shelly, their thoughts turned immediately to their customers. "We knew they would be calling like crazy on Monday morning," she said.
Four of the Krafts' 13 employees showed up for work the morning after the tornado; the rest were back within a week, with several able to work remotely from home. The business -- its servers undamaged -- ran off of generators and cellphones for the first few days. On the fourth day, the Krafts relocated their office and call center to a banquet room at a Holiday Inn.
"We didn't physically have a building," said Shelly, "but Kraft Insurance was still a functional business. Many of our insurance companies provided us with basic office supplies and necessities." It was a Progressive sales rep who helped them relocate to the temporary Holiday Inn space. While the offers of support were overwhelming, Shelly remembers having difficulty accepting them. "People are offering because they want to help," she said. Her advice to other business owners: "Let them!"
The Krafts' customers also rallied support. A construction company put a tarp over the roof of the Kraft building and made minor repairs to help minimize water damage during the storms that pummeled Joplin for days after the tornado. Another customer arranged for the Krafts to rent 3,200 square feet of office space until they finish repairs on their building, which they estimate will be completed within a year.
One of the challenges for Kraft Insurance was that -- while 30 percent of Joplin was decimated -- the rest of the city and Kraft's out-of-state customers were not. "Those people were still buying cars and new homes. Many construction workers were coming into town needing to be bonded and insured. Regular business had to go on," Shelly said. "We divided our staff: Some took new business while others took claims."
I asked Shelly if the tornado had changed any of her advice about insurance. "We believe strongly in replacement cost policies, where the insurance company will pay you the replacement cost of your property instead of the actual cash value," she said. "If one of our insureds owns a house with a market value of $50,000 and a replacement value of $120,000, we recommend that it is in their best interest to pay for the replacement cost policy." This advice won the Krafts "many hugs" from their customers, many of whom lost everything on May 22.
Ironically, the Krafts had started working on a disaster plan before the tornado, but never completed it. Given the extent of what happened, Randy expressed doubts that the plan would have been adequate. Even their flashlights weren't really prepared. "We had them," Shelly said, "but none seemed to have very good batteries in them."
What about you? Do you have a disaster plan in place for your business?
 Correction: An earlier version of this post misspelled Shelly Kraft's first name.

        
Pet Chauffeur Tries to Adapt to Tough Economy
        
What Satisfying Picky Customers Can Mean to a Business
        
A Bad Night in August
        
Taking the Bait: Permits, Reservations, Drinking on the Job
        
Further Thoughts on the Very Picky Customer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); DISASTER PLANNING (90%); WEATHER (90%); TORNADOES (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (85%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%); RELOCATIONS (66%) customer service; disaster recovery; Customer Relations; Disasters and Emergencies; Insurance; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Relocation of Business; Small Business; Joplin (Mo); Transaction

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Joplin (Mo)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1285 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Lehman Bankruptcy Takes Big Step Toward an End

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: A bankruptcy court judge allows creditors of the failed Wall Street firm to vote on a $65 billion payout plan.

 BODY:
A federal bankruptcy judge has blessed a plan by Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy estate to pay out about $65 billion to creditors, in a major step to wind down the investment bank.
The approval by Judge James M. Peck of the federal bankruptcy court in Manhattan, who has overseen Lehman's Chapter 11 case, paves the way for a vote by creditors sometime this fall.
Though Lehman Brothers filed for Chapter 11 protection with about $613 billion in debt, the bankruptcy case continually whittled the amount of allowable claims to about $320 billion. 
The proposed payout plan will offer creditors an average recovery of about 20 cents on the dollar -- higher than estimates of 17 to 18 cents on the dollar from earlier this year.
Begun on Sept. 15, 2008, the Lehman bankruptcy case touched off the financial crisis that reshaped the banking landscape. Since then, the estate has sold off significant portions of the firm's business and assets, seeking to recover some money for scores of institutions around the world.
The labyrinthine disclosure statement -- months in the making -- followed clashes between Lehman and its bondholders and other institutions to which the firm owes billions of dollars. 
Lehman revised the scheme several times in order to earn the support of several major creditors, including Paulson & Company, Elliott Management and Goldman Sachs.
Lehman's disclosure statement for the plan will be sent to the estate's 110,000 creditors, who will have 60 days to vote. A confirmation hearing is scheduled for Dec. 6, pending approval by creditors. 
Lehman has said that it hopes to begin paying creditors by early next year, more than three years since it sank into bankruptcy. That is pending the shareholder vote and meeting certain financial milestones.
Final revisions to the disclosure statement came in as late as Tuesday morning, when lawyers for Wells Fargo agreed to drop objections to the plan. But other creditors, including the Bundesbank and the hedge fund Centerbridge Partners, still had objections.
Judge Peck overruled those objections for now, saying that they would be heard in the confirmation hearing.
The hearing on Tuesday, held in a sixth-floor courtroom so packed that it required opening two adjacent overflow rooms, lasted several hours, and included remarks from lawyers representing Lehman creditors who stated their objections to the proposed payment plan and, often, emphasized the size of their claims. One lawyer for Bundesbank lawyer likened the proceedings to Lake Wobegon, Garrison Keillor's fictional Minnesota town, where "all the women are strong, all the men are good-looking, and all the children are above average."
"Everyone's claims are a little larger than normal," the lawyer said.
Harvey R. Miller, the lead attorney for Lehman's estate, said he hoped Tuesday's hearing would represent "the beginning of the end" of Lehman's bankruptcy.
Judge Peck called the disclosure agreement's approval "an extraordinary and noble achievement," and said that the lawyers on both sides had done work that "borders on miraculous" by bringing major groups of creditors into agreement on a plan.
Lehman Brothers' motion

        
Lehman Legal Problems Appear to Be Fading
        
Revolving Door at S.E.C. Is Hurdle to Crisis Cleanup

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (97%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (93%); CREDIT CRISIS (91%); JUDGES (91%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); APPROVALS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Bankruptcy; bankruptcy reorganization; Bundesbank; Centerbridge Capital Partners; Elliott Management; Goldman Sachs; James M. Peck; Lehman Brothers; Lehman Brothers Holdings; Paulson & Company; Peck, James M; Bankruptcies; Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc; Financial Services; Restructuring/Bankruptcy; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: Peck, James M

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1286 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Charities Struggle With Smaller Wall Street Donations

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS and KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: While the financial industry has slowly returned from crisis, nonprofit groups that depend on its gifts are still hurting.

 BODY:
Operation Hope built a nonprofit powerhouse over the last decade, spinning a stockpile of donations from Wall Street firms into 27 financial education centers across the country. 
 But the charitable organization's donor base has retrenched in the wake of the financial crisis. Citigroup's foundation last year cut its giving 60 percent, to $115,000. The ING Foundation delayed paying its $300,000 commitment to Operation Hope. And the CIT Group, a lender that was once one of the organization's biggest benefactors, stopped giving altogether. 
 "Companies don't realize I've got payroll and lease payments just like they do," said John Hope Bryant, who started Operation Hope after spending six years as a banker in Los Angeles.
While Wall Street has slowly returned from the depths of the financial crisis, nonprofit groups that have come to depend on the industry's donations are still struggling. With the global market turmoil and the threat of a double-dip recession, many big banks are clutching their cash or rethinking their giving strategy to maximize their dollars.
The pool of potential donors has not fully recovered, either. Lehman Brothers, which gave $39 million to charity in 2007, filed for bankruptcy a year later. Bank of America, which agreed to buy Merrill Lynch in 2008, gave $208 million to charity last year, according to a recent survey by The Chronicle of Philanthropy. In 2007, the two companies collectively donated $244 million.
Although some stalwarts like Goldman Sachs are giving more, they are also shaking up their philanthropic programs. With banks transferring cash to programs that carry the company name, several charitable partnerships have ended.
The changing nature of Wall Street giving has touched many corners of the nonprofit world. While companies represent a small percentage of overall philanthropy, financial firms accounted for the largest amount of corporate cash donations in 2010, roughly $2.11 billion, according to the Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy, a group backed by various industries that aim to promote their giving.
The pullback is most problematic for charities with a financial bent, like those that counsel low-income borrowers or train aspiring entrepreneurs. Wall Street has historically been the main source of money for such organizations.
Donations to the Sifma Foundation, which underwrites financial literacy programs for students, dropped in 2009 to $4 million from $4.7 million. With less money at its disposal, the foundation cut its grant-making 36 percent, to $420,000. The foundation is the charitable arm of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, a Wall Street trade group.
Although Operation Hope received record donations in 2009, its financing dropped 20 percent earlier this year. In turn, the group had to dig into reserves to float projects that lost financing, lay off 14 people and shut its Boston counseling center in June.
In an era of cost-cutting and layoffs, Wall Street philanthropy is a delicate balancing act. Give too little, and banks are called greedy. Give too much, and it endangers the bottom line. 
 After emerging from bankruptcy in 2009, CIT had to scale back its charitable donations. While the financial company still maintains a corporate giving department that doles out money to nonprofit groups like Big Brothers Big Sisters, it has ended relationships with several others, including Operation Hope.
 "Although we believe it's important to support the volunteer work our employees perform and the philanthropic activities they support, it was a prudent decision on behalf of our shareholders to scale back our corporate philanthropy," Curt Ritter, a CIT spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.
Some banks abandoned or curtailed gift-matching programs, where companies agree to duplicate their employees' donations. Citigroup and UBS Wealth Management suspended their matching programs in 2009. UBS reopened the program the next year; Citi's program remains closed.
Other financial firms are cutting fewer big checks to nonprofit groups, a trend that is playing out across the corporate landscape. Morgan Stanley's donations dropped to $46.7 million in 2010 from $54.3 million in 2007, according to The Chronicle of Philanthropy. Bank of America, which pulled back slightly on its charitable efforts during the dark days of the crisis, expects their financing to remain flat this year.
"People are so focused with, 'I want to get paid,' and they're sitting on their cash," said Mr. Bryant of Operation Hope, who also serves on President Obama's Advisory Council on Financial Capability, which recommends public policies to support financial education and literacy.
Charities are also competing for money from a donor base that is contracting because of mergers and bankruptcies.
Sponsors for Educational Opportunity, a career preparatory program for minority students, was flush with cash in 2006, receiving donations from Bank of America, Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers. After amassing $10 million, the group bought glittering office space across from the New York Stock Exchange. 
Then the tap tightened. Since the Bank of America-Merrill merger, the nonprofit now receives only one, smaller, check from Bank of America. The group's financing from Lehman disappeared altogether after Lehman's bankruptcy.
Support from Lehman also evaporated for Spelman College, a women's liberal arts school in Atlanta. The college never received $7 million of a $10 million grant intended to prepare more graduates for the financial industry, a gift that was announced in October 2007.
Rather than bankroll expensive projects, some financial firms are offering their employees' billable time, reflecting a broader corporate trend. Nonprofits are receiving a flood of so-called in-kind contributions, including volunteers to counsel first-time home buyers. 
Over the last three years, Morgan Stanley employees have donated nearly 15,000 hours of pro bono advice to three dozen nonprofit groups, including Episcopal Social Services, which works with foster children and the homeless population in New York. Operation Hope uses 15,000 employees from banks and other corporations to teach financial literacy programs in inner-city schools and offer credit counseling to adults.
While many firms are pulling back, some of Wall Street's healthiest companies are actually spending more on charity. JPMorgan Chase's cash gifts rose to $185 million last year from $104 million in 2009, according to the Chronicle of Philanthropy survey. Goldman Sachs gave $315 million to nonprofit groups in 2010, more than four times what it gave the year before. 
 But even as the strongest banks increase their efforts, some have steered away from supporting multiple miscellaneous causes to focusing on branded initiatives, like the Goldman Sachs 10,000 Small Businesses program or the Morgan Stanley Global Alliance for Children's Health. By creating internal philanthropic projects that prominently feature the company's name, banks can focus their donations and carefully monitor results.
Some financial executives acknowledge that, as with much on Wall Street, the issue of giving often comes down to the bottom line. Firms that counsel banks on their giving programs say that potential employees and clients increasingly ask about a bank's giving programs when applying for jobs or considering where to invest their money. So increasing charitable giving can actually bolster a company's profits. 
 "It's enlightened self-interest, and there's nothing wrong with that," said Rob Densen, the founder of Tiller, a consulting firm that advises major corporations on their charitable giving programs.
Mr. Bryant, sensing an increasingly skeptical donor base, recently reworked his boardroom pitch to highlight the economic benefits of charity. 
He now emphasizes how Operation Hope, which runs free classes on money management and aims to raise credit scores through one-on-one counseling sessions, will add to a bank's consumer clients. At an hourlong meeting this year with Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, at the bank's Park Avenue headquarters, Mr. Bryant dug into the sad state of the economy and Operation Hope's financial literacy efforts.
The pitch is starting to pay off. Mr. Bryant, who earns roughly $300,000 a year as Operation Hope's chief executive, says he is close to closing deals with seven financial institutions, which would allow him to hire more people.
 "We're going to be just fine," he said. But "not everyone is as resilient as we are."

        
Cuomo and the Broad Power of the Martin Act
        
Europe Investigating Banks Over Derivatives

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CHARITIES (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); CORPORATE GIVING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); LAYOFFS (86%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%) Bank of America; charities; CIT Group; Citigroup; Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy; Goldman Sachs; ING Group; John Hope Bryant; JPMorgan Chase &; Morgan Stanley; Operation Hope; Philanthropy; Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association; Sifma Foundation; UBS; Wells Fargo &; Banking and Financial Institutions; Securities Industry and Financial Markets Assn; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 2; Wall Street

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CIT GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Securities Industry and Financial Markets Assn

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); CIT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (57%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1287 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Protests in Iran Over Disappearing Lake

BYLINE: ROBERT MACKEY


HIGHLIGHT: Two dozen environmental protesters have been arrested in demonstrations in recent days after Iran's Parliament failed to adopt measures to stem the gradual drying of a vast salt lake.

 BODY:
The raw YouTube clips, of Iranian protesters filling the streets and clashing violently with members of the security forces on motorcycles, might seem familiar to readers who followed the wave of unrest over Iran's disputed presidential election in 2009, but the anger in the city of Tabriz this time has a more local cause: the government's failure to halt the gradual disappearance of a vast salt lake that is crucial to the region's economy.
As Euronews reports, two dozen environmental protesters have been arrested in Iran's East Azerbaijan Province in recent days, following demonstrations sparked by the failure of Iran's Parliament to adopt measures to stem the gradual drying and disappearance of Lake Orumieh, which is known as Lake Urmia to the local Azeri population. 
The Associated Press reported in April, "Environmentalists and activists have been raising alarms for years that the lake is threatened by drought and aggressive agriculture policies." If the lake's decay is related to government action, or inaction, it would parallel the erosion of another great salt lake, the Aral Sea, which suffered a similar fate during the last years of the Soviet Union.
This Euronews video report, broadcast on Monday, includes footage from demonstrations posted on YouTube over the weekend, as well as archival footage of the drying lake. 
Radio Zamaneh, an opposition station based in the Netherlands, reported on Sunday that the protesters in Tabriz were detained after 22 members of Iran's Parliament, the Majlis, "called for immediate action regarding the critical situation at Lake Orumieh, which is quickly becoming a salt field, a process that has been accelerated by the numerous dams built on the rivers that feed it. The government has so far confronted public outcry in the region by arresting activists."
The Azerbaijani Service of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reported late last week that members of Iran's Parliament "recently voted against allocating funds to channel water from the Araz River to raise the level of the lake. Instead, they proposed relocating Azerbaijanis living around Lake Urmia." The broadcaster also reported that "several more activists were detained before and after a soccer match in Tabriz between the Azerbaijani Trakhtorsazi team and local team Shahrdari Tabriz. Thousands of Azerbaijani fans chanted, 'Lake Urmia is dying, the Majlis orders its execution' during the match."
This video, posted online by opposition activists on Thursday, appears to show that chanting at the soccer match:
In an interview with Kaleme, an opposition news site, an adviser to Mir Hussein Moussavi, the leader of Iran's opposition Green movement, tied the government's heavy-handed response to protests about the lake to the disputed 2009 election. The adviser, Amir Arjomand, said: "A government facing a legitimacy crisis is fearful of everything, from the happiness of our youth to holding iftar in parks during the holy month of Ramadan. They even turn the drying of Lake Orumieh into a matter of national security. He added: 
They are neglecting their responsibilities mainly because they are indifferent towards the real challenges facing the people and out of touch with the specialists in this area. They actually believe that they can command the lake not to dry and if their command fails then there must be a conspiracy at work -- and when people come to the streets with the intent to protect their environment, peacefully protesting against the neglect that has led to the destruction of a natural heritage, rather than protect the rights of their citizens, the government instead engages in the most heinous form of repression.
In a report on the disappearance of the lake last year, Iran's state-financed news channel Press TV suggested that global warming was to blame, not Iran's government. Press TV reported:
Experts have ruled out speculations that "red tide" might have caused Lake Orumieh to turn red, blaming the rare phenomenon on global warming. Lake Orumieh, the second-largest saltwater lake on Earth, turned red as global warming accelerates the evaporation of the lake and gives a red tenor to water. ... 
Declining rainfall, climate change and rising temperatures accelerate the evaporation process of the lake, which link to global concerns over the issue. Experts have warned that ecological factors, together with human activity, will eventually lead to the drying up of Lake Orumieh.

        
Reporter Describes Captivity in Syria
        
March 1: Updates on Libya's Revolt and Mideast Protests
        
Feb. 23: Updates on the Uprising in Libya
        
Feb. 18: Updates on Middle East Protests
        
Feb. 17: Updates on Middle East Protests

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAKES (92%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ARRESTS (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (87%); IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (78%); RIOTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); EROSION (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); DROUGHT (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); RIVERS (68%); SOCCER (65%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (65%); RELOCATIONS (61%); AGRICULTURE (53%) Environment; Iran; protests; Moussavi, Mir Hussein; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Water; Middle East; News; world

PERSON: MIR HOSSEIN MOUSAVI (78%) Moussavi, Mir Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: TABRIZ, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (79%) AZERBAIJAN (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iran

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1288 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Happy Birthday Mr. Buffett

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: The billionaire investor, who turned 81 on Tuesday, bids adieu to a tumultuous year for Berkshire Hathaway, filled with highs like the $5 billion investment in Bank and America and lows such as the resignation of a top executive.

 BODY:
It's the big 8-1 for Warren E. Buffett.
And the prominent billionaire must be breathing a sigh of relief as he blows out his birthday candles and bids adieu to a tumultuous year for Berkshire Hathaway.
The last year was filled with the usual Buffett-fare: a string of multi-billion dollar bids, a smattering of CNBC appearances and deep reflections in the bathtub. And if there was any doubt, he's still a billionaire, worth an estimated $50 billion, according to Forbes magazine.
 The year was also marred by a rare blemish: the abrupt resignation of David L. Sokol, the former Berkshire manager once considered Mr. Buffett's heir apparent. Mr. Buffett, who frequently harps on the value of reputation, seemed to be caught off guard when his protege disclosed that he had bought $10 million of shares in Lubrizol -- as Mr. Sokol was orchestrating Berkshire's purchase of the company. It was an awkward, if uncommon, fumble for the Oracle of Omaha, who condemned Mr. Sokol's actions as "inexplicable and inexcusable."
Despite the distractions, the Berkshire Hathaway machine plowed ahead in 2011.
Mr. Buffett made a $3.25 billion bid for Transatlantic Holdings in early August, pitting him against two rival insurers also vying for the business. Transatlantic swiftly rejected the bid, calling it too low. But it also said talks were ongoing with Berkshire Hathaway and would likely lead to an acceptable deal.
A few weeks later, Mr. Buffett plowed $5 billion into the embattled Bank of America Merrill Lynch. A tough negotiator, Mr. Buffett, stands to make a guaranteed $300 million per year in dividend payouts - whether the stock falls or rises.
The investment had much the same hallmarks as a previous bet on Goldman Sachs, hatched during the depths of the financial crisis. The deal has already yielded $1.7 billion in profits for Berkshire Hathaway.
The more Mr. Buffett makes, the more he seeks to give away -- and the more he hopes others will follow suit.
Over the past 12 months, he has ratcheted up his campaign to convince billionaires to part with their fortunes, or at least half of their fortunes. In a widely read Op-Ed in The New York Times, Mr. Buffett urged Congress to stop "coddling" the rich and to raise tax rates for those who make more than $1 million.
His Giving Pledge, a philanthropic campaign that encourages the wealthiest individuals to commit 50 percent or more of their fortune to charity, continues to grow. Late last year, 17 more billionaires joined the pledge including Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg and AOL co-founder, Steve Case.
So how is Mr. Buffett spending his special day?
No surprise here folks. "Just like every day, he's having the time of his life running Berkshire," his longtime assistant Debbie Bosanek wrote in an e-mail to DealBook. 

        
The Mystery of Steve Jobs's Public Giving
        
Deal Makers Soak Up Sun Valley

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); EXECUTIVES (88%); DIVIDENDS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); INSURANCE (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); PHILANTHROPY (63%); COMPANY PROFITS (62%) Berkshire Hathaway; Bill Gates; David Sokol; Giving Pledge; Mark Zuckerberg; Warren Buffett; Buffett, Warren E; Case, Stephen M; Sokol, David L; Zuckerberg, Mark E; Omaha (Neb); Investment Banking

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (83%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); LUBRIZOL CORP (56%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (92%); BRK.A (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (92%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (95%); MARK ZUCKERBERG (90%); STEVE CASE (60%); BILL GATES (58%) Buffett, Warren E; Case, Stephen M; Sokol, David L; Zuckerberg, Mark E

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (73%) NEBRASKA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%) Omaha (Neb)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1289 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 2050 words

HEADLINE: In Iraq and Afghanistan, War-Weary Eyes Turn Toward Libya

BYLINE: AT WAR


HIGHLIGHT: The observations of Afghan and Iraqi journalists about the revolt in Libya.

 BODY:
Ali Hamdani is an Iraqi doctor who used to work as a journalist with The New York Times, The Times of London and NPR in Baghdad. He covered the trial of Saddam Hussein in Baghdad. He now lives in the United States.

Watching Tripoli falling from the comfort of my living room in the United States felt very different from witnessing the fall of my own city, Baghdad, with dead bodies and the wreckage of Iraqi army tanks all around.
At that time it was very hard to understand how everyone except Iraqis genuinely believed that Iraq was heading toward a prosperous spring season, similar to the one being made readily available for the dreams of the Libyan people these days.
It is very difficult to stand and deliver a sound judgment of what is wrong and what is right when you watch the history of a nation being made on a 47-inch HD flat screen in a nice living room.
Yes, I do believe that history repeats itself, however, this time I hope it will not.
Getting rid of a dictator does not always mean the end of a tragedy. It does not guarantee a better replacement, either.
I personally believe that the worst impact of dictatorial regimes on their nations only begins after their removal, so I will not be surprised to hear Libyans soon praising the days of Qaddafi and his awful regime. Just like Iraqis who at some point desperately called for Saddam Hussein to be back in power, despite the fact that he had already been executed at that time.
It is obvious that Qaddafi's days are numbered, if not over, just like Mubarak in Egypt, and Ben Ali in Tunisia. But is it always about one person or one name? It is more about a gambling game, a game in which not all the players are gone by simply getting rid of one dictator or another.
Libyans are passing through a critical period in the history of their nation, for which the only remedy is to seek a suitable replacement able to contain the damage and to cure the wounds caused by four decades of oppression and corruption.
In simple words, Libyans must spare no effort in order to be able to make their own future, but is that realistically possible?
Seeing the price for regular gas in a gas station just around the corner from my new house in the United States a few days ago simply answers my question. The price is now almost $1 higher per gallon than when I first arrived here last year.
The events in Libya had an impact on fuel prices here in the United States, and of course other countries in the world. People from these countries are not happy with such prices; neither are the presidents who want to be re-elected.
I pray for the Libyan people to be safe, but, sadly, I believe that they are unlikely to break the rule by preventing history from repeating itself. NATO's missiles of freedom on Qaddafi's residence at Bab Al-Aziziya will soon generate a huge bill for the Libyans to pay.
The season of spring will only come when judgments and decisions are being made by the people who are suffering on the ground and not from the comfort of the Situation Room in the White House. 
Pictures in such rooms are gathered from behind a flat screen that may even deliver the color of blood in 3D these days. But it will always fail to tell you how badly it smells.
Mohamed Husain is a former Iraqi head of the newsroom in The New York Times's Baghdad bureau.

As the Libyan people get close to achieving their main goal, to get control of the whole country, there are reports of shortages of food and water beside other basic needs and services such as electricity and gasoline. This leaves the country that been dominated by Colonel Qaddafi for more than 40 years in a shaken state in the hands of the young and inexperienced rebels.
I watched the television news and saw Libyans gathering around water tankers in Tripoli to fill their jerry cans, and another scene where a rebel checkpoint searched a car, its trunk filled with empty plastic water bottles and containers.
That scene brought to my mind the days of 2003 during the Iraq war, when I was driving my car seeking water for my family. At that time the capital, Baghdad, suffered for weeks from lack of gasoline, food and the absence of electricity and telephone services.
Aside from shortages of food, water, gasoline, medicine, electricity and other basic needs, we cannot compare the fall of Baghdad to the fall of Tripoli, where things seems relatively more calm and tranquil in Libya. 
If the Libyan Transitional National Council receives the help it needs and puts in place a consistent plan to recover the capitol, then we will not see another fall similar to that of Baghdad.
During the Iraq war the regime of Mr. Saddam Hussein was toppled by an outside invasion, because the attempts from the Iraqi people did not succeed at all. This is unlike what has happened in Libya, where Libyans took the initiative and rebelled against the regime, avoiding the need for NATO and U.S military ground forces on Libyan soil.
I also see reports that a number of Colonel Qaddafi's military barracks have been looted, just like during the Iraq war in 2003, when all the Iraqi Army camps were looted by civilians, and there were public markets for arms at cheap prices.
The circulation of those weapons became a nightmare for Iraqis, since many were used by militias and insurgents in bloody terrorist attacks, and later during the furious sectarian war from 2006-2007. 
As for national security in Libya, we know that Colonel Qaddafi crushed the Islamic movements in Libya, just as Saddam Hussein's regime did in Iraq, but that does not necessarily mean that there are no extremist Islamic movements or trends in Libya waiting for the appropriate time to surface. In Iraq during 2003, many extremist groups managed to move to Iraq, making Iraq the main front for their morbid ideology; Al Qaeda set up its Iraqi version, Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, which is still considered the most bloody terrorist movement in the country right now.
Hopefully the course of the Arab Spring will pass smoothly and without a tragic end, like the one after the fall of Baghdad in 2003, from which Iraq still needs much time to recover. 
Duraid Adnan is an Iraqi journalist who works for The New York Times in Baghdad.

BAGHDAD -- Watching the Libyans taking down one of Qaddafi's statues reminded me of the fall of Saddam's big statue in the center of Baghdad. The first thing I thought was, "They have no idea what is going to happen to them."
We were watching every minute, especially the last days, when they got to the capital. We were thinking, "What is Qaddafi going to do, will he hide just like Saddam or will he commit a suicide?"
Even when we were not at work, instead of watching a movie or something, we kept it on the news. One of my colleagues said that he stayed awake watching the news until 3:30 a.m. When he came in the next day, he asked if it had happened or not. "Did they kill him yet?"
Libya brings strange feelings for Iraqis, and makes them want to see what will happen there. Maybe because we were not the ones that took Saddam down, so we see ourselves in the Libyans. The goal is the same, to take down the Mafia man, but there the tools were different.
Both Arab capitals suffered from a dictatorship that would never accept a different point of view. In Iraq, there was no Iraqi before 2003 who was capable of carrying a weapon against Saddam. It was in our minds that Saddam would know what someone in Basra was thinking. Saddam controlled Iraqis from the inside.
However, one thing seems to be on the right path in Libya: I heard one of the rebel leaders say that they would not break up the army; instead, he said, "We will clean it of the bad guys, not like what happened in Iraq." That is a good thing, for everyone saw the bad results of the decision by L. Paul Bremer III, the American proconsul in Baghdad, to dismantle the Iraqi army.
I tell the Libyans, look at Iraq and its current situation. What did we get from it? Destruction and suffering. So one question can be asked for them: Is democracy worth it?
Iraq is different from Libya. We have different sects and nationalities here, we have Sunnis, Shiites, and Kurds, Arabs, Turkmen and Christians. I cannot even count how many different sects we have. It is complicated. In Libya they are mostly Sunnis. But there are people with and against Qaddafi. 
Both countries have large quantities of oil and here the question comes. Was it for that reason that America supported the rebels in Libya?
Sharifullah Sahak is an Afghan journalist who works for The New York Times in Kabul.
KABUL - People here are not really optimistic about the current changes in Libya. Afghanistan has a bitter experience of collapsed regimes from the fall of King Zahir Khan until now. It goes on and on.
We have witnessed the fall of different regimes here in Afghanistan, but every one of them had worse consequences than the one before, and many people fled or were killed, wounded or displaced. The same thing will happen in Libya, and the people of Libya should be ready. 
The fight of the rebels to take control of Libya is similar to what happened in Afghanistan when the Taliban were thrown out by the international community. And it is similar to when the mujahideen overthrew President Najibullah's government 20 years ago, only to start looting public assets and then flee to other countries.
The changes in Libya have paved the way for new adversities for the country because after the collapse of Qaddafi's regime, people will take revenge and have it taken upon them.
Many Afghan analysts on television and radio say they believe that the current situation will take Libya toward instability and civil war. 
Gen. Abdul Wahid Taqat, a military analyst, said that just as Western countries invaded Iraq and set it 200 years back, now it is the turn of Libya. "I am not happy with the current changes in this government, because now it will go into crisis, and the West will not help them, as they did not help Afghanistan after the Russians were expelled."
Wahid Muzda, a political analyst, said that it was a good development that people take power, but asked why the West did not intervene in Syria, Bahrain and Yemen.
"The West sees that its interest in Libya is its oil, and that's why it interfered in this country," he said.
"Hopefully this will bring a positive change to this country because during the protest the people of Libya were saying 'Allahu Akbar', so this is a good step for the Muslim world. But I am also concerned about the small armed groups who now have weapons, and also about war starting between the Libyan tribes over who will take control."
Some believe that Qaddafi, who is a strong opponent of the West, will show up again as a militant leader in Libya.
When the Taliban were thrown out of government by the international community, some Afghans thought that was the end of them. But as we saw, they resurfaced and started their resistance with the help of neighboring countries. It may be the same thing with the Qaddafi regime. If he has hidden himself somewhere in Libya he may show up again with targeted killings and assassinations. 
This is extremely dangerous for Libya because now even students, doctors, laborers, almost everyone has weapons and will establish their own gangs, just as we have warlords and criminals. It will be difficult for the new Libyan government to control these groups, to collect weapons and impose the rule of law.
Instead of killings and fighting, the solution is peace and negotiations. Just as the international community announced after 10 years that the problem of Afghanistan cannot be solved with fighting and that they would prefer to negotiate with the Taliban, so negotiations with the Qaddafi regime will be very useful to remove him from the scene and bring him to justice peacefully. If there are no negotiations then he will again be another terrorist leader and will pose another threat to the world. 
But if the West and its allies in Libya keep pushing Qaddafi to surrender then Qaddafi will seek cover in a third country, as Osama bin Laden did, and plan attacks on other Western countries.

        
History Repeats for a Correspondent in Tripoli
        
New Data on High Unemployment Among Recent Veterans
        
A 'Military Covenant' for America
        
A Libyan Rebel in Need of a Lift
        
Qaddafi's Arms Bazaar, Slowly Exposed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); GAS STATIONS (76%); ARMIES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%) Afghanistan; Al Qaeda in Iraq; Baghdad; Iraq; Libya; Muammar el-Qaddafi; Bremer, L Paul III; Hussein, Saddam; Qaddafi, Muammar el-; Afghanistan War (2001- ); Iraq War (2003- ); Middle East and North Africa Unrest (2010- ); At War; Baghdad Bureau; Iraqi Voices

ORGANIZATION: JAMA'AT AL-TAWHID WAL-JIHAD (AL-QAIDA IN IRAQ) (59%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%) Bremer, L Paul III; Hussein, Saddam; Qaddafi, Muammar el-

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (97%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (73%) IRAQ (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TUNISIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) Afghanistan; Iraq; Libya

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1290 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: 2012 Campaign: What to Watch For in September

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Six things to watch for as the Republican presidential race heats up in September.

 BODY:
With summer over and Labor Day approaching, the 2012 campaign is set to enter its most important phase yet: the fall primary season.
And September is shaping up as a critical month in determining who will emerge as the true front-runner in the Republican race to face President Obama next year.
All of the candidates in the Republican nomination contest are sure to step up their pace in September, as the clock starts seriously ticking down toward the real voting in Iowa and New Hampshire, which will begin early next year.
By the end of the month, the field of candidates - which has been in flux for most of 2011 - is almost certain to be set for good. And another month of polling could give a more realistic picture of who leads that pack.
With that in mind, here are six things to watch for in September.
1. Debates. For political junkies, September is shaping up to be a wonderful month. The Republican candidates are scheduled to face off in three major debates in September, each one broadcast live on a different television network.
The first will take place on Sept. 7 at the Ronald Reagan Library in Southern California. The debate, co-sponsored by MSNBC and Politico, has become a new tradition in the Republican race. 
Five days later, the candidates will cross the country to Tampa, Fla., for a debate hosted by CNN and the Tea Party Express, a group based in California that supports the Tea Party movement. The following week, the candidates will gather again for another debate, this time in Orlando, sponsored by the Florida Republican Party and Fox News.
For the candidates, the string of debates presents a series of logistical headaches and potential land mines. The need to prepare for the debates robs the campaigns of valuable fund-raising time. The travel schedule for the month is dictated by the location of the debates - none of which are in the early voting states. 
And they offer three high-profile opportunities for gaffes that could stall momentum or even end a campaign. 
But the face-offs also offer the chance for a breakout moment for candidates like Jon M. Huntsman Jr., whose lackluster performance in the polls suggests that his campaign needs to find a way to generate buzz. The debates will also offer Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, a chance to make a first, second, and third-impression in quick succession. 
And they will present an interesting test for a candidate like Mitt Romney, whose play-it-safe approach to the campaign has put a high premium on staying above the fray.
2. Sarah Palin. September could be the month that the former Alaska governor finally lets the rest of us in on her secret. Will she run for the Republican nomination? Or have her bus tour and other public flirtations with a run been a big game? 
The guessing continues on Sept. 3, when Ms. Palin is scheduled to headline a Tea Party rally in - where else? - Des Moines. The event was originally scheduled to be at a smaller venue, but was moved last week to accommodate a bigger crowd.
That prompted some speculation that she might use the event to announce her plans. But those who spend all their time speculating about her intentions think that Ms. Palin probably will wait until later in September, in part to avoid the pressure to take part in the debates next month.
If Ms. Palin announces after the third debate on Sept. 22, she might upstage the rest of the field and avoid a month of scrutiny. Or, if she decides against a run, waiting until the end of September gives her another month of influence while she keeps the political establishment watching her every move.
Either way, it's likely to be another month of "will she or won't she?" when it comes to Sarah Palin.
3. Dueling Economic Messages. All of the leading Republican candidates have decided to stake their candidacies on a stark contrast with Mr. Obama's economic policies. The president will give them an even bigger target with what is being billed as a major jobs speech just after Labor Day.
Mr. Romney, in particular, is losing no time in drawing that contrast. He, too, has scheduled a speech for next week. Aides say he will unveil his job-creation ideas during a speech on Sept. 6, the Tuesday after Labor Day. (Mr. Huntsman is planning to unveil a plan of his own a week earlier, on Wednesday, in New Hampshire.)
It's still unclear exactly when Mr. Obama will give his speech. Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said on Monday that the exact date is still being finalized. But he confirmed the speech would be next week sometime.
No matter what day the White House chooses, the president's speech and Mr. Romney's will be viewed as two directly competing visions for how to deal with the still struggling economy. And the contrasts will no doubt become fodder for the midweek debate in California and the others later in September.
4. Fund-raising. Mr. Romney was the unquestioned leader at the end of the second quarter of fund-raising. The third quarter will come to a close at the end of September, and the results will be extremely helpful in predicting who will be able to go the distance during the rest of the year.
Ms. Bachmann entered the race just before the end of the second quarter, making it a poor test of her real ability to raise campaign cash. The results at the end of September should provide a much better window into her finances. 
Mr. Perry is expected to be a prolific fund-raiser, as he has been in Texas. But his state finance operation was legally allowed to solicit contributions of an unlimited amount - making it comparably easy to raise huge sums from his most committed and wealthy supporters.
As a federal candidate, his donors are severely limited in how much they can donate. So the third-quarter finance report will be a good indication of how well Mr. Perry has made the transition from a state fund-raiser to a national one.
And Ron Paul, whose candidacy appears more organized than it was four years ago, could continue to post impressive numbers - a feat that would probably ensure that he can once again afford to campaign all the way to the convention next summer.
5. Florida. In part because of the location of the second two debates, many of the candidates are expected to focus more than usual on Florida in September. Expect several road trips by the leading candidates before and after their appearances in Tampa and Orlando.
But the focus on the Sunshine State is not merely the result of the debate locations. Florida's primary will probably be critical to determining the winner of the Republican nomination, and all of the candidates are aware of the implications.
In 2008, Mr. Romney and John McCain battled fiercely in Florida after emerging as the two leading candidates from the early states. Their battle continued a bit longer, but Mr. McCain's victory in Florida all but sealed his win.
This time, the state may play an even more critical role. Florida officials are talking about flouting a Republican party prohibition against going before March 6 by moving their primary to late January.
If that happens, the state - with its huge population and critical role as the ultimate swing state in the general election - could be the determinative primary battle once again. Mr. Huntsman views the state as such a critical one that he has established his campaign headquarters there. Mrs. Bachmann spent Monday in Miami and Naples.
6. Polling. For months, Mr. Romney has topped most surveys as the leading Republican contender in the race. But his position there has always seemed somewhat tenuous, in part because of an assessment that Republicans were dissatisfied with the choices before them.
For a time, polls in Iowa showed Mrs. Bachmann surging to the lead in that state. Now, Mr. Perry has captured the top spot nationally in some surveys as voters begin to take a look at him and his record.
Pollsters - especially my colleagues here at The New York Times - will caution that it is still early, and that any survey is merely a snapshot that is not likely to serve as a very good prediction of the results once voting gets under way.
But as the campaign enters the fall, the surveys become an increasingly important validation for campaigns as they raise money and try to convince activists to support their growing logistical operations.
The debates should help give the polling a bit more validity as more people around the country get an up-close look at the candidates. But the late entry - if it happens - of Ms. Palin could once again shake up the standings.
Will Mr. Romney remain near the top as people see more of him? Will Mr. Perry's surge quickly fade? Will Mr. Huntsman find a way to raise his single-digit numbers? Will Mr. Paul find a way to make his libertarian views seem more mainstream? Will Mrs. Bachmann be able to build support around the country?
Stay tuned. September is just around the corner.

        
Gingrich Event Could Spark New Phase of 2012 Race
        
Palin's PAC Raised $279,000 in Late 2010
        
Palin Inches Toward 2012 in Iowa, Nevada
        
Five Things to Watch for in Iowa Debate
        
Is Sarah Palin Running for President?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%) 2012; debates; election 2012; fundraising; Polling; romney; sarah palin; Obama, Barack; Palin, Sarah; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Florida; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK PERRY (76%); JON HUNTSMAN (57%) Obama, Barack; Palin, Sarah; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (69%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1291 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Romney, in Perry Territory, Faults 'Career Politicians'

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney indirectly takes a rare swipe at Rick Perry by referring to "career politicians."

 BODY:
 12:53 p.m. | Updated Apparently, just setting foot in Texas imbued Mitt Romney with a bit of that Lone Star swagger.
 Though Mr. Romney has assiduously avoided taking on one rival for the Republican presidential nomination, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, Mr. Romney took a veiled swipe at Mr. Perry in a speech Tuesday before the Veterans of Foreign Wars national convention in San Antonio. 
 "I have spent most of my life outside of politics, dealing with real problems in the real economy," Mr. Romney said. "Career politicians got us into this mess, and they simply don't know how to get us out."
The attack line, which lit up the Twittersphere Tuesday morning when the campaign released some early excerpts, was met with some applause, but it is a point that Mr. Romney makes frequently on the campaign trail. Mr. Romney often argues that he is not a career politician and is one of the few candidates, having spent 25 years in the private sector, with the executive know-how to create jobs.
In his speech before the V.F.W., Mr. Romney tried to toe the line between offering an optimistic vision for the nation's future - he even name-checked former President Ronald Reagan and mentioned "the shining city on a hill" - and painting a grim picture of the country under President Obama's leadership. 
"I believe in America," Mr. Romney said, wearing a blue tie and speaking in a measured, even voice. "We believe in freedom and opportunity. We believe in the inherent dignity of every human being. We have deep and abiding faith in the goodness and the greatness of America."
But he soon began an attack on the current state of the country.
"We stand near the threshold of profound economic misery," he said. "Four more years on the same political path could prove disastrous."
Mr. Romney criticized the administration's proposal to cut military spending by $400 billion over the next 12 years, warning that the "massive defense cuts were proposed without any reference to the missions that would be foreclosed and to the risks to our men and women in uniform."
"America must lead with clarity of intent, a commitment of purpose and unlimited resolve," Mr. Romney said. "Unfortunately, when we look around the world today, we see a muddled picture of American policy and our power."
Mr. Romney also criticized the president over "mission muddle" during the revolution in Libya, as well as his drawdown plan for American troops in Afghanistan.
"In Afghanistan, the president has chosen to disregard the counsel of the generals on the ground," Mr. Romney said. "I don't know of a single military adviser to President Obama who recommended the withdrawal plan that he's chosen, and that puts the success of our soldiers and our mission at greater risk."
He added: "As America's veterans, you understand better than anyone that weakness invites aggression and that the best ally peace has ever known is a strong America."
Mr. Romney's speech came the day afterMr. Perry addressed the convention and presented an overview of his foreign policy views, saying he was opposed to "military adventurism."
But despite all of the early hype about Mr. Romney's attacking Mr. Perry on the governor's home turf, the stark contrast Mr. Romney drew was between himself and Mr. Obama, not with Mr. Perry, who has recently begun leading in some polls.
"The American people always rise to the occasion," Mr. Romney said. "They only ask for a leader who will tell them the truth, who will live with integrity, and who will actually lead them in the direction that will preserve this great nation. We've lost a couple of years, but we haven't lost our way." 
 Mr. Romney has largely tried to ignore Mr. Perry's entry into the already crowded Republican field, arguing that Mr. Perry will first have to prove himself as a national candidate before Mr. Romney changes his strategy and engages him directly.
 But with new polls placing Mr. Perry at the head of the pack, Mr. Romney has found himself fending off questions about his Texas rival and may be rethinking his strategy.
 In New Hampshire last week, when Mr. Romney was pressed on whether he still viewed himself as the front-runner, he casually dismissed the question, offering that he was "just one of the guys running."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VETERANS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (85%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); JOB CREATION (67%); DEFENSE SPENDING (61%) Obama, Barack; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Speeches and Statements; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Washington Post; Texas; Elections; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Veterans of Foreign Wars; Washington Post

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK PERRY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%) Obama, Barack; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%) Texas

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1292 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: Senate G.O.P. Staffer Chosen to Run Deficit Reduction Committee

BYLINE: CARL HULSE


HIGHLIGHT: Leaders of the new Congressional deficit reduction committee have asked Mark Prater, currently the chief tax counsel for Republicans on the Senate Finance Committee, to serve as the committee's staff director.

 BODY:
Leaders of the new Congressional deficit reduction committee have chosen a veteran Senate Republican staffer to take over what looms as the challenging job of running the evenly divided panel.
Aides said that the co-chairs of the committee have asked Mark Prater, currently the chief tax counsel for Republicans on the Senate Finance Committee, to serve as staff director of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction.
Mr. Prater, with more than two decades of experience on the powerful tax-writing and revenue panel, has won the respect and trust of members of both parties for his work over the years on such initiatives as the 1997 budget agreement that led to the children's health insurance program. 
"Mark has a well-earned reputation for being a workhorse who members of both parties have relied on," the co-chairs of the deficit committee, Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, and Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas, said in a statement. 
They noted that Mr. Prater has helped win passage of "numerous pieces of bipartisan economic growth, tax, health care, and employment legislation."
Some Democrats were privately grumbling that a Republican aide would be the top staffer for the committee. But finding someone who could meet the approval of both Democrats and Republicans was proving difficult and Democrats saw Mr. Prater as a suitable choice who could also pass muster with the conservative Republicans on the panel. Other staff members to be selected are expected to be mainly numbers crunchers.
Republican members of the committee, which will have to get to work quickly when Congress returns next week given a Thanksgiving deadline for producing a plan to cut $1.2 trillion over the next decade, were scheduled to have a meeting among themselves Tuesday to map strategy, aides said.

        
Congress Returns for Another Round on Jobs, Spending
        
Pelosi Names 3 to Obama's Deficit Panel

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (95%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (69%); APPROVALS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (52%) deficit reduction panel; Hensarling, Jeb; Murray, Patty; Federal Budget (US); United States Politics and Government; Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction; Congress

ORGANIZATION: Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction

PERSON: PATTY MURRAY (88%); JEB HENSARLING (88%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Hensarling, Jeb; Murray, Patty

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1293 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Republican Hopefuls Sound Anything But

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: As they reach for the sharpest contrast they can find with President Obama, the Republican presidential hopefuls are sounding anything but hopeful.

 BODY:
Looking for a bit of optimism about the future? Hoping for a quick psychological pick-me-up amid the economic downturn? 
Don't tune in to the Republican presidential candidates.
As they reach for the sharpest contrast they can find with President Obama, the Republican presidential hopefuls are sounding anything but hopeful. On the trail, they are painting an increasingly gloomy picture of the nation they want to lead.
In a speech to the Veterans of Foreign Wars on Tuesday, Mitt Romney said that Americans "stand near the threshold of profound economic misery." 
In her announcement speech last month, Michele Bachmann bemoaned the fact that economic success and "dreams are distant for many Americans."
A new political action committee formed to bolster the chances of Jon M. Huntsman Jr. offered the following grim assessment: "A country in unprecedented turmoil. Unemployment. Overspending. Hopelessness."
In just about every speech they give, the Republican candidates are pushing a depressing message in the hopes that voters who agree will blame Mr. Obama and elect Republicans. 
Surveys suggest the Republicans are merely parroting what the American public already believes. In a recent Associated Press poll, 75 percent of those surveyed said the country was headed in the wrong direction.
But the strategy requires the presidential contenders to walk a fine line. Too much talk about gloom and doom could turn off voters who are tired of feeling worried. And some voters are already beginning to worry that the Republican candidates are "talking down" the economy even more. 
Mr. Romney, in particular, has apparently decided the political rewards are worth the risks. He regularly describes a country that is mired in poor economic conditions, adrift in foreign policy and broken when it comes to policymaking in Washington.
"It's hard to be upbeat about the economic crisis we're facing," Eric Fehrnstrom, a spokesman for Mr. Romney, told The Caucus on Tuesday. "The first step in a turnaround is to recognize that things are bad and need to change. Burying your head in the sand only makes the problem worse."
Mr. Romney and his Republican rivals are not shy about praising America's fundamental virtues. In his speech to the V.F.W. on Tuesday, Mr. Romney said that "we have a deep and abiding faith in the goodness and the greatness of America."
But saying America is a great nation is a different thing than talking about the current condition of the country. The next words out of Mr. Romney's mouth on Tuesday were that people are "united also by our concern for America."
The approach differs somewhat from the one Mr. Romney took four years ago. In 2007, he sought to offer a sunnier, more upbeat approach to his stump speech. What did Mr. Romney think at the time was the greatest long-term threat to the nation? The lack of optimism.
"I am optimistic about this country, if you haven't got that measure already," Mr. Romney said in South Carolina that year. "I've met people from, boy, a lot of states; and you come away confident that the American people have the heart to succeed at everything we put our minds to."
But the country's fortunes have changed significantly since then. The economic collapse of late 2008 has been followed by years of persistently high unemployment and a deepening political divide in Washington.
The result has been a Republican vocabulary largely shorn of the "hope" and "change" rhetoric that Mr. Obama was so fond of in the 2008 presidential campaign.
"One in six work-eligible Americans cannot find a full-time job," Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, noted in his announcement speech. "That is not a recovery. That is an economic disaster."
How will that kind of message work during the next 18 months? 
If the economy continues to worsen, the candidates open themselves to the kind of charge that was leveled at President Jimmy Carter in the late 1970s -- that the talk of an economic malaise was actually contributing to the country's problems.
And when it comes to politics, the grim message could affect turnout. It's easy to fill a stadium full of excited supporters with a rallying cry that suggests things will get better. Wooing supporters with depressing news is a tougher sell.
But there's plenty of time for the Republican candidates to pivot toward a more positive message, much like Mr. Obama did after months of criticizing George W. Bush.
In the meantime, look elsewhere for sunshine and lollipops.

        
Ryan Says No to 2012 - Again
        
With Ames Over, Candidates Are Free to Move About the Country
        
G.O.P. Front-Runners Offer Contrast in Styles
        
Perry Jabs Romney in Iowa
        
Why Pawlenty's Candidacy Failed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (96%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); VETERANS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) 2012 presidential campaign; Republicans; Elections

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JON HUNTSMAN (57%); MICHELE BACHMANN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011



1294 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: AT&T Plans to Bring Back Jobs Sent Abroad

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Seeking good will for its $39 billion deal to buy T-Mobile USA, the company plans to announce that it will restore 5,000 outsourced call-center jobs.

 BODY:
AT&T, its $39 billion deal to buy T-Mobile USA under pressure from multiple fronts, is now seeking to promote one benefit of the blockbuster deal: jobs.
The company plans to announce on Wednesday that it will bring back 5,000 call-center jobs that were outsourced abroad. AT&T also plans to commit to maintaining its and T-Mobile's more than 25,000 call-center jobs in the United States.
AT&T's move - which the company describes as one of the biggest job repatriations since the financial crisis - is meant in part to assuage critical lawmakers' fears of possible job cuts. In a letter to the two federal regulators reviewing the deal, Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, wrote that "it is fair to assume that layoffs constitute a substantial portion" of the deal's promised cost savings.
Other politicians, including Representatives Ed Markey of Massachusetts and John Conyers of Michigan, have also expressed unease over the proposed merger's effect on jobs.
"Does this shore up an issue that people have?" Randall Stephenson, AT&T's chief executive, said in an interview on Tuesday. "Sure, I hope it does." 
Among the chief attractions of mergers is cutting costs, and AT&T has forecast roughly $3 billion a year in savings. The telecommunications giant has said that it plans to create jobs by building out the combined company's next-generation wireless network, an effort that is expected to cost more than $8 billion, though it is also expected to shutter hundreds of retail stores and other back-office positions.
But Mr. Stephenson said that as AT&T was reviewing its and T-Mobile's businesses, creating jobs in the United States became a way to create good will. The company had about 265,410 employees as of Jan. 31. T-Mobile, now a unit of Deutsche Telekom, employs about 42,000 in the United States.
"As I sit here and watch the news over the last month, I can't help but ask, 'What else can we do?' " he said. "This sends a good message to the U.S. and to the labor markets."
AT&T currently operates about 55 call centers throughout the country, while T-Mobile runs about 24. Mr. Stephenson said that his company had yet to determine where the new call-center jobs would be located. The existing call centers are in many locations around the country, including T-Mobile's headquarters in Washington and AT&T's home in Texas, as well as in Pennsylvania and Maine.
Mr. Stephenson added that he had become comfortable that AT&T would still meet its projected cost savings despite the move.
Jobs are not the only concern on skeptics' minds about AT&T's planned mega-deal. Since it was announced in March, the proposed acquisition has taken fire from competitors like Sprint, consumer groups and federal and state lawmakers worried about combining two of the nation's biggest cellphone service providers.
AT&T has its supporters, including telecommunications workers' unions, technology companies like Microsoft and Facebook and 27 governors. The company has also made a big lobbying effort to drum up additional backing.
Both sides have raced to put pressure on the federal regulators scrutinizing the deal, the Federal Communications Commission and the Justice Department. Several state regulators, including California's public utilities commission, are also closely examining the merger.
Last month, the F.C.C. halted its review of the deal to examine AT&T's economic models supporting the deal, though it resumed the process last week.
The company took additional criticism after a briefly unredacted submission to the F.C.C. showed that AT&T had projected spending just $3.8 billion to expand its nascent 4G wireless network nationwide, far less than the $39 billion it is spending to buy T-Mobile.
Mr. Stephenson countered that expanding its network without T-Mobile's customer base, spectrum and cellular towers had "no business case."
He added that he still expected the deal to receive approval by the end of the first quarter next year.
"Nothing has transpired to date that would make me think that will change," he said.

        
Big Names in Tech Back AT&T's T-Mobile Bid
        
AT&T's Full Cost for Getting T-Mobile

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CALL CENTERS (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); DIVESTITURES (72%); MERGERS (72%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (64%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (59%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%); RETAILERS (50%) Al Franken; AT&T; Deutsche Telekom; Ed Markey; Federal Communications Commission; John Conyers; Justice Department; Outsourcing; Randall L. Stephenson; Sprint Nextel; T-Mobile; T-Mobile USA; Stephenson, Randall L; Labor and Jobs; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Wireless Communications; AT&T Inc; AT&T Inc|T|NYSE; AT&T's Deal for T-Mobile; Mergers & Acquisitions; Telecommunications; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: AT&T INC (94%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (58%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%) AT&T Inc; T-Mobile

TICKER: T (NYSE) (94%); DTE (FRA) (58%); DTE (BIT) (58%) AT&T Inc; T; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%)

PERSON: RANDALL STEPHENSON (90%); EDWARD J MARKEY (69%); AL FRANKEN (68%); JOHN CONYERS (66%) Stephenson, Randall L

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1295 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Nevada Sees Violations Of Mortgage Agreement

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
The attorney general of Nevada is accusing Bank of America of repeatedly violating a broad loan modification agreement it struck with state officials in October 2008 and is seeking to rip up the deal so that the state can proceed with a suit against the bank over allegations of deceptive lending, marketing and loan servicing practices.
In a complaint filed Tuesday in United States District Court in Reno, Catherine Cortez Masto, the Nevada attorney general, asked a judge for permission to end Nevada's participation in the settlement agreement. This would allow her to sue the bank over what the complaint says were dubious practices uncovered by her office in an investigation that began in 2009. 
In her filing, Ms. Masto contends that Bank of America raised interest rates on troubled borrowers when modifying their loans even though the bank had promised in the settlement to lower them. The bank also failed to provide loan modifications to qualified homeowners as required under the deal, improperly proceeded with foreclosures even as borrowers' modification requests were pending and failed to meet the settlement's 60-day requirement on granting new loan terms, instead allowing months and in some cases more than a year to go by with no resolution, the filing says.
The complaint says such practices violated an agreement Bank of America reached in the fall of 2008 with several states and later, in 2009, with Nevada, to settle lawsuits that accused its Countrywide unit of predatory lending. As the credit crisis grew, the settlement was heralded as a victory by state offices eager to help keep troubled borrowers in their homes and reduce their costs. Bank of America set aside $8.4 billion in the deal and agreed to help 400,000 troubled borrowers with loan modifications and other financial relief, such as lowering interest rates on mortgages.
But foreclosure problems mounted in Nevada, where Countrywide originated 262,622 loans, and complaints about the bank's loan servicing practices began flooding into Ms. Masto's office shortly after the settlement was struck. She found that Bank of America had ''materially and almost immediately violated'' the terms of the settlement, according to the complaint.
Ms. Masto declined to comment beyond the court filing.
Jumana Bauwens, a spokeswoman for Bank of America, said the bank was reviewing Ms. Masto's complaint. ''We disagree that there has been any material breach of the consent decree and will continue to vigorously defend this action,'' she said.
Ms. Masto's request to terminate the 2008 deal could raise further questions about the extent of its liabilities arising from Countrywide's lending practices and from the bank's own loan servicing activities in the foreclosure crisis. The move by the Nevada attorney general could also imperil the already shaky negotiations over improper foreclosure practices being conducted by state attorneys general and the four largest banks, including Bank of America.
Those talks, which also involve federal officials, have stalled over the summer with disagreements over whether the deal would allow state regulators to bring future lawsuits against the institutions for questionable practices. Attorneys general who do not want to give up the right to file additional suits against the banks -- including Ms. Masto, Eric Schneiderman of New York and Beau Biden of Delaware -- have declined to endorse a proposed settlement.
The breadth of the new Nevada complaint indicates that Bank of America's problems extend throughout its mortgage operations, including origination, loan servicing and securitization. Nevada officials also found broad problems in the bank's interactions with imperiled borrowers.
For example, the complaint says the bank advised credit reporting agencies that consumers were in default when they were not, and contends that Bank of America employees deceived borrowers about why their requests to modify loans were denied. In addition, it says, the bank falsely claimed that the actual owners of loans had refused to allow changes to their mortgages, and it incorrectly claimed that borrowers had failed to make payments on trial loan modifications when in fact they had. Bank of America also misled borrowers, the Nevada attorney general's filing noted, by offering loan modifications with one set of terms only to come back with a substantially different deal.
Among the more troubling findings in the Nevada complaint is the contention by several Bank of America employees that the company imposed strict limits on the amount of time they could spend on the phone assisting troubled borrowers seeking help with their loans.
One worker said in a deposition cited in the complaint that employees were punished if they spent more than seven minutes or 10 minutes with a customer. Even though these limits allowed almost no time for assistance, Bank of America employees who did not curtail their conversations were reprimanded, this employee said.
The Nevada filing also maintains that Countrywide, which Bank of America acquired in 2008, did not deliver necessary loan documentation when it put together mortgage securities and sold them to investors during the boom. Under the typical pooling and servicing agreements struck between Countrywide and investors who bought the securities, the bank was required to endorse the mortgage note and deliver it to the trustee overseeing the pool. Countrywide failed to do so, the complaint notes.
These paperwork failures should have barred the bank from foreclosing on borrowers, the Nevada complaint says, but it went ahead nonetheless. This aspect of Ms. Masto's complaint echoes a lawsuit filed in early August by Mr. Schneiderman, the New York attorney general, to block a settlement between Bank of New York and Bank of America covering 530 Countrywide mortgage pools. In that case, Mr. Schneiderman contends that Countrywide did not deposit loans into the mortgage pools as required and that the bank had no right to bring foreclosure actions against these borrowers.
Ms. Masto's complaint asks that the court impose civil penalties on Bank of America and order it to cover the costs of caring for foreclosed properties borne by municipalities.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James Bellile, a real estate agent in Nevada, inspected a foreclosed home in Las Vegas in 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB KEPLER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Catherine Cortez Masto wants Nevada out of a settlement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JERRY HENKEL/LAS VEGAS REVIEW-JOURNAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PREDATORY LENDING (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CREDIT REGULATION (77%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); MORTGAGE RATES (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); JUDGES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (90%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1296 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Surge in Global Migration Expands Scale of an Aid Group's Influence

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

 BODY:
DHAKA, Bangladesh -- As global migration has rapidly expanded, so has the influence of a little-known group whose eclectic work shapes migrants' lives across six continents.
Here in Bangladesh it has staged folk dramas to warn against sex trafficking, put solar panels on a remote border post and rescued tens of thousands of Bangladeshi workers caught in the Libyan war, at times with daring sea ventures that defied rocket attacks.
Part research group, part handyman crew, the International Organization for Migration has become the who-you-gonna-call outfit for 132 member countries grappling with the surge in migration, both legal and unauthorized. Its rapid growth is a sign that migration has outgrown most countries' ability to manage on their own. ''I haven't made it to a country yet where migration hasn't been high on the list of priorities,'' said William L. Swing, the director general.
Yet even as its duties grow, the group operates under tight constraints that reflect the special worries migration can arouse. The United States and other rich donors largely dictate its agenda and ensure that it does not erode their power to decide which migrants they admit and how many. 
''It helps them bring in the people they want and keep out the people they don't,'' said Joseph Chamie, a researcher at the Center for Migration Studies in New York.
To understand the group's rapid growth and varied duties, consider Bangladesh, where the $10 billion that migrants send home accounts for 13 percent of the economy -- making the export of people nearly as vital as the export of shirts. But migrants borrow heavily to finance their trips, and the labor recruiting industry is rife with scams.
Since Bangladesh joined in 1991, the organization has sponsored dozens of projects to promote its goal of ''managed'' migration. It put microscopes in the Dhaka airport to detect passport fraud. It helped start an orientation program for departing workers. And it helped write a new antitrafficking law.
''On every issue they are helping us,'' said Kazi Kalam, deputy secretary of the Ministry of Expatriates' Welfare and Overseas Employment, which the migration group helped create.
Among the workers it returned from Libya this spring was Shofiqul Islam, 35, who described the migration group as a rare source of help in a disturbing two-year odyssey. He paid $5,000 to a recruiter who sent him to Libya without the promised job. The recruiter's accomplices tried to sell him into forced labor. Even after he escaped, the Libyan police demanded bribes to overlook his invalid visa. Then came the bombs.
When Mr. Islam reached the Tunisian border, the migration group offered shelter, a plane ticket to Dhaka and fare for the overnight bus home. With just enough change to avoid the shame of returning empty-handed, he bought his two children each an apple. ''I'm very grateful,'' he said.
The migration group was formed in 1951 under a different name to resettle Europeans displaced by World War II. It had plans to quickly disband, but migration kept growing. Starting in the 1970s, it helped resettle 1.5 million Indochinese refugees, and brought home 218,000 workers during the first Persian Gulf war. In the past two decades, the group has added 89 member countries and undertaken increasingly varied work.
Canada tapped it to recruit meatpackers. Britain used it to screen would-be migrants for tuberculosis. The United States used it to run a jobs program in Haiti, deterring Haitians from illegally immigrating.
''If the range of our activities has expanded, it's because migration has taken on much more importance in our globalized world,'' said Gervais Appave, a senior official at the group's headquarters in Geneva.
But the movement of people causes more concern than the movement of money or goods, and Western powers are unwilling to cede authority to an international group. While the World Trade Organization can define unfair trade practices, the migration group cannot define unfair migration policies. It cannot say who has the right to migrate or what rights a migrant should have.
Virtually all its work is financed on a project-by-project basis, giving donors control. Together, the United States and Europe provide half the $1.4 billion budget, and every director has been American.
While much of the Bangladesh work is called ''capacity building,'' it can show how limited poor countries' capacity can be. Bangladesh has six labor attaches in Saudi Arabia to oversee 2.2 million workers. Its ''market research unit,'' which is trying to find new jobs, is essentially two people relying on the Internet.
''Don't picture something sophisticated,'' said Rabab Fatima, who runs the migration group's Bangladesh office. She praised the government of Bangladesh for seeing a need to do more but said ''the structures that should be serving this sector don't exist yet.''
While events during the war in Libya showed the migration group at is best -- quick to mobilize and deft in moving large populations -- human rights groups have sometimes accused it of pressuring people to return to dangerous situations.
Human Rights Watch criticized it in 2007 for bringing home Iraqis being held in a Lebanese jail after fleeing the war. While the migration group said the Iraqis were returning voluntarily, critics said their choice -- indefinite incarceration or return to a war zone -- amounted to coercion.
Sufiur Rahman, an official in the Bangladesh Foreign Ministry, said the group spent more time restraining migration than expanding legal channels, which he said reflected donors' concerns. He urged it to stress the ''mutual benefits'' for countries at both ends.
One man who got little help leaving, but much in coming home, is Kazinazrul Islam, 52, who recently returned from 12 years in Britain. He had always pictured the country a ''dreamland,'' but had no way to get a work permit. He flew there and sought political asylum, citing harassment from Bangladeshi politicians.
While he expected a quick decision, the case languished for more than a decade, and his children, entering adolescence, viewed him as a stranger. Earlier this year, Mr. Islam dropped his claim, and joined a return program run by the migration group, with money from the British government, which is eager to trim its asylum caseload.
It gave him a plane ticket home, $800 in cash and $1,600 toward a business -- in his case, a tiny shoe store. Uncertain the store can support him, Mr. Islam is thinking of going abroad again, perhaps to the Middle East. But he thanked the migration group.
''They stood by me when I was in trouble,'' he said. ''They could have just said, 'Go home.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shofiqul Islam, left, a worker whom the International Organization for Migration helped to leave Libya and return to his Bangladesh home after two years. ''I'm very grateful,'' he said. Above, Mr. Islam's daughter plays with her grandmother. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHAHIDUL ALAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); BOMBINGS (76%); SEX TRAFFICKING (72%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (72%); SOLAR ENERGY (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); AIRPORTS (66%); TRAVEL TICKETS (61%); RELIGION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR MIGRATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (93%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) BANGLADESH (97%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (95%); TUNISIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1297 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Home Prices In June Tally Showed Gain

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Spring buying pushed home prices up for a third consecutive month in most major American cities in June, a private report showed. But the housing market remained shaky, and further price declines were expected this year.
The Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller home price index said prices increased in June from May in 19 of the 20 cities tracked. Prices rose 3.6 percent in the April-June quarter from the previous quarter. Neither of those numbers is adjusted for seasonal factors. Over the last 12 months, home prices have declined in all 20 cities. 
Chicago, Minneapolis, Washington and Boston posted the biggest monthly increases. Metro areas hit hardest by the housing crisis, including Las Vegas and Phoenix, reported small increases.
Housing has been a drag on the economy and is a crucial reason the economy has struggled to recover two years after the recession officially ended. Home sales are on pace to be the worst in 14 years.
High unemployment, larger down payment requirements and tighter credit are preventing many buyers from entering the market. Many who can afford to buy are waiting, believing that prices have not hit bottom.
Analysts say home prices have stabilized in coastal cities over the last six months. Seasonally adjusted prices have fallen a modest 1 percent in the last six months, according to the index. That is less than a third of the decline from the previous six months.
Home prices are certain to fall further once banks resume foreclosures, millions of which have been delayed because of a government investigation into mortgage lending practices. If the American economy slips back into another recession, prices could drop even further.
''There's no theoretical floor for prices. If the economy worsens, housing will get into a vicious cycle of falling prices and foreclosures,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics. ''When prices fall, confidence wanes.''
Separately, the Conference Board said Tuesday that its Consumer Confidence Index fell to 44.5, down from a revised 59.2 in July, down almost 15 points. The number was the lowest since April 2009 when the reading was 40.8. It also is far below the 53.3 that analysts had expected. A reading above 90 indicates the economy is on solid footing; a score above 100 signals strong growth.
The pace of sales for previously occupied homes is trailing last year's 4.91 million sold, the fewest since 1997. In a healthy economy, people buy roughly 6 million homes each year.
Sales of new homes dropped in July for a third month in a row. This year is shaping up to be the worst for sales of new homes since 1963.
At the same time, falling consumer confidence numbers raise new concerns about consumers' willingness to spend to jumpstart the economy. Consumer spending accounts for 70 percent of economic activity.
''Consumer confidence deteriorated sharply in August, as consumers grew significantly more pessimistic about the short-term outlook,'' said Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board Consumer Research Center in a statement.
A number of factors contributed to the index's decline. The index, which is based on a random survey of consumers sent to 5,000 households from Aug. 1 to Aug. 18, captured the wildest week on Wall Street since the financial crisis in 2008 after Standard & Poor's downgrade of the credit rating of the United States on Aug. 5.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (95%); REAL ESTATE (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1298 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: A Philanthropic Recession

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and KEVIN ROOSE

 BODY:
Operation Hope built a nonprofit powerhouse over the last decade, spinning a stockpile of donations from Wall Street firms into 27 financial education centers across the country.
But the charitable organization's donor base has retrenched in the wake of the financial crisis. Citigroup's foundation last year cut its giving 60 percent, to $115,000. The ING Foundation delayed paying its $300,000 commitment to Operation Hope. And the CIT Group, a lender that was once one of the organization's biggest benefactors, stopped giving altogether.
''Companies don't realize I've got payroll and lease payments just like they do,'' said John Hope Bryant, who started Operation Hope after spending six years as a banker in Los Angeles.
While Wall Street has slowly returned from the depths of the financial crisis, nonprofit groups that have come to depend on the industry's donations are still struggling. With the global market turmoil and the threat of a double-dip recession, many big banks are clutching their cash or rethinking their giving strategy to maximize their dollars. 
The pool of potential donors has not fully recovered, either. Lehman Brothers, which gave $39 million to charity in 2007, filed for bankruptcy a year later. Bank of America, which agreed to buy Merrill Lynch in 2008, gave $208 million to charity last year, according to a recent survey by The Chronicle of Philanthropy. In 2007, the two companies collectively donated $244 million.
Although some stalwarts like Goldman Sachs are giving more, they are also shaking up their philanthropic programs. With banks transferring cash to programs that carry the company name, several charitable partnerships have ended.
The changing nature of Wall Street giving has touched many corners of the nonprofit world. While companies represent a small percentage of overall philanthropy, financial firms accounted for the largest amount of corporate cash donations in 2010, roughly $2.11 billion, according to the Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy, a group backed by various industries that aim to promote their giving.
The pullback is most problematic for charities with a financial bent, like those that counsel low-income borrowers or train aspiring entrepreneurs. Wall Street has historically been the main source of money for such organizations.
Donations to the Sifma Foundation, which underwrites financial literacy programs for students, dropped in 2009 to $4 million from $4.7 million. With less money at its disposal, the foundation cut its grant-making 36 percent, to $420,000. The foundation is the charitable arm of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, a Wall Street trade group.
Although Operation Hope received record donations in 2009, its financing dropped 20 percent earlier this year. In turn, the group had to dig into reserves to float projects that lost financing, lay off 14 people and shut its Boston counseling center in June.
In an era of cost-cutting and layoffs, Wall Street philanthropy is a delicate balancing act. Give too little, and banks are called greedy. Give too much, and it endangers the bottom line.
After emerging from bankruptcy in 2009, CIT had to scale back its charitable donations. While the financial company still maintains a corporate giving department that doles out money to nonprofit groups like Big Brothers Big Sisters, it has ended relationships with several others, including Operation Hope.
''Although we believe it's important to support the volunteer work our employees perform and the philanthropic activities they support, it was a prudent decision on behalf of our shareholders to scale back our corporate philanthropy,'' Curt Ritter, a CIT spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.
Some banks abandoned or curtailed gift-matching programs, where companies agree to duplicate their employees' donations. Citigroup and UBS Wealth Management suspended their matching programs in 2009. UBS reopened the program the next year; Citi's program remains closed.
Other financial firms are cutting fewer big checks to nonprofit groups, a trend that is playing out across the corporate landscape. Morgan Stanley's donations dropped to $46.7 million in 2010 from $54.3 million in 2007, according to The Chronicle of Philanthropy. Bank of America, which pulled back slightly on its charitable efforts during the dark days of the crisis, expects their financing to remain flat this year.
''People are so focused with, 'I want to get paid,' and they're sitting on their cash,'' said Mr. Bryant of Operation Hope, who also serves on President Obama's Advisory Council on Financial Capability, which recommends public policies to support financial education and literacy.
Charities are also competing for money from a donor base that is contracting because of mergers and bankruptcies.
Sponsors for Educational Opportunity, a career preparatory program for minority students, was flush with cash in 2006, receiving donations from Bank of America, Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers. After amassing $10 million, the group bought glittering office space across from the New York Stock Exchange.
Then the tap tightened. Since the Bank of America-Merrill merger, the nonprofit now receives only one, smaller, check from Bank of America. The group's financing from Lehman disappeared altogether after Lehman's bankruptcy.
Support from Lehman also evaporated for Spelman College, a women's liberal arts school in Atlanta. The college never received $7 million of a $10 million grant intended to prepare more graduates for the financial industry, a gift that was announced in October 2007.
Rather than bankroll expensive projects, some financial firms are offering their employees' billable time, reflecting a broader corporate trend. Nonprofits are receiving a flood of so-called in-kind contributions, including volunteers to counsel first-time home buyers.
Over the last three years, Morgan Stanley employees have donated nearly 15,000 hours of pro bono advice to three dozen nonprofit groups, including Episcopal Social Services, which works with foster children and the homeless population in New York. Operation Hope uses 15,000 employees from banks and other corporations to teach financial literacy programs in inner-city schools and offer credit counseling to adults.
While many firms are pulling back, some of Wall Street's healthiest companies are actually spending more on charity. JPMorgan Chase's cash gifts rose to $185 million last year from $104 million in 2009, according to the Chronicle of Philanthropy survey. Goldman Sachs gave $315 million to nonprofit groups in 2010, more than four times what it gave the year before.
But even as the strongest banks increase their efforts, some have steered away from supporting multiple miscellaneous causes to focusing on branded initiatives, like the Goldman Sachs 10,000 Small Businesses program or the Morgan Stanley Global Alliance for Children's Health. By creating internal philanthropic projects that prominently feature the company's name, banks can focus their donations and carefully monitor results.
Some financial executives acknowledge that, as with much on Wall Street, the issue of giving often comes down to the bottom line. Firms that counsel banks on their giving programs say that potential employees and clients increasingly ask about a bank's giving programs when applying for jobs or considering where to invest their money. So increasing charitable giving can actually bolster a company's profits.
''It's enlightened self-interest, and there's nothing wrong with that,'' said Rob Densen, the founder of Tiller, a consulting firm that advises major corporations on their charitable giving programs.
Mr. Bryant, sensing an increasingly skeptical donor base, recently reworked his boardroom pitch to highlight the economic benefits of charity.
He now emphasizes how Operation Hope, which runs free classes on money management and aims to raise credit scores through one-on-one counseling sessions, will add to a bank's consumer clients. At an hourlong meeting this year with Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, at the bank's Park Avenue headquarters, Mr. Bryant dug into the sad state of the economy and Operation Hope's financial literacy efforts.
The pitch is starting to pay off. Mr. Bryant, who earns roughly $300,000 a year as Operation Hope's chief executive, says he is close to closing deals with seven financial institutions, which would allow him to hire more people.
''We're going to be just fine,'' he said. But ''not everyone is as resilient as we are.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Hope Bryant, founder of Operation Hope. Its financing from business, like that of many charitable groups, has shrunk. (B1)
 Steve Bartlett, left, of the Financial Services Roundtable with Mr. Bryant, who tries to explain charity's economic benefits to donors. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (91%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); LAYOFFS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CIT GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES ROUNDTABLE (59%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); CIT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (57%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1299 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Legal Help for the Poor: The View From the A.B.A.

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The American Bar Association strongly agrees that our nation must expand access to justice for low-income Americans (''Addressing the Justice Gap,'' editorial, Aug. 24). 
However, a rush to open the practice of law to unschooled, unregulated nonlawyers is not the solution. This would cause grave harm to clients. Even matters that appear simple, such as uncontested divorces, involve myriad legal rights and responsibilities. If the case is not handled by a professional with appropriate legal training, a person can suffer serious long-term consequences affecting loved ones or financial security. It also could lead to a violation of the law.
The A.B.A. believes that more funding is needed for legal assistance for the poor. The Legal Services Corporation, which provides core funding for the legal aid system, deserves the full appropriation ($450 million) proposed by the president.
Make no mistake: the organized bar is doing its part. The A.B.A. supports lawyer-contributed pro bono services and calls on state bar associations to implement reporting of pro bono work.
We also endorse a unique solution to legal aid funding known as Interest on Lawyers Trust Accounts. Unfortunately, that historical financial resource has declined substantially during the economic downturn, making federal support for the Legal Services Corporation even more essential for the growing population in poverty.
Addressing the justice gap requires all segments of society, not lawyers alone, to shoulder responsibility. Nothing is more precious than our freedom, and that comes from access to justice. We must expand legal services for those in need, provided by first-rate trained lawyers.
WILLIAM T. ROBINSON III President, American Bar Association Florence, Ky., Aug. 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL AID (93%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRO BONO LAW (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POOR POPULATION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (84%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1300 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Storm Cost Seen To Rank In Top 10 Of U.S. Disasters

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER; Michael Cooper reported from New York. Reporting was contributed by Dirk Van Susteren from Calais, Vt.; Abby Goodnough from Chester, Vt;, and Patrick McGeehan, Timothy Williams, Thomas Kaplan and Michael M. Grynbaum from New York.

 BODY:
Hurricane Irene will most likely prove to be one of the 10 costliest catastrophes in the nation's history, and analysts said that much of the damage might not be covered by insurance because it was caused not by winds but by flooding, which is excluded from many standard policies.
Industry estimates put the cost of the storm at $7 billion to $10 billion, largely because the hurricane pummeled an unusually wide area of the East Coast. Beyond deadly flooding that caused havoc in upstate New York and Vermont, the hurricane flooded cotton and tobacco crops in North Carolina, temporarily halted shellfish harvesting in Chesapeake Bay, sapped power and kept commuters from their jobs in the New York metropolitan area and pushed tourists off Atlantic beaches in the peak of summer. 
While insurers have typically covered about half of the total losses in past storms, they might end up covering less than 40 percent of the costs associated with Hurricane Irene, according to an analysis by the Kinetic Analysis Corporation. That is partly because so much damage was caused by flooding, and it is unclear how many damaged homes have flood insurance, and partly because deductibles have risen steeply in coastal areas in recent years, requiring some homeowners to cover $4,000 worth of damages or more before insurers pick up the loss.
This could make it harder for many stricken homeowners to rebuild, and could dampen any short-term boost to the construction industry that typically accompanies major storms, Jan Vermeiren, the chief executive of Kinetic Analysis, said in an interview.
''Especially now that the economy is tight, and people don't have money sitting around, local governments are broke, and maybe people can't even get loans from the banks,'' Mr. Vermeiren said.
The governors of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut sought expedited disaster declarations from the federal government on Tuesday, which would pave the way for more federal aid. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York wrote President Obama that he had seen ''hundreds of private homes either destroyed or with major damage and an enormous amount of public infrastructure damage.'' Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey wrote the president that ''immediate federal assistance is needed now to give New Jersey's residents a helping hand at an emotionally and financially devastating time.''
Flooding and widespread power failures tied to the storm continued to affect tens of thousands of people in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut on Tuesday. And rivers and inland streams were still rising in New Jersey and Connecticut, forcing the evacuation of thousands of homeowners.
''I think this is going to end up being a bigger event than people think it is,'' Connecticut's governor, Dannel P. Malloy, said at a news conference. He added: ''All of this is massive in scope. What the final dollar amount is, I don't know.''
Officials in states up and down the Eastern Seaboard said that it was far too early to tally up the damage, and that they were still focused on clearing debris, restoring power, trying to reopen flooded roads and bridges, and, in some areas, helping stranded people.
In southern Vermont, the National Guard airlifted food, water and other supplies on Tuesday to hundreds of people who were stranded in 13 towns that have been cut off by floodwaters since Sunday. Mark Bosma, a spokesman for the Vermont Division of Emergency Management, said most of the isolated towns had no electricity and none had potable water because floodwaters had overwhelmed local sewage and water treatment plants.
''I think it's probably a very scary thing to not know when you can get out of town and to have a water system that's not working and a general store that has run out of bottled water,'' Mr. Bosma said. ''People are extremely nervous about being isolated.''
More than 260 roads and 30 state bridges remained at least partly closed Tuesday because of the flooding, which in some areas remains a threat as larger rivers, like the Connecticut, are expected to continue rising until at least Wednesday as they gather runoff and flow from tributaries, officials said.
In Mendon, a part of Route 4, the main east-west road through central Vermont, was swept away, as were 35 bridges, including at least four historic covered bridges, officials said. Four railroad bridges in the state are also unpassable, and Amtrak announced that it had suspended train service indefinitely on its Vermont routes.
''Some of the roads have literally washed away,'' said Sue Minter, the state's deputy transportation secretary.
Worried that the reports of the devastation could put off visitors as Vermont enters one of its prime tourist seasons -- autumn always attracts legions of leaf peepers who come to gawk at foliage -- the Vermont Chamber of Commerce opened a Facebook page, VisitVT, in which local inns and other businesses could leave posts explaining whether they were open or damaged.
''While some are devastated, some are not,'' said Betsy Bishop, the chamber's president.
In Delaware, where the popular beaches like Rehoboth Beach were evacuated last weekend, shutting restaurants and emptying hotels, Gov. Jack Markell is urging people to come back for the Labor Day weekend -- and to bring friends.
''What I'm saying is if you had planned to be at the beach last weekend, come back this weekend for Labor Day and bring somebody else,'' he said in an interview. ''We'll try to even it out.''
Mr. Markell unveiled a rapid-response team on Tuesday to help small businesses cope with the fallout from the storm.
Exactly how much economic activity was lost to the storm is difficult to say. Airports were closed, Broadway theaters stayed dark, ballgames were called, commuters could not get to the office, businesses lost power, and big plants were flooded. And how much economic activity will be generated by the cleanup and rebuilding efforts is hard to pinpoint. But economists are beginning to make educated guesses.
Frederick R. Treyz, the chief economist of Regional Economic Models Inc., did an analysis of the possible impact of the storm.
Assuming that direct damages totaled $7 billion, Dr. Treyz projected that the recovery would generate roughly 42,000 jobs -- including construction workers, debris removers and the jobs that would be generated by the money they earned and spent elsewhere. But he calculated that one day's business disruption across the affected region -- a rough estimate that allows for some businesses that were not disrupted at all, and others that were disrupted for several days -- would lead to losses that could cost roughly 62,000 jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); POWER FAILURES (79%); FLOOD INSURANCE (79%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (79%); DISASTER RELIEF (79%); HISTORY (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (77%); INSURANCE (77%); RIVERS (77%); BEACHES (76%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); TOBACCO FARMING (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); GOVERNORS (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); ANDREW CUOMO (55%); DANNEL MALLOY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1301 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: For Lehman, Payout Plan Is Major Step In Resolution

BYLINE: By KEVIN ROOSE and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
8:39 p.m. Updated
A federal bankruptcy judge on Tuesday blessed a plan by Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy estate to pay out about $65 billionto creditors, about one-fifth of what they are owed, a major step toward winding down the investment bank.
The approval by Judge James M. Peck of the federal bankruptcy court in Manhattan, who has overseen Lehman's case, paves the way for a vote by creditors sometime this fall. 
That could lead to Lehman's ending its bankruptcy and paying off creditors as soon as early next year - some three years after its Chapter 11 filing touched off a global financial crisis and reshaped banking. Since the Sept. 15, 2008 filing, Lehman's estate has sold off significant portions of the firm's business and assets, seeking to recover some money for scores of institutions around the world.
Lehman, saddled with bad real estate assets, filed in 2008 with about $613 billion in debt. But the bankruptcy case continually whittled the amount of allowable claims down to about $320 billion. The proposed payout plan will offer creditors an average recovery of about 20 cents on the dollar - higher than estimates of 17 to 18 cents on the dollar from earlier this year.
The labyrinthine disclosure statement being considered on Tuesday - months in the making - followed clashes between Lehman and its debtholders and other institutions owed billions of dollars.
Lehman revised the scheme several times in order to earn the support of several major creditors, including Goldman Sachs and the hedge funds Elliott Management and Paulson & Company.
''There's so much money involved and so many viewpoints,'' said Evan D. Flaschen, chairman of the financial restructuring practice at the law firm of Bracewell & Giuliani, who compared the Lehman proceedings with other contentious bankruptcies like that of the Tribune Company. ''For all of them to reach common ground really is momentous.''
Lehman's disclosure statement for the plan will be sent to the estate's 110,000 creditors, who will have until Nov. 4 to vote. To pass, the plan must win approval from a majority of creditors in each class, and voters in favor of the plan must represent at least two-thirds of the dollar amount sought.
A confirmation hearing is scheduled for Dec. 6, pending approval by creditors. Lehman has said that it hopes to begin paying creditors by early next year.
In Wall Street's mind, Lehman Brothers ceased to exist when it agreed to sell its North American operations to Barclays Capital on Sept. 16, 2008, the day after it filed for bankruptcy.
But the complex unwinding of Lehman's remaining assets has proved to be an extraordinary boon for lawyers and advisers involved in the case. A recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission showed that Lehman Brothers Holdings had paid nearly $1.4 billion in legal and advisory fees in connection with its bankruptcy through July, making it the most expensive bankruptcy in history. Weil, Gotshal & Manges, the law firm representing Lehman, has alone collected more than $300 million in fees.
Final revisions to the crucial disclosure statement came in as late as Tuesday morning, when lawyers for Wells Fargo agreed to drop objections to the plan. But other creditors, including Germany's Bundesbank and the hedge fund Centerbridge Partners, still had objections.
Judge Peck overruled those objections for now, saying that they would be heard in the confirmation hearing.
The hearing on Tuesday, held in a sixth-floor courtroom so packed that it required opening two adjacent overflow rooms, lasted several hours, and included remarks from lawyers representing Lehman creditors who stated their objections to the proposed payment plan and, often, emphasized the size of their claims.
One lawyer for Bundesbank likened the proceedings to Lake Wobegon, Garrison Keillor's fictional Minnesota town, where ''all the women are strong, all the men are good-looking, and all the children are above average.''
''Everyone's claims are a little larger than normal,'' the lawyer said.
Harvey R. Miller, the lead lawyer for Lehman's estate, said he hoped Tuesday's hearing would represent ''the beginning of the end'' of Lehman's bankruptcy.
Judge Peck called the disclosure agreement's approval ''an extraordinary and noble achievement,'' and said that the lawyers on both sides had done work that ''borders on miraculous'' by bringing major groups of creditors into agreement on a plan.
Lehman Brothers' motion
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Lehman Brothers logo in a sale at Christie's auction house in London in 2010. In Wall Street's mind, the bank ceased to exist after it filed for bankruptcy in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLI SCARFF/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (91%); JUDGES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (74%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BRACEWELL & GIULIANI LLP (53%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (53%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (59%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1302 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: Governments Cut 200,000 Jobs in 2010

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Local and state governments eliminated more than 200,000 jobs in 2010, according to census data released on Tuesday. Local and state governments had 203,321 fewer full-time equivalent employees in 2010 than in 2009 and 27,567 fewer part-time employees, the Census Bureau reported. Most local governments cut full-time jobs in 2010, with the biggest decline in Rhode Island, where the work force shrank 7.7 percent. Those in North Dakota, one of few states to go through the 2007-9 recession unscathed, added jobs in 2010, with its full-time work force growing 7.5 percent in 2010. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (91%); LABOR FORCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); CENSUS (88%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (85%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1303 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: On a Postindustrial Potomac, an Old Plant Gives Way

BYLINE: By EUGENE L. MEYER

 BODY:
ALEXANDRIA, Va. -- For much of the history of this city on the Potomac, industry has dominated its waterfront, from its postcolonial role as a port for the nation's capital, to the World War I era when torpedoes were made here, to more recent years when a Ford plant handled parts distribution and warehouses stored newsprint delivered by boat.
But the area known as Old Town Alexandria became gentrified, as Federal-era town houses were renovated, and upscale restaurants and boutiques made the area a destination for tourists and others with money to spend. The Ford plant is long gone, replaced by 136 luxury town houses, and the old torpedo factory is now a venue for artists' studios and events.
Still, remnants of the city's industrial past continue to preoccupy politicians, planners and others seeking to rid the shoreline of unsightly old structures. To that end, the city has been devising a revitalization plan to replace the warehouses with hotels, condos, shops and, some citizens hope, more parks. 
Now, a nonprofit group has proposed a $450 million effort to convert a coal-fired power plant to an environmentally friendly mixed-use development. The proposal received a push this week as the city and the plant's operator, GenOn Energy of Houston, agreed to close it by Oct. 1, 2012, or ''as soon as it is no longer needed'' for regional demand, a statement the city released on Tuesday said.
The proposed development would have 89,600 square feet of office space and 114,500 square feet of stores and restaurants, 467 multifamily and 96 town house units, a 125-room hotel, recreational and open space, a center for alternative energy start-ups and a museum of the newest power technologies.
However, the group, called the American Clean Skies Foundation, does not own the property or the plant, and no developer has made an offer to acquire and redevelop them. Regardless, the foundation spent more than $500,000 on architects, environmental and real estate specialists, and even a public relations agency to produce and promote what it calls Potomac River Green. The proposal was unveiled Aug. 10 at the National Press Club in a news conference attended also by representatives from the Sierra Club and two members of the Alexandria City Council.
The American Clean Skies Foundation was founded by Aubrey K. McClendon, the chief executive of the Chesapeake Energy Corporation of Oklahoma City, one of the country's largest producers of natural gas and a competitor to the coal power industry.
''We've looked at opportunities across the states for repurposing coal plants,'' said Gregory C. Staple, the foundation's chief executive. ''We want to accelerate retirement of those inefficient and unscrubbed. Alexandria stands out.''
He said the foundation was ''delighted'' with Tuesday's announcement.
The campaign to convert such sites to other uses got help from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg on July 21. From a boat on the Potomac, with the GenOn generation station in the background, Mr. Bloomberg announced a $50 million grant from his charitable foundation to support Sierra Club efforts to close the country's coal-fired power plants.
The City of Alexandria and local residents have fought for years to close the plant, which has been cited for violations of state and federal air pollution laws and operates at only 20 percent of capacity, firing up mainly at times of peak demand. Under a court settlement, GenOn put $34 million in escrow, to mitigate the ash and particulate matter the plant's smokestacks still emit. Under the new agreement, GenOn would release the $32 million remaining in escrow.
The plant was briefly closed in 2005, but then Washington and the Department of Energy said it was needed to meet demand. In July, Washington asked the regional transmission organization to reassess the need for the plant in light of concerns about pollution.
With tough new rules expected soon from the Environmental Protection Agency, Clean Skies and its supporters said they believed the plant's days were numbered. They noted that GenOn, which is publicly traded, had called it an ''impaired asset'' in its recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. GenOn's second-quarter statement, issued on Aug. 11, said it expected some older plants to be retired ''as a result of proposed regulatory actions.''
It did not name the Potomac River plant, which occupies 25 acres near Ronald Reagan National Airport, and, initially, a spokeswoman for GenOn sought to quell expectations that the company was ready to close it.
''Impairment is a technical accounting term,'' Misty Allen, a GenOn spokeswoman, said before the agreement to close the plant was announced. ''Basically, at the time we valued the asset, the market value was less than the book value.''
On Tuesday, explaining GenOn's reversal, she said: ''All the factors for a good business decision just came together. Review of the current wholesale electricity market, low natural gas prices, low demand for energy with the slow economic recovery, and release of $32 million from the escrow account made the economics of the decision favorable for a 2012 shutdown.''
Edward R. Muller, the chairman and chief executive of GenOn, said, ''Retiring the facility next year makes sense for GenOn.'' He said it would ''work to help'' the 120 employees at the plant ''in their transition over the next year.''
The plant site is owned by Pepco, a regional electric utility, which operates a substation there. GenOn operates the plant under a 99-year lease from Pepco.
Bob Hainey, a Pepco spokesman, wrote by e-mail before Tuesday's announcement, ''The entrepreneurs at Clean Skies asked for the opportunity to present their ideas to Pepco, and we plan to meet with them in the near future.''
The Potomac waterfront has become a focus for redevelopment. Across the river, the multibillion-dollar National Harbor multiuse project has materialized in Prince George's County, Md., and Washington's plans to redevelop its waterfront are proceeding. But the future of Alexandria's waterfront near the GenOn plant awaits resolution of disputes involving the city's elected officials, planners and citizens.
The city's desire to create a continuous waterfront for public use hinges on its acquisition of two warehouses that occupy 8.3 acres and are owned by a subsidiary of the Washington Post Company. In 2008, the company sued the city over a rezoning plan it feared would devalue its property. Eventually, rather than aggressively pursuing the suit, the company agreed to participate in the planning process, resulting in a revised plan allowing for greater development.
Opposition from citizens seeking less commercial building and more public parkland led to the most recent iteration, which leans toward green space. The City Council has split over it, with some members saying it would produce less tax revenue than the earlier plan. The process is under mediation, and a vote is expected in November.
With the future of the main waterfront in limbo, the shift in focus to the GenOn site seems to offer, if not an immediate blueprint, then at least a proposal on which Alexandrians can agree.
Mayor William D. Euille said in Tuesday's statement that the announced closing was ''a path forward for both Alexandria and the power company that works for everybody and truly reflects the interest of both parties.'' He added: ''This news strengthens Alexandria's future and opens the door to an enhanced quality of life for our residents.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg went to the GenOn Energy coal-fired plant in Alexandria, Va., last month to announce a $50 million grant from his foundation to the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal Campaign to close such plants nationwide. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEWEL SAMAD/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 A rendering of planned retail, residential and recreational development at the site of the GenOn coal-fired plant on the Potomac River in Alexandria. (PHOTOGRAPH BY POTOMAC RIVER GREEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); MILITARY AMMUNITION MFG (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); RESTAURANTS (75%); RETAILERS (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); WORLD WAR I (72%); CONDOMINIUMS (72%); COAL INDUSTRY (71%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (70%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); EXECUTIVES (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (52%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORP (80%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (59%)

TICKER: CHK (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (80%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (80%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (80%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%); AUBREY K MCCLENDON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1304 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Shares Edge Higher on a Mixed Bag of Economic Reports

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Catherine Rampell contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks closed higher on Tuesday, despite new reports on consumer attitudes and housing that showed a mixed economic recovery.
The gains lifted the Dow Jones industrial average briefly into positive territory for the year, but it slipped near the end of trading.
The Dow rose 20.70 points, or 0.18 percent, to 11,559.95, just shy of the 11,577.51 at the beginning of 2011. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.84 points, or 0.23 percent, to 1,212.92, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 14 points, or 0.55 percent, to 2,576.11; both are still more than 2 percent below their levels at the year's start. 
The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 25/32, to 99 18/32, and the yield fell to 2.18 percent from 2.26 percent late Monday.
The United States markets digested a full agenda of economic data, as well as the release of Federal Reserve minutes from a meeting of the bank's policy makers this month.
The report said Fed policy makers at the Aug. 9 meeting considered changing the size or composition of the Fed's balance sheet and reducing the interest rate paid on banks' excess reserve balances. Three members dissented on a vote that promised two more years of low rates, and they agreed to consider other options at their meeting in September, which was extended.
The minutes hardly made waves, with a slight rise in stocks after the report and a brief rally in bonds.
''I think it was in line with expectations, insofar as we have known that they have been getting more into debate and disagreements with one another over what might be prudent,'' said Linda A. Duessel, equity market strategist at Federated Investors.
She said it reaffirmed a message that investors had heard from the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, in a speech last week that there is not much more the Fed can do.
Ms. Duessel and other analysts noted that the report on consumer confidence on Tuesday was one of the worst in recent years. The Conference Board consumer confidence index fell to 44.5 in August, from a reading of 59.2 in July. Stocks dipped in early trading but recovered.
Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR Inc., said the index was at its lowest level in more than two years, since a level of 40.8 in April 2009.
In a separate report, residential real estate prices in the United States showed a 3.6 percent increase in the second quarter, according to the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller national home price index. But they also had an annual decline of 5.9 percent when compared with the second quarter of 2010. Home price levels for June 2011 were below those of June last year.
Brian M. Youngberg, an energy analyst for Edward Jones, said the markets weathered the consumer confidence numbers.
''It's a mixed bag, but given everything, the market is holding up relatively well,'' Mr. Youngberg said.
Oil prices were up 2 percent, for example, which is a sign of expectations for economic growth, he said. Crude futures for October traded in New York were up slightly at $88.90 a barrel. Gold on the Comex was up more than 2 percent at $1,838.10 an ounce.
Shares in Exxon Mobil, which signed an agreement on Tuesday with Russia's top crude oil producer, Rosneft, declined 0.3 percent, to $73.91, and was the most widely traded stock on the energy index. Other top energy-related stocks rose slightly.
Philip J. Orlando, chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors, said that with a consumer report that was a ''disaster'' and the Fed minutes as expected, the attention was turning to the jobs report on Friday.
''The focus is going to be on the data,'' he added.
New nonfarm payroll jobs are forecast to be 75,000 for August, compared with 117,000 the previous month, while the unemployment rate of 9.1 percent was not expected to change.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); INTEREST RATES (65%)

COMPANY: FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (53%)

TICKER: FII (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1305 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 860 words

PERSON: Edgar M. Cullman Sr. 

HEADLINE: Edgar M. Cullman Sr. Is Dead at 93; Helped Make Cigars a Style Statement

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Edgar M. Cullman Sr., a cigar maker who worked to broaden the appeal of his product in the late 20th century, helping transform its public image from an unwieldy mobster's appendage to a cool and slim object of desire, died on Sunday at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 93.
His son, Edgar Jr., confirmed his death. 
The elder Mr. Cullman was the longtime president, chairman and chief executive of the General Cigar Company, a leading manufacturer that over the years produced some of the country's most ubiquitous cigars, including inexpensive and midpriced brands like White Owl, Tiparillo and Tijuana Smalls, and higher-priced ones like Macanudo, which has long been among the country's best-selling premium cigars.
The Cullman family, known for its multigenerational tobacco interests, was involved with General Cigar from the early 1960s until 2005, when the company was sold to Swedish Match, a maker of snuff and other tobacco products. That year, General Cigar reported sales of more than $170 million, according to Culbro, which was General Cigar's corporate parent from the 1970s to the 1990s. (Culbro is today the family's private equity company.)
Edgar Meyer Cullman was born on Jan. 7, 1918, and, as a company publicist told Business Week in 1968, was ''diapered in tobacco leaf.'' His great-grandfather Ferdinand Kullman was a wine and tobacco merchant from Germany who settled in the United States in the 1840s. Ferdinand's sons, Joseph and Jacob, founded Cullman Brothers, a tobacco brokerage house, in 1892.
Edgar's father, Joseph Jr., was an importer and grower who acquired swaths of land in the Connecticut River Valley, where much of the tobacco for cigar wrappers is grown. His father also acquired the controlling interest in the cigarette maker Benson & Hedges before selling the company to Philip Morris in the 1950s.
Edgar's brother, Joseph III, a longtime chairman and chief executive of Philip Morris who died in 2004, steered that company to immense profitability, presiding over its well-known advertising campaign, ''Come to Marlboro Country.''
Edgar Cullman earned a bachelor's degree in economics from Yale in 1940 and afterward expressed a desire to join the family business. His father secured him an apprenticeship at H. Anton Bock, a cigar maker on Second Avenue in Manhattan. There, young Mr. Cullman learned to sort and roll tobacco, making cigar after cigar by hand at his workbench.
In 1961, Edgar Cullman and a group of investors bought the controlling interest in General Cigar for about $25 million. Based in New York, the company was then the country's second-largest producer in terms of sales; its brands included White Owl, Wm. Penn, Van Dyck and Robert Burns.
Mr. Cullman was elected president and chief executive at the end of 1962. In 1963, General Cigar sold about $70 million in cigars, for about 11 percent of the market; by 1967, Business Week reported the next year, the company's revenue -- not all from cigars -- was $220 million.
Mr. Cullman entered the field at a propitious time. Postwar cigar makers had begun seeking to transform the image of their product from Edward G. Robinson gangsterism to Steve McQueen cool. They sought in particular to attract young smokers, who had long gravitated to cigarettes.
The surgeon general's report of 1964, which established a link between cigarette smoking and several serious illnesses, was the saving grace cigar makers were looking for, propelling many cigarette smokers toward cigars for the first time. (Cigar smoking was later shown to have its own associated health risks, including cancers of the mouth.)
Mr. Cullman enthusiastically capitalized on this exodus with smaller and milder cigars, including Tijuana Smalls, introduced in 1970. Designed to feel more like cigarettes in the hand and mouth, they were specifically aimed at a young market.
Under Mr. Cullman's stewardship, General Cigar also diversified its holdings to include the Bachman line of snack foods, Ex-Lax, packaging companies and real estate. The company's name was changed to Culbro in 1976.
Mr. Cullman stepped down as Culbro's president in 1981, but remained chief executive for another decade and a half and chairman until the company's sale in 2005.
In 1996, Culbro opened Club Macanudo, an upscale cigar club and restaurant on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Mr. Cullman, who also had homes in Manhattan; Jamaica, West Indies; and New Brunswick, Canada, is survived by his wife of 73 years, the former Louise Bloomingdale, of the department-store family; his son Edgar Jr., who was later president of General Cigar; two daughters, Lucy Danziger and Susan Cullman; a brother, the financier Lewis B. Cullman, who is often described as the father of the leveraged buyout; six grandchildren and three step-grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
Mr. Cullman, who enjoyed good cigars in general and, his son said, Macanudos in particular, came to cigar smoking rather late, all things considered.
''My grandfather bribed me that if I didn't smoke or drink by 21, he would buy me a car,'' Edgar Cullman told Cigar Aficionado magazine in 1994. ''He died when I was 20. I never got the car.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Louise and Edgar M. Cullman were the honored guests at a benefit for the Wildlife Conservation Society in 2002. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL CUNNINGHAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO PRODUCTS (93%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); TOBACCO MFG (91%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); FAMILY (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); ACQUISITIONS (63%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL CIGAR CO (84%); SWEDISH MATCH AB (56%); BENSON & HEDGES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (59%)

TICKER: SWMA (STO) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2121 CIGARS (84%); SIC2131 CHEWING & SMOKING TOBACCO & SNUFF (56%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (69%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1306 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEAL PROFESSOR; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: How to Deflate a Gold Bubble (That Might Not Even Exist)

BYLINE: By STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF. 
Steven M. Davidoff, a former corporate lawyer, is a professor at the Michael E. Moritz College of Law at Ohio State University. His columns can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook. Follow @StevenDavidoff on Twitter.

 BODY:
Gold is caught in a frenzy.
The price of gold reached a record high of $1,917.90 an ounce last week, not adjusted for inflation, and then promptly plummeted by about $120 an ounce. The volatile trading is again spurring claims that gold is in a bubble, one that will pop badly.
As with past booms in housing prices and Internet stocks, the four-year surge in gold prices raises the same fundamental questions for market regulators. How should they react? Should they react at all? How do they even know if a bubble exists? 
It is clear that speculation has been driving gold's rise. People are buying gold as either a hedge against inflation or economic calamity or solely because they think the price will rise. As evidence of this speculation, the World Gold Council reports that demand for gold bullion bars more than doubled from 2009, to about 850 metric tons a year. This is largely gold that is bought and sits there as people wait for price increases. Indeed, demand for gold in industry and for jewelry has actually declined by 18 percent from 2004, to about 2,500 metric tons a year, according to the World Gold Council.
This speculation is aided by the financial revolution. Previously, gold could be bought by retail investors only through dealers and street shops. Now anyone can go on the Internet, click and buy gold in the market through exchange traded funds. These funds will buy gold on the investor's behalf, and now hold about 2,250 metric tons of gold - or nearly a year's worth of output.
Speculation alone doesn't necessarily mean that gold is in a bubble. Gold is historically viewed as a protection against inflation and tumultuous economic times. It is a way to diversify a portfolio and hedge these risks. The price rise can be explained by people's rational betting that these phenomena will occur. This is particularly true in light of the heightened risks to the economy because of events in Europe and the still-lingering effects from the financial crisis in the United States.
But like paper money, gold is worth only what people believe it is worth, and because of this, it is sometimes referred to as the barbarous relic. You can't eat gold. Its industrial uses are limited. If someone else doesn't assign the same value to gold that you do, you are out of luck. For those who predict it will be valuable if society completely collapses, guns and canned goods might come in handier.
Gold's relative uselessness has helped spur talk of a bubble. The problem for regulators is whether this speculation is natural, prudent hedging or people irrationally piling ever more into a bubbly asset.
After all, Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, speculated that the stock market might be ''irrationally exuberant'' in 1996, well before the actual bubble took hold. As with the Internet bubble, we will know if a bubble truly existed only if and when gold falls.
In his book ''Irrational Exuberance,'' Robert J. Shiller of Yale University tried to set forth a test for spotting bubbles. Bubbles are created when people buy in to the next great thing. They accept that this is a game-changing asset - like housing or the Internet - that cannot fail. As more people buy the asset, the speculation and frenzy increase.
According to Professor Shiller, a crucial driver of a bubble in today's modern age is the Internet and media.
If you watch cable television, it would certainly appear that gold is in a bubble. Commercials abound for buying gold. Commentators on CNBC talk about gold hitting $2,400 an ounce, which would be a genuine record (the previous high of $850 in 1980 would be about $2,300 today, adjusted for inflation). In fairness, other CNBC commentators have said that this is foolish and that gold prices are too high. Still, the marketing of gold to the masses is an ominous sign.
Even after the downturn in prices last week, it is not clear if gold has hit its peak. Is gold still being driven by fundamentals or is it a speculators' delight?
Because of this uncertainty, regulators have acted as hesitantly as they did in the case of the Internet and housing bubbles. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange recently raised margin requirements for gold, the amount of money you can borrow to buy gold. The Singapore exchange also raised margin requirements last week. Other exchanges in other countries have not acted similarly, leading to differences that will drive gold trading to those markets.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the primary regulator of the gold market in the United States, does not appear to want to act. The agency is following form, as it also refused to act forcefully when oil jumped to more than $145 a barrel in 2008. It seems hesitant to quash speculation. The commodities regulator, though, could force American exchanges to further raise margin requirements, reducing leverage and the ability of investors to buy more gold. The agency would also have to act to limit the gold acquired individually and by the E.T.F.'s. All of these measures would have to be coordinated and put into effect on a global basis.
Those would also be very aggressive acts to attack a problem that some say doesn't even exist. This analysis could be applied to other commodities that have had huge run-ups in past years, including oil, food and other metals like silver.
In other words, not only is it hard to spot a bubble, but the measures to fight it, like restrictions on leverage and holdings, are hard and controversial to put into effect. Limiting the type of media barrages we see is also impossible in a free society.
Yet if regulators are going to stop the next bubble, they will need to act aggressively. Of course, they shouldn't act in every circumstance, but when we see volatility and speculation as is the case of gold, acting to curb these forces through limiting leverage in cooperation with international regulators would be a prudent course. This would ensure that if a crash does come, it does not have aftereffects on banks and other institutions. Even if the Commodity Futures Trading Commission is hesitant to take such steps, it could, as an initial foray, take to the media to try to ''talk down'' the speculation.
Otherwise, we're left hoping, without much basis, that people have learned that this time will not be different, something not much in evidence in the case of gold.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLD MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); HOME PRICES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1307 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 739 words

PERSON: Patrick C. Fischer 

HEADLINE: Patrick C. Fischer, 75, Early Unabomber Target

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
Patrick C. Fischer, a computer scientist whose theoretical work helped make Internet searches possible, but who was most widely known as an early target of the so-called Unabomber, died on Friday in Montgomery County, Md. He was 75.
The cause was stomach cancer, his family said. 
Mr. Fischer was a professor of computer science at Vanderbilt University in Nashville when a pipe bomb concealed in a package addressed to him exploded in his office on May 5, 1982, while he was lecturing in Puerto Rico. The package was opened by his secretary, Janet Smith, who suffered lacerations and powder burns on her chest, arms and hands. She returned to work after three weeks in the hospital.
Investigators told Professor Fischer that he was apparently the fifth person targeted by the mail bomber, who was identified in 1996 after his arrest as Theodore Kaczynski, a Harvard-trained mathematician.
Disturbing as it was because of the injuries Ms. Smith suffered, the attack came to represent a kind of unsolved equation for Professor Fischer. He later described scouring his memory for any possible links he might have had with Mr. Kaczynski in the late 1950s and early '60s, when both were graduate students in Cambridge, Mass. But while they knew many of the same people, he could not remember ever having met Mr. Kaczynski.
''He treated it like a puzzle,'' said his daughter, Carolyn Fischer, an economist in Washington. ''But there was no connection.''
Professor Fischer said he concluded that Mr. Kaczynski had gotten his name from academic journals that published his research papers. ''My original research was pure math,'' he told The Washington Post. ''Maybe I was regarded as a turncoat by this guy. I went from pure math to theoretical computer science.''
Mr. Kaczynski, who is serving a life sentence for mail bombings that killed three people and injured 28 between 1978 and 1995, singled out university professors, scientists and business leaders in a self-styled campaign against what he considered the degrading effect that modern technology and industrial development have on human life and individual freedom.
Patrick Carl Fischer was born on Dec. 3, 1935, in St. Louis to Carl and Kathleen Kirkpatrick Fischer. He grew up in Ann Arbor, Mich., where his father taught math at the University of Michigan, and graduated from the university in 1957. He earned his Ph.D. in math from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
After teaching at Harvard, Cornell and Pennsylvania State University, Professor Fischer was appointed chairman of the computer science department at Vanderbilt in 1980. (The package of explosives was initially sent to his office at Penn State before being forwarded to Vanderbilt.) He served as chairman of computer science at Vanderbilt until 1995 and retired in 1998.
Professor Fischer was among an early group of mathematicians working in the field of database theory, which was founded on the work of Edgar F. Codd, an I.B.M. scientist considered the inventor of database management. Professor Fischer's study of the mathematics of query languages -- the mechanics of database searches -- was crucial in the development of systems now commonly employed by Google, Amazon and every other Web site with a search box.
But while the commercial application of his work helped give birth to a generation of billionaires, Professor Fischer never regretted remaining a scholar and teacher. ''He was an academic,'' said Dirk Van Gucht, a professor of computer science at Indiana University and former student of Professor Fischer. ''And he was a wonderful teacher.''
In 1968, Professor Fischer founded the Special Interest Group on Automata and Computation Theory, one of the first organizations to promote communication among widely dispersed computer researchers.
Besides his daughter, he is survived by his wife, Charlotte Froese Fischer, a professor of computer science at Vanderbilt; a son, Carl, of Chattanooga, Tenn.; and a brother, Michael, a professor of computer science at Yale.
In wrestling with the Kaczynski puzzle, Professor Fischer reviewed a period in the early 1960s when he taught math at Harvard while Mr. Kaczynski was a student there. But Mr. Kazcynski's specialty, complex variables analysis, was so abstruse that Professor Fischer considered it unlikely that Mr. Kaczynski would have taken one of his classes, he told an interviewer.
''I couldn't have understood his thesis,'' Professor Fischer said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patrick C. Fischer (PHOTOGRAPH BY VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); MATHEMATICS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (76%); CANCER (72%); BURN INJURIES (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); APPOINTMENTS (62%); SENTENCING (62%); GASTROINTESTINAL CANCER (57%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (83%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1308 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Divisions at Fed Meeting Led to a Compromise on Interest Rates

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
No one knows what to do to fix the economy.
At their meeting this month, Federal Reserve policy makers were in strong disagreement, with some advocating aggressive options to stimulate the economy and others pressing to do nothing, according to minutes released on Tuesday.
At the time of the Aug. 9 meeting, the Fed disclosed three dissenting votes -- unusual given that most decisions are reached by consensus -- but it was not known until Tuesday that there was such a broad array of disagreement and such vigorous debate about the options. 
In the end, the Federal Open Market Committee took a middle ground, agreeing to keep interest rates near zero through mid-2013.
In addition to debate about the Fed's approach to aiding the recovery, the meeting was dominated by sobering assessments of the economy's disappointing performance this summer and downgrades for growth in the next few months. Since the meeting, the government reported that the economy expanded only 0.7 percent in the first six months of the year.
The meeting minutes for the most part do not identify the members or their views. But some members wanted to engage in another round of so-called quantitative easing, or huge asset purchases, which has become a charged topic in the Republican presidential primary campaign. Some wanted merely to change the composition of the assets the Fed already has. Some wanted to reduce the interest rate the Fed pays banks for their excess reserve balances.
And some wanted to do nothing.
''Some participants judged that none of the tools available to the committee would likely do much to promote a faster economic recovery,'' the minutes said.
This broad array of proposals may shed some light on why Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, spent so much of his long-awaited speech last week in Jackson Hole, Wyo., talking about what Congress, rather than the Fed, should do to help the economy: because even within the Fed there is no consensus on the correct course.
At the Aug. 9 meeting, the members ultimately decided to stretch out their next gathering, in September, to a two-day meeting in part because there was so much disagreement, and Fed officials wanted more time to debate their options.
Officials also came to a temporary policy compromise by giving markets clearer guidance on how long interest rates would continue to hover around zero. Some committee members said they wanted to set a calendar deadline, and others preferred to instead peg interest rates to a specific rate of unemployment or inflation.
The calendar-deadline version won out, and in its public statement the Fed pledged to keep its benchmark short-term interest rate at ''exceptionally low levels,'' for ''at least through mid-2013.''
There were three dissenters: Richard W. Fisher, Narayana Kocherlakota and Charles I. Plosser.
Not only did they disagree with the mid-2013 language, they all disagreed for slightly different reasons.
Mr. Fisher said he did not think further monetary easing would do much, since he ''felt that it was chiefly nonmonetary factors, such as uncertainty about fiscal and regulatory initiatives, that were restraining domestic capital expenditures, job creation and economic growth.''
Mr. Kocherlakota said he did not believe more easing was appropriate because unemployment had fallen and inflation had risen over the previous year.
And Mr. Plosser worried that the ''until at least mid-2013'' language might indicate that the Fed's actions were ''no longer contingent on how the economic outlook evolved,'' that the Fed's outlook was ''excessively negative'' and that the measure would be ineffective at stimulating growth in any case.
The minutes also said that policy makers had expected economic conditions over the summer to have been much better than they turned out and that the Fed was downgrading its projections for economic growth for 2011 and 2012.
Even though some temporary factors might be weighing down the economy, the minutes said, there was worry that ''the underlying strength of the economic recovery remained uncertain.''
The participants at the recent Fed meeting did not believe the economy was on the brink of another recession, but some unnamed members indicated that, ''with the recovery still somewhat tentative, the economy was vulnerable to adverse shocks.''
Fed officials voiced particular concern about ''a deterioration in labor market conditions,'' and debated what the longer-term consequences of such high and sustained levels of unemployment might be.
Staff members slightly raised their forecasts for inflation for the rest of this year, indicating that the central bank might be especially unlikely to engage in another round of major asset purchases. These purchases generally raise prices, and the Fed has previously engaged in such quantitative easing in part because policy makers worried that prices might otherwise start falling.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Federal Reserve, under Ben S. Bernanke, is in a deep debate on how to bolster the nation's economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
Three Federal Reserve officials disagreed with the Aug. 9 ruling on interest rates, for slightly different reasons: from left, Richard W. Fisher, Charles I. Plosser and Narayana Kocherlakota. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS RANK/BLOOMBERG NEWS
BRADLEY C. BOWER/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 CRAIG LASSIG/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1309 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: As Refugees From Haiti Linger, Dominicans' Good Will Fades

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
CHENE, Dominican Republic -- They have been blamed for spreading cholera, taking jobs and driving up crime, and now, with memories of the earthquake and the bonhomie it generated rapidly fading, this country is taking action: it is deporting Haitian refugees, turning them away from the border and generally making their lives difficult.
The police and military near the border, with little more to go on than darker skin color and a failure to produce identification, have stopped cars and buses and forced them to Haiti, human rights groups say. The Dominicans also are using a new law to deny citizenship to children of illegal immigrants and deport people who had been born and lived here for years, advocacy groups contend.
The deportations are a sign of impatience with the limping recovery in Haiti and the waning international sympathy for its enduring troubles. Haiti and its international donors are far behind in helping the hundreds of thousands still living in makeshift camps and the millions without formal jobs, a crisis worsened by a political stalemate that has blocked Haiti's new president, Michel Martelly, from forming a new government more than 100 days after taking office. 
''It's kind of an unsolvable issue,'' said Robert Maguire, a Haiti scholar at George Washington University. ''The truth is when Haitians leave, to the Dominican Republic and other places, they tend to do well or at least better than in Haiti, so they keep leaving.''
Several countries bestowed an effective grace period on Haitian migrants and refugees after the earthquake on Jan. 12, 2010, but that appears to be ending. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees recently urged countries to reverse a new wave of deportations to Haiti because conditions remain precarious there.
Haiti ''cannot yet ensure adequate protection or care especially for some vulnerable groups in case of return,'' the statement said.
Deportees have also come from Jamaica and the Bahamas, according to aid organizations in Haiti. The United States resumed deporting Haitians several months after the quake, and American immigration officials say they expect to deport some 700 this year, focusing on people convicted of crimes.
Dominican officials say they have borne the brunt of both quake refugees and recent economic migrants, adding to a steady flow of people from Haiti who have slipped through the porous border for decades to cut sugar cane, harvest coffee beans, work construction and do other low-wage jobs.
Last week, Jose Ricardo Taveras, the nation's new immigration director, a member of a political party known for its hard line on immigration, lashed out at the United Nations for failing to slow the influx. Last month, he cited estimates of the 500,000 or more Haitians in this country, telling local journalists that ''nobody can resist an invasion of that nature'' and that thousands of Haitians had been deported.
Right after the earthquake, the Dominican Republic, a nation with a history of both conflict and cooperation with Haiti, its poorer sibling on the island of Hispaniola, was among the first to offer aid. It sent teams to assess the damage and deliver food and medicine, eased visa requirements to allow the injured into Dominican hospitals and opened staging areas for relief shipments.
The good will was a welcome departure from the notorious low points between the neighbors -- most notably the massacre of thousands of Haitians by the Dominican military in 1937 -- and raised hopes of a tighter bond.
But the unemployment rate is high here -- at about 14 percent last year, it is among the highest in Latin America -- and cholera, which has killed nearly 6,000 in Haiti since October, has killed more than 90 in the Dominican Republic, many of them Haitian migrants.
This spring, banners sprang up in Santiago, Mr. Taveras's hometown, calling on Haitians to go home. Protests erupted over the refugees' presence, and a number of migrants fled.
''We are defending our sovereignty because Dominican manpower has been practically eliminated in construction,'' Juan Francisco Consuegra, a community leader there, told reporters during a demonstration.
The tension became pitched enough that the International Organization for Migration offered a way out: paying Haitians $50 apiece, plus additional relocation assistance, to go home willingly. More than 1,500 have gone back through the program.
''Anything is better than the conditions we are in now,'' said Bernier Noel, who registered to leave. The earthquake flattened his house in Haiti. Now he cannot wait to return.
Mr. Noel arrived here with friends a few months after the earthquake, after hearing that jobs and money were plentiful. He lives in a lean-to, bathes in bug-infested water and picks coffee beans at an unrelenting pace under an unforgiving sun for about $3 a day.
Never did he imagine that the devastation he saw in Haiti would seem a step up, but at least there are friends willing to take him in while he tries to revive a meager business selling shoes on the street.
Dominican officials said they had gone out of their way to assuage the crisis in Haiti. The deportations, they insist, are aimed at recent arrivals and, in the case of numerous children found to have been smuggled in to beg or work as prostitutes, have been done with the help of nongovernmental organizations.
Alejandra Hernandez, the minister counselor at the Dominican Embassy in Washington, said Dominican health authorities spent more than $11 million for emergency aid in the month after the earthquake, and $27 million in 2010. But refugees are now an economic burden, Ms. Hernandez said, using health, police and other services.
Their arrival ''follows a long-established pattern of economic migration, which for years has placed great demands on our country's capacity,'' she said, noting that in the first half of 2010, one-sixth of all live births in her country's public hospitals were to Haitian mothers.
For Haitians in the Dominican Republic, life is getting tougher, which may be the point.
Gabriel G. Teodoro, 31, said he lost his job as a messenger at a law firm because he could not renew his national identity card. Although born in the Dominican Republic -- and ignorant of the Haitian language or culture -- he was turned away at the immigration office under the new law because his parents were illegal immigrants, Mr. Teodoro said.
''This country benefits from our labor, but I am being denied because of my Haitian heritage,'' he said. His is one of dozens of cases human rights advocates are appealing.
On a recent morning here, a stream of Haitian migrants walked out from their hovels in the brush to fill a church and register to leave under the International Organization for Migration's program.
Pedite Francois came clutching his 14-month-old daughter, Cedita. ''It is hard to find work,'' he said. ''A day without work is a day without food.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Some Haitians are being paid to leave the Dominican Republic.(A1)
 Benie Boner, left, was photographed and fingerprinted last month in Chene, Dominican Republic, in the International Organization for Migration's project to help Haitian refugees repatriate. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (92%); DEPORTATION (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); TROPICAL DISEASES (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EARTHQUAKES (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); POLITICS (72%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%); SUGAR FARMING (50%); COFFEE FARMING (50%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR MIGRATION (59%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: MICHEL MARTELLY (57%); RICK PERRY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (99%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BAHAMAS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1310 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: The New Resentment of the Poor: The problem is how many Americans are poor, not how much tax they pay

 BODY:
In a decade of frenzied tax-cutting for the rich, the Republican Party just happened to lower tax rates for the poor, as well. Now several of the party's most prominent presidential candidates and lawmakers want to correct that oversight and raise taxes on the poor and the working class, while protecting the rich, of course.
These Republican leaders, who think nothing of widening tax loopholes for corporations and multimillion-dollar estates, are offended by the idea that people making less than $40,000 might benefit from the progressive tax code. They are infuriated by the earned income tax credit (the pride of Ronald Reagan), which has become the biggest and most effective antipoverty program by giving working families thousands of dollars a year in tax refunds. They scoff at continuing President Obama's payroll tax cut, which is tilted toward low- and middle-income workers and expires in December. 
Until fairly recently, Republicans, at least, have been fairly consistent in their position that tax cuts should benefit everyone. Though the Bush tax cuts were primarily for the rich, they did lower rates for almost all taxpayers, providing a veneer of egalitarianism. Then the recession pushed down incomes severely, many below the minimum income tax level, and the stimulus act lowered that level further with new tax cuts. The number of families not paying income tax has risen from about 30 percent before the recession to about half, and, suddenly, Republicans have a new tool to stoke class resentment.
Representative Michele Bachmann noted recently that 47 percent of Americans do not pay federal income tax; all of them, she said, should pay something because they benefit from parks, roads and national security. (Interesting that she acknowledged government has a purpose.) Gov. Rick Perry, in the announcement of his candidacy, said he was dismayed at the ''injustice'' that nearly half of Americans do not pay income tax. Jon Huntsman Jr., up to now the most reasonable in the Republican presidential field, said not enough Americans pay tax.
Representative Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, and several senators have made similar arguments, variations of the idea expressed earlier by Senator Dan Coats of Indiana that ''everyone needs to have some skin in the game.''
This is factually wrong, economically wrong and morally wrong. First, the facts: a vast majority of Americans have skin in the tax game. Even if they earn too little to qualify for the income tax, they pay payroll taxes (which Republicans want to raise), gasoline excise taxes and state and local taxes. Only 14 percent of households pay neither income nor payroll taxes, according to the Tax Policy Center at the Brookings Institution. The poorest fifth paid an average of 16.3 percent of income in taxes in 2010.
Economically, reducing the earned income tax credit and the child tax credit -- which would be required if everyone paid income taxes -- makes no sense at a time of high unemployment. The credits, which only go to working people, have always been a strong incentive to work, as even some conservative economists say, and have increased the labor force while reducing the welfare rolls.
The moral argument would have been obvious before this polarized year. Nearly 90 percent of the families that paid no income tax make less than $40,000, most much less. The real problem is that so many Americans are struggling on such a small income, not whether they pay taxes. The two tax credits lifted 7.2 million people out of poverty in 2009, including four million children. At a time when high-income households are paying their lowest share of federal taxes in decades, when corporations frequently avoid paying any tax, it is clear who should bear a larger burden and who should not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAX LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); FUEL TAX (73%); EXCISE TAX (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); JON HUNTSMAN (58%); RICK PERRY (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); DAN COATS (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1311 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Tax Me More, Europe's Wealthy Say

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER; Elisabetta Povoledo contributed reporting from Milan.

 BODY:
LONDON -- Echoing a call by Warren E. Buffett, members of the European wealthy elite are urging their governments to raise their taxes or enact special levies to help reduce growing budget deficits.
Maurice Levy, chairman and chief executive of the French advertising firm Publicis, on Tuesday became the latest European business leader to ask for higher taxes on top earners, writing in The Financial Times that it was ''only fair that the most privileged members of our society should take up a heavier share of this national burden.''
''I am not a masochist; I do not love taxes,'' wrote Mr. Levy, who is also president of a French association of private enterprises. ''But right now this is important and just.'' 
The moves come after a similar proposition by Mr. Buffett, the billionaire investor and founder of Berkshire Hathaway. Mr. Buffett wrote in an Op-Ed article in The New York Times on Aug. 14 that the United States should stop ''coddling'' the rich and raise the top income tax rate in an effort to reduce the deficit.
Mr. Buffett's comments started a debate among some of Europe's elite as to whether austerity measures in some countries were too punishing for the poor while sparing the rich.
The multimillionaire chairman of Ferrari, Luca di Montezemolo, backed Mr. Buffett's idea in an interview with the Rome daily La Repubblica. ''I am rich and I am ready to pay more taxes, for reasons of fairness and solidarity,'' Mr. Montezemolo told the newspaper.
This month, 16 of France's wealthiest people, including the chief executive of the energy giant Total and the L'Oreal heiress Liliane Bettencourt, signed a petition published in the magazine Le Nouvel Observateur urging the French government to tax them more. Other signatories were the chief executives of Societe Generale, Airbus and PSA Peugeot-Citroen.
A group of about 50 wealthy individuals in Germany, who have been campaigning for a higher top tax rate since 2009, said last week that it welcomed the French petition. ''Austerity programs, which affect mainly the poor, are ill-suited to solve the crisis,'' said the group, whose name in German means the Initiative of the Wealthy for a Wealth Tax.
On the Continent, government attitudes toward taxing the wealthy have so far been mixed. The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, last week announced a 3 percent increase of the tax on the wealthiest individuals, which is expected to generate about $288 million a year.
In Italy, however, there were signs as recently as Monday that Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi could be backpedaling on similar measures. The government on Monday dropped plans for a bonus tax on Italians earning more than 90,000 euros ($130,000) a year even though it would still apply to members of Parliament.
Some analysts said the calls for greater sacrifice from Europe's wealthy might have sprung from growing concern that austerity measures in Europe were leading to social unrest, after protests in Greece and Spain and images of burning police cars and shops in the streets of London.
Jean-Philippe Delsol, of the Institute for Research in Economic and Fiscal Issues in France, said he found ''surprising'' the recent eagerness of top earners to volunteer to pay higher taxes.
''Maybe some are ashamed by what they earn,'' he said. ''But they can just ask to be paid less.''
Mr. Delsol said his research showed that higher top tax rates did not necessarily lead to larger tax revenue for governments because, for example, they could act as a disincentive to earn.
In Britain, where no top executive has yet joined the call for raising tax rates, the government is investigating whether the current rate of 50 percent on those making at least $:150,000 (about $245,000) has actually improved public finances.
A spokesman for Britain's business lobby group, the Confederation of British Industry, said Tuesday that it would continue to push for the abolition of the 50 percent top tax rate because it was ''unhelpful in terms of attracting business people and entrepreneurs.''
The silence among Britain's business elite on the issue has started to irk some commentators. ''Where is Britain's Warren Buffett or Liliane Bettencourt?'' asked Polly Toynbee, a columnist for The Guardian newspaper.
Britain and Japan have the highest top tax rates among Group of 8 industrialized countries, according to the accounting firm KPMG.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PETITIONS (86%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); INCOME TAX (66%)

COMPANY: L'OREAL SA (93%); PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (84%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (83%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (58%); AIRBUS SAS (58%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%)

TICKER: OR (PAR) (93%); OR (BIT) (93%); UG (PAR) (84%); PUB (PAR) (58%); BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%); GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (93%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (90%); MAURICE LEVY (88%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (57%); LILIANE BETTENCOURT (57%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (88%); ITALY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1312 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Where Pay For Chiefs Outstrips U.S. Taxes

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
At least 25 top United States companies paid more to their chief executives in 2010 than they did to the federal government in taxes, according to a study released on Wednesday.
The companies -- which include household names like eBay, Boeing, General Electric and Verizon -- averaged $1.9 billion each in profits, according to the study by the Institute for Policy Studies, a liberal-leaning research group. But a variety of shelters, loopholes and tax reduction strategies allowed the companies to average $304 million each in tax benefits -- which can be taken as a refund or used as write-off against earnings in future years.
The chief executives of those companies were paid an average of more than $16 million a year, the study found, a figure substantially higher than the $10.8 million average for all companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. 
The financial data in the report was taken from the companies' regulatory filings, which can differ from what is actually filed on a corporate tax return. Even in a year when a company claims an overall tax benefit, it may pay some cash taxes while accumulating credits that can be redeemed in future years. For instance, General Electric reported a federal tax benefit of more than $3 billion in 2010, but company officials said they still expected to pay a small amount of cash taxes.
The authors of the study, which examined the regulatory filings of the 100 companies with the best-paid chief executives, said that their findings suggested that current United States policy was rewarding tax avoidance rather than innovation.
''We have no evidence that C.E.O.'s are fashioning, with their executive leadership, more effective and efficient enterprises,'' the study concluded. ''On the other hand, ample evidence suggests that C.E.O.'s and their corporations are expending considerably more energy on avoiding taxes than perhaps ever before -- at a time when the federal government desperately needs more revenue to maintain basic services for the American people.''
The study comes at a time when business leaders have been lobbying for a cut in corporate taxes and Congress and the Obama administration are considering an overhaul of the tax code to reduce the federal budget deficit.
Many business leaders say that the top corporate statutory rate of 35 percent, which is higher than any country except Japan, is hobbling the economy and making it difficult for domestic companies to compete with overseas rivals. A coalition led by high-technology companies and pharmaceutical manufacturers have been pushing for a ''repatriation holiday,'' which would let them bring as much as $1 trillion in foreign profits back to the United States at substantially reduced rates.
But the Obama administration has said it will consider lowering the corporate rate only if Congress agrees to eliminate enough loopholes and tax subsidies to pay for any drop in revenue. Many policy experts estimate that the United States could lower its corporate rate to the high 20s if it eliminated the maze of tax breaks that favor specific industries and investors.
The report found, however, that many of the nation's largest and highly profitable companies paid far less than the statutory rate.
Verizon, which earned $11.9 billion in pretax United States profits, received a federal tax refund of $705 million. The company's chairman, Ivan Seidenberg, meanwhile, received $18.1 million in compensation. The online retailer eBay reported pretax profits of $848 million and received a $113 million federal refund. John Donahoe, eBay's chief executive, collected a compensation package worth $12.4 million, the study said.
Verizon and eBay officials disputed the report. Robert Varretoni, a company spokesman, said that the $18 million in compensation for Mr. Seidenberg was a target, which will only be paid in full if the company stock rises when his bonus is fully vested in three years. Mr. Varretoni also said it was misleading of the report to cite Verizon's tax benefit without noting that the company also incurred billions of dollars in deferred taxes which ''will be paid over time.''
''The fact is, Verizon fully complies with all tax laws and pays its fair share of taxes,'' Mr. Varretoni said.
John Pluhowski, eBay's vice president for corporate communications, said on Wednesday that the study did not accurately portray the taxes paid by the company in 2010. Mr. Pluhowski said that eBay had paid $646 million in taxes to federal and local governments worldwide in 2010, much of it in the United States. The $131 million tax benefit eBay reported on its U.S. federal taxes was due, in large part, to accounting adjustments made after the company settled several audits with the I.R.S. for previous years' taxes. (EBay was asked to comment on Tuesday before this article was published, but did not respond.)
Chaz Bickers, a Boeing spokesman, said that the company's taxes have declined in recent years because it has made huge investments in United States manufacturing.
Mr. Bickers said that the company also paid hundreds of millions in cash taxes and incurred an additional $1 billion in deferred taxes that it will pay at some date in the future.
''We pay our taxes and we have added 5,000 more U.S. manufacturing jobs that were incentivized by tax benefits,'' he said.While the accounting strategies used to lower taxes varied from company to company, the report found that 18 of the 25 corporations had offshore subsidiaries, which can be used to shelter income.
To discourage companies from gaming the tax system, the report called for tighter rules on offshore tax havens and new restrictions on write-offs for executive compensation.
''Instead of sharing responsibility for addressing our nation's fiscal challenges,'' said Chuck Collins, a senior scholar at the institute who co-wrote the study, ''corporations are rewarding C.E.O.'s for aggressive tax avoidance.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 1, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about a report contrasting federal tax payments with the chief executive's pay at 25 American corporations included an inaccurate estimate of the average tax benefit received by the companies because of a miscalculation by the report's author, the Institute for Policy Studies. The average benefit is $304 million, not more than $400 million. The article also misstated the position of Ivan Seidenberg at Verizon, one of the companies in the report. He is chairman, not chief executive. (Mr. Seidenberg stepped down as chief executive on Aug. 1.) The error was repeated in a picture caption.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Verizon's chief, Ivan Seidenberg, earned $18.1 million in 2010
the company got a tax refund. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA RAUCH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 John Donahoe, eBay's chief, collected a compensation package over $12 million, while eBay got a $113 million federal refund. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIM WHITE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LOBBYING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); LIBERALISM (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); TAX REFORM (71%); WRITERS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); BOEING CO (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR POLICY STUDIES (57%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%)

PERSON: IVAN SEIDENBERG (58%); JOHN DONAHOE (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2011



1313 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Settling a Score, and Matters of Manhood, on Behalf of Rock Royalty

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
JAGGER
Rebel, Rock Star, Rambler, Rogue
By Marc Spitz
Illustrated. 310 pages. Gotham Books. $26.
The Rolling Stones' ''Bigger Bang'' album included a song called ''Oh No, Not You Again.'' A lot of readers may join in on that refrain at the news that the Stones are back on the bookshelves with ''Jagger,'' another rehashing of grievances between a certain snake-hipped singer and a louche guitar man. Next year these two will hit their golden anniversary and be able to celebrate 50 years at each other's throat.
When Keith Richards's ''Life'' arrived last year, nice things were said about Mr. Richards, whose book said nasty things about Mick Jagger. Mr. Jagger has not struck back with his own side of the story. But Marc Spitz's ''Jagger'' is an eager hagiography that takes aim at Mr. Richards while trumpeting Mr. Jagger's overlooked fine qualities. Although Mr. Spitz calls himself a neutral party, ''Jagger'' is out to settle scores. 
It begins with bait and switch. What if Mick Jagger is ''a man whom we don't really like anymore?'' And ''how did this guy remain a constant presence in popular culture for 50 years and not, for one instance in that half-century, seem like ... our pal?''
This line of questioning should not be taken seriously and is quickly revealed to be disingenuous. Mr. Spitz's real intent is to tick off the main complaints that have been leveled against Mr. Jagger over the years, then to explain how wrongheaded they are. He credits Mr. Jagger with backhanded brilliance that has been missed and dissed.
Mr. Spitz (an occasional contributor to The New York Times who blogs wittily on his own site and Vanity Fair's) used to write for Blender, a music magazine that stuck Mr. Jagger between Yanni and Yngwie Malmsteen on its list of all-time worst rock stars. So he is hard-core about musicians' rivalries. In that spirit, he has used the Mick/Keith dichotomy as the basis for ''a parlor game for my rock-snob friends and peers,'' which poses the question of which Stone they would rather be. Most are suckers for Keith.
''But if you explore the facts and hear the stories beyond the public images, it's Mick in a blink,'' Mr. Spitz writes.
A blink? Not exactly. The reasoning in ''Jagger'' takes more strenuous acrobatics than that. Wasn't it braver, this book asks, for Mr. Jagger to choose a rock 'n' roll career than it was for Mr. Richards, who lacked other options? Mr. Jagger had to drop out of the London School of Economics, where the Latin motto is ''Rerum cognoscere causas.'' Mr. Spitz translates that as ''to know the cause of things.'' He further translates it to mean that Mick cared about serious economic studies, not about making money, though he has been accused of having mercenary motives and a dearth of philanthropic ones.
To his credit, Mr. Spitz knows enough about the Stones' history to pick good shots and leave out the dull stuff. So this book has a full chapter about ''T.A.M.I. Show,'' the mind-blowing 1964 concert film in which the Beach Boys, the Stones, Chuck Berry, Lesley Gore, the Supremes, Gerry and the Pacemakers and James Brown (among others) all turned up on the same stage. Mr. Spitz talks to Steve Binder, who directed ''T.A.M.I. Show,'' and tackles the enduring impression that the Stones almost committed career suicide by following Brown, whose theatrics and fancy footwork on this occasion were arguably his very best. According to Mr. Binder, Brown, when told that the Stones had top billing, just smiled. Then he said, ''Nobody follows James Brown.''
But the Stones had to do it. (They also had no choice.) And Mr. Spitz has an insightful take on this pivotal moment in Mr. Jagger's career. He perfectly captures the rest of the band at that event: ''Brian burned with hard charisma. Keith looked geeky. Charlie and Bill looked like gargoyles in training.'' But Mick was transformed.
''You can see him experimenting with his own body,'' Mr. Spitz writes. ''Here, perhaps, the Mick Jagger of '69 was truly born.''
Among the book's other claims: that the 1965 incident in which the Stones were caught urinating outside a gas station was a ''water-passing, watershed moment''; that the druggy Mr. Jagger ''used acid to develop the mind in the same way he used exercise to develop the body''; that Mr. Jagger discovered ''in an honest and commendable way, by actually trying and failing to fight,'' that he was better off singing about a street-fighting man than being one; and that Mr. Jagger knew how to use potentially Stones-unfriendly developments, like the advents of punk rock and music video, to his advantage.
His marriage to Bianca Jagger is seen here as a stroke of genius, the apotheosis of Mr. Jagger's quest for a high-low aesthetic or something along those lines. As for Mr. Richards's hostility to Bianca: ''Her campaigns for human rights get high marks from the elderly [sic] Keith, but the young pirate's style was cramped. He was unable to breathe for all the jet-fuel fumes.''
Mr. Spitz also equates the Stones' fighting over Anita Pallenberg, eventually Mr. Richards's longtime companion, with William Golding's ''Lord of the Flies.'' He says that Mr. Jagger's accepting a knighthood created a nice occasion for him to bring his children to Buckingham Palace. And he supplies evidence to debunk Mr. Richards's well-publicized assessment of Mr. Jagger's manhood.
''Let's call it average,'' Mr. Spitz says, citing a nude photo of John Lennon as a point of comparison. In other words, no detail about Mr. Jagger is too small to be debated here.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mick Jagger, above, with James Brown backstage at the filming of the 1964 concert film ''T.A.M.I. Show,'' and, above right, joking around at the RCA studios in Los Angeles in 1965. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BOB BONIS/2269 PRODUCTIONS, VIA NOT FADE AWAY GALLERY)
 Mr. Jagger with the Rolling Stones' guitarist Keith Richards, whose 2010 book, ''Life,'' was not too kind to his band mate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE BRYKSA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (62%)

PERSON: MICK JAGGER (93%); KEITH RICHARDS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

TITLE: Jagger (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1314 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Tight Budget? Look to the 'Cloud'

BYLINE: By VIVEK KUNDRA. 
Vivek Kundra, the Obama administration's chief information officer from 2009 until this month, is a fellow at the Berkman Center for Internet and Society and the Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy, both at Harvard.

 BODY:
Cambridge, Mass.
AS the global economy struggles through a slow and painful recovery, governments around the world are wasting billions of dollars on unnecessary information technology. This problem has worsened in recent years because of what I call the ''I.T. cartel.'' This powerful group of private contractors encourages reliance on inefficient software and hardware that is expensive to acquire and to maintain.
In one particularly egregious example of waste, the Defense Department last year pulled the plug on a personnel system devised by Northrop Grumman after spending approximately $850 million on it in 10 years. 
When I joined the Obama administration as the chief information officer, we quickly discovered vast inefficiencies in the $80 billion federal I.T. budget. We also saw an opportunity to increase productivity and save costs by embracing the ''cloud computing'' revolution: the shift from hardware and software that individuals, businesses and governments buy and then maintain themselves, to low-cost, maintenance-free services that are based on the Internet and run by private companies.
Examples of cloud computing companies include Web behemoths like Amazon and Google, which offer a variety of services (data storage or e-mail, for example), as well as companies like salesforce.com, which helps businesses manage customer relationships via social networks. Other services and applications include health care access, mobile energy management and storm recovery assistance. Most cloud-based services are either free for consumers or delivered via a monthly subscription service for businesses. According to the research firm Gartner, cloud computing will be a $149 billion industry by 2015.
Like a large office building, cloud data centers are efficient: many different tenants occupy the same space, sharing the same critical infrastructure, yet each tenant still has its own secure, customizable space. For example, in preparation for the 2010 census, the Census Bureau used the cloud computing services of salesforce.com to expand its I.T. capabilities, saving the cost and time of purchasing, designing and installing a brand-new I.T. infrastructure.
Shortly after the Obama administration took office, we instituted a ''Cloud First'' policy, which advocates the adoption of cloud services by government agencies and mandates the transition of at least three projects for every agency to the cloud by next summer.
Some agencies, like the General Services Administration, have embraced cloud computing; the agency has cut the I.T. costs on things as simple as its e-mail system by over 50 percent. But other agencies have balked. The State Department, for instance, has raised concerns about whether the cloud approach introduces security risks, since data is stored off site by private contractors.
But cloud computing is often far more secure than traditional computing, because companies like Google and Amazon can attract and retain cyber-security personnel of a higher quality than many governmental agencies. And government employees are so accustomed to using cloud services like Dropbox and Gmail in their personal lives that, even if their agencies don't formally permit cloud computing, they use it for work purposes anyway, creating a ''shadow I.T.'' that leads to a more vulnerable organization than would a properly overseen cloud computing system.
The United States cannot afford to be left behind in the cloud computing revolution. In health care alone, a productivity increase of 1 percent in the next 10 years -- much of which could be achieved with cloud-based services -- represents a $300 billion value. Similar efficiencies could be realized in sectors like financial services, education and manufacturing.
Consider the example of Japan, which has faced significant economic challenges for two decades. The government's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry estimates that the Japanese cloud computing market is likely to reach $20.1 billion by 2015 and is implementing a cloud initiative as a key tenet of its national economic strategy.
Similar growth is predicted for India, where the cloud market is projected to grow to $3 billion by 2015 and create 100,000 jobs. As foreign governments prioritize investment in the cloud, the United States cannot hesitate because of hypothetical security threats that serve the entrenched interests of the I.T. cartel.
One of the critical remaining issues concerning cloud computing is whether cloud data can and should flow between nations and what restrictions should be placed upon it. The next step should be the creation of a global Cloud First policy that forces nations to work together and resolve these critical issues. The United States, along with leading nations in Europe and Asia, has an opportunity to announce such an initiative at the World Economic Forum meeting in January.
The budget crisis will accelerate the move toward cloud services. Governments, businesses and consumers all have a lot to gain, but not everyone will have an equal say at the table. Public and private organizations that preserve the status quo of wasteful spending will be punished, while those that embrace the cloud will be rewarded with substantial savings and 21st-century jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CLOUD COMPUTING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (77%); CENSUS (73%); CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (71%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); NOC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (57%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1315 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Exxon Reaches Arctic Oil Deal With Russians

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- Exxon Mobil won a coveted prize in the global petroleum industry Tuesday with an agreement to explore for oil in a Russian portion of the Arctic Ocean that is being opened for drilling even as Alaskan waters remain mostly off limits.
The agreement seemed to supersede a similar but failed deal that Russia's state oil company, Rosneft, reached with the British oil giant BP this year -- with a few striking differences.
Where BP had planned to swap stock, Exxon, which is based in Texas, agreed to give Rosneft assets elsewhere in the world, including some that Exxon owns in the deepwater zones of the Gulf of Mexico and on land in Texas.
In announcing the arrangement at a surprise signing in the Russian resort town of Sochi, Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin described a sweeping global alliance -- and a potentially vast investment by Exxon in the Russian Arctic. 
''The scale of the investment is very large,'' Mr. Putin said. ''It's scary to utter such huge figures.''
But while Russian news agencies said Mr. Putin had stated the potential investments by both companies to be as high as $500 billion, Exxon officials said the figures, at least initially, would more likely be in the tens of billions of dollars.
For Exxon, which is America's largest company and is a spinoff of the original Standard Oil, the deal means wading deeper into Russia's risky business environment. As a result of the agreement, which is almost certain to require a review in Washington, more of the company's investments and future earnings will partly hinge on policies set in the Kremlin.
Russia has reneged on deals with Western oil companies before. In 2006, for example, it compelled Royal Dutch Shell to sell 50 percent of a Sakhalin offshore development to Gazprom, a state company -- after Shell spent a decade and more than $20 billion of its own money and that of other investors to build the project's infrastructure.
Until now, Exxon's principal investment in Russia has been a production sharing agreement on Sakhalin Island, on Russia's eastern coast. That arrangement, which waives local taxes and provides the Russian government a share of the oil produced, is regarded as less risky than the deal made Tuesday.
Under the new agreement, the state-owned Rosneft could become a part-owner of drilling operations in the United States. Those operations could include two of the industry's most contentious oil extraction methods -- drilling for oil in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico and using the so-called hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, technique on land. The Russians want to learn about both types of drilling for use at home.
The Rosneft deal would also be among the most significant attempts by a company from a country that is not an American ally to acquire United States oil fields since Cnooc, the large Chinese oil company, tried to buy the California oil company Unocal. Although it was not formally banned, that deal fell apart in 2005 after members of Congress criticized the potential Chinese ownership of American oil assets.
Having an American company win the Rosneft deal could also suggest that the Obama administration's policy of detente toward Russia, known as the reset, can benefit United States businesses, said Cliff Kupchan, a senior analyst at the Eurasia Group, a consultancy.
The Exxon-Rosneft deal, if completed, would further a long-held goal of the Russian petroleum industry to diversify internationally. It would allow Russia to do that by using access to reserves at home to gain the necessary capital and technological expertise.
Russia's economy is dependent on petroleum for about 60 percent of its export revenue. Policies here are also important for world oil supplies, as Russia now pumps more oil than Saudi Arabia. Yet Russia's onshore fields in Siberia are in decline, threatening the prosperity and geopolitical clout that has come with oil wealth in the last decade.
Despite the varying accounts of the overall potential value of the agreement, a fact sheet released by the companies indicated an initial commitment to invest $3.2 billion in exploration in the Kara Sea, the body of water between the northern coast of European Russia and the Novaya Zemlya island chain.
Once seen as a useless, ice-clogged backwater, the Kara Sea now has the attention of oil companies. That is partly because the sea ice is apparently receding -- possibly a result of global warming -- which would ease exploration and drilling.
This summer, Gazprom, the Russian natural gas giant, moved a rig into a shallow part of the sea. Still, Russian scientists say the extent of the ice floes varies greatly from summer to summer, and conditions remain formidable during the polar night, which lasts months.
In the waters off Alaska, drilling has remained largely off limits because of environmental restrictions and lawsuits by conservation organizations.
Rosneft's attempt to strike a similar pact with BP this year fell apart because the British company had a joint venture with a separate group of private Russian investors, who blocked the Rosneft deal in an international court. The collapse was an embarrassment for Mr. Putin, who had endorsed the BP-Rosneft deal.
After the failure of that deal, the onus fell on Russia to demonstrate it could uphold an agreement, Mr. Kupchan, the analyst, said. ''They got away with BP, because the deal was seen as BP having two Russian wives,'' he said.
Exxon, in contrast, has no exclusivity clause with a competitor in Russia that could come up in court.
Still, if Rosneft's participation in American projects leads to objections in the United States, Exxon's investment in Russia could also be vulnerable. Russian officials say reciprocity, or mutual dependence, is a condition for foreign investment in their petroleum fields.
Igor Sechin, a deputy prime minister in Russia and one of the country's top energy officials, said Rosneft would obtain shares in at least six of Exxon's oil fields in the United States. He said that the value of these assets would be ''in proportion'' to the ones Exxon would own in Russia.
Alan T. Jeffers, a spokesman for Exxon, said Rosneft would be subjected to the same regulatory oversight in the United States as any other oil company.
For Russia, the agreement is a result of a new openness to foreign investment in its oil industry that is meant to address the declining output in Siberia. The Kremlin opened discussions last year with Western oil companies whose prospects on the other side of the Arctic Ocean -- above Alaska and Canada -- had at least temporarily dimmed with the moratorium on offshore drilling in the aftermath of BP's oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
This summer, the American Interior Department eased the restrictions somewhat by granting Royal Dutch Shell conditional approval to drill exploratory wells in the Arctic Ocean off Alaska's coast starting next year.
But American and Canadian regulators worry about the special challenges in the Arctic. The ice pack and icebergs pose threats to drilling rigs and crews. And if oil were spilled in the winter, cleanup would take place in the total darkness that engulfs the region during those months.
Still, the United States Geological Survey estimates that the Arctic holds one-fifth of the world's undiscovered, recoverable oil and natural gas.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rex Tillerson, left, the chief executive of Exxon, with Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia at the signing ceremony. (POOL PHOTO BY ALEXSEY DRUGINYN) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); OIL EXPLORATION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (89%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (96%); BP PLC (85%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (84%); OAO GAZPROM (64%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (57%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (96%); BP (NYSE) (85%); BP (LSE) (85%); RDSA (LSE) (84%); RDSA (AMS) (84%); RDS.B (NYSE) (84%); RDS.A (NYSE) (84%); OGZD (LSE) (64%); GAZP (RTS) (64%); ROSN (RTS) (57%); ROSN (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (64%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (64%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (64%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (64%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (64%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); REX W TILLERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%) ARCTIC OCEAN (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1316 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Christine Lagarde's Tough Message: The I.M.F. leader tells the truth about the damage done by austerity policies

 BODY:
Less than two months after being chosen to leadthe International Monetary Fund, Christine Lagarde shook up last weekend's conference of central bankers in Jackson Hole, Wyo., with an urgent, much needed plea for bolder economic policies in the United States and Europe to head off a looming double-dip recession. 
When Ms. Lagarde, then France's finance minister, was campaigning to become the fund's managing director, it was uncertain whether she could look beyond the politicians' obsession with austerity that has repeatedly defeated efforts to contain Europe's worsening debt crisis and continues to stymie effective policy making on both sides of the Atlantic.
Now free to speak her mind, her blunt remarks and prescriptions were just what the central bankers needed to hear. She rightly called for: rebalancing global trade by stimulating demand in developing countries with big export surpluses; more aggressive mortgage relief in the United States; and giving job creation priority over deficit reduction in the United States and Europe.
She also called for substantial injections of public and private capital into dangerously frail European banks. And while citing the necessity for long-term deficit reduction, she made clear that near-term policies must give priority to generating jobs, stimulating demand and renewing economic growth.
For Europe, specifically, Ms. Lagarde prescribed more financing for debt bailout plans, a concerted effort to strengthen vulnerable banks and, most importantly, a common political vision about the euro's long-term future that has been grievously lacking.
For the United States, she called for new efforts to resuscitate consumer demand by attacking long-term unemployment and mortgage foreclosures. She suggested ''aggressive principal reduction programs for homeowners,'' in addition to the kind of refinancing programs the Obama administration is now considering.
American political leaders haven't taken much notice of her speech. European financial officials have been sputtering ever since. Ms. Lagarde cannot make any of these things happen by herself. If she keeps pushing hard, the politicians may finally wake up.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RECESSION (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (53%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1317 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Despite Risks, Romney Presses Grim Picture of Obama

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
Mitt Romney warned on Tuesday that America was on the brink of ''profound economic misery,'' the latest effort by the Republican presidential candidate to paint an unrelentingly grim picture of the country under President Obama's leadership.
In a speech before the Veterans of Foreign Wars national convention in San Antonio, Mr. Romney offered a hint of optimism by declaring that ''we have deep and abiding faith in the goodness and the greatness of America.'' 
But Mr. Romney, like many of his Republican rivals for the presidency, has more often relied on a strategy in which he regularly describes a country that is mired in poor economic conditions, adrift in foreign policy and broken when it comes to policy making in Washington.
''We stand near the threshold of profound economic misery,'' Mr. Romney told the veterans. ''Four more years on the same political path could prove disastrous.''
The strategy requires the Republican candidates like Mr. Romney to carefully walk a fine rhetorical line. They are eager to assert their belief in ''American exceptionalism,'' while at the same time describing in vivid detail the gloomy conditions under which voters suffer every day.
That task is easiest when it comes to the economy, which is beset by persistently high unemployment, concern about the stock market and a deep, partisan divide about how to deal with the nation's growing debt and deficits.
But the Republican candidates are also eager to describe Mr. Obama's foreign policy as a failure -- a task made more difficult by the president's recent success in killing Osama bin Laden and driving Muammar el-Qaddafi from power in Libya.
Mr. Romney largely ignored those events on Tuesday as he criticized the administration's proposal to cut military spending. He also took aim at the president over ''mission muddle'' during the revolution in Libya and his plan for the reduction of American troops in Afghanistan.
''America must lead with clarity of intent, a commitment of purpose and unlimited resolve,'' he said. ''Unfortunately, when we look around the world today, we see a muddled picture of American policy and our power.''
He added: ''In Afghanistan, the president has chosen to disregard the counsel of the generals on the ground. I don't know of a single military adviser to President Obama who recommended the withdrawal plan that he's chosen.''
The approach differs somewhat from the one Mr. Romney employed four years ago. In 2007, he sought to offer a more sunny, upbeat approach to his stump speech. ''I am optimistic about this country, if you haven't got that measure already,'' Mr. Romney said in South Carolina that year. ''I've met people from, boy, a lot of states, and you come away confident that the American people have the heart to succeed at everything we put our minds to.''
Mr. Romney has been slightly more optimistic in his public appearances in recent weeks, but that kind of tone is increasingly scarce on the presidential campaign trail as he and the other candidates reach for the sharpest contrast they can find with Mr. Obama.
The result has been a Republican vocabulary largely shorn of the ''hope'' and ''change'' rhetoric that Mr. Obama was so fond of in the 2008 presidential campaign.
Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota said in her announcement speech that economic success and ''dreams are distant for many Americans.'' A new political action committee formed to bolster the chances of Jon M. Huntsman Jr. offered the following grim assessment: ''A country in unprecedented turmoil. Unemployment. Overspending. Hopelessness.''
The gloom-and-doom strategy is not unheard of for the party out of power. Like challengers before them, Mr. Romney and his rivals are betting that voters will identify with the negativity and blame Mr. Obama.
But it is not without risk. If the economy continues to get worse, the candidates open themselves to the kind of charge that was leveled at President Jimmy Carter in the late 1970s -- that the talk of an economic malaise was actually contributing to the country's problems.
And when it comes to election-year politics, the grim message could adversely affect turnout. It is much easier to fill a stadium with excited supporters by using a rallying cry that suggests that things will get better. Wooing voters with depressing news is a tougher sell.
Mr. Romney, in particular, has apparently decided the political rewards are worth the risks.
''It's hard to be upbeat about the economic crisis we're facing,'' said Eric Fehrnstrom, a spokesman for Mr. Romney. ''The first step in a turnaround is to recognize that things are bad and need to change. Burying your head in the sand only makes the problem worse.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''We stand near the threshold of profound economic misery,'' Mitt Romney told the Veterans of Foreign Wars on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC GAY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); ARMED FORCES (67%); DEFENSE SPENDING (62%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1318 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Obama Draws Line On Possible Cuts To Veterans Programs

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
MINNEAPOLIS -- President Obama vowed on Tuesday that he would not allow cuts in programs for veterans as Congress and the administration look for ways to balance the budget.
In a somber speech to the annual convention of the American Legion that dwelled on the need to tackle unemployment among veterans, but offered little in the way of specifics about his overall economic proposals that are due next week, the president repeated his assertion of earlier this summer that after a decade of war, it was time to turn the country's attention to domestic prosperity.
''It's time to focus on nation-building here at home,'' Mr. Obama told 6,000 members of the country's largest veterans group, who clapped politely. Mr. Obama singled out the ''9/11 generation veterans,'' who, he said, ''have the skills and dedication to help lead the way.'' 
He praised ''all who have worn the uniform in these wars'' and said it was time, now, for the government to help these veterans find a place at home.
''Far too many of our veterans are unemployed,'' the president said.
He said he had directed the federal government to hire more veterans and that they had in fact hired more than 100,000 in the past 18 months. But at a time of restricted budgets, overall government employment is constrained.
''As a nation, we're facing some tough choices as we put our fiscal house in order, but I want to be clear,'' Mr. Obama said. ''As a nation, we cannot, we must not and we will not balance the budget on the backs of veterans.''
By the end of the year, Congress and the administration must agree to significant cuts in the 10-year deficit, with spending cuts shared among domestic and security programs, or face severe automatic across-the-board cuts that would fall particularly hard on military programs.
Mr. Obama, meanwhile, has proposed a Returning Heroes Tax Credit for companies that hire unemployed veterans, and a Wounded Warrior Tax Credit for companies that hire unemployed veterans with a disability. ''When Congress returns from recess, this needs to be at the top of the agenda,'' he said.
The administration has long championed employment for returning veterans; the unemployment rate among those who joined the military after Sept. 11 was 13.3 percent in June.
But Mr. Obama is also facing a looming battle when Congress returns. He has promised to unveil his own jobs proposals next week after Labor Day, which administration officials say will most likely include an expansion of the payroll tax cuts and tax credits for companies that hire the unemployed. Viewed as devices to stimulate the economy, tax cuts would also worsen the budget deficits.
It remained unclear just how far Mr. Obama would go in picking a fight with a Republican-controlled House of Representatives, where Tea Party supporters have demanded deficit-reduction measures and balked at compromising with the president on offsetting revenue increases, like raising taxes on the rich.
''We have to create more jobs, and do it faster,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Most of all, we have to break the gridlock in Washington that's been preventing us from taking the action we need to get this economy moving. That's why, next week, I'll be speaking to the nation about a plan to create jobs and reduce our deficit, a plan I want to see passed in Congress. We need to get this done.''
That might be a tall order; Congress thus far has not shown much interest in Mr. Obama's budget proposals.
The president will attend ceremonies next month in New York, Pennsylvania and Washington -- including a prayer service at the National Cathedral -- for the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. In his American Legion speech, he said it was imperative for the country to take care of its Sept. 11 veterans and all of its veterans ''as well as you've taken care of us.''
The American Legion meeting, in a cavernous hall at the Minneapolis Convention Center, was filled with the veterans of Vietnam, Korea, the gulf war and the current conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq. Before Mr. Obama spoke, the group heard polka tunes and sang patriotic songs. Most of the men in the audience wore hats with their military ranks and badges.
Hatted, too, in her own way, was a speaker who spoke before Mr. Obama: the reigning Miss America, Teresa Scanlan. Ms. Scanlan wore a crown and gave a speech in which she talked about her grandparents escaping from Yugoslavia during the Communist era.
Mr. Obama worked a rope line after his speech, shaking hands and posing for pictures.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 2, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about President Obama's speech to the American Legion on Tuesday paraphrased incorrectly from comments he made about hiring veterans. He said he had told federal agencies to hire more veterans and that they had in fact hired more than 100,000 in the past 18 months. He did not say that he is currently ordering the federal government to hire 100,000 more veterans.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama used a felt pen Tuesday to sign Sasha McCavley's arm in Minneapolis. She could not take her eyes off it.
 President Obama greeting veterans Tuesday after his speech to the American Legion annual conference in Minneapolis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERANS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); US LABOR DAY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011



1319 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: To Garner Good Will, AT&T Plans to Bring Back Jobs Outsourced Abroad

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
AT&T, its $39 billion deal to buy T-Mobile USA under pressure from multiple fronts, is now seeking to promote one benefit of the blockbuster deal: jobs.
The company plans to announce on Wednesday that it will bring back 5,000 call-center jobs that were outsourced abroad. AT&T also plans to commit to maintaining its and T-Mobile's more than 25,000 call-center jobs in the United States.
AT&T's move - which the company describes as one of the biggest job repatriations since the financial crisis - is meant in part to assuage critical lawmakers' fears of possible job cuts. In a letter to the two federal regulators reviewing the deal, Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, wrote that ''it is fair to assume that layoffs constitute a substantial portion'' of the deal's promised cost savings. 
Other politicians, including Representatives Ed Markey of Massachusetts and John Conyers of Michigan, have also expressed unease over the proposed merger's effect on jobs.
''Does this shore up an issue that people have?'' Randall Stephenson, AT&T's chief executive, said in an interview on Tuesday. ''Sure, I hope it does.''
Among the chief attractions of mergers is cutting costs, and AT&T has forecast roughly $3 billion a year in savings. The telecommunications giant has said that it plans to create jobs by building out the combined company's next-generation wireless network, an effort that is expected to cost more than $8 billion, though it is also expected to shutter hundreds of retail stores and other back-office positions.
But Mr. Stephenson said that as AT&T was reviewing its and T-Mobile's businesses, creating jobs in the United States became a way to create good will. The company had about 265,410 employees as of Jan. 31. T-Mobile, now a unit of Deutsche Telekom, employs about 42,000 in the United States.
''As I sit here and watch the news over the last month, I can't help but ask, 'What else can we do?' '' he said. ''This sends a good message to the U.S. and to the labor markets.''
AT&T currently operates about 55 call centers throughout the country, while T-Mobile runs about 24. Mr. Stephenson said that his company had yet to determine where the new call-center jobs would be located. The existing call centers are in many locations around the country, including T-Mobile's headquarters in Washington and AT&T's home in Texas, as well as in Pennsylvania and Maine.
Mr. Stephenson added that he had become comfortable that AT&T would still meet its projected cost savings despite the move.
Jobs are not the only concern on skeptics' minds about AT&T's planned mega-deal. Since it was announced in March, the proposed acquisition has taken fire from competitors like Sprint, consumer groups and federal and state lawmakers worried about combining two of the nation's biggest cellphone service providers.
AT&T has its supporters, including telecommunications workers' unions, technology companies like Microsoft and Facebook and 27 governors. The company has also made a big lobbying effort to drum up additional backing.
Both sides have raced to put pressure on the federal regulators scrutinizing the deal, the Federal Communications Commission and the Justice Department. Several state regulators, including California's public utilities commission, are also closely examining the merger.
Last month, the F.C.C. halted its review of the deal to examine AT&T's economic models supporting the deal, though it resumed the process last week.
The company took additional criticism after a briefly unredacted submission to the F.C.C. showed that AT&T had projected spending just $3.8 billion to expand its nascent 4G wireless network nationwide, far less than the $39 billion it is spending to buy T-Mobile.
Mr. Stephenson countered that expanding its network without T-Mobile's customer base, spectrum and cellular towers had ''no business case.''
He added that he still expected the deal to receive approval by the end of the first quarter next year.
''Nothing has transpired to date that would make me think that will change,'' he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Randall Stephenson, AT&T's chief, at a House hearing in May. He hopes to allay some concerns. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); CALL CENTERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (73%); MERGERS (72%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%); RETAILERS (50%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (94%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (58%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (58%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (94%); DTE (FRA) (58%); DTE (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%)

PERSON: RANDALL STEPHENSON (89%); EDWARD J MARKEY (54%); AL FRANKEN (53%); JOHN CONYERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011



1320 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: The Role of Values in Driving Climate Disputes

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Why information doesn't matter much in climate disagreements.

 BODY:
Reacting to yesterday's piece on how better definitions of terms could help clarify climate disputes, Oran Switzer of Phoenix, Ariz., posted a comment reminding folks how values, more than data, largely shape positions on the level of risk posed by greenhouse gases. This is a theme stressed by Dan Kahan and other researchers studying cultural cognition. 
Check your views on climate science and policy, then ask yourself if you a communitarian or an individualist, liberal or libertarian? (NPR link) Switzer's contribution is worth highlighting here as a "Your Dot" post:
There is not climate dispute. There are two, and the solutions are not the same. First, we need to separate the two. The science debate does not work in politics. If you study the conservative approach to climate change policy long enough, the implication that they are trying to participate in a scientific conversation starts to fade away and you realize the underlying logic they are using actually starts from the conclusion that regulation and government intervention are bad and proceeds to the premise that there is no real problem with climate change, at which point, they pick around for snippets to support their premise. This allows them to make big, bold, statements about their identity and character and values rather than wallowing around in overly-precise, overly-pedantic language and data. 
The center-left in the U.S. has a persistent problem with this dynamic because they see every situation where they have a factual advantage as proof of their superiority and then they proceed to hammer people with logic while ignoring the repeated lessons of political strategy. The debate needs to start with ! Science has no values. Science only describes the physical world.
To win the scientific debate about climate change, we just... oh wait, we already did. But to win the political debate, we need to spend less time on the details of the scientific debate and much more on the underlying values -- the costs to humanity, society, and the economy of extreme weather, local floods, local droughts, freshwater scarcity, infectious disease, food security, coastline loss, biodiversity loss, etc., etc. It sounds backwards since the political challengers are denying the possibility of those dangers, one might think we need to respond to their challenge.
We do not. That's what science is for.
In considering his argument, the work of Kahan and others on cultural cognition, and the paralyzed polarization of environmental politics, the next step, of course, is to test fresh paths toward an energy menu that works for the long haul.
Some relevant posts: 
Climate Responses: Primal Easy, Ethical Hard
What Does the Present Owe the Future?

        
Polar Bear Science and the Spin Cycle
        
Varied Views of Obama's Environmental Record
        
On Debt, Death, Taxes and Temperatures
        
A Deeper Look at the Presidency, Climate Policy and Politics
        
On Gore's Climate and Obama Complaints

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); ETHICS (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); SCIENCE POLICY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); FLOODS & FLOODING (73%); WEATHER (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (70%); FOOD SECURITY (61%) Climate Change; cultural cognition; politics; psychology; Carbon Dioxide; Conservation of Resources; Conservatism (US Politics); Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Liberalism (US Politics); Politics and Government; Psychology and Psychologists; cognition; human nature; uncertainty

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (73%) ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1321 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Warnings and the Cost of Storms and Climate Change

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: An economist notes how decades of advance warning could mitigate the (financial) costs of climate change.

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan, an economics professor at the University of Chicago, has a post on the Economix blog that looks at the Northeast's recent weather-related disaster and the long-term trajectory for climate change and expresses confidence that the costs attending environmental threats are lower when they can be anticipated. 
On the Irene front, it's worth reading a post by Benjamin Strauss, a scientist at Climate Central, on just how close New York City came -- within one inch, by Strauss's reckoning -- to costly urban flooding. I ran the piece by Kerry Emanuel, who with colleagues at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology spent the weekend tracking and simulating the coastal surge, and he said: "Perhaps the one inch is a bit of an exaggeration, but it would not have taken too much of a difference for a very different outcome in New York City."
Here's the core thought from Mulligan and a link to the rest. He starts with a description of the impacts of Hurricane Irene once it arrived in the Northeast as a strong tropical storm: 
Much of the economics of environmental disasters is about anticipating and planning....
For example, the eye of the storm passed right over Kennedy International and LaGuardia Airports, but planes did not crash because the airports were shut during the storm. Few lives and little cargo was lost from ships in the area because the ports were closed, and vessels moved out of the area.
Hundreds of thousands of people were left without power, and many homes were flooded. But, clearly, the damage would have been much worse if Hurricane Irene had hit with no warning....
The opportunities for preparation are one reason why economists expect the damage from global warming to be different, and perhaps less, than from natural disasters that hit by surprise.
Global warming is expected to raise temperatures and sea levels over a period of decades - perhaps centuries. Even if scientists are completely unable to retard or reverse the environmental consequences of global warming, thanks to decades of warning the economy can greatly adjust to minimize the economic costs of those environmental consequences.
That's the thesis of a recent book, "Climatopolis: How Our Cities Will Thrive in the Hotter Future," by Matthew Kahn of the University of California, Los Angeles (disclosure: Professor Kahn is a friend and was my classmate at the University of Chicago). Given advance warning, people will protect themselves and innovate in order to make sales in future market when the symptoms of global warming are more threatening. [Read the full post.]
I'll close this post with a photo brought to my attention via Paul Krugman's blog (where he also engaged in a debate over the economics of disaster relief):

        
Extreme Weather in a Warming World
        
On Dams, Gutters, Floods and Climate Resilience
        
Irene's Floods Rage as U.S. Cuts Stream Tracking Program
        
On Warming and U.S. Hurricane Strikes
        
As Irene Approaches, so Does Challenge of Heeding Warnings About Rare Threats

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); WEATHER (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); HURRICANES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); TRENDS (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (75%); COASTAL AREAS (74%); DISASTER RELIEF (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%) adaptation; Climate Change; Economics; extreme weather; planning; Strauss, Benjamin; Area Planning and Renewal; Disasters and Emergencies; Economic Conditions and Trends; Floods; Global Warming; Hurricane Irene (2011); Rain; Weather; LaGuardia Airport (NYC); Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Branford (Conn); Connecticut; New York City; Northeastern States (US); disasters

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%) LaGuardia Airport (NYC); Massachusetts Institute of Technology

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (58%) Strauss, Benjamin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Branford (Conn); Connecticut; New York City; Northeastern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1322 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Examines Mutual Funds' Use of Derivatives

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The Securities and Exchange Commission is considering whether to place tougher restrictions on derivatives used by mutual funds.

 BODY:
Securities regulators are weighing new rules for mutual funds that invest in derivatives, the complex securities that wreaked havoc on the financial industry during the credit crisis. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission agreed unanimously on Wednesday to solicit comment from the industry and investors about mutual funds' use of derivatives and the possible need for tougher restrictions. The agency's so-called concept release, a preliminary step in rule-making, kicks off what is likely to be a lengthy examination of an often-overlooked feature of the investment company world. 
The concept release, according to the S.E.C.'s chairwoman, Mary L. Schapiro, will help the agency "determine whether we should update the regulatory regime for the benefit of fund investors." 
For now, the government has little say in regulating the size and sort of derivatives that mutual funds buy. The investment company industry -- including mutual funds, exchange-traded funds and the like -- operate under a federal law enacted in 1940, before the birth of the modern derivatives market. 
"The controls in place to address fund investments in traditional securities can lose their effectiveness when applied to derivatives," Ms. Schapiro said in a statement. 
After derivatives set off the near-downfall of several prominent Wall Street firms during the financial crisis, Washington is now cracking down on the unregulated $600 trillion market. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, many derivatives contracts that have long traded with relative secrecy in the United States must go through regulated exchanges or trading platforms. 
Dodd-Frank, however, did not tackle the growing use of derivatives by mutual funds, which often cater to conservative mom-and-pop investors. Without a mandate from Congress, the S.E.C. is proceeding with caution. 
Last year, the agency began a broad study into the mutual fund industry's use of derivatives, a growing phenomenon. The S.E.C.'s concept release approved on Wednesday will take the review a step further, asking the public to weigh in on funds' use of derivatives and the current regulatory landscape. 
The release, in particular, focused on the risks and costs of using derivatives. The agency raised the possibility that it would consider restrictions on leverage and how funds value derivatives.

        
A Year Later, Dodd-Frank Delays Are Piling Up
        
Derivatives Industry Awaits Rules, and a Timeline

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (97%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); SECURITIES LAW (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%) Derivatives; Mary L. Schapiro; Mutual Funds; S.E.C.; Securities and Exchange Commission; Schapiro, Mary L; Derivatives (Financial Instruments); Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (98%) Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (90%) Schapiro, Mary L

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1323 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: John Paulson Gets a Brief Reprieve

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: The hedge fund titan's funds posted small gains for last week amid a very rough summer.

 BODY:
The hedge fund magnate John A. Paulson has endured a long, hot summer, with two of his largest funds seemingly in free fall.
But last week, as New York was gearing up for Hurricane Irene, the financial storm momentarily broke for Mr. Paulson. His Advantage fund gained 2.3 percent, bringing losses for August to about 12.8 percent and for the year to 25.8 percent. The leveraged version of the fund, the Advantage Plus, gained 3.5 percent last week for a monthly loss of 19 percent and a 36.5 percent loss for the year. 
The losses have come amid a broader bloodletting in the markets, particularly for financial stocks that Mr. Paulson has favored. Among his hardest hit holdings: Hewlett-Packard, Citigroup and Bank of America. Last week, however, the Standard& Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.7 percent, and the rally helped a number of ailing funds. 
Some funds, like Brevan Howard and Bridgewater Associates, have performed well amid the market carnage, thanks to macro bets that positioned their holdings for a decline in markets. But many have suffered, including prominent managers like Pershing Square and Maverick Capital. 
But few if any major managers have done as poorly as Mr. Paulson this year. His fund's performance has become an industry obsession. Every week, news stories report his fund's returns, and competitors and industry associates discuss the figures with a mixture of fascination and relish. The fixation on Mr. Paulson comes thanks to a reputation as one of the best investors on Wall Street. In 2007, Mr. Paulson netted billions for himself and his hedge fund after making a prescient bet against the subprime mortgage market. Last year, he personally scored five billion dollars in gains with his hedge fund's bet that the United States financial system would recover.
And yet the Midas touch has eluded him in 2011. Even one of his best investment decisions has not exactly panned out the way he forecast. Mr. Paulson began buying huge quantities of gold, expecting the precious metal to soar as higher inflation re-emerged. Since then, gold has indeed soared, particularly in recent months, but not for the reason Mr. Paulson told investors he was buying it. The metal, seen as a safe haven, has rallied thanks to a pervasive fear in the marketplace.
There are still four full months of performance left in the year and much could still change for Mr. Paulson's funds, analysts warn.
Indeed, last year Mr. Paulson managed to turn double digit losses into double digit gains at the tail end of the year. While this year's losses far outstrip those of last year, investors are still reluctant to count the money manager out. 

        
Paulson Cuts Bets on Bank of America and Citi
        
Paulson Funds Said Hit by Steep Losses in June

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%) Bank of America; Citigroup; Hewlett-Packard; John Paulson; Paulson & Company; Paulson, John A; Hedge Funds; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: Paulson, John A

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1324 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Baltimore's Unlikely Confederates

BYLINE: FRANK TOWERS


HIGHLIGHT: Why did so many of the city's immigrants support the South?

 BODY:
When Isaac Trimble left Baltimore in May 1861 to accept a commission as a Confederate officer, he probably figured he would return to a hero's welcome. This was, after all, supposedly the most pro-Southern of Northern cities, and he had every reason to expect that, by war's end, it might even be in Confederate hands.
Instead, injured and then captured by the Union at Gettysburg in July 1863, Trimble found himself imprisoned at Fort McHenry, the federal installation guarding Baltimore's harbor, the same place that had inspired Francis Scott Key's "Star Spangled Banner" almost 40 years earlier. What's more, he and other returning Confederates found the city, though still marked by pro-Confederate pockets, firmly in the hands of Union sentiment.
Indeed, though many then and now assumed that Baltimore tilted Confederate, it was actually a much more politically complex place. Many in Baltimore may have been pro-Southern, but from almost the moment Trimble left that May, the war began to inexorably turn it toward the North and its promise of industrial development and economic wealth. What Trimble represents, then, is less the city's dominant mood than a population, and a state, in tumultuous transition to modern life.
Men like Trimble could be forgiven for expecting a warmer reception; Baltimore's pro-Southern population was a passionate lot. But the state's Confederate sympathizers were outnumbered by those who, despite living in a slave state, saw they had more and more in common with the industrial North. In 1860 the city's 2,200 slaves comprised less than 1 percent of its population, while its more than 17,000 factory hands made up the largest industrial workforce in the South. Situated just 40 miles below the Mason-Dixon Line and tied by rivers and railroads to the North's economy, Baltimore had little to gain from secession and civil war. These demographic and economic realities help explain why, in May 1861, the majority of Baltimoreans welcomed Union troops when they re-entered the city three weeks after a mob attacked federal soldiers and temporarily pushed the city into conflict with the Lincoln administration. 
Given these strong ties to the Union, it is surprising that Baltimore produced even one Isaac Trimble, much less another 5,000 volunteers for the Confederate military. So who were these men? Like Trimble, Baltimore Confederates had few ties to slavery or the traditional, rural way of life that Confederate nationalists often claimed to defend. Take, for example, the infantryman Augustus Albert, a 31-year-old, Maryland-born wallpaper hanger who lived with his wife and infant son above an ornament store. Or Jonas Friedenwald, captain in a Virginia regiment and the son of a German-Jewish dry goods merchant. 
These men were urban, working-class and of recently immigrated European stock. Yet they stood fast with the Confederacy: writing home in 1862, Friedenwald warned his family that a Union victory would "palsy the fervent immigrant from attempting to embark to a land of dissension, the asylum of the oppressed of all nations will be a land without law and Liberty." Friedenwald's fears for civil liberties echoed the pictorial work of the Confederate cartoonist Adalbert Volck, a German-born Baltimore dentist who produced a series of hyperbolic sketches depicting a demonic Lincoln at the center of a rogue's gallery of abolitionists and emancipated slaves. 
Along with a subset of Baltimore immigrants and workers, Confederate service also attracted men from the city's elite. McHenry Howard, son of the city's 1860 police commissioner and grandson of a Maryland governor on one side and Francis Scott Key on the other, served on Trimble's staff. Other Confederates from prominent families included George Kyle, son of a wealthy businessman, and the celebrated cavalry officer Harry Gilmor, scion of a Baltimore dynasty who lived in a mock castle at Glen Ellen, their estate just beyond the city limits. All three young men belonged to the Maryland Guard, a local militia of rich men's sons formed in the wake of John Brown's raid on Harper's Ferry in 1859. Roughly half of the unit fought for the Confederacy, a rate of Confederate service far above the average for all white Marylanders.
Odd men out in an army of planters and farmers, this motley group of urban Confederates shared a hope that secession would remedy a new type of unruly politics that had been brought to Baltimore by the now-forgotten American Party. Also called the Know-Nothings because of its secretive origins, the American Party won elections in Baltimore and a few other southern cities by lashing out at immigrant job competition, abusive employers and the anti-urban policies and disunionist rhetoric of rural slaveholders who controlled state government. Know-Nothing efforts to mobilize working-class voters included hiring members of violent street gangs like the Blood Tubs and Plug Uglies onto the police force. Democrats had their own gangs - Albert belonged to one of them - but Know-Nothing rowdies had the upper hand and a more notorious record, one that included the election-day murder of George Kyle's brother. 
Baltimore's Confederates had been active in the Democratic Party, which fought the Know-Nothings on behalf of businessmen like Kyle, who worried about working-class militancy, and immigrants like Friedenwald, who opposed nativist discrimination. They also received help from rural planters worried that Southern Know-Nothings were a stalking horse for Lincoln and antislavery Republicans. During the secession crisis, this political alliance convinced some Baltimore Democrats to join the Confederacy despite having little connection to the plantation South. Explaining why he supported the April attack on federal volunteers, Howard said "the outbreak of April 19th was not the return of mob law as Northern papers say. The Unionists are roughs. It resulted from the irrepressible indignation of the people at seeing armed men pass over our soil to subjugate our brethren of the South." 
In that short statement, Howard justified attacking United States soldiers, equated the cause of the Union with local street gangs and embraced the secessionist claim of federal tyranny. Never in the majority in either their home city or the Confederacy that they joined, Baltimore's unlikely Confederates nevertheless demonstrated that secession, like any mass political movement, had a flexible appeal that could, under the right conditions, attract a surprisingly diverse constituency.

        
Maryland, My Maryland
        
Parallel Lives from the Eastern Shore
        
Shots Heard 'Round the World
        
Letters to New York
        
Nick Biddle and the First Defenders

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); SLAVERY (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); ARMED FORCES (66%); LABOR FORCE (66%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (62%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (61%); PAINT & WALLPAPER CONTRACTORS (50%) Baltimore; Maryland; the civil war; Disunion

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (92%) MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1325 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Preparing for Disaster

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Environmental problems and changes can cause less damage when they can be anticipated, allowing time for precautionary measures, an economist writes.

 BODY:
 
Much of the economics of environmental disasters is about anticipating and planning.
Hurricane Irene traveled the East Coast last weekend and was expected to be one of the rare hurricanes to hit New York (by the time it reached there, it had been downgraded to a tropical storm). Although many thousands of people in the region may be without electricity for days to come, New Yorkers are glad that Irene did little damage as hurricanes go.
The storm began to receive media attention the weekend before it arrived, and people in the New York area used the time to prepare themselves. Forecasters have been criticized for overestimating the amount of wind that New York would experience, but the winds and tides were plenty strong. Preparation was an important reason that damage was limited.
For example, the eye of the storm passed right over Kennedy International and LaGuardia Airports, but planes did not crash because the airports were shut during the storm. Few lives and little cargo was lost from ships in the area because the ports were closed, and vessels moved out of the area.
Hundreds of thousands of people were left without power, and many homes were flooded. But, clearly, the damage would have been much worse if Hurricane Irene had hit with no warning.

I have no expertise in climate, weather, physics or aerodynamics, but one of the lessons of economics that environmental changes are less harmful when they can be anticipated. With only a few days of preparation, as with Hurricane Irene, people and mobile capital can be moved out of harm's way. Protective barriers can be constructed for the immobile capital like homes.
New York was not given a definite warning of Irene a year ahead, let alone a decade ahead. But if it had been warned years ahead, the economy could have adjusted even more by making plans to locate activity in more protected places. Or perhaps even to invent goods and production processes that are more hurricane resistant.
The opportunities for preparation are one reason why economists expect the damage from global warming to be different, and perhaps less, than from natural disasters that hit by surprise.
Global warming is expected to raise temperatures and sea levels over a period of decades - perhaps centuries. Even if scientists are completely unable to retard or reverse the environmental consequences of global warming, thanks to decades of warning the economy can greatly adjust to minimize the economic costs of those environmental consequences.
That's the thesis of a recent book, "Climatopolis: How Our Cities Will Thrive in the Hotter Future," by Matthew Kahn of the University of California, Los Angeles (disclosure: Professor Kahn is a friend and was my classmate at the University of Chicago). Given advance warning, people will protect themselves and innovate in order to make sales in future market when the symptoms of global warming are more threatening.

        
Preventing Haiti's Next Crisis
        
How Much Will 'Cap and Trade' Cost?
        
Local and National Stimulus
        
Exceptions to Keynesian Theory
        
The Debt Downgrade and Stock Prices

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); DISASTER PLANNING (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WEATHER (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; Environment; Global Warming; hurricanes; natural disasters; Disasters and Emergencies; Hurricane Irene (2011); Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1326 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: Job Insecurity Remains High

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: American workers remain worried about their jobs, even absent any increase in layoffs, according to new survey data from Gallup.

 BODY:
For the last couple of years, the problem plaguing the job market was that companies have been in a holding pattern: Companies weren't laying off workers in high numbers. But if you were already laid off, finding a company willing to expand was impossible.
Even so, workers still employed remain anxious about their job security, according to new survey data from Gallup.
A USA Today/Gallup Poll conducted in mid-August, based on a survey of 489 adults employed full or part time, found that 30 percent said they were worried about being laid off, similar to the 31 percent who answered this way in August 2009.

The survey also found that workers were concerned that their hours, wages and benefits would be cut back. Benefit cuts were the most common worry, with 44 percent of workers surveyed saying they thought benefits might be on the chopping block.
Lower-income workers were especially likely to be concerned about their job security:
As you can see, workers in households earning less than $50,000 annually were about twice as likely as their counterparts in households making at least $75,000 to be concerned about layoffs, shorter workweeks and off-shoring.
Maybe the anxiety is unfounded, and companies are not planning layoffs at any increased pace. But such worries can become self-fulfilling if workers start cutting back in preparation for potential job losses. If they cut back their spending, companies don't sell as much and then starting paring down their own staffs.

        
Washington, Capital of Economic Optimism
        
Layoff Anxiety Persists
        
Why Is American Support for Unions at an All-Time Low?
        
Confidence in Banks at a Record Low
        
Stress Tests (Modestly) Boost Confidence in Banks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); WORK WEEK (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); OFFSHORING (66%) consumer confidence; Gallup; layoffs; survey; Unemployment; Gallup Poll; Labor and Jobs; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Polls and Public Opinion

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1327 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Reacting to Justice's Suit Against AT&T

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Scores of companies, lawmakers and other parties have weighed in on AT&#038;T's proposed deal for T-Mobile. Here's what some had to say about the Justice Department's effort to block the deal.

 BODY:
As the biggest telecom deal in years, one that could reshape the American wireless landscape, AT&T's $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile USA drew scores of supporters and critics alike.
 Those backing the deal, including communications workers unions and lawmakers, echo AT&T's arguments that the merger would create jobs and expand the nation's high-speed cellular networks. Opponents, including competitors like Sprint Nextel, consumer groups and other politicians, contend that the combination would hurt competition and lead to higher prices and fewer jobs.
Now that the Justice Department has sued to block the deal, here's what some of those parties have to say. (AT&T's biggest competitor, Verizon Communications, declined to comment.)
Supporting the merger
"The decision by the U.S. Department of Justice to seek to block the merger of AT&T and T-Mobile USA is simply wrong.
"In today's sinking economy, where millions of Americans are looking for work, the DOJ has filed suit to block a merger that will create as many as 96,000 quality jobs. In the U.S., where too many Americans, especially in rural areas, don't have access to the tools of Internet technology, the D.O.J. is looking to block a plan to build out high speed wireless access to 97 percent of the country should be opposed. ...
"Instead of acting to block this merger, our government should be looking to support companies that create, keep and return good jobs to the United States."
Opposing the merger
"The D.O.J. today delivered a decisive victory for consumers, competition and our country. By filing suit to block AT&T's proposed takeover of T-Mobile, the D.O.J. has put consumers' interests first. Sprint applauds the D.O.J. for conducting a careful and thorough review and for reaching a just decision - one which will ensure that consumers continue to reap the benefits of a competitive U.S. wireless industry. Contrary to AT&T's assertions, today's action will preserve American jobs, strengthen the American economy, and encourage innovation."
"We applaud the Justice Department for their action to protect consumers in a powerful and growing industry that reaches virtually every American. Preserving choices means ensuring competition, and competition ultimately benefits consumers."
"I have long believed that this merger would be a terrible deal for consumers, and I'm pleased the Department of Justice has taken the wise step of officially opposing it. I've heard from families across Minnesota that cell phone expenses are an ever-rising percentage of their bills each month, and this merger could make wireless bills increase by as much as 25 percent-a burden families certainly don't need in this tough economy. This merger would also hurt competition and concentrate enormous power in the hands of just two companies-AT&T and Verizon-who would control more than 80 percent of the wireless market. I'm glad the Justice Department recognizes that this merger would hurt consumers and I hope that the court will agree and block it from moving forward."
"The Justice Department's decision to take action to block AT&T's purchase of T-Mobile is a victory for competition, consumers and choice. We should be protecting American consumers holding their cell phones, not just telecommunications titans holding stock in the companies.
"The merger would reduce the number of national wireless companies from four down to three, sending the mobile marketplace into a telecommunications time machine back to 1993. That would be an historic mistake."

        
U.S. Moves to Block AT&T Merger with T-Mobile
        
AT&T Plans to Bring Back Jobs Sent Abroad

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (51%) AT&T; Justice Department; T-Mobile; Franken, Al; Kohl, Herbert H; AT&T Inc; Communications Workers of America; Sprint Nextel Corporation; Verizon Communications Inc; AT&T Inc|T|NYSE; Sprint Nextel Corporation|S|NYSE; Verizon Communications Inc|VZ|NYSE; AT&T's Deal for T-Mobile; Legal/Regulatory; Mergers & Acquisitions; Telecommunications

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (83%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%) AT&T Inc; Communications Workers of America; Justice Department; Sprint Nextel Corporation; T-Mobile; Verizon Communications Inc

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%); S (NYSE) (83%) AT&T Inc; T; NYSE; AT&T Inc; T; NYSE; Sprint Nextel Corporation; S; NYSE; AT&T Inc; T; NYSE; Sprint Nextel Corporation; S; NYSE; Verizon Communications Inc; VZ; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%)

PERSON: HERB KOHL (72%); AL FRANKEN (70%) Franken, Al; Kohl, Herbert H

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1328 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Sprint Shares Surge on AT&T Setback

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Shares of Sprint Nextel, the nation's third-largest cellular carrier, were up nearly 8 percent in early afternoon trading on Wednesday after the Justice Department moved to block AT&#038;T's proposed merger with T-Mobile USA.

 BODY:
1:26 p.m. | Updated Sprint Nextel may get its way -- or at least that is what investors are thinking.
Shares of the nation's third largest cellular carrier were up nearly 8 percent in early afternoon trading on Wednesday, after the Justice Department moved to block AT&T's proposed merger with T-Mobile USA. 
Sprint was quick to defend the government's action on Wednesday.
"Sprint applauds the DOJ for conducting a careful and thorough review and for reaching a just decision - one which will ensure that consumers continue to reap the benefits of a competitive U.S. wireless industry," Vonya B. McCann, the company's senior vice president of government affairs, said in a statement. "Contrary to AT&T's assertions, today's action will preserve American jobs, strengthen the American economy, and encourage innovation."
 Sprint has been a vocal opponent of the deal from the outset. At an industry conference in March, its chief executive, Dan Hesse, criticized the merger, fearing it would hurt consumers. A week later, Sprint formally objected to the deal and called on regulators to block the acquisition. 
"The wireless industry has sparked unprecedented levels of competition, innovation, job creation and investment for the American economy, all of which could be undone by this transaction," Sprint said in a statement in late March. 
Sprint has reason to be concerned about the potential merger of AT&T and T-Mobile. If the deal went through, the merged company would have nearly 130 million subscribers, leaving Spring a distant No. 3 player with about 50 million customers. 
It has been a tough position for Sprint. 
Mr. Hesse has made some improvements during his tenure. He has invested in customer service and bolstered the product lineup, including signing an agreement to sell the iPhone 5, the next version of Apple's popular smartphone. Such moves have helped keep customers from switching to other carriers. 
But the company continues to struggle. In the quarter ended June 30, the company lost $847 million, compared with a loss of $760 million the period a year earlier. Meanwhile, shares of Sprint are off more than 35 percent from their 52-week high in June. 

        
Big Names in Tech Back AT&T's T-Mobile Bid
        
Smartphone Patent Suits Challenge Big Makers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); MERGERS (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (71%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); PATENTS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (52%) Apple; AT&T; iPhone; Sprint Nextel; T-Mobile; AT&T Inc; Justice Department; Sprint Nextel Corporation; AT&T Inc|T|NYSE; Sprint Nextel Corporation|S|NYSE; AT&T's Deal for T-Mobile; Mergers & Acquisitions; Telecommunications; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (94%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%) AT&T Inc; Justice Department; Sprint Nextel Corporation; T-Mobile

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); S (NYSE) (94%) AT&T Inc; T; NYSE; AT&T Inc; T; NYSE; Sprint Nextel Corporation; S; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (57%)

PERSON: DANIEL R HESSE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1329 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Buffet Investment Could Erode Confidence in Wall St.

BYLINE: JESSE EISINGER/PROPUBLICA


HIGHLIGHT: Warren E. Buffett's investment in Bank of America reveals something both infuriating and scary: the bank has not been talking straight about its need for capital.

 BODY:
Last week, our financial Superman, the mild-mannered Midwesterner Warren E. Buffett, swooped in again to save another bank, the financial markets, the American economy and just maybe our precious way of life. 
Mr. Buffett's purchase of $5 billion worth of Bank of America preferred stock (on his usual generous terms, including long-lasting warrants to buy common stock at an attractive price) immediately stiffened the upper lips of chattering investors and pundits. Bank of America's chairman hailed it as a "vote of confidence" in the bank. It was also celebrated as a signal that the worst was over in the rout recently experienced by the American financial sector.
For the moment, that all seems right: Bank of America's stock is up 16 percent from the Aug. 25 announcement, and stocks of the other three major American banks - JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Wells Fargo - are also up.
But as the news is digested, it could set off the opposite effect. The Buffett investment just might turn out to erode, not increase, confidence. And not only for Bank of America, but for the banking sector as a whole.
Mr. Buffett's investment reveals something both infuriating and scary. Bank of America has not been talking straight about its need for capital. 
"You cannot have the largest bank in the country saying, 'We don't need the money,' and then paying this kind of price to Warren Buffett for capital they say they don't need, " said Daniel Alpert, who runs the investment firm Westwood Capital. "Industrywide, it's a potential boomerang because we think, 'Why should we believe any of these guys when they say they don't need the money?'" 
 "We've been through a massive crisis in 2007 and '08 where executives of major financial institutions tried to hide their insolvency," he added. "They said, 'No, no, a thousand times no, we're fine.' And then they were gone."
Sure, Mr. Buffett reportedly approached Brian T. Moynihan, Bank of America's chief executive, who initially rebuffed the investment offer - suggesting that Bank of America didn't really need capital. Even so, Mr. Moynihan's reticence didn't last long. And if the bank truly didn't need capital, why make such an expensive deal that could dilute other shareholders?
The more investors think about it, the more Mr. Buffett's announcement will intensify, not allay, their fears about Bank of America's capital position. Indeed, Mr. Buffett is making something more resembling a loan than an equity investment. His $5 billion doesn't count in the important measure of capital that regulators look at, called Tier 1.
That is perhaps why Bank of America's money-raising has not stopped with Mr. Buffett. On Monday, the bank sold about half of its stake in China Construction Bank for more than $8 billion. And over the last year, Bank of America has been jettisoning businesses to raise cash and shore up its capital.
Prudent, yes, and we can hope the bank's management has learned a lesson about credibility. Last year, Mr. Moynihan suggested that the bank would be able to raise its dividend after it passed the Federal Reserve's second round of stress tests. No such luck. That plan was blocked, rightly, by the Fed, whose exams revealed, among other perils, Bank of America's overexposure to the sickly real estate sector.
Yet Mr. Moynihan and Bank of America persisted, with analysts expecting the bank to come back in the middle of the year to push the Fed to revisit the dividend issue. So much for that now.
Still, even with these moves, some investors and analysts do not think the bank's actions will be sufficient, and that it will have to sell common shares to raise capital.
Bank of America disagrees. Yes, the stock has "an overhang" thanks to economic and legal uncertainty, but "we understand that and are working very aggressively to address that," said Jerome F. Dubrowski, a spokesman. "We have more than enough capital to run our business" based on current rules, he said. 
The bank has clearly explained to investors and regulators how it will reach compliance with the new rules ahead of schedule, he added. The Buffett opportunity was too good to pass up, Mr. Dubrowski said: "There's only one Warren Buffett. We are very happy to have him, but it wasn't driven by capital."
Yet Bank of America investors had whipped themselves into a panic in August because of the giant legal liability faced by the bank. The Buffett investment does not remove that, let alone any of the bank's other millstones. 
Not only does the bank still face billions in legal settlement costs from Countrywide Financial, but it also has to buy back billions in faulty mortgages. Bank of America's questionable foreclosure practices continue to drag it down, and, in addition, it faces Securities and Exchange Commission investigations into the actions of its subsidiary, Merrill Lynch, in the lead-up to the financial crisis. Bank of America acquired Merrill in 2008, under heavy pressure from the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department.
The big problem, however, is not the unknown legal costs, but the exceedingly well-known exposure to real estate, both home mortgages and home-equity lines of credit. 
The bears will return, armed with a soft economy and the declining housing market. As they do, what is to stop them from jumping from bank to bank? 
Compared with Bank of America, Wells Fargo has more exposure to real estate and less capital. The bank classifies about 19 percent of its residential mortgage loans as either delinquent or nonperforming, a number similar to that of Bank of America. Wells Fargo says it's fine, but where have we heard that before? 
Of all the big American banks, JPMorgan Chase, perhaps surprisingly, has the highest proportion of bad mortgages, at about 24 percent, according to Bankregdata.com. Citigroup is lowest at less than 14 percent. But JPMorgan's balance sheet is more solid than that of any of the country's other megabanks.
Even if the major banks do not experience additional capital crises, the Fed plans to keep interest rates low for years. That will almost certainly depress bank lending rates, squeezing profits. 
That is, if the banks lend at all. In one of the most important business lines for Bank of America and the other big banks, residential mortgages, the banks are pricing themselves out of the market, offering uncompetitive rates. The mortgage market remains shattered.
Why aren't the banks lending? They fear potential future litigation, for one. And they claim there is not enough demand from high-quality borrowers. But if they had conviction that the economy and housing markets were recovering, those concerns would ebb.
So if bank leaders are not exhibiting confidence, why should the rest of us?

        
Buffett's Bank of America Stake Is Viewed as a Seal of Approval
        
Bank of America's Big Settlement

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); COMMON STOCK (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PREFERRED STOCK (72%); TRENDS (68%); EXECUTIVES (62%) Bank of America-Merrill Lynch; Brian T. Moynihan; Countrywide Financial; Warren E. Buffett; Buffett, Warren E; Moynihan, Brian T; Banking and Financial Institutions; Economic Conditions and Trends; Bank of America Corporation; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Investment Banking; The Trade; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (94%); BRIAN MOYNIHAN (89%) Buffett, Warren E; Moynihan, Brian T

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1330 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Buffett Investment Could Erode Confidence in Big Banks

BYLINE: JESSE EISINGER


HIGHLIGHT: Warren E. Buffett's investment in Bank of America reveals something both infuriating and scary: the bank has not been talking straight about its need for capital.

 BODY:
Last week, our financial Superman, the mild-mannered Midwesterner Warren E. Buffett, swooped in again to save another bank, the financial markets, the American economy and just maybe our precious way of life. 
Mr. Buffett's purchase of $5 billion worth of Bank of America preferred stock (on his usual generous terms, including long-lasting warrants to buy common stock at an attractive price) immediately stiffened the upper lips of chattering investors and pundits. Bank of America's chairman hailed it as a "vote of confidence" in the bank. It was also celebrated as a signal that the worst was over in the rout recently experienced by the American financial sector.
For the moment, that all seems right: Bank of America's stock is up 17 percent from the Aug. 25 announcement, and stocks of the other three major American banks - JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Wells Fargo - are also up.
But as the news is digested, it could set off the opposite effect. The Buffett investment just might turn out to erode, not increase, confidence. And not only for Bank of America, but for the banking sector as a whole.
Mr. Buffett's investment reveals something both infuriating and scary. Bank of America has not been talking straight about its need for capital. 
"You cannot have the largest bank in the country saying, 'We don't need the money,' and then paying this kind of price to Warren Buffett for capital they say they don't need, " said Daniel Alpert, who runs the investment firm Westwood Capital.
"Industrywide, it's a potential boomerang because we think, 'Why should we believe any of these guys when they say they don't need the money?'" 
"We've been through a massive crisis in 2007 and '08 where executives of major financial institutions tried to hide their insolvency," he added. "They said, 'No, no, a thousand times no, we're fine.' And then they were gone."
Sure, Mr. Buffett reportedly approached Brian T. Moynihan, Bank of America's chief executive, who initially rebuffed the investment offer - suggesting that Bank of America didn't really need capital. Even so, Mr. Moynihan's reticence didn't last long. And if the bank truly didn't need capital, why make such an expensive deal that could dilute other shareholders?
The more investors think about it, the more Mr. Buffett's announcement will intensify, not allay, their fears about Bank of America's capital position. Indeed, Mr. Buffett is making something more resembling a loan than an equity investment. His $5 billion doesn't count in the important measure of capital that regulators look at, called Tier 1.
That is perhaps why Bank of America's money-raising has not stopped with Mr. Buffett. On Monday, the bank sold about half of its stake in China Construction Bank for more than $8 billion. And over the last year, Bank of America has been jettisoning multiple businesses to raise cash and shore up its capital.
Prudent, yes, and we can hope the bank's management has learned a lesson about credibility. Last year, Mr. Moynihan suggested that the bank would be able to raise its dividend after it passed the Federal Reserve's second round of stress tests. No such luck. That plan was blocked, rightly, by the Fed, whose exams revealed, among other perils, Bank of America's overexposure to the sickly real estate sector.
Yet Mr. Moynihan and Bank of America persisted, with analysts expecting the bank to come back in the middle of the year to push the Fed to revisit the dividend issue. So much for that now.
Still, even with these moves, some investors and analysts do not think the bank's actions will be sufficient, and that it will have to sell common shares to raise capital.
Bank of America disagrees. Yes, the stock has "an overhang" thanks to economic and legal uncertainty, but "we understand that and are working very aggressively to address that," said Jerome F. Dubrowski, a spokesman. "We have more than enough capital to run our business" based on current rules, he said. 
The bank has clearly explained to investors and regulators how it will reach compliance with the new rules ahead of schedule, he added. The Buffett opportunity was too good to pass up, Mr. Dubrowski said: "There's only one Warren Buffett. We are very happy to have him, but it wasn't driven by capital."
Yet Bank of America investors had whipped themselves into a panic in August because of the giant legal liability faced by the bank. The Buffett investment does not remove that, let alone any of the bank's other millstones.
Not only does the bank still face billions in legal settlement costs from Countrywide Financial deals, but it also has to buy back billions in faulty mortgages. Bank of America's questionable foreclosure practices continue to drag it down, and, in addition, it faces Securities and Exchange Commission investigations into the actions of its subsidiary, Merrill Lynch, in the lead-up to the financial crisis. Bank of America acquired Merrill in 2008, under heavy pressure from the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department.
The big problem, however, is not the unknown legal costs, but the exceedingly well-known exposure to real estate, both home mortgages and home-equity lines of credit. 
The bears will return, armed with a soft economy and the declining housing market. As they do, what is to stop them from jumping from bank to bank? 
Compared with Bank of America, Wells Fargo has more exposure to real estate and less capital. The bank classifies about 19 percent of its residential mortgage loans as either delinquent or nonperforming, a number similar to that of Bank of America. Wells Fargo says it's fine, but where have we heard that before? 
Of all the big American banks, JPMorgan Chase, perhaps surprisingly, has the highest proportion of bad mortgages, at about 24 percent, according to Bankregdata.com. Citigroup is lowest at less than 14 percent. But JPMorgan's balance sheet is more solid than that of any of the country's other megabanks.
Even if the major banks do not experience additional capital crises, the Fed plans to keep interest rates low for years. That will almost certainly depress bank lending rates, squeezing profits. 
That is, if the banks lend at all. In one of the most important business lines for Bank of America and the other big banks,Big Three, residential mortgages, the banks are pricing themselves out of the market, offering uncompetitive rates. The mortgage market remains shattered.
Why aren't the banks lending? They fear potential future litigation, for one. And they claim there is not enough demand from high-quality borrowers. But if they had conviction that the economy and housing markets were recovering, those concerns would ebb.
So if bank leaders are not exhibiting confidence, why should the rest of us?

        
Fed Rejects Bank of America's Dividend Plan
        
Charities Struggle With Smaller Wall Street Donations

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); COMMON STOCK (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PREFERRED STOCK (72%); EXECUTIVES (62%) Bank of America; Citigroup; JPMorgan Chase &; Warren Buffett; Warren E. Buffett; Wells Fargo &; Buffett, Warren E; Moynihan, Brian T; Banking and Financial Institutions; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Bank of America Corporation; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Financial Services; The Trade

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (96%); BRIAN MOYNIHAN (89%) Buffett, Warren E; Moynihan, Brian T

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1331 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Obama Makes a Vow to Veterans, but Can He Keep It?

BYLINE: JAMES DAO


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama addresses concerns about cuts to veterans' programs at the American Legion's annual convention.

 BODY:
 Late summer is the season of annual veterans service organization conventions, and this year, much to the chagrin of other groups vying for his attention, President Obama chose to address the American Legion in Minneapolis. Not surprisingly, with Washington focused on reducing the deficit, the president addressed the issue of possible cuts to veterans' programs in his remarks. 
 "As a nation, we're facing some tough choices as we put our fiscal house in order," Mr. Obamatold the legionnaires. "But I want to be absolutely clear: We cannot, we must not, we will not, balance the budget on the backs of our veterans. As commander in chief, I won't allow it."
 Yet just how much power Mr. Obama will have to prevent such cuts is not quite clear. The bipartisan "super committee" created to recommend $1.5 billion trillion in spending cuts over the coming decade will undoubtedly include some veterans programs on its agenda; already some of those proposals are floating around Congress and inside the Pentagon, including one that would revamp military pensions to make them similar to 401(k) retirement programs. 
 And if Congress cannot agree with the committee's plan, then across-the-board cuts will be mandated, some of which will almost certainly fall on the Department of Veterans Affairs, which has seen its budget increase by more than 20 percent since Mr. Obama took office. 
 Mr. Obama also addressed the issue of jobs: the unemployment rate among younger veterans is higher than the rate among their civilian peers. He called for not only expanding programs to prepare service members for the private sector, but also creating tax credits for companies that hire unemployed or disabled veterans. 
 "When Congress returns from recess, this needs to be at the top of their agenda," the president said. "For the sake of our veterans, for the sake of our economy, we need these veterans working and contributing and creating the new jobs and industries that will keep America competitive in the 21st century."
 The president also acknowledged that, despite highly touted efforts by the Department of Veterans Affairs to reduce the backlog in disability claims, that backlog has continued to grow, due largely to new claims for illnesses related to Agent Orange, he said. "When our veterans who fought for our country have to fight just to get the benefits that you've already earned, that's unacceptable," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VETERANS (94%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (78%); MILITARY BENEFITS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); US 401K PLANS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); JOB CREATION (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (67%); DISABLED PERSONS (63%) Obama, Barack; Federal Budget (US); Pensions and Retirement Plans; Veterans; American Legion; Veterans Affairs Department; Minneapolis (Minn); At War

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGION (94%) American Legion; Veterans Affairs Department

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Minneapolis (Minn)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1332 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Huntsman Seeks Far-Reaching Tax Changes

BYLINE: JOHN CUSHMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Speaking in New Hampshire on Wednesday, Republican presidential candidate Jon Huntsman will call for substantial revisions to the tax code and more emphasis on jobs in manufacturing.

 BODY:
Jon Huntsman, the former governor of Utah, will call for overhauling the tax code and a new focus on American manufacturing when he delivers a speech detailing his jobs agenda on Wednesday, advisers said.
Mr. Huntsman, who is struggling to capture the public's attention in his bid for the presidency, will deliver the speech at the Gilchrist Metal Fabricating facility in Hudson, New Hampshire.
There, aides said he will repeat his call for a tax code with dramatically lower individual and corporate tax rates, an end to taxes on capital gains and dividends, and the elimination of the alternative minimum tax.
But in exchange, Mr. Huntsman will say the tax code needs to be stripped of all loopholes, deductions and tax giveaways, a step that would make the changes neutral in terms of how much money would flow into the government's coffers.
"Meeting our challenges will require serious solutions, but above all, it will require serious leadership - a quality in high demand in our nation's capital, and among my opponents on the campaign trail," Mr. Huntsman plans to say, according to excerpts released by his campaign.
The Republican candidates for president are under pressure -- as is President Obama -- to present concrete ideas for jump-starting the economy and creating jobs for the millions of out-of-work Americans.
Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, is scheduled to give what his aides are calling a major jobs address on September 6. Mr. Obama has said he will present his own jobs plan next week as well.
In Mr. Huntsman's case, the New Hampshire speech is an opportunity to get a jump on his rivals. 
In addition to the tax code changes, advisers said Mr. Huntsman will also talk about the need for "substantial regulatory roll-backs," new trade deals beyond the agreements currently pending in Congress, and a new focus on energy independence.
"The President believes that we can tax and spend and regulate our way to prosperity. We cannot," Mr. Huntsman wills say, according to the excerpts. "When I was born, manufacturing comprised 25 percent of our GDP. Today, it's down to 10 percent. This does not reflect a decline in American ingenuity or work ethic; it reflects our government's failure to adapt to the realities of the 21st Century economy."
Mr. Huntsman, who served for two years as Mr. Obama's ambassador to China, will argue for a new effort to produce the products in America that are currently being sent overseas for assembly.
"We need American entrepreneurs not only thinking of products like the iPhone or Segway; we need American workers building those products," he plans to say. "It's time for Made in America to mean something again."

        
Huntsman on Evolution? 'Call Me Crazy'
        
Why Pawlenty's Candidacy Failed
        
Scenes From the Iowa State Fair
        
Five Things to Watch for in Iowa Debate
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (99%); TAX LAW (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); TAX REFORM (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MFG (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); ETHICS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); CORPORATE TAX (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%) jon huntsman; Elections

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1333 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Obama Reschedules Economy Speech at Boehner's Request

BYLINE: HELENE COOPER


HIGHLIGHT: After the president requested a joint session to deliver a jobs speech on the same night as a Republican debate, the House speaker asked him to wait a night.

 BODY:
9:40 p.m. | Updated President Obama acquiesced to a request from Speaker John A. Boehner on Wednesday to move the date of his proposed address to a joint session of Congress to Thursday Sept. 8, after Mr. Boehner all but rejected Mr. Obama's request to speak next Wednesday.
Mr. Obama had asked to deliver a much anticipated speech outlining his proposals to boost employment and the economy on Sept. 7 - the same night as a scheduled Republican presidential debate, as it happens.
4:33 p.m. | Updated Speaker John A. Boehner all but rejected President Obama's request to speak to a joint session of Congress next Wednesday by offering an audience the following night.
Mr. Obama had asked to deliver a much anticipated speech outlining his proposals to boost employment and the economy on Sept. 7 -- the same night as a scheduled Republican presidential debate, as it happens.
In a letter to Congressional leaders on Wednesday, Mr. Obama said it was his "intention to lay out a series of bipartisan proposals that the Congress can take immediately to continue to rebuild the American economy by strengthening small businesses, helping Americans get back to work, and putting more money in the paychecks of the middle class and working Americans."
Mr. Boehner responded with a letter saying that Sept. 7 was not so good for a presidential address before a joint session of Congress. Might he be able to reschedule to Sept. 8 instead?
"As the majority leader announced more than a month ago, the House will not be in session until Wednesday, Sept. 7, with votes at 6:30 that evening," Mr. Boehner wrote. "With the significant amount of time, typically more than three hours, that is required to allow for a security sweep of the House Chamber before receiving a president, it is my recommendation that your address be held on the following evening, when we can ensure there will be no parliamentary or logistical impediments that might detract from your remarks."
That Mr. Obama was going to make his speech next week was expected. But it is remarkable that he would choose to do so in such an elevated setting as a joint session, and at the same time that Republican candidates for president will be laying out their own visions for how to get the country out of the economic doldrums. It is a challenging gesture from a president who appears set on laying out as stark a contrast as he can between where he would like to take the country and where the opposition would go.
"Our nation faces unprecedented economic challenges, and millions of hard-working Americans continue to look for jobs," Mr. Obama said in his letter to Mr. Boehner and the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada. "As I have traveled across our country this summer and spoken with our fellow Americans, I have heard a consistent message: Washington needs to put aside politics and start making decisions based on what is best for our country and not what is best for each of our parties in order to grow the economy and create jobs," Mr. Obama said. "We must answer this call."
The Republican debate scheduled at the Ronald Reagan Library in Simi Valley, Calif., would be the first since Gov. Rick Perry of Texas joined the race and promptly took a big lead in polls over former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts.
Just before 3 p.m. Eastern, the sponsors of the debate said it would go on as planned on Sept. 7 -- creating a lively opportunity for counter-programming. The sponsors did not specify a time for the debate, leaving open the possibility that it would take place after a presidential address.
"We are thrilled that we now have a terrific opportunity to hear from national leaders of both major parties about the most pressing domestic issues facing the country," the sponsors said in a statement.
The Sept. 7 debate is sponsored by NBC News, Politico and the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation; it is to be televised by MSNBC, CNBC and the Spanish-language network Telemundo and streamed on the Internet by Politico. It is to be moderated by NBC's Brian Williams and Politico's John Harris.
John Harris, the editor-in-chief of Politico and one of the moderators of the debate, called the split-screen moment with Mr. Obama "a terrific turn of events" and said that "it raises the profile of the whole evening, and in some ways makes it the first general election debate of the 2012 cycle."
The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said "of course not" when asked whether White House officials had chosen the time of Mr. Obama's speech to interfere with the Republican debate. "One debate of many was not reason not to have a speech when we wanted to have it," he said.
But Reince Priebus, chairman of the Republican National Committee, quickly took to Twitter to criticize the president's timing:
.@BarackObama request to give jobs speech the same night as GOP Presidential debate is further proof this WH is all politics all the timeWed Aug 31 16:10:01 via TweetDeckReince Priebus
ReincePriebus
Next Wednesday is actually the third date for the Republican debate. It originally was to take place on May 2, but it was pushed up to Sept. 14 after the Reagan Foundation said that too few candidates had agreed to attend. Then that date was scrapped in favor of Sept. 7 because some of the campaigns indicated that they preferred for it to take place a week earlier.
And another potential blip: next Thursday, Sept. 8, is the first night of the N.F.L. season.

        
Caucus Video: Job Plans Aplenty From 2012 Candidates; the Debt Committee Begins Work
        
Can Another Speech Really Help Obama?
        
Obama Plans Jobs Speech After Labor Day
        
Caucus Video: Economic Unease and Disapproval of Congress; Governor Perry's Prayer Meeting
        
Town Hall Participants Ask Obama for Help

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%) barack obama; jobs; Boehner, John A; Obama, Barack; Labor and Jobs; Presidential Election of 2012; Speeches and Statements; United States Economy; House of Representatives; Senate; Congress; Elections; The White House

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Senate

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN BOEHNER (93%); HARRY REID (57%) Boehner, John A; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011



1334 of 1334 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: August 31, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: Despite Keys, Obama Is No Lock

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: A set of data points that help predict presidential election winners may have a good track record, but 2012 could upset the equation. 

 BODY:
Allan J. Lichtman, a presidential historian at American University, has issued a prediction that, given an economy still teetering on the brink of recession and President Obama's 40 percent approval ratings, looks awfully bold.
"Even if I am being conservative, I don't see how Obama can lose," Mr. Lichtman told Paul Bedard of U.S. News & World Report.
Mr. Lichtman's prediction is based on his 1984 book "The Keys to the White House". The book cites 13 factors that can work for or against the party of the incumbent president. If at least eight of the 13 keys are scored in favor of the incumbent, he will win the election, Mr. Lichtman says; if he gets seven or fewer, he will not.
The book claims to have called the winner of the popular vote correctly in each election since 1860. (It would not have gotten the winner of the Electoral College right in 1876, 1888 or 2000, when the popular and electoral vote split.) That's 38 elections in a row! Superficially quite impressive.
But 'superficial' is the crucial term here. There are several problems with this model, and its results should be taken with a grain of salt.
First has to do with the nature of the keys themselves, several of which are quite subjective.
1. Party mandate: After the midterm elections, the incumbent party holds more seats in the House of Representatives than it did after the previous midterm elections.
2. Contest: There is no serious contest for the incumbent party nomination.
3. Incumbency: The incumbent party's candidate is the sitting president.
4. Third Party: There is no significant third party challenge.
5. Short-term economy: The economy is not in recession during the election campaign.
6. Long-term economy: Real per capita economic growth during the term equals or exceeds mean growth during the previous two terms.
7. Policy change: The incumbent administration effects major changes in national policy.
8. Social unrest: There is no sustained social unrest during the term.
9. Scandal: The incumbent administration is untainted by major scandal.
10. Foreign/military failure: The incumbent administration suffers no major failure in foreign or military affairs.
11. Foreign/military success: The incumbent administration achieves a major success in foreign or military affairs.
12. Incumbent charisma: The incumbent party's candidate is charismatic or a national hero.
13. Challenger charisma: The challenging party's candidate is not charismatic or a national hero.
This is most obvious in the case of the final two variables, which have to do with the charisma of the incumbent candidate and an opponent. I'm of the view that there's no such thing as "candidate quality," or that charisma doesn't matter. But it's awfully easy to describe someone as charismatic when he or she is ahead in the polls -- or when you have the advantage of hindsight and know who won an election.
Mr. Lichtman, for instance, scored Mr. Obama as charismatic in 2008, but not John McCain (even though Mr. McCain, with his service in the Navy, might have met Mr. Lichtman's description of a "national hero"). However, Mr. Lichtman does not score Mr. Obama that way now.
At the same time, he scores some other debatable keys in favor of Mr. Obama. For instance, he gives him credit for having effected "major changes in national policy" because of the health care bill and stimulus package. Both those initiatives, especially the health care bill, are rather unpopular. On what premise will they increase his re-election chances?
Likewise, he does not call the war in Afghanistan a foreign policy failure, even though a majority of Americans think the war has gone badly and we should no longer be involved there. I'm not saying that Mr. Lichtman scored the issue wrongly -- one can note that the United States does seem to have weakened Al Qaeda, or argue that any failure would be on President George W. Bush and not Mr. Obama. But it's a debatable case.
The heart of the problem is something a little different, however: the formula is not actually all that accurate. Although it may have gotten the winners right, it does not do particularly well at accounting for their margin of victory.
Megan McArdle, a senior editor for The Atlantic, gets at this point by trying to apply the formula to Herbert Hoover, who lost to Franklin D. Roosevelt by 18 percentage points in 1932. She notes that between five and seven keys could easily be scored in favor of Hoover (Mr. Lichtman went with five) -- short of the eight that Mr. Lichtman says are needed for re-election, but close enough that you wouldn't have expected Hoover to lose in a landslide.
We can generalize this point by looking at the number of keys that each incumbent party candidate had and compare it to the margin of victory, or defeat:
As you can see, there is quite a bit of variance. For instance, James A. Garfield (in 1880), Calvin Coolidge (in 1924), Richard Nixon (in 1972) and George W. Bush (in 2004) were all scored as having nine keys in favor of them. All four won their elections. But Coolidge and Nixon won by 23 and 25 percentage points, respectively -- while Garfield won the popular vote by less than 2,000 votes! Mr. Bush's re-election in 2004, of course, was also quite close.
In fact, the 95 percent confidence interval on a projection using Mr. Lichtman's formula is about plus or minus , which is certainly not especially precise. (Four elections in fact fall outside of the 95 percent confidence interval: 1912, 1920, 1924 and 1972.)
Looking at 1972 again, for instance, Mr. Lichtman's formula would have predicted a Nixon victory by about 7 percentage points -- when in fact, Nixon won by 23, a 17-point difference. Had George McGovern won the election by 10 points, the formula would have been just as accurate!
Or look at 1960: Nixon was scored as having just four keys in his favor, tied for the lowest score ever -- but lost the popular vote by just one-tenth of a percentage point to John F. Kennedy. The formula was very, very close to being very, very wrong on this and other occasions.
Assuming that the errors in the formula are normally distributed, we can also use these historic results to translate the number of keys that an incumbent has into his probability of winning another term. For example, an incumbent who has nine keys scored in his favor -- as Mr. Obama has now -- has about a 79 percent chance of winning re-election, given the formula's margin of error.
I'm sure the White House would be thrilled with a 79 percent chance of winning another term. But this hints at a another, more fundamental issue. As you can see from the table, there are lots of cases in which an incumbent's re-election is an open question: one having eight keys scored in his favor, for example, should win about 65 percent of the time over the long run -- but not 100 percent of the time. One having five keys scored in his favor, as Mr. Hoover did, should usually lose -- but will pull out the victory about 18 percent of the time.
What are the odds of all these close calls just having happened to turn out right? Very low. Given the margin of error inherent in the formula, the chance of it having called the winner of the popular vote correctly in all 38 elections is only about 0.03 percent, or about 1 chance in 3,300.
In other words, given that the formula has done quite badly in predicting the margin of victory on several occasions (1932, 1960, 1972, etc.) it has been extremely lucky not to have gotten the winner wrong on at least one occasion. Over the long run, the formula should get about 20 percent of elections wrong, which would be about seven or eight misses out of a sample of 38.
Or ... maybe it's something other than luck. Although none of Mr. Lichtman's keys are intrinsically ridiculous (for example, "which candidate had more 'n's in their name"), one can conceivably think of any number of other areas that might have been included in the formula but which are not -- looking at how messy the primaries were for the opposition party, for example, or the inflation rate, or the ideological positioning of the candidates. (I mention these particular ones because there is some empirical evidence that they do matter.)
If there are, say, 25 keys that could defensibly be included in the model, and you can pick any set of 13 of them, that is a total of 5,200,300 possible combinations. It's not hard to get a perfect score when you have that large a menu to pick from! Some of those combinations are going to do better than others just by chance alone.
In addition, as I mentioned, at least a couple of variables can credibly be scored in either direction for each election. That gives Mr. Lichtman even more flexibility. It's less that he has discovered the right set of keys than that he's a locksmith and can keep minting new keys until he happens to open all 38 doors.
By the way -- many of these concerns also apply to models that use solely objective data, like economic variables. These models tell you something, but they are not nearly as accurate as claimed when held up to scrutiny. While you can't manipulate economic variables -- you can't say that G.D.P. growth was 5 percent when the government said it was 2 percent, at least if anyone is paying attention -- you can choose from among dozens of economic variables until you happen to find the ones that pick the lock.
These types of problems, which are technically known as 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (66%); SCANDALS (60%) Bush, George W; Nixon, Richard Milhous; Obama, Barack; Elections; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; United States; Politics

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); RICHARD NIXON (73%) Bush, George W; Nixon, Richard Milhous; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

 
