

1001 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; PARENTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: Reaching a Milestone, and Looking Back

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP

 BODY:
THIS is my last Parenting column, but before going I wanted to update a few stories I have covered in the past two years. 
 In June 2007 I wrote about Ed Kwiatkowski, who was orphaned when his mother died of a drug overdose and still managed to graduate seventh in his class at Long Branch High School in New Jersey. He continues to thrive, as does his younger sister, Danielle. Readers tracked down the Kwiatkowskis and sent them $7,000, according to Noah Lipman, a teacher who looks out for them. 
 The money went to repair the trailer where the two live. (Princeton University's molecular biology department also donated a washer, dryer and microwave; Omar Minaya, the Mets' general manager, invited the two to a game.) ''Eddie's in his second year at Monmouth University,'' Mr. Lipman said. ''He takes as many credits as he can -- almost has enough to be a junior.'' He also works 35 hours a week at a Dunkin' Donuts, as does his sister, who's in the top 15 percent of her senior class and plans to study nursing. 
 Lucie Voves of Danbury, Conn., who left the corporate world to start a diploma-framing company in her basement so she'd have more time with her four children, is still expanding her business. When I visited in February 2007, Church Hill Classics had a 30,000-square-foot factory and 49 employees and grossed $5.2 million a year. The company moved to a 47,000-square-foot factory recently, has 63 employees and grossed $6.2 million in 2008. Ms. Voves is still putting her kids on the school bus most mornings, and joining the family for dinner most nights.
 Amy Liss of Scarsdale, N.Y., who quit her job as a lawyer in 1993 to raise three sons, despaired of getting back into the work force. Through a Pace University program for mommy-track lawyers, she was placed in an unpaid internship at the Juilliard School, and a year ago was hired there as a legal counsel. 
 In February 2007 Aaron Isenstadt's parents worried that their bright sophomore son wasn't as overprogrammed as his high school classmates in New Haven. Instead of building a college resume, he'd play pool and basketball with friends after school. True to form, Aaron waited until October of this, his senior, year to take SATs and did no test prep. Then he scored 2340 out of 2400. He got 5s on all five of his Advanced Placement tests and is waiting to hear from several Ivy League schools.
 In July 2007 I described how Sofia Comas-Phillips, an assistant vice president at Goodwill Industries, was stretched to the limit holding life together for her two daughters while her husband, Benjamin, served in Iraq with the National Guard. In October 2007 Sergeant Phillips got home safe. At first, Ms. Comas-Phillips said, he was spooked by crowds and loud noises and slept downstairs to guard their home in the quiet suburb of Haskell, N.J., from invaders. ''It still lingers, it will never be back to normal,'' she said, ''but we're doing fine.'' Sergeant Phillips is back at his job with Coca-Cola, and in July, nine months after his return, Ms. Comas-Phillips gave birth to 5-pound 7-ounce Joaquin Velez Phillips.
 With five Buckmans under the age of 10, you couldn't turn around without bumping into a Buckman at St. James Catholic School in Red Bank, N.J., as I wrote in September 2007. That's even more true now. In November 2007 Christian Buckman gave birth to her sixth child, 8-pound 5-ounce William Brady Buckman. ''Everything's good, but we're selling the house,'' said Mrs. Buckman. ''Four bedrooms is too small. We need six -- at least.''
 In January I described the decision of a lifetime for Danny, a 16-year-old living in foster care in a Mount Kisco, N.Y., group home. Should he move to Georgia and be adopted by the Guarnieris, a family that was eager to have him but that he barely knew? Or stay in Westchester, near the Rosens, a family that he loved, that had mentored him and had him to their home every weekend for three years but was not prepared to adopt him? In November, Danny chose adoption with the Guarnieris. Jody Rosen, who has four children, said her family was still close to Danny; he stayed with them all summer and for a week at Thanksgiving; she declined to say why they hadn't adopted. Christine Guarnieri, who had said that God helped her pick out Danny from his photo on an adoption Web site, declined to comment earlier this month. She and her husband, an Army officer, have also adopted Danny's older brother, Eddie, and their friend Nick, and the family will soon move to Hawaii.
 The economic collapse is particularly hard on poor parents. In March 2007 I wrote about a popular parenting program run for 25 years by the Cornell Cooperative Extension in Riverhead, on Long Island, that taught parents how to discipline without screaming and hitting; it was recently eliminated from the 2009 Suffolk County budget. Harmony Day Care in Irvington, N.J., which I wrote about in October 2006, stays open to midnight to serve poor single moms who work late shifts at the malls and McDonald's; its enrollment has dropped from 158 children to 143 this year, as women have lost their jobs, said Ketty Michel, the director.
 Girl Scouts who are great at selling cookies often get great support from their families. In the case of Ayazhia Lee of Uniondale, that also included grandparents, uncles, aunts and godparents. When I saw Ayazhia one night last March, she was selling cookies with her grandmother at the Roosevelt Field mall and was up to 717 boxes; she finished with 2,100 boxes, second best in Nassau County and just 4 boxes behind the top seller, Mikaela Schwartz of Island Park. 
 In April 2007 I wrote ''Young, Gifted and Not Getting Into Harvard,'' about my alumni interviews with terrific kids who never got in. I still get e-mail messages about that column from all over the world. Since then, I've interviewed four more terrific kids who didn't get in.
 Last summer I visited Six Flags Great Adventure amusement park in Jackson, N.J., to talk to parents who were vacationing close to home because of the bad economy. In November, in the midst of the deepening recession, Six Flags officials reported ''the best year in the history of the company.''
 Abbie Ives of Bedford Hills, N.Y., the goalie on a 10-year-old boys' traveling hockey team that plays 60 games a season, is still going strong. The team recently won a Silver Sticks tournament, which qualified them for a Canadian tournament in January. Abbie's dad, Tim Ives, a minister, has mixed feelings. ''They're very excited,'' he said, ''but we don't need another hockey tournament.'' Abbie recently asked what happens to girl hockey players after college. ''They go to medical school,'' her dad said.
 In 2007 I wrote about Zach O'Connor, the young man from Madison, Conn., who came out about being gay in seventh grade, was embraced by his parents and, after being harassed in middle school, thrived in high school. Zach entered American University in Washington in the fall and loves the excitement of big-city life, said his dad, Dan, an American Express executive. ''Zach called us on election night, at 11:30, he was outside the White House with thousands of others celebrating in the street,'' Mr. O'Connor said.
 As for my own brood of four who have had to put up with me revealing their not-quite-deepest secrets, they're all healthy and happy and probably relieved that I'll start a new assignment, a column for Sunday Styles, next month. With the three boys home from college for the holidays, the refrigerator is being emptied daily, and we're up to five washes a day again. They're all terrific, though, astheir dad, it is my duty to say they could be better. Ben needs a haircut. And I wish Adam were going back to school instead of taking the semester off to bike around the country. And Sam's idea to pay for college expenses by selling funny T-shirts is great, but he has to do better than nine shirts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS:CATCHING UP: Clockwise from top right, Ed Kwiatkowski and his teacher Noah Lipman at graduation
Zach O'Connor and his parents
Abbie Ives, a goalie, with her father, Tim. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN FARLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 C.M. GLOVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); PARENTING (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (76%); CHILDREN (76%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (76%); LABOR FORCE (74%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); BASKETBALL (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (64%); LAWYERS (63%); BIOLOGY (55%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); NEW YORK METS (56%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (69%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (91%); IRAQ (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1002 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; DINING THE YEAR IN REVIEW; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Chefs Come and Go, But Good Tastes Linger

BYLINE: By ALICE GABRIEL

 BODY:
IN 2008, the Westchester dining scene witnessed something of a reverse migration, with talented chefs defecting from the suburbs and hightailing it back to New York City. Serious eaters might want to follow Jeff Raider, formerly of Valley, in Garrison, and One, in Irvington, to the Metropolitan Opera's Grand Tier Restaurant, at Lincoln Center. They'll have to jump through a few hoops to find Neil Ferguson, a former Gordon Ramsay lieutenant who worked wonders with fruits and vegetables at Monteverde at Old Stone Manor, in Cortlandt Manor; he is now catering to members and hotel guests only at the private club Soho House, in the meatpacking district. And Rick Laakkonen, who recently left the well-reviewed Antipasti, in White Plains, where he made a mean plate of sauteed chicken livers, has yet to resurface. One exception to what we'll hope is not a trend: Joe Bastianich, Mario Batali and company, who mix exuberant Italian food with a cult of personalities, have opened Tarry Lodge, in Port Chester, where reservations are in huge demand. 
Despite changes in chefs and menus this year, a handful of high points are not to be forgotten.
At Antipasti's rollicking Vino Lounge, caramelized fennel, crisp zucchini and charred pizza topped with rosemary, goat cheese and leaves of prosciutto were a perfect fit for the fine roster of wines by the glass. Although the author of these dishes is gone, a revised menu with gentler prices -- ''gentle pricing'' being the new restaurant mantra -- is in the hands of Robert Ribant, from Michael's, in Midtown Manhattan, where famous people famously eat lunch.
At the sleek new installment of Laurent Tourondel's BLT Steak franchise, in the Ritz Carlton Hotel, I liked the giant popovers and juicy steaks. (The $100 question: Is Mr. Tourondel's high-priced formula recession-proof?)
At Mima, a new vinoteca with a big heart, fluffy polenta was crowned with fava beans, crispy prosciutto, tiny tomatoes and tender buds of garlic; and deliciously brittle fritto misto came in a paper-lined wooden box. Again, the list of wines by the glass was inspired.
At Tavern at Highlands Country Club, the integrity of Eric Gabrynowicz's modern country cooking -- pastured meat and heirloom potatoes -- comes with a bonus: children can bundle up and roast marshmallows in the great out-of-doors.
The year also brought a few notable discoveries: delicious dry rieslings from Hermann J. Wiemer Vineyard, in Dundee, N.Y. (wiemer.com); heavy cream and chocolate milk in glass bottles from the Battenkill Valley Creamery, in Salem (newenglandfarms@aol.com); and 10 varieties of mother-tender scones baked at home by Liz Larkin, available at Near and Natural in Bedford Village; the Pound Ridge Sunoco station; or by special order through mrslarkin@optonline.net

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MEMORABLE: At Mima, a new vinoteca in Irvington, presentation complements an inspired wine list. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); DRINKING PLACES (75%); CHEESE (72%); CELEBRITIES (70%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (69%); MILK (69%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (65%)

COMPANY: RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011



1003 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Bills to Pay Dec. 21-27

 BODY:
THE NEWS The New York Yankees agreed to sign Mark Teixeira, the All-Star first baseman for the Los Angeles Angels, to an eight-year, $180 million contract. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS The country may be mired in the worst economic downturn since the days of Lou Gehrig, but it's also been five years since the Yankees went to the World Series and eight years since they won, and the team is willing to spend money by the fistful. The Yankees recently signed the pitcher C. C. Sabathia to a seven-year, $161 million contract, adding him to a roster of highly paid players like Alex Rodriguez ($275 million over 10 years) and Derek Jeter ($189 million over 10 years).
 THE NEWS Wal-Mart this week agreed to pay at least $352 million to settle dozens of wage lawsuits involving hundreds of thousands of current and hourly workers, who claimed they were forced to work off the clock.
 BEHIND THE NEWS For years, Wal-Mart has been plagued by accusations that it has been able to achieve low prices in part by forcing employees to work without pay through breaks for meals and rest. The settlement by the world's largest retailer appears to be the largest ever for lawsuits over wage violations. Total payouts could reach $640 million. Some analysts said Wal-Mart wanted to settle before a more labor-friendly president took office.
 THE NEWS Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton gave up any hope of recouping the $13.2 million she lent her presidential campaign during the long fight for the Democratic nomination, writing off the debt last weekend in a filing with the Federal Election Commission.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Outspent by Barack Obama's powerful fund-raising machine, Mrs. Clinton ended the Democratic primary deeply in debt. To pay it off, she and former President Bill Clinton have held fund-raisers, and Mr. Obama urged his supporters to lend a hand. Despite the $13 million loss, the Clintons have earned a combined $109 million since 2000, tax records show, so they will probably be just fine.
 THE NEWS The Museum of Contemporary Art of Los Angeles announced last week that it had staved off financial disaster by negotiating a $30 million rescue package with Eli Broad, the city's leading cultural benefactor.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Under the agreement, the museum's trustees have pledged to give $20 million over the next five years, and Mr. Broad's foundation will match the first $15 million, preventing the museum from having to sell off artwork. Earlier this month, the National Academy Museum in Manhattan came under intense criticism after acknowledging that it had quietly sold two paintings for $13.5 million to shore up its finances.
 THE NEWS Lower gasoline prices are putting more money into the pockets of consumers, giving them greater purchasing power even as unemployment rises and employers cut hours.
 BEHIND THE NEWS While most economic news has been unremittingly glum for months, the Commerce Department reported last week that consumer spending when adjusted for inflation ticked up 0.6 percent in November as Americans spent less filling up their S.U.V.'s. There haven't been many silver linings during this recession, but economists say the retreat of $4 gasoline has been the equivalent of a $200 billion tax break. You take the bright spots where you can find them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON JOSEFCZYK/REUTERS
CHRIS HONDROS/GETTY IMAGES
DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 THOMAS MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); LITIGATION (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); ATHLETES (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PAINTING (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (69%); ELECTIONS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%); RETAILERS (65%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DEREK JETER (58%); ELI BROAD (58%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



1004 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: I'm Penniless, but the Laugh's on Them

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
DID you hear the one about the stockbroker who's been sleeping like a baby? Every hour, he wakes up and cries. 
 That was before he read that Somali pirates were issuing a new ransom-backed security to buy Citigroup. Moody's rated it AAA, Henry M. Paulson Jr. deemed the pirates ''fundamentally sound,'' and Bernard L. Madoff will safeguard the returns. 
 It's not every day that hijackers, the Treasury secretary and disgraced Wall Street moguls are lumped into the same wisecrack. Then again, these aren't ordinary times. Financial jokes that were once mainly the province of pointy-headed economists are flourishing as a popular genre, thanks to the recession and an intense longing for a national catharsis to deal with everyone's miserable personal finances. 
 Late-night comedians are only the tip of the squawk box. Internet pranksters have mapped out a road trip from Detroit to Washington for the chief executives of the Big Three automakers (instructions include ''Go to full-serve gas station, refill, drive away without paying bill'' and ''Ask government to pay for toll''). YouTubers are writing ballads about Fannie Mae, the mortgage company, and A.I.G., the much-bailed-out insurance group (the most common refrain: ''Where's my bailout?''). Even the nation of Iceland, which went bankrupt this fall, is being kicked around: someone recently put it up for auction on eBay for 50 cents.
 Few outlets have lampooned the crisis more mercilessly than The Onion, the satirical paper, whose coverage can serve as a leading indicator of our collective mood. ''Financial Planner Advises Shorter Lifespan,'' was the headline of one recent story, a dark turn from sunnier days when headlines like ''Screaming Japanese Schoolgirls Overturn Greenspan's Bus'' were the norm.
 Across the board, some of the most scathing satire has been reserved for former Masters of the Universe, whose power, money and lawyers can no longer insulate them from the public's schadenfreude. Names that used to appear on lists of the wealthiest and most influential Americans are now being dragged through the mud on Web sites like LolFed.com, where pidgin-English captions are scrawled on the faces of famous bankers and others, the same treatment given to silly cat pictures on Lolcat.com.
 Recent victims have included John A. Thain of Merrill Lynch, whose request for a large bonus prompted the posting of a photo of him with the words, ''10 milluyn n unmarkd billz plz.'' The site's most popular villain is ''Vikram Bandit,'' a k a Vikram Pandit, the head of Citigroup, shown in a robber's mask (with labels like, ''Mah bizniss model is no longr relavint''). When Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, was pleading with Congress to pass the $700 billion bailout, LolFed ran a photo of him praying: ''oh pls oh pls oh pls let dis work.''
 The site, introduced last January, is the brainchild of Alyx Kaczuwka, 29, a Web analyst in Orlando, Fla. Traffic began to spike as the meltdown worsened in September. Users from every major bank and brokerage company -- including JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and even the Federal Reserve -- now show up in the analytics Ms. Kaczuwka uses to track readership.
 ''The thing people say is we'd rather laugh instead of cry,'' Ms. Kaczuwka said. ''But I've picked up on a lot of resentment that people would basically engage in casino bets by leveraging themselves 40-to-1.''
 Ridicule on a broad scale can be healthy for a society, said Bob Mankoff, the cartoon editor of The New Yorker, especially when its pillars have been shaken by the unwise actions of a powerful few. ''Humor exposes the fact that it's not the dumb people who cause problems, it's the smart people who come up with dumb ideas,'' he said.
 The New Yorker recently published its first collection of financial cartoons. One of the selections features a one-way sign on Wall Street -- pointing down.
 ''Human nature is not only a crisis -- it's a continuing crisis,'' Mr. Mankoff said. ''That's why we'll continue to have jokes about it.''
 Laughing at well-known people and bad situations can be a good way to channel anxiety and release tension, said Shawn Achor, a business consultant who teaches psychology courses at Harvard. ''A lot of Americans feel powerless to change the economy at a macro level, and they hear on CNN the names of people like C.E.O.s and the Treasury secretary,'' Mr. Achor said.
 ''These are people with power to affect the economy in a way that the individual doesn't have,'' he said. By poking fun, ''you invert that power structure and gain power over those people.''
 Certainly the present turmoil has served as a blessing to Jay Leno, David Letterman and Conan O'Brien, who might otherwise be flailing for material during a post-election lull. ''This year, the Treasury Department is holding its annual holiday party inside something called the Cash Room,'' Mr. Leno recently told his audience. ''Of course, these days it's empty, so plenty more room to party.''
 Vanished cash has also become synonymous with Mr. Madoff, who was put under house arrest after confessing to running one of the world's biggest Ponzi schemes. ''While Bernie's incarcerated in his penthouse, he's not just goofing around,'' Mr. Letterman said. ''Today, he swindled 20 bucks from the Domino's guy.''
 On ''Saturday Night Live,'' where the outcome of the election knocked the legs out from under the Sarah Palin-mocking franchise, the economy has proved a welcome distraction. In one skit, set at a Congressional hearing, an actor playing Representative Barney Frank faced down the heads of the Big Three automakers. ''As many of you know, we decided to drive here from Detroit,'' said the actor playing Rick Wagoner of General Motors. ''But we had car trouble.''
 While television gives a common expression to people's anxieties, the Internet has created a powerful platform for individuals to cut loose. The fake bond offer from Somali pirates has bounced to thousands of in-boxes, as has a parody featuring Mr. Paulson as the author of a Nigerian e-mail scam. ''I am ministry of the Treasury of the Republic of America,'' his message begins. ''My country has had crisis that has caused the need for large transfer of funds of 800 billion dollars US ...''
 On YouTube, there are hundreds of songs that mock the handling of the economy and the people and companies responsible (try coming up with good rhymes for ''bailout,'' ''Lehman'' and ''Federal Reserve''). Some of the authors not only wrote lyrics and music, but also devised complex visual montages featuring fallen titans like Richard S. Fuld Jr., who led Lehman Brothers to its grave.
 The YouTube duet RhettandLink has attracted more than 60,000 hits with their video ''Economy Bailout Song,'' which includes the rap lines: ''I used to think that Freddie Mac was a pimp/But now my mutual fund is the one walkin' with a limp.'' A song by j-liddy denounces the government for ''robbin' us blind,'' as gunfire rattles in the background.
 In earlier financial meltdowns, there was also plenty of dark humor, said Robert E. Wright, a financial historian who is a guest curator at the Museum of American Finance in Lower Manhattan (on Wall Street, actually). In 1720, when the South Sea financial bubble burst, a play called ''Exchange Alley'' came out quickly, mocking market volatility. 
 ''They didn't have YouTube, so you would either buy the play or go to the theater and see it acted out,'' Mr. Wright said.
 HE anticipates that 50 years from now, the museum will have plenty to display from the current crisis.
 ''We've been saving e-mails of the Somali pirate thing, and video from YouTube, which can always be played back,'' he said, ''though 50 years out, who knows what technology will be there.''
 But today, when 500-point swings in the Dow are the new norm, most people can only hope to wind up like a boy in a New Yorker cartoon from the 1987 Black Monday crash. ''I came out O.K.,'' he declared. ''Everything I had was in baseball cards.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BANKING BANDIT: Vikram Pandit is lampooned on LOLFed.com (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOLFED)
 I'M JOKING!: The reluctant cast of late-night comedy, here on ''The Colbert Report.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY COMEDY CENTRAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOMALI PIRACY (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HIJACKING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (67%); GAS STATIONS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (67%); AUTOMAKERS (67%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (68%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (68%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (77%); HENRY PAULSON (56%); BERNARD MADOFF (56%); JOHN THAIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ICELAND (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



1005 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Win, Win Win, Win, Win ...

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN. 
Maureen Dowd is off today.

 BODY:
How many times do we have to see this play before we admit that it always ends the same way?
 Which play? The one where gasoline prices go up, pressure rises for more fuel-efficient cars, then gasoline prices fall and the pressure for low-mileage vehicles vanishes, consumers stop buying those cars, the oil producers celebrate, we remain addicted to oil and prices gradually go up again, petro-dictators get rich, we lose. I've already seen this play three times in my life. Trust me: It always ends the same way -- badly.
 So I could only cringe when reading this article from CNNMoney.com on Dec. 22: ''After nearly a year of flagging sales, low gas prices and fat incentives are reigniting America's taste for big vehicles. Trucks and S.U.V.'s will outsell cars in December ... something that hasn't happened since February. Meanwhile, the forecast finds that sales of hybrid vehicles are expected to be way down.'' 
 Have a nice day. It's morning again -- in Saudi Arabia.
 Of course, it's a blessing that people who have been hammered by the economy are getting a break at the pump. But for our long-term health, getting re-addicted to oil and gas guzzlers is one of the dumbest things we could do.
 That is why I believe the second biggest decision Barack Obama has to make -- the first is deciding the size of the stimulus -- is whether to increase the federal gasoline tax or impose an economy-wide carbon tax. Best I can tell, the Obama team has no intention of doing either at this time. I understand why. Raising taxes in a recession is a no-no. But I've wracked my brain trying to think of ways to retool America around clean-power technologies without a price signal -- i.e., a tax -- and there are no effective ones. (Toughening energy-effiency regulations alone won't do it.) Without a higher gas tax or carbon tax, Obama will lack the leverage to drive critical pieces of his foreign and domestic agendas.
 How so? According to AAA, U.S. gasoline prices now average about $1.67 a gallon. Funny, that's almost exactly what gas cost on the morning of Sept. 11, 2001. In the wake of 9/11, President Bush had the political space to impose a gasoline tax, a ''Patriot Tax,'' to weaken the very people who had funded 9/11 and to stimulate a U.S. renewable-energy industry. But Bush wimped out and would not impose a tax when prices were low or a floor price when they got high. 
 Today's financial crisis is Obama's 9/11. The public is ready to be mobilized. Obama is coming in with enormous popularity. This is his best window of opportunity to impose a gas tax. And he could make it painless: offset the gas tax by lowering payroll taxes, or phase it in over two years at 10 cents a month. But if Obama, like Bush, wills the ends and not the means -- wills a green economy without the price signals needed to change consumer behavior and drive innovation -- he will fail.
 The two most important rules about energy innovation are: 1) Price matters -- when prices go up people change their habits. 2) You need a systemic approach. It makes no sense for Congress to pump $13.4 billion into bailing out Detroit -- and demand that the auto companies use this cash to make more fuel-efficient cars -- and then do nothing to shape consumer behavior with a gas tax so more Americans will want to buy those cars. As long as gas is cheap, people will go out and buy used S.U.V.'s and Hummers. 
 There has to be a system that permanently changes consumer demand, which would permanently change what Detroit makes, which would attract more investment in battery technology to make electric cars, which would hugely help the expansion of the wind and solar industries -- where the biggest drawback is the lack of batteries to store electrons when the wind isn't blowing or the sun isn't shining. A higher gas tax would drive all these systemic benefits.
 The same is true in geopolitics. A gas tax reduces gasoline demand and keeps dollars in America, dries up funding for terrorists and reduces the clout of Iran and Russia at a time when Obama will be looking for greater leverage against petro-dictatorships. It reduces our current account deficit, which strengthens the dollar. It reduces U.S. carbon emissions driving climate change, which means more global respect for America. And it increases the incentives for U.S. innovation on clean cars and clean-tech.
 Which one of these things wouldn't we want? A gasoline tax ''is not just win-win; it's win, win, win, win, win,'' says the Johns Hopkins author and foreign policy specialist Michael Mandelbaum. ''A gasoline tax would do more for American prosperity and strength than any other measure Obama could propose.''
 I know it's hard, but we have got to stop ''taking off the table'' the tool that would add leverage to everything we want to do at home and abroad. We've done that for three decades, and we know with absolute certainty how the play ends -- with an America that is less innovative, less wealthy, less respected and less powerful. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); TAX INCREASES (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (62%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (86%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



1006 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: 8th Annual Year In Ideas

 BODY:
In ''The Remedist'' (Dec. 14), Robert Skidelsky says that John Maynard Keynes has been ignored for too long and that we should ''build a new structure on the foundations that Keynes laid.'' While Keynes was indispensable in leading the world out of the Great Depression, we can no longer continue to focus on economic growth as the solution to our problems, which may have worked when we were in an emptier world with seemingly endless supplies of natural resources as in the 1940s. Today's crises demand new visions of an economy based on creating livelihoods while living within the limits of our planet. Ecological economists like Herman Daly and others offer a vision of a steady state economy that uses resources at the rate that the earth can replace them. Keynes has had his day.
 DAVID KANE Maryknoll Office for Global Concerns Washington 
 Robert Skidelsky argues that the ''failure'' of the efficient-market hypothesis over the last year proves that laissez-faire economics is dead and Keynesian economics should be the foundation of a new economic structure. But the efficient-market hypothesis, as defined by its inventor, Prof. Eugene Fama of the University of Chicago, states an ''efficient'' securities market is one in which, given the available information, actual prices at every point in time represent very good estimates of intrinsic values.
 What has become clear over the last months is that the market did not have all the information to correctly set prices. The government's role should be to ensure that the markets are supplied all the information to ensure their efficiency -- not to pursue its current path of eliminating the market function via subsidies and political meddling.
 BOB RAYMOND Stamford, Conn.
 If I didn't know the work of David Foster Wallace, James Ryerson's essay (''Consider the Philosopher'') would surely have scared me off, since it offers no hope of anything but a cerebral, intellectual access to this stunning writer. Let me add, then, for those readers who haven't yet had the heartbreaking experience of loving Wallace's nonfiction: he not only paints a mind-blowing portrait of his subject, whether a Maine lobster festival or an Illinois State Fair, whether John McCain or Tracy Austin, but his ''signature stylistic device -- the extensive use of footnotes and endnotes . . .'' is his private conversation with the reader: trusting, naked and confidential in a way that makes his suicide felt as both personal and unbearable.
 NINA SHILLING New York
 Higher levels of fatigue in drone pilots have been attributed to ''sensory isolation,'' but the history of war may point to another cause (''Drone-Pilot Burnout,'' Aaron Retica). During World War I, those soldiers who manned observation hot-air balloons on the front reported by far the highest rate of stress and burnout. This was due to their ability to see the horrors going on around them, but being unable to do anything about them. The helplessness of piloting a drone may be another cause for the pilot's chronic fatigue.
 JOEL GARTEN Toronto
 When outlining possible reasons why egalitarian-minded men earn less on average than their traditional-minded counterparts (''Wage Gap Divides Men Too''), Aaron Retica overlooks a more obvious possible explanation.
 Egalitarian-minded men might be more egalitarian-minded when it comes to their family life as well, desiring more of a share of time with their kids and spouses or taking care of their households, and so may not be willing to try for jobs that might pay more but require longer hours.
 AURORA MENDELSOHN Toronto
 In ''Women in Power Are Set Up to Fail,'' Clive Thompson describes a recent study that seems to show that people turn to women for leadership more often in times of crisis. I believe that Michelle Ryan and Alex Haslam, the researchers responsible for the study, misinterpret these results to infer that people prefer using women as scapegoats in the event of failure, rather than men, and even set up women to fail in order to reinforce their own sexist beliefs.
 A more compelling interpretation would be that we subconsciously turn to women in desperate times because of their nurturing and care-giving attributes. Furthermore, I do not agree that the rise of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama in American politics is due to some collective desire for a female or minority scapegoat who can take the blame for the grievous errors of the Bush administration, as Thompson suggests. I, for one, am perfectly happy blaming Bush.
 NATALIE WOLCHOVER Austin, Tex.
 I would like to suggest another possible reason why women and minorities are selected for their positions in times of stress: In times of plenty, people are apt to choose incoming leaders that resemble the outgoing ones. Since men have traditionally filled these positions, another man is likely to be chosen.
 When this traditional model fails, people may choose the unknown, the ''outlier'' in the belief (or hope) that this will produce the needed change. The unfortunate underlying premise upon which this concept is based is that women and minorities are still generally considered ''outliers'' where positions of authority and power are concerned.
 SHARON RODMAN Portland, Ore.
 While I will certainly entertain the notion of eating kangaroo in lieu of cow (''Eat Kangaroos to Fight Global Warming,'' Charles Wilson), I simply cannot swallow the further deregulation of our fallen financial sector (''Capital Insurance,'' Stephen Mihm). The economists Anil Kashyap, Raghuram Rajan and Jeremy Stein wish to circumvent the principle that banks maintain a certain level of cash reserves and equity. Instead, banks could buy a kind of disaster insurance that would cover them if they find themselves dangerously cash-poor. The proposed system allows banks to take greater risks and to transfer those risks to a third party.
 What third party? Who would be the insurer? A ''sovereign wealth fund'' is the example given in the article, but the economists' paper suggests that it could also be a pension fund or even market investors. Now the scheme starts to sound familiar.
 Indeed, what we have seen lately -- through hedge funds, credit-default swaps and the like -- is a system that champions debt over capital and hides that debt in ever-less-regulated nooks and crannies of the financial system. Capital insurance offers us more of the same. I'm not buying it. I'd rather eat a kangaroo.
 DAVID ISAACSON Chicago

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIK MUNIZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, BASED ON THE ORIGINAL PHOTOGRAPH BY ARTHUR SASSE/BETTMANN/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); SUICIDE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); WORLD WAR I (60%); WRITERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



1007 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: What New Yorkers Should Dread in the New Year

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER BUCKLEY. 
Christopher Buckley is the author of ''Supreme Courtship,'' a novel published this year.

 BODY:
IT was a New Yorker -- albeit one from upstate -- who declared, ''We have nothing to fear but fear itself.'' The speaker of that line, whom we honor every day with a traffic jam alongside the East River, was said by Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. to possess a ''first-class temperament.'' 
 No question about it. What else but a first-class temperament could persuade a nation facing economic collapse and another world war to ... chill? 
 This not having been perhaps our happiest year, and Lord knowing what is looming next, perhaps it makes sense to ask: What do New Yorkers most have to fear -- apart from fear itself -- in the coming one? 
 I do not have a first-class temperament, but I do have resources. I have conducted an exhaustive, highly scientific study of what lies ahead for New Yorkers. The research even involved fruit flies, but I was able to raise the money from private funds, so as not to offend Gov. Sarah Palin, whose views on fruit fly research are a matter of record. 
 The results are in and ... well, my fellow Gothamites, as Bette Davis put it in a different context, fasten your seat belts. It's going to be a bumpy year. Let's start with the worst news first.
 The cost of lox at Zabar's and Citarella is projected to increase by 16 to 18 percent.
 The continuing melting of the polar ice caps is wreaking havoc on the salmon breeding situation. Why this is so is not entirely clear -- the fruit flies were frankly of little help with this one. But the danger is real and it is present.
 ''Saturday Night Live'' faces a ''critical satire-deprivation environment'' with the incoming Obama-Biden administration.
 According to a top secret report by the American Association of Political Satirists (A.A.P.S.): ''The writing and acting staffs of 'S.N.L.' may have no choice but to seek material in a non-White House environment.'' Why the A.A.P.S. report should be classified is unclear, but with satirists, you never know. The report chillingly warns that Governor Palin's return to Wasilla, however nice for Wasillians, inevitably means ''a moment of career truth for Tina Fey.''
 The price of an entree at leading New York restaurants is projected to fall below $40.
 According to the trade association Most Expensive Num-nums in the Universe (MENU), the economic situation will leave Alain Ducasse, Jean-Georges Vongerichten and other difficult-to-spell foreign gastro-entrepreneurs with ''no choice but to lower the price of entrees to as low as $35.'' MENU warns darkly that this could have a ''domino effect'' on tips. 
 The number of hedge fund billionaires under the age of 30 is likely to decrease.
 Whatever New Yorkers may think of this demographic class -- studies show that people not in it tend to resent those in it -- the disappearance of 20-somethings earning $500 million and up per year betting that United States industries will collapse could have a ''dampening effect'' on the New York economy. 
 In for a ''rough go'' could be $8,000 bottles of 1982 Chateau Petrus, NetJets, the private aircraft fleet, Maybach luxury automobile sales, Emperor's Club V.I.P. escorts, rentals of 40-foot long Hummer stretch limousines, $70 million Fifth Avenue pieds-a-terre and sales of $6,000 shower curtains, according to the Institute of Conspicuously Consuming Youths (ICCY). 
 Starbucks may be forced to reduce the number of its New York locations to 12,000.
 This doomsday scenario, should it come to pass, would mean that the average New Yorker would have to walk 2.4 blocks in order to purchase a $5 cup of coffee. Treasury Secretary Paulson and whatsisname, the Bernanke guy, are reportedly at work on the problem and may request a $200 billion ''loan'' to Starbucks. 
 The price of a Jean-Michel Basquiat painting may fall below $2.5 million.
 This projection, by the Institute for the Study of Incomprehensively Overpriced Art, is sending tremors throughout the auction-art world. 
 Mayor-for-Life Bloomberg is reportedly mulling plans to convert Wall Street, formerly the economic capital of the world, into ''an urban agricultural zone.''
 While this could be welcome news for residents of Battery Park and the financial district who enjoy growing their own root vegetables, it would, according to one urban planner, ''kind of change the whole general atmosphere down there.'' 
 The 2003 public-area smoking ban will be lifted in order to promote early urban mortality.
 This sure-to-be-controversial move, which sources say will be announced early in the new year by the City Council, is expected to bring about ''significant'' savings to the city budget in the area of extended elderly care. Council Speaker Christine Quinn, who reportedly clashed with Mr. Bloomberg over his intention to serve as mayor until 2048, is said to be exerting ''fierce'' pressure upon the mayor to personally launch a ''Light Up, New York!'' campaign.
 Selected municipal services will be outsourced to the private sector.
 Non-emergency police services will be handled by Wackenhut Security Services. Ambulance services will be taken over by Carey Limousine, Arnie's Pedicab Co. and other livery services. More problematic, possibly, is the plan to turn garbage removal responsibility over to FreshDirect. 
 All buildings 20 stories or higher will be required to be equipped with giant wind turbines.
 The Landmarks Preservation Commission is reported to be ''appalled'' at the prospect. According to sources, Mayor-for-Life Bloomberg and T. Boone Pickens have already ''inked the deal.'' But lawyers for the Audubon Society and the Fund for the Protection of Peregrine Falcons are said to be preparing to file an injunction with the State Supreme Court. Feathers will fly. Stay tuned. 
 Cancellation of Kyrgyzstan Pride Day Parade.
 Though certain to raise hackles within New York's large Kyrgyzstan community, this is ''very much on the table,'' according a source at City Hall's Kyrgyzstan Outreach Operations Center. Estimated savings to the city in police and firefighter overtime could reach ''into the high three figures.''
 Traditional Park Avenue plantings to be replaced with corn and soybean.
 Part of Mayor-for-Life Bloomberg's ''Iowa-Schiowa, we'll make our own ethanol and biodiesel, thanks all the same'' initiative. Certain to be unpopular with Park Avenue residents, who prefer to be driven in limousines and Town Cars powered by highly refined imported fuel.
 Reduced construction will lead to less scaffolding, resulting in less shelter during rain and snowstorms.
 New Yorkers, long accustomed to seeking refuge under blocklong construction and renovation scaffolding during storms, will be forced to purchase more sweatshop-produced, good-for-one-rainstorm umbrellas from extortionist street vendors. 
 Downsizing of the Rockefeller Center Christmas tree.
 The tree selection committee is said to be ''seriously considering'' replacing the usual 90-foot-tall Norway spruce with ''a more economical, but tasteful'' choice. Among the leading contenders: a ''very handsome'' dwarf juniper (18 inches) and a ''quietly elegant'' bald cypress bonsai topping out at almost two feet. After the holiday, the tree will be used to furnish lumber for Bird Habitat for Humanity.
 Restaging of traditional New Year's Eve ball-dropping at Times Square.
 Instead of the usual Waterford crystal ball -- sold to Dubai as a traffic light -- a city worker will toss a match into a trash can full of kerosene-soaked rags to announce that 2009 has officially arrived. Master of Ceremonies Dick Clark will be replaced by a solar-powered animatronic version. Happy New Year!
 The Intrepid will be pressed back into active service.
 According to one source at the Pentagon who did not wish to be identified, the popular Hudson River tourist attraction is expected to rejoin the U.S. Navy fleet in support of operations overseas. The recent $8 million ''renovation'' that the Intrepid recently underwent in Bayonne was, in fact, a ''retrofit.'' Our source says, ''She's nuclear-capable and good to go.'' On the bright side: Intrepid can now assist in starting another United States war overseas.
 So if it's not, as Hollywood superagent Ari Gold of HBO's ''Entourage'' would say, ''All good,'' neither is it all bad.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ED KOREN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (64%); MENU PRICES (63%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (61%); RESTAURANTS (60%); FINFISH FARMING (50%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (51%); TINA FEY (51%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



1008 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1657 words

HEADLINE: As Candidate, Kennedy Is Forceful but Elusive

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
Caroline Kennedy, the woman who would be New York's next senator, is sure of one thing. Among all the hopefuls seeking to succeed Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, she said on Saturday, there is no better choice.
''I wouldn't be here if I didn't think I would be the best,'' Ms. Kennedy said, sitting in the back room of an Upper East Side diner around the corner from her home.
After weeks of criticism that she had not opened up to the public or the press, Ms. Kennedy has embarked on a series of interviews. But in an extensive sit-down discussion Saturday morning with The New York Times, she still seemed less like a candidate than an idea of one: forceful but vague, largely undefined and seemingly determined to remain that way.
Facing a somewhat delicate task, where she is not running for office but seeking an appointment to an impending vacancy, Ms. Kennedy avoided questions about the other possible contenders, saying she did not want to criticize them. She praised Mrs. Clinton, but said it was too soon to say how she could improve on Mrs. Clinton's performance as a senator. She said she had been personally affected by the economic crisis but sidestepped questions about her wealth, declining to say how much money she lived on each year. 
She provided only the broadest of rationales for her candidacy for the Senate, saying her experience as a mother, author and school fund-raiser, her commitment to public service and her deep political connections had prepared her for the job.
Ms. Kennedy, 51, has had only a few weeks to think through a platform and a message, and she has already taken positions on issues like same-sex marriage, which she supports, and school vouchers, which she opposes. She spoke knowledgeably about education issues and said that, if appointed, she hoped to be particularly involved in the debate over the reauthorization of the federal legislation known as No Child Left Behind, of which her uncle Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts was a lead author.
But in the interview on Saturday, she said she hoped to be a consensus-builder, and declined to describe her positions on other pressing public issues -- even in education, where she has some expertise. Ms. Kennedy would not say, for example, whether she supported proposals to abolish tenure for teachers and offer them merit pay instead.
''To pick out the most controversial one as a stand-alone thing, I don't think that's really the way to go about this,'' Ms. Kennedy said. ''People can vote; it'll be really interesting to see what happens. There's a lot of experimentation going on in the country that we should pay attention to.''
The interview underscored the aura of mystery that still surrounds Ms. Kennedy nearly a month after she told Gov. David A. Paterson that she was interested in filling Mrs. Clinton's seat.
New Yorkers appear to have a favorable view of Ms. Kennedy and fond memories of her family. But they know little about her positions or what has driven her to seek office after years spent mostly avoiding the spotlight.
With several weeks to go before Mr. Paterson makes his decision, she is doling out glimpses of her political beliefs and private life. But when asked Saturday morning to describe the moment she decided to seek the Senate seat, Ms. Kennedy seemed irritated by the question and said she couldn't recall.
''Have you guys ever thought about writing for, like, a woman's magazine or something?'' she asked the reporters. ''I thought you were the crack political team.''
On an appearance Friday night on NY1, Ms. Kennedy was more lighthearted, and also more personal. She talked about her family's political legacy, about how much she missed her brother, and about how much her mother had loved campaigning.
But on Saturday morning, Ms. Kennedy was all business and seemed in a more lawyerly frame of mind. At one point, she said that it might have been preferable to seek the seat in an election, noting that ''it would give me a chance to explain exactly what I'm doing, why I would want to do this, and, you know, to get people to know me better and to understand exactly what my plans would be, how hard I would work.''
But she would not say whether she thought Mr. Paterson should appoint a caretaker candidate to fill out Mrs. Clinton's term, which would allow Ms. Kennedy and others interested in the seat an equal and unfettered chance to campaign for it in 2010.
''This is the opportunity that's presenting itself right now, and I'm interested if the governor thinks that I could do a good job and help New York and help him,'' Ms. Kennedy said.
Ms. Kennedy said she had spoken ''throughout this process'' with Andrew M. Cuomo, the attorney general, who is a contender for the job himself and is divorced from Ms. Kennedy's cousin Kerry Kennedy. There are at least a half dozen other serious contenders for the job, including Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, and Representatives Carolyn B. Maloney and Kirsten E. Gillibrand.
''I'm not a conventional choice,'' Ms. Kennedy said. ''I haven't followed the traditional path, but I do think I'd bring a kind of a lifetime of experience that is relevant to this job.''
One of the main assets she could bring to the Senate, Ms. Kennedy suggested, was her celebrity itself. It would be useful, she said, in bringing attention to New York's needs and fighting for a bigger share of federal stimulus money.
''We are losing a very visible, very strong, very powerful advocate in Hillary Clinton,'' Ms. Kennedy said. ''This is not about me, this is about what I can do to help New York get its fair share, help working families, travel the state, bring attention to what is going on up there. So that's why I think I would be good.''
Ms. Kennedy said she was very close to Senator Kennedy, and was inspired by his example, but felt no family duty to follow in her uncle's footsteps.
Asked how much of a role her husband, Edwin A. Schlossberg, might take in her political career -- on the hustings in Watertown, N.Y., say, or other political way stations in the north country -- she hinted that he might be busy elsewhere, given his own career as the head of a prominent design firm. But she said no one could have a more supportive husband.
''The more time I spend with him, the happier I am,'' she said.
Ms. Kennedy said she had spent some time in the Catskills and the Adirondacks; when asked her favorite place in the state outside of the city and Long Island, she said, ''I like visiting historical sites. I loved visiting the battlefields of Saratoga.''
Ms. Kennedy said her finances had been affected by the economic crisis, though ''not as badly as a lot of people's. I'm lucky that I'm not afraid of losing my home, and my husband still has a job.''
But she declined to discuss details. ''If I'm chosen for this I'm going to comply with every kind of disclosure; if the governor has questions about my finances, I'll talk to him.''
She said she employed one household worker as well as a personal assistant -- though she said she had far more experience managing people at the Department of Education. ''Building a staff is something that I would have no trouble doing,'' she said.
And she said she would have no trouble relating to New Yorkers of more modest means. ''I have lived a very advantaged life, and I am very fortunate,'' she said. ''But our family tradition has been always to work for, as I said, for working people.''
Though Ms. Kennedy's own children have attended private schools, she said her experience working with city schools had given her ample understanding of what students and their parents are facing.
''Many of those families are headed by women who are poor, and the kids are poor,'' she said. ''So I think that I've seen firsthand, and extensively across the city, the need that there is, the disadvantage that those kids are at when they enter school without the kind of support that kids from more fortunate backgrounds have, and the long-term impact of that on our city.''
Asked to name an issue on which she would depart from Democratic Party orthodoxy, Ms. Kennedy seemed to have trouble identifying one.
''If we're not comparing it to anybody specifically, it's hard to say where I disagree,'' she said.
But when asked how she might differ with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg or with Governor Paterson, who has sole authority to make the Senate appointment, she demurred.
''I'm not going to talk about my disagreements with him,'' she said. ''You'll find out over time.''
Indeed, Ms. Kennedy, like Barack Obama, the presidential candidate she endorsed, returned repeatedly to the idea of bipartisanship and unity.
''What I think people are really looking for is for people to work together,'' she said finally. ''It's something that I take really seriously. We need Republicans and Democrats, all Democrats -- people need to look at what we have in common.
''Health care is a perfect example,'' she added. ''All the stakeholders are at the table. Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton had different plans, but I think the goal now is to get quality affordable health care. The point now is to find something that's going to work, to reduce costs and get more people covered. Now is the time for people to come together and focus on compromise. I think that's one of the things I have going for me.''
Ms. Kennedy came to the interview with two aides, who had reserved the back room of the Lenox Hill Grill, on Lexington Avenue near 78th Street, for several interviews scheduled on Saturday.
As things wrapped up, a reporter tried to pose another question, but she interrupted him.
''I think we're done,'' she said.
Correction: January 4, 2009, Sunday
An article last Sunday about Caroline Kennedy, who discussed in an interview her pursuit of a seat in the United States Senate, misstated part of the name of the Upper East Side diner where she was interviewed by The Times. It is the Lenox Hill Grill, not the Lenox Hill Diner.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Caroline Kennedy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
 Caroline Kennedy spoke Friday with Virginia Snead, a Save the Children volunteer. She said she was prepared for the Senate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CHERNIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (69%); FUNDRAISING (69%); EDUCATION LAW (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (65%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (64%); MERIT PAY (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SAVE THE CHILDREN (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); TED KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2011



1009 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS TRANSITIONS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Nixon's the One -- to Imitate on Education

BYLINE: By MATT MILLER. 
Matt Miller, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, is the author of the forthcoming book ''The Tyranny of Dead Ideas.''

DATELINE: Los Angeles 

 BODY:
 LOCAL control of schooling -- which means local financing of schools -- is an injustice, masked as a virtue, so deeply ingrained in the American mind that no politician in either party dare challenge it. But America's obsession with local finance, which made perfect sense in the 19th century, is now sinking us morally and economically. To fix it, Barack Obama needs to steal an idea from Richard Nixon. 
 Drive around Chicago, Detroit or most other big cities and you'll see dilapidated schools staffed largely by rookie teachers. The districts spend, say, $10,000 a child. Twenty minutes up the road you'll find suburban schools that sport Olympic-quality pools, Broadway-style (or maybe Off Broadway) theaters and the best teachers in the state. Those schools spend more like $17,000 per pupil. 
 This is what local control hath wrought, with financing schemes under which less than 10 percent of the money spent on primary and secondary education comes from the federal government. The grim equation by which accident of birth determines educational quality in the United States is straightforward. The poorer the district and the state, the lower the local tax base, with less money for students. No other advanced nation tolerates such inequities. 
 Money isn't everything. Some high-spending districts, like Washington and Newark, are dens of mismanagement. But communities like these are distracting exceptions. If you compare most poor, urban areas to their nearby affluent suburbs, the suburbs typically spend thousands of dollars more per pupil. 
 Because big chunks of district budgets go to teachers' salaries, local financing means we systematically assign the greenest, least-qualified teachers in America to the children who need great teachers the most. Research shows that after a few years in such classrooms, these children never catch up. 
 In the early 19th century, the property tax was considered the fairest way to pay for schooling. Property was the main form of wealth, and rich and poor people didn't live in separate taxing communities. The wealthy paid more than the middle class and the poor paid nothing, yet all enjoyed access to the same public schools. 
 Since World War II, however, we have segregated ourselves into a multitude of tiny tax enclaves. The last important official to look hard at the consequences was Richard Nixon. His commission on school finance, headed by the chairman of Procter & Gamble, issued a report in 1972 that urged states to equalize financing disparities, and proposed spending a little federal cash to help. 
 Nixon's commissioner of education said publicly that the federal government should pay 25 percent to 30 percent of the cost of public education. His domestic policy staff considered a new national tax, with the proceeds distributed to states that drastically reduced state and local property taxes while closing the financing gaps among their school districts. 
 In the end, of course, Nixon found he had bigger problems to deal with. But he left a blueprint for Mr. Obama to follow. The federal government contributed just $45 billion of the $488 billion spent on primary and secondary schools in 2004 and 2005 (the most recent data available). That's just nine cents of the nation's education dollar. 
 Going to 25 percent to 30 percent of the overall tab by using a Nixonian revenue-sharing plan would lift the federal contribution by $80 billion to $100 billion a year, and replace an equivalent amount of state and local taxes. A little more federal money might be needed to sweeten the pot, round up the votes and give a boost to the poorest schools. 
 Federal cash could also be offered to lift teacher salaries for high-poverty schools. States or districts that accept the money would have to allow higher pay for the best teachers or those in scarce specialties like math and science, defer or eliminate tenure (or link it to student achievement gains), and make it easier to fire bad teachers. These districts could pay top teachers up to $150,000 a year, attracting a new generation of talent to America's toughest classrooms. 
 Mr. Obama says rebuilding rundown schools will be part of his stimulus plan. That's a start, but a one-time construction boon can't solve the perennial woes caused by the very structure of American school finance. 
 At a moment when we've basically nationalized the banking, mortgage and insurance industries, a little nationalization of school operating costs is in tune with the times. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEXANDRA FALAGARA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SUBURBS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); PROPERTY TAX (87%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (54%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



1010 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Governor Blagojevich's Bombast

 BODY:
More political agony awaits the taxpayers of Illinois as Gov. Rod Blagojevich fiercely clings to power in the face of criminal and impeachment proceedings. His refusal to step aside leaves the Senate seat of Barack Obama unfilled indefinitely and state government adrift, lashed to Mr. Blagojevich's fate in criminal court. 
 Credible leadership is nowhere in sight as grave economic and political challenges loom. If Mr. Blagojevich were less narcissistic, he would leave public service forthwith so constituents might get beyond the embarrassment of his administration. 
 The nation's attention has been on the Obama transition team's report on post-election contacts with the governor about filling the Obama seat. Such contacts might be considered routine except that Mr. Blagojevich was otherwise secretly taped by prosecutors in what they portrayed as a ranting and vile ''political crime spree'' to auction the Senate seat to the highest bidder. 
 As expected, the Obama team exonerated itself, disclosing a timeline of contacts and details that critics are certain to chew on. But there is nothing to contradict either the prosecutor's emphasis that Mr. Obama is free and clear of the statehouse mess, or Mr. Blagojevich's tape-recorded gripe that the Obama team was ''not willing to give me anything except appreciation.'' 
 The larger issue remains the governor's intransigence. The impeachment inquiry by the Legislature has been denied full details of the criminal charges. But constitutional issues of government frozen by scandal are at stake. The hearings so far have managed to summarize the one extraordinary achievement of the Blagojevich administration -- the accumulation of $58 million in political contributions across the last eight years. Media accounts have detailed a pervasive pay-for-play culture. 
 Administration insiders have been indicted and flipped as prosecutors zeroed in on the governor. Of 235 donation checks for $25,000 each, The Chicago Tribune found three-quarters came from favor seekers rewarded with state contracts, appointments and regulatory breaks. Small wonder the governor was overheard demanding fresh campaign tribute in advance of an anticorruption law taking effect in January.
 There's no reason the governor's bombastic court posturing should hogtie Illinois. If impeachment is the only antidote, the Legislature should have the courage to show taxpayers some mercy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); AUCTIONS (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); CORRUPTION (73%)

PERSON: ROD BLAGOJEVICH (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



1011 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS TRANSITIONS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: More Cops On the Street

BYLINE: By DICK THORNBURGH. 
Dick Thornburgh was attorney general of the United States from 1988 to 1991.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 ALTHOUGH it is by no means clear that criminal conduct alone created the financial crisis, certainly those people who profited by criminal actions that led to the demise of leading banks and securities firms need to be brought to account. The apparent $50 billion scam by the money manager Bernard L. Madoff illustrates the inability of federal regulatory agencies to prevent unlawful conduct, leaving substantial challenges to law enforcement after the fact. 
 Unfortunately, the Federal Bureau of Investigation has moved so many agents out of its crime-fighting ranks into anti-terrorism activities that sufficient staff and spending may not be available for the painstaking task of following the sophisticated paper trails that are characteristic of major white-collar offenses. 
 These cases are rarely made by just breaking down the door and seizing the evidence. They often require special forensic expertise to unravel illegal conduct. Investigators with accounting skills must be available to decipher the mountains of paper generated by these scams and use their analytical knowledge to determine which laws may have been violated.
 One thing that is not needed is new legislation. Working with Congress, Barack Obama could, to be sure, generate headlines and seem to combat fraud and corruption by passing a flurry of laws, but that activity would obscure the true deficiency in federal law enforcement -- a lack of money and manpower to enforce the prohibitions that are already on the books.
 The savings-and-loan crisis of the late 1980s provides a model for Mr. Obama to follow. During that scandal, it was also apparent that there were not enough F.B.I. agents and prosecutors to deal with the allegations of criminality emerging from the crisis. 
 So, with the support of President George H. W. Bush, the Justice Department obtained a special appropriation of $50 million to pay for 200 new positions in the F.B.I. We also added 100 prosecutors and 30 lawyers at the Justice Department to prosecute those suspected of wrongdoing. Special task forces -- headed by federal prosecutors and using investigators from the F.B.I., the Internal Revenue Service, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other federal agencies -- were created to concentrate on savings-and-loan fraud.
 The task forces convicted nearly 600 people of federal crimes related to the savings-and-loan collapse. More than 90 percent of those charged were convicted, and 77 percent of those who were convicted served jail time.
 Among those charged were the officers and directors culpable in ripping off the savings and loans, as well as the lawyers and accountants who aided and abetted their unlawful acts.
 A 1995 report by the Clinton administration found that ''the Justice Department has achieved tremendous success in bringing to justice those who looted our nation's financial institutions during the 1980s.''
 The Obama administration needs to spend the money to enforce existing laws, while resisting the urge to pass new laws purporting to supplement our already top-heavy inventory of crime-fighting tools. A wave of new legislation could pose a genuine threat to economic stability and prospects for a recovery. 
 Prosecuting the wrongdoers who already broke the law would send a message that the new administration is aware of and alert to criminal behavior in the financial markets. It would deter prospective violators as well. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEXANDRA FALAGARA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MISCONDUCT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); FORENSICS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TERRORISM (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%); BERNARD MADOFF (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



1012 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THEATER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1674 words

HEADLINE: Thee-a-tuh Or Thee-ter? Try Both

BYLINE: By JESSE GREEN

 BODY:
DEEP in their scone-envying souls, many Americans suspect that British actors are better than their own countrymen at performing classic plays. But are they?
 ''Hogwash,'' said Kevin Spacey, the American actor who runs the Old Vic theater in London.
 The British director Sam Mendes, who works mostly in New York, said something similar, but in salty British slang.
 That sentiment and the different styles used to express it reveal a lot about the Bridge Project, a new classical repertory company created by Mr. Spacey, Mr. Mendes and Joseph V. Melillo, executive producer of the Brooklyn Academy of Music. Designed to promote and embody the ideal of international, or at least trans-Atlantic, theater, the project aims to exploit the interpretive potential of artists with different backgrounds working together for many months, rather than merely dropping in for a few weeks on the West End or Broadway, waving as they pass. 
 ''I don't want London to feel it's getting something from America, or America to feel it's getting something from London,'' Mr. Mendes said. ''I want to take those labels off entirely.'' 
 To that end the 18-member ensemble that opens the Bridge Project's inaugural season on Jan. 2 with ''The Cherry Orchard'' in Brooklyn is split evenly between North American actors (including Richard Easton, Ethan Hawke and Josh Hamilton) and London actors (including Simon Russell Beale, Sinead Cusack and Rebecca Hall). ''The Winter's Tale'' joins the rotation on Feb. 10; after both plays close at the Brooklyn Academy on March 8, the company will visit Singapore, New Zealand, Spain and Germany before settling at the Old Vic for the summer. The project's first season (two more are in the works) will conclude, aptly enough, at the ancient theater of Epidaurus in Greece, where Britons and Americans are equal parvenus. 
 As is often the case with big theatrical ideas, the Bridge Project began at the confluence of several personal and artistic concerns. Mr. Melillo, who had presented Mr. Mendes's much-praised repertory bill of ''Uncle Vanya'' and ''Twelfth Night'' in Brooklyn in 2003, said he ''affectionately stalked'' the director in hopes of enticing him to return. Mr. Spacey was looking for a way to do what he called epic work. Mr. Mendes had a logistical problem to solve. ''I didn't want to cut myself off from working with great English actors,'' he said, ''but still wanted to take my kids to school.'' He and his wife, the actress Kate Winslet, live in New York with their two children.
 The three principals settled quickly on the aesthetic framework: two large-scale classical plays in a kind of ''hall of mirrors'' repertory, as Mr. Mendes put it, to be performed in Brooklyn, at the Old Vic and on tour worldwide. But over lunch one day in 2006 he and Mr. Spacey looked at their own mirrored lives -- an Englishman in New York, an American in London -- and realized something was missing. 
 ''Both of us had come from difficult experiences of trying to transfer shows,'' Mr. Spacey said. ''For instance, when 'The Iceman Cometh' transferred from London, we had to recast 14 actors, which increases your budget because rather than bringing a company that's been working together for 16 weeks, you have to rehearse the whole play all over again. We were determined to create a stronger bridge between the culture in London and in New York on a more permanent basis.''
 Trying to protect jobs for their respective members, the American and British stage actors' unions, collectively known as the Equitys, have not always made such bridges viable. A reciprocity arrangement introduced to improve the situation has become, Mr. Spacey said, ''a bit of a star system,'' leaving out ''a lot of people who don't qualify under the heading of international stars but are nonetheless brilliant, seasoned actors.'' Instead of a true melding of sensibilities, the result is often what Mr. Mendes called a ''shotgun marriage'' that devalues American actors; in film, he said, ''no one bats an eyelid if there is a mixture of Americans and British.'' 
 Mr. Spacey agreed. ''I've always found it strange that a director can hire any designer he wants from any country,'' he said. ''But if he hires a foreign actor, it's like he's stolen the crown jewels and run across the river with them.'' This is especially so on the American side, where many fear that if the bridge were opened, traffic would flow in one direction only. But when approached by Mr. Mendes's producing partner, Caro Newling, and by Alice Bernstein, the Brooklyn Academy's executive vice president, the unions were willing to endorse the equal-opportunity venture.
 Financing the project wasn't as easy. Even before the recent economic crisis threw arts programs everywhere into disarray, a proposition for a worldwide, not-for-profit project like this -- with capitalization and running costs of more than $6 million in its first year alone -- was a rarity. Outside of Broadway and the West End, where there is at least the possibility of recouping large investments, no one has the funds -- or foolhardiness. In the nonprofit sector even smallish plays must now be produced by consortiums. The Brooklyn Academy and the Old Vic, despite putting up more than $2.3 million each, still had to raise funds from the international presenters and from Bank of America, which finalized a three-year, $2.8 million sponsorship agreement just before the boom fell.
 ''In order to mount work of this magnitude in this century it takes multiple partners,'' Mr. Melillo said. ''You can't do it alone anymore. There's no not-for-profit institution and, I believe, no country, even, that can do it. Everyone's too terrified.'' 
 Everyone but the actors. For them the Bridge Project represents the unexpected revival of a nearly dead form: expansive, classical, repertory theater. This is not a plainclothes, five-member cast performing two nights only on a set made entirely of empty chairs for an audience similarly composed. It is big, rich, long, varied -- and because of the complex double casting, risky. The Bridge Project was supposed to begin last year, but when Stephen Dillane, set to play Hamlet and Prospero, withdrew to handle a family emergency, the season was scuttled at the last minute.
 Mr. Easton, who at 75 remembers when repertory still thrived beyond the opera house, found that his recent experience in ''The Coast of Utopia'' -- the trilogy of Tom Stoppard plays that ran in rep at Lincoln Center -- reminded him why the system is worth the risk and expense. ''You give a more total performance in each role,'' he said, ''because you don't have to spend all your expertise in either one.''
 Ms. Hall, 26, agreed. ''So when I play unsexy Varya in 'Cherry Orchard,' '' she said, ''I can really play her completely, knowing that I get to play glamorous Hermione in 'Winter's Tale' the next night. I don't have to worry about people thinking I'm always an awful frump.'' 
 In a conversation with the two actors during a rehearsal break in Brooklyn, part of the strength (and complexity) of the project's concept became clear just listening to their different ways with the language. Ms. Hall, the daughter of the British director Peter Hall and the American-born opera singer Maria Ewing, has by her own admission a less than ''cut-glass'' English accent. Mr. Easton is actually from Canada: ''a bridge unto myself,'' he said, sonorously. 
 The project treats accent as many theaters now treat race, as an opportunity to rethink great roles. In ''The Winter's Tale'' the actors' backgrounds are exploited for effect: Europeans play the urbane Sicilians, North Americans the rustic Bohemians. In Chekhov's ''Cherry Orchard'' the distribution is less programmatic; Mr. Mendes is even allowing some American actors to experiment with British accents, and vice versa. 
 In doing so he invites the wrath of critics who still think that color-blind casting, let alone accent-blind casting, violates the supposed realism of the stage. ''It's important that the agenda is set not about how people talk,'' Mr. Mendes explained. ''Theater is not film; it's a poetic world. If it weren't, everyone in 'Cherry Orchard' should be using a Russian accent.''
 This apparently superficial issue is at the heart of the Bridge Project. Accent and diction and other matters of technique have traditionally been markers for nationality in invidious discussions of British and American acting. Especially in the performance of classics, critics have posited two incompatible approaches: a British singing style exemplified by John Gielgud and an American naturalism exemplified by Marlon Brando. Neither is really an accurate picture: Gielgud didn't croon Hamlet, and Brando didn't mutter Marc Antony with marbles in his mouth. In fact he attempted an English accent. 
 In any case, Mr. Easton said, ''all acting ideas and theories are now universal,'' with the important proviso that British actors get more chances to see and perform Shakespeare throughout their lives and are thus less afraid of it. But while there can be a difference in knowledge, Mr. Mendes said, ''there is no difference in skill.'' More than that, to avoid using actors from different backgrounds is to miss an opportunity for communication in a world whose culture is ever more international.
 Despite all the agendas waving like pennants off the Bridge Project, finally it's the art that matters. Mr. Melillo wants to put on a good show and take it to the world. Mr. Mendes wants to paint without being deprived of half his palette. Mr. Spacey wants two great roles (though he's not saying which ones) when he joins the company as an actor in its third season.
 And an acclaimed journeyman like Mr. Easton? He's luxury casting in several smallish parts, but the chance to work with international colleagues on these plays and trod the boards at Epidaurus far outweighed the 10-month, minimum-scale commitment and heavy travel. 
 ''I'd have done it if it were a tour of Connecticut,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Players in the Bridge Project: from left above, Josh Hamilton, Richard Easton and Ethan Hawke (of the North American participants) and Sinead Cusack, Rebecca Hall and Simon Russell Beale (of the London-based)
the instigators, from far left, Joseph V. Melillo, Sam Mendes and Kevin Spacey. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE, LEFT, NICK HEAVICAN
ABOVE, ELLIS PAARINDER
 RICHARD TERMINE) (pg.AR5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); CHILDREN (61%)

PERSON: KATE WINSLET (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); NORTH AMERICA (90%); NEW ZEALAND (54%); GERMANY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



1013 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: A Wish List For Real Estate

BYLINE: By AMY CORTESE

 BODY:
BEFORE Christmas this year, as the government scrambled to fix a recalcitrant economy, some businesses received early holiday gifts. There was $100 billion for the American International Group, the insurance giant; $250 billion for banks; and at least $13 billion for automakers. 
 President-elect Barack Obama has also signaled that he would spend more than $700 billion on infrastructure projects to help create jobs, while the Treasury Department has an additional $350 billion available from the rescue funds authorized by Congress in September. 
 Across corporate America, executives are drawing up their wish lists, and the commercial real estate industry is no exception. 
 Commercial real estate groups have been meeting with members of Congress, the Federal Reserve, the Treasury, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as well as Mr. Obama's transition team, to press their case. And they say they have a compelling one. Commercial real estate is a significant industry, accounting for $549 billion in construction-related spending and nearly five million full-time jobs in 2007, according to the National Association of Industrial and Office Properties. It also contributes to state and local coffers.
 Although commercial real estate remains in better shaper than some other industries -- there is a good balance between supply and demand, vacancy rates are modest and loan default rates have so far hovered at a rock-bottom 1 percent, according to trade groups -- industry leaders warn that the sector faces significant problems. In particular, tighter credit policies are making it harder for real estate companies to refinance. An estimated $400 billion in loans are expected to come due in 2009 alone, and more than $1 trillion over the next three years, according to industry estimates based on Federal Reserve data.
 ''We have profound risk on our hands at the moment,'' said Bruce Mosler, the president and chief executive of Cushman & Wakefield, a commercial brokerage firm.
 Jeffrey DeBoer, the president and chief executive of the Real Estate Roundtable, an industry group based in Washington, agreed. ''Commercial real estate debt will be the next major problem that policy makers need to address,'' he said.
 The commercial real estate industry relies on a steady stream of relatively short-term financing; loans are refinanced every several years or so. With the two main sources of commercial funding -- bank lending and commercial mortgage-backed securities -- effectively shut down, hundreds of billions of dollars worth of loans are in jeopardy of defaulting. 
 The bulk of the loans coming due, industry executives say, were originated two or more years ago to help finance a rash of deals in office towers, hotels and industrial buildings, many of which are generating healthy cash flow today. ''We're talking about performing loans -- that's the rub,'' said Thomas J. Bisacquino, the president of the National Association of Industrial and Office Properties. 
 Of course, there were also speculative, highly leveraged deals at the height of the economic bubble, when rents and property values looked as if they would rise indefinitely. As vacancy rates climb and values drop, many of these loans will need to be restructured. 
 Existing properties are only half the problem. New development has also ground almost to a halt because of a lack of financing. 
 Getting investment flowing again is the most immediate concern, industry executives say, and they have a number of suggestions. The Real Estate Roundtable, for example, has circulated a five-point plan to both the current and incoming administrations that proposes a mix of lending programs and tax and accounting changes to stimulate commercial real estate investment. 
 Both the Roundtable and the National Association of Industrial Office Properties want the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility program, which was initially intended to intended to lubricate the market for securities backed by consumer and small-business loans, to be extended to cover commercial real estate mortgages. When it was announced in late November, Treasury officials said they would spend up to $200 billion on the program.
 Alternatively, the groups have suggested that a program be created for commercial real estate debt, perhaps modeled after enterprises like Freddie Mac. They also favor changing tax rules to make it easier to restructure loans (under current regulations, the parties would incur tax penalties), and eliminating what they say are onerous taxes on foreign real estate investment.
 Although it would not be a panacea, extending the $200 billion loan program would be a step in the right direction, industry officials said. ''The most important thing is that lenders start lending again,'' Mr. DeBoer said. 
 John B. Hynes III, the president and chief executive of Gale International, a developer based in Boston, knows firsthand about the credit crisis. Gale and its partner, Vornado Realty Trust, recently suspended construction on their planned $700 million redevelopment of their One Franklin project in downtown Boston because of difficulties obtaining credit.
 About three-quarters of the 250,000 square feet of retail space has been preleased, half of it to Filene's, the building's original tenant, Mr. Hynes said. Also, he said, a buyer was found for a 275-room hotel, and one-quarter of the building's 500,00 square feet of office space has been leased. 
 The deal was funded with a healthy 40 percent equity stake, and Gale and Vornado were looking for $400 million in financing. But the developers were able to stitch together only $300 million from five banks. The project would create an estimated 3,000 construction jobs for a period of three years, according to Mr. Hynes. 
 What irks him, he said, is that while he was trying to drum up funding the government was injecting billions of dollars into banks. ''So I'm sitting here in Boston waiting for coins to fall out of the sky, and nothing's happening,'' Mr. Hynes said. ''I thought they were getting the money so that they could lend it out and we could create jobs. It's like giving the automakers $25 billion, and then they don't make any cars.'' 
 Real estate executives say Treasury officials the transition team to a new Obama administration have been listening. ''There's an openness to serious consideration of all of these things,'' said Steven A. Wechsler, the president and chief executive of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. 
 The Obama team will have a lot on its plate, but executives were hopeful that measures will be taken early next year. 
 In the meantime, Mr. Hynes and his team have redesigned their One Franklin building, shaving off almost $200 million in costs. They expect to go to the capital markets to try again in January.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thomas J. Bisacquino, above, of the National Association of Industrial and Office Properties, and Jeffrey DeBoer of the Real Estate Roundtable, left, view commercial real estate debt as an important issue for policy makers. (PHOTOGRAPHS, ABOVE PHOTOGRAPH, ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 LEFT, REAL ESTATE ROUNDTABLE/PATRICIA FISHER PHOTOGRAPHY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); CASH FLOW (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (53%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (70%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (70%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (70%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



1014 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED GUEST COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: The Pre-Blame Game

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN. 
Timothy Egan writes Outposts, a column at nytimes.com. The public editor's column will return in two weeks.

 BODY:
In the icy last days of a year that can't pass fast enough, the departing president is looking for shelter from the storm of his hubris, while the incoming one is trying to keep that same load from burying him.
 Soon enough, the mess will be all Barack Obama's. But in the holiday interregnum, the winter air is thick with excuses at the White House no-regret fest. The president has given 10 exit interviews, spinning an unnecessary war, the shredding of the Bill of Rights and an epic run of economic negligence as bold action taken with Churchillian fortitude. 
 No doubt the Weather Channel is waiting in the wings for his revision of Hurricane Katrina.
 A little polishing of history is natural for a valedictory. And if President Bush had just gone off to quiet moral smugness at Crawford, where he has spent 485 days during his presidency, we could be done with him. But nooooo! 
 The ineptitude-by-design that led to war in Iraq? He blamed it on bad intelligence, much of it from ''prior to my arrival in Washington.'' 
 The economic meltdown? History will prove that it came from many decisions ''that took place over a decade or so, before I arrived.'' 
 With the secondary players, it's no better. Under Christopher Cox's tenure at the Securities and Exchange Commission, both the legal thievery behind the collapse of Wall Street and the biggest Ponzi scheme in history went undetected. But Cox will not carry any part of that weight. 
 Dick Cheney, at least, is willing to defend the delusions that inspired his dark overlordship. Echoing Richard Nixon, he told Fox News that ''as a general proposition,'' if the president decides to do something in war it's legal. Nuke the world, for example. He then alluded to Abraham Lincoln's suspension of habeas corpus and Franklin Roosevelt's internment of Japanese-Americans as cover. 
 Cheney implied that waterboarding is not torture, despite the fact that such practice can be prosecuted as a war crime in most civilized countries. And in a lesson that made many a parent cringe, he said it was O.K. during a righteous hissy fit to tell someone to go, um, stuff themselves. 
 It doesn't take much for an honest assertion by this gang to stand out like a clean pig at the trough. Give credit to Andrew Card, the former White House chief of staff, for saying, ''Maybe I was asleep at the switch,'' as the home loan market burned.
 Down the road, Iraq may fall back into the chaos of sectarian violence, and if that happens, Bush will wash his hands of it. That's the premise of a new book, ''Unintended Consequences: How War in Iraq Strengthened America's Enemies,'' by Peter W. Galbraith.
 ''The pretense that the surge is a success and that therefore the United States is winning the Iraq war,'' he writes, ''is the opening salvo in a coming blame game as to who lost Iraq.''
 On the incoming tide, Obama is trying to keep the last eight years at arm's length. Two wars, two million lost jobs in 2008, the worst unemployment in 15 years, a budget deficit that could reach a trillion dollars -- all of that is an inherited burden, Obama says. 
 But to hear some Republicans tell it, the bad times are Obama's fault. On the day after the election, Rush Limbaugh said, ''The game has begun.'' He meant the blame game, and it took less than 24 hours for him to get started. 
 ''We now have the largest market plunge after an election in history,'' he said on Nov. 6. ''Thank you, man-child Barack Obama.'' 
 His colleague in intellectual dishonesty, ''the deeply unsubtle Sean Hannity,'' as The Economist called him, picked up the talking points on the ''Obama recession''-- his words, more than a month ago. 
 The new president has a strong wind at his back precisely because the desire for a fresh start is so great. A USA Today/Gallup poll just found that Obama is the first president-elect since Dwight Eisenhower to be picked by Americans as the most admired man in the world. A more fascinating measurement is the number of Republicans who disapprove of Obama's public performance -- it's dropped by half since the election.
 Much of this good will may not last until Groundhog Day. But as 2008 slips away with Bush fogging up history's rearview mirror, Obama does have a clean slate. 
 He will make mistakes, plenty of them. He will disappoint, numerous times. He will say one thing, and do another. Expectations are unbearably high. 
 For just a few more weeks, though, he deserves none of the pre-emptive blame his less reasonable critics are trying to assign to him. The act of becoming was the more enjoyable part of success, Ernest Hemingway once said. Obama, facing a year of peril at all levels, may reach the same conclusion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); IRAQ WAR (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); WAR CRIMES (75%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); HURRICANES (73%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (66%); ASIAN AMERICANS (61%); PONZI SCHEMES (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); CHRISTOPHER COX (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



1015 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS TRANSITIONS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Health Care With a Few Bucks Left Over

BYLINE: By ALAIN ENTHOVEN. 
Alain Enthoven is a professor of management at Stanford.

DATELINE: Stanford, Calif. 

 BODY:
 HEALTH care drained the federal budget of more than $1 trillion this year. That includes direct health care programs like Medicare, plus insurance for federal employees and the cost of excluding employer health-care contributions from workers' taxable incomes. If present trends continue, in 10 years the number will almost double. 
 President-elect Barack Obama has proposed some good ideas for cutting health care costs, but his proposals will not create the savings we need. 
 He has suggested, for example, that electronic medical records could save Americans nearly $80 billion per year. But information technology cannot bring meaningful savings if it is used in a health care system that regularly rewards waste and punishes efficiency, as ours does.
 Similarly, Mr. Obama proposes to save more than $80 billion per year by better management of chronic conditions like high blood pressure, heart disease, diabetes and asthma, and by preventing more diseases in the first place. It is true that most American doctors are weak on prevention and chronic disease management. But they will not improve until they are given economic incentives to buy the equipment and hire the personnel they need to actually deliver these services. 
 The only truly promising way to save money is to change the way health care is organized and delivered. In the United States, 85 percent of doctors work in small, fee-for-service practices. Many of these doctors are very good and hard-working. But they are autonomous, not members of teams. They do not systematically share information with one another. They are unable and unwilling to be held accountable for the quality and cost of the care they deliver. 
 The employment-based health insurance system has created this situation by not encouraging people to consider the value for their money when they choose doctors. 
 Some American medical practices do emphasize economy. They are very large, multispecialty group practices in which doctors work together to improve quality and keep costs low. Their doctors share values and cultures of teamwork. They keep comprehensive electronic medical records, they share information, and they emphasize disease prevention and chronic disease management as a matter of course. 
 These doctors are usually paid salaries, not fees for services. Research and experience suggests that these practices -- which exist in all regions of the country, including both rural and urban communities -- can reduce costs by 30 percent. 
 And a few employers -- some universities and companies, the federal government, the state governments in Wisconsin and California -- allow their workers to choose such practices, and then keep the money saved by that choice. At least 70 percent of employees offered this option choose it, even when it involves restrictions on doctor selection. 
 Unless all Americans are given this choice -- along with the right to keep the savings -- we will not be able to get health care costs under control. But making this change won't be easy. Employers and insurance companies are likely to resist it. Doctors and consumers will have to change. It will take time.
 Right now, most employers offer workers no choice of insurance companies. They say it would be too expensive to administer more than one. And insurance companies offer employers better deals when they can be the sole supplier.
 Even at companies where employees have choices, many employers pay 80 percent to 100 percent of the premiums of an employee's chosen plan, so there is little opportunity for the employee to realize savings. This market does not reward cost-conscious behavior. The tax code makes this problem worse by exempting employer contributions to health insurance from taxes, no matter how large they are. 
 Efficient, organized medical systems need to be able to compete with -- and ultimately replace -- the fee-for-service model. Working with Congress, the next president should establish a national health-insurance exchange, through which people can choose among several competing health plans, including those affiliated with organized systems of care. Individuals could then select which plan they judge best to meet their needs, and save money by choosing less expensive options. The insurers in the exchange would agree to accept all who want to enroll, and to charge their same price to all individuals, no matter the state of their health.
 Then, to ensure that enough people participate in the health-insurance exchange, Mr. Obama and Congress should phase in a requirement that the tax-free status of employer contributions to health care be dependent on employers buying health care for their workers through the exchange -- and making fixed-dollar contributions, so workers can reap the savings when they choose less expensive plans. All employees would have a wide range of choices, with an incentive to be cost-conscious. (Eventually, the government should help everyone buy insurance through the exchange, regardless of employment.)
 Right now, Mr. Obama's plan is to create an exchange through which people who have difficulty buying affordable health insurance could buy coverage. Unfortunately, participation in exchanges cannot be voluntary. Voluntary exchanges have been tried and failed. The first people to join are the sickest, which drives up the premiums. 
 To make exchanges work, a broad sample of people, healthy and sick, must be included so that health risks can be spread widely. Large exchanges would also lower the administrative costs for insurers. 
 By combining organized systems of medical care with the competition created by a health insurance exchange, Mr. Obama could achieve large savings. In 10 years, costs could be reduced by 30 percent, saving more than $700 billion a year -- all driven by incentives and voluntary actions. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEXANDRA FALAGARA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); CHRONIC DISEASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (87%); HEALTH INSURANCE (79%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (79%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); TRENDS (72%); INCOME TAX (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (70%); HYPERTENSION (68%); DIABETES (68%); HEART DISEASE (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



1016 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 7578 words

HEADLINE: Transcript of the Caroline Kennedy Interview

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of an interview with Caroline Kennedy conducted by Nicholas Confessore and David M. Halbfinger of The New York Times.
 DH: Thank you for doing this.
 CK: Thank you. (Laughs)
 DH: Yeah, sure. I think we want to try and avoid questions you've already answered before and just get to the ones that would be somewhat newsworthy.
 NC: Let's talk a little bit about some of the other candidates who are interested in this job. Andrew Cuomo: he's been attorney general, he's been a cabinet secretary, he's been a close adviser to a governor. He has an extensive record and knows upstate like the back of his hand. Tell me why the governor should pick you over Andrew Cuomo. 
 CK: I'm, you know, actually, Andrew Cuomo is someone I've known for many, many years and we've talked, you know, throughout this process, so, you know, we have a really good relationship and I admire the work he's doing now and what he's done, so I'm not really going to kind of criticize any of these other candidates, because I think there are a lot of people with great experience, and, you know, any one of which the governor could easily pick and they'd do a good job.
 NC: I'm not asking you to criticize; I'm saying, why should he pick you over any of these other ones, what makes you the best candidate?
 CK: Well, it obviously depends what the governor is looking for. I can tell you what I think I'd bring to this, which is, you know, I'm not a conventional choice, I haven't followed the traditional path, but I do think I'd bring a kind of a lifetime of experience that is relevant to this job. I think that what we've seen over the last year, and particularly and even up to the last -- is that there's a lot of different ways that people are coming to public life now, and it's not only the traditional path. Even in the New York delegation, you know, some of our great senators -- Hillary Clinton, Pat Moynihan -- came from, you know, other walks of life. We've got Carolyn McCarthy, John Hall, both of them have an unconventional background, so I don't think that that is, uh -- so I think in many ways, you know, we want to have all kinds of different voices, you know, representing us, and I think what I bring to it is, you know, my experience as a mother, as a woman, as a lawyer, you know, I've been an education activist for the last six years here, and, you know, I've written seven books -- two on the Constitution, two on American politics. So obviously, you know, we have different strengths and weaknesses. And I think I also bring kind of a lifetime commitment to public service, a knowledge of these issues, and I've spent a lot of time encouraging people, and younger people, to go into public service, through a lot of the, you know, nonprofit work I've done. So I think it's a whole, it's different, it's completely different, and it really is up to the governor to decide who would do the best job. But in terms of a family commitment -- 
 NC: But do you think, in your own view, those things would make you a better pick for this job than other candidates? 
 CK: I think they would make me a really good pick for this job, and, um, it's up to the governor to decide, you know, who would be the best. Really. And I think there are many ways to serve, and I've loved what I've done so far, and I plan to continue, I think, you know, serving and advocating for the issues that I think are important. So, if it's this, that would be wonderful, because I really do think that the relationships that I have in Washington -- you know, I worked hard on the Obama campaign, I have a good relationship with many of the people that are coming in to the administration, in the Senate, others, both sides of the aisle, you know, that's the kind of work that I've done outside of politics. It hasn't been sort of a partisan kind of career that I've had. So I think that at this point in time, that's what people are looking for.
 DH: Do you think you would be the best for the job of the people who are out there?
 CK: Well, I wouldn't be here if I didn't think I would be the best. (Laughter) Do you think you're the best for your job? I assume you do. Uh, yeah.
 DH: OK. I just want to be clear, because you seem to be saying it's up to the governor to decide -- 
 CK: Well, it is up to the governor to decide, and it is up to the governor to decide what's best for New York. You know, I think that I could advocate for New York, I think that we are losing a very visible, very strong, very powerful advocate in Hillary Clinton, and I think it's to New York's advantage to have somebody who can, you know, bring attention to New York, you know, bring four people from The New York Times here to the coffee shop (laughter) and really put that to work for average people. This is not, you know, about me, it's about what I can do to, you know, help New York get its fair share, help working families, travel the state, bring attention to what is going on up there. So that's why I think I would be good.
 DH: Is it the path that you've been on that distinguishes you? Is it your skills and talents?
 CK: Well, it's a combination that makes me who I am. Each one of us is a unique person. I may, and I think I represent a tradition that means a lot to me, which has really always been about fighting for others, for middle-class families, for working class -- for working people, you know, and that's a tradition and a commitment that I take very seriously.
 NC: Hillary Clinton was considered to be a very effective senator, obviously, even though she came in without much experience in a legislature. Is there any aspect of her performance, her representation, that you think you could improve on if you became a senator?
 CK: Well, I think she spent a lot of time traveling around the state and really working to represent all the people of the state, and that's the kind of commitment I would make, so I think she did a great job, so I would love to continue in that tradition.
 NC: You think you can improve on it somehow? 
 CK: Well once I -- when I get in there, then I can really tell you exactly how I would improve on it. But as I said, I think she did a phenomenal job. 
 DH: Why is it that you apparently did not give Senator Clinton any kind of advance warning that you'd be coming out for Senator Obama?
 CK: Um, I'm not going to talk about that particular process, but -- 
 DH: Why's that?
 CK: Because those conversations that I have had and had during that time are not something that I think is relevant right now.
 NC: How come it isn't relevant? It kind of goes to your relationship with the person that you're trying to succeed in the Senate.
 CK: I think this is about the future, and, um, you know, that's what I want to talk about, which is, what's going on in our state, you know, why I would be the best person to help deliver for New York. We're facing, you know, an economic crisis, the paper this morning said there's, you know, five billion dollars of construction projects which just stopped, you know, that's, you know -- conversations a year ago, that's -- beside that, I don't, as I said, I have conversations with a lot of people, and those are confidential.
 NC: You said that you would run -- and this earned you, I think, some applause from Democrats who were skeptical before, but you said you would support in 2010, whoever the governor appoints, but it occurred to me to wonder why: Why not run if you want this job? If you were sincere about this job, why not run in 2010 regardless of what happens in the next two months?
 CK: Well, you know, I'm a Democrat, a loyal Democrat, I would support whoever the governor appoints, and as I said, I think there are many ways to serve and advance the issues that I care about, and I have a long time to do that, so I plan, in 2010, to support the Democrat.
 NC: It just seems like the only -- your interest in this seat coincided with the chance to become appointed to it, which is the easy way into the seat, and so it raises questions. If you really want it -- 
 CK: Actually, I think that actually a campaign would be an easier way, because I think it would give me a chance to explain exactly what I'm doing, why I would want to do this, and, you know, and get people to know me better and to understand exactly what my plans would be, how hard I would work, you know, kind of...
 NC: That's very interesting. Do you think it would be better for you, and for your purposes in public life, if the governor did appoint a quote-unquote ''caretaker'' and then just said, everybody can run, and that way you would sidestep a lot of these questions about the appointment, and whether it's appropriate to appoint someone who hasn't held elective office. Would you rather he did that? Like, if he appointed a caretaker -- 
 CK: You know, this is all for the governor. And you guys are really focused on, kind of, the ins and outs and the comparisons of this process, and so, that's really something that you should be asking him. Really. Um, you know, if you want to talk about, sort of, the economy or the issues, or me, that's, you know -- I'd be happy to do that. But -- 
 NC: This is about your interest in the seat, though, and what drives you to do it, and what you bring to wanting to do it, so the question is: Do you want it enough to just run for it if you just had to run for it, if the appointment wasn't available, let's say -- 
 CK: But this is where we are right now, so, you know, so I'm expressing my interest; many other people are as well. And I think that the reasons that I'm doing that is because I think it's a special moment in my life and in the life of this country, where there is this unique opportunity to help bring change to Washington. So I think it's a time when an unconventional choice is possible, more than maybe some other times, I think that I have a background and relationships that would allow me to deliver for New York. And, you know, I think that since this came up I thought about it really seriously, I've thought through a lot of these issues, of how this would appear and things like that, people always have opinions about, especially people in our family -- what they're doing, why they're doing it, and I can't really think about it from somebody else's point of view. 
 NC: I understand what you're saying, but this is your point of view, because you're saying it would be easier if you ran for an election -- 
 CK: I said in some ways it would be easier but this is where we are right now. 
 NC: So you'd rather do it with an appointment, you'd rather he not appoint a caretaker, this is the best way to do it for you.
 CK: Um, no. I'm saying that this is the opportunity that's presenting itself right now, and I'm interested if the governor thinks that I could do a good job and help New York and help him. He is facing, you know, a massive deficit, he needs people, a team in Washington that can help, you know, get New York its fair share, whether it's transportation, whether it's the stimulus, whether it's TARP, and I think that I can be a member of that team and I think I have a lot of advantages to bring to that work. And I think the point of this all is that people are hurting across the state and in this city, and, you know, we have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to bring home a lot of the stimulus package, TARP funds, I mean, government is now poised to really invest in this economy, and I think we need to make sure it's done, right, and that's what I would like to do.
 DH: We respect that, and I think we should talk about some issues, but I think we're really focused on how much you want it for the reason that, one of the big assets that whoever is appointed to this job must bring is the fire in the belly, or the stomach, or whatever, to run two times in two years. And so, we're just trying to establish how much you want this job. You've said you want it, you've said you think you'd be the best, but again, why would you say that you'd support whoever the governor chooses, and not run, in two years, if you're not chosen? It just sort of -- we were thinking about the way that sounds, and it sounds like you only want it if it's handed to you.
 CK: OK. Well, as I said, I'm interested in this opportunity, this is a complicated process, you know. I am a loyal Democrat, and I believe in the Democratic party, and I think that we need a team effort here to solve the problems that we have. So I will work with other Democrats, I will continue to advocate for the issues that I believe in, in two years, and I'm making that commitment, and after that, we'll see what happens. (Pause) That's a long time from now.
 NC: Would you have sought this if there hadn't been an appointment open, if it had been an election?
 CK: I think we covered that.
 NC: What's the answer, then, if we covered it? Would you have considered going for this office if no appointment was available? If it was just an open seat in 2012? Would that have appealed to you?
 CK: Well, it -- 2012 is four years from now, and I just said that after 2010 I would think about, you know, anything, and I'm committed to these issues. This is the opportunity that's now. I didn't expect that it would come along, but, you know, a lot of life is seizing the moment and doing the unexpected thing. And I think, um, you know, that's an important part of life. So is working hard over a long period of time. And so, I am, as I said, I told the governor I was interested, he has a process, he has a lot of candidates to weigh, and he'll make the best decision for New York. And that's why I will support whoever he picks.
 (Pause)
 Is that it? You guys want to ask that again? (Laughter)
 DH: Well, we did have another way of coming at it. 
 CK: Go ahead, let's ask that some more.
 DH: Seriously, you know, everybody says, and the reporting that we did showed, that you were torn, that this decision took a lot of time to arrive at, at least a lot of thinking; your uncle, Senator Kennedy, obviously played a role in that. How disappointed would he have been if you'd have decided not to do it? 
 CK: Well, Teddy is -- I don't think that's kind of, really, accurate in terms of the overall impression. But Teddy wants what would make me happy, and he wants that for everybody in our family, so, you know, he loves the Senate, he's spent his whole life there, and I think has been one of the great senators in history, so of course, that, that kind of an example is inspiring, but I don't think he would be disappointed in any way.
 NC: I guess another way of thinking about it is that Jennifer Aniston movie, where she tells her boyfriend, 'I want you to want to do the dishes,' you know? And I wonder if Senator Kennedy wanted you to want to do it.
 DH: ''The Break-Up.''
 CK: (Laughter) I hope you're going to put this in the article, not just the answer. OK?
 DH: I mean, was there anything wistful about it. Do you think he was hoping that you would really want to do it?
 CK: No, as I said, I think Teddy wants everyone to do what is right for them. And I think he believes in public service, you know, of all kinds, and you know, in our family -- you know, my aunt Eunice started the Special Olympics and I'd say she's had an impact worldwide on the intellectually disabled. And, I mean, there's many ways to serve, and elective office is one of them, and obviously it's part of our family tradition, but it's certainly not the only way. And I don't think that Teddy would think for a minute that this was, you know, the Senate or nothing. I mean -- 
 NC: No, I'm not -- 
 DH: No, no. Nobody's suggesting that. I mean, it just came up. You were thinking about it.
 NC: It just seems like he -- 
 DH: I just wonder if -- he's not giving interviews about it, you're here, (laughter) and I think everybody would want to know: Did he get excited about the idea? Did you feel like he wanted you to do it? That's it.
 CK: As I said, I mean, he loves the Senate, it's been, you know, the most, you know, rewarding life for him, you know, I'm sure he would love it to feel like somebody that he cared about had that same kind of opportunity, and I think he really -- and so do I, think the impact he's had on, you know, working people, you know, the minimum wage fights that he's led, health care, I mean that's really -- his example is something that, as I said, inspires me, because of the impact that he's been able to have. Whether it's voting, civil rights, you know, across the board, and I think he's shown that the Senate can have that kind of an impact on people's daily lives. And that's what's appealing about this opportunity, and I mean, I think, for those reasons he would love to have somebody that he cares about following, you know, that tradition. But I think in terms of me, you know, he doesn't care, you know, he's happy if I'm happy.
 NC: Can you tell us a bit about, on a similar note, people are very, very curious about the days in which you were weighing this, and who you talked to about it, and whose thoughts influenced you and inspired you as you were weighing this in your mind. Can you tell us, who was the first person you had a serious discussions of, like, 'If I went for this, how would it work and what would it look like?' Who was the first person you really talked to about it?
 DH: Where you took it seriously. 
 NC: Where it was live.
 CK: Um, well, I obviously talked to my husband and my children, you know, the family, friends, uh -- 
 DH: Outside of your immediately family. Can you say who the first person was?
 CK: You know, I mean, also people started talking to me about it, so it was kind of a process, you know -- 
 DH: Was there one, like, kind of, like -- 
 NC: ...tada moment?
 DH: Yeah, where you actually kind of, in your own mind, started to say, 'Huh, that's like -- maybe I really will think about this.'
 CK: Well I think, as I said, there was, first -- no, uh, you're, uh -- somebody dropped off 200 signs at my husband's office, like, the day after all this was going on. So I felt with that -- you know, so, and it builds. And, you know, I had conversations with Antonia Hernandez from the Mexican-American Legal Defense Fund in California, and I thought, well, she's someone I really respect, her legal mind, her sense of that community. And then there were people who I would run into during that period of time that, uh, people here in New York as well as people that I know from around the country, and I was up at the Institute of Politics meeting and I saw Elaine Chao, who's the Secretary of Labor now, I know Hilda Solis who's coming in, and a lot of people who I've, you know -- Elaine Jones from the Legal Defense Fund, a lot of people that I talk to, you know, often in politics, and people that I met in the Obama campaign, who worked with me doing that kind of work. So I think it was kind of a broad range of people that, people that I'm close to...
 NC: So when in your own mind did it go from, 'It's kind of an interesting idea' to 'Maybe I should do this?' (Pause) Or was that -- 
 CK: Over the last couple weeks. (She chuckles.)
 NC: Was there any moment where -- 
 CK: No, I don't think there was a moment, I mean, this kind of thing is too important for it to be, like, an on-off switch, right? This is a process, and as I became more serious about it, and talked to more people, you know, I thought -- and then obviously I called the governor and expressed interest, and um, you know, so...
 NC: The signs were on what day? Was it before you called the governor?
 CK: The what? Oh yeah, that was a while ago.
 NC: That was a while ago?
 CK: Yeah.
 NC: So that was after Senator Clinton had announced -- so it was after the vacancy became possible?
 CK: Well, yeah. Obviously. 
 NC: OK. (CK laughs.) I just wanted to make sure of the chronology. 
 DH: We just don't know if it was after we started writing about you or -- 
 CK: No, you guys had nothing to do with it. (Laughs.)
 DH: No, we didn't mean that. The timing.
 NC: Uh, so sometime before those stories about your discussion with the governor, sometime after Senator Clinton had been tapped for -- 
 CK: Yeah -- yeah. 
 DH: What was the best single reason not to do it?
 CK: Well, you know, I think it's been a continuum, as I said, and I sort of first got involved in the city schools after 9/11, and I think that was really a defining moment for me, like a lot of people in New York. You know, thinking about, you know, how to become more involved on a civic level in this community. And I think over the last year, you know, during the Obama campaign, was really probably the most important thing that led me to this, because when I did travel much more extensively than I did in 2004, and um, you know, talked to people across the country and saw what was going on, and the impact that the campaign was having and the excitement that it generated, in both the primary and in the general election, and I think that that, uh, there's a chance to sort of bring all the sort of values that are, that I've grown up with and really turn them into something new. This is not about the past, this is really about the future and the moment that we're in, and I think that everybody right now has an obligation to think about what they can do to help. This is, you know -- nobody can sit out this one any more. So I am volunteering to pitch in, if I'm, you know, if there's something I can contribute, and if there's someone else who can do a better job, the governor will pick them, and I'll work in whatever way I can in another capacity.
 DH: No, but, my question was, as you were weighing the decision, what was the best argument not to go for it?
 NC: A personal reason. 
 CK: Well obviously the arguments to go for it were better than the arguments not to.
 DH: No, but I'm asking, what was the best -- 
 NC: What was the single -- 
 DH: What was the best argument against it? I mean, what was the thing you had to most overcome?
 CK: Well I knew it would be a big change in my life, and I have really a wonderful life, and but, I feel like, you know, it's, you know, it's not really complete if there are things you could be doing that would benefit others and you're not taking, you know, the time and making the effort to do that. So, um, so I think it's really the, you know, it would be a big change, and change can be, you know, traumatic. It's different. It's good!
 NC: How much of a concern were your kids and your family that you checked with them before embarking on this?
 CK: That was a concern. You know, as I said, I think they are really politically engaged and kind of going through the campaign last year with them, you know, and with my uncle, and sort of having this kind of multigenerational effort brought us all closer together, and I think that's something that I think I saw in families across the country, where grandparents, people my age, and people voting for the first time all really felt that this was kind of a moment in time that re-energized people in terms of the change that needed to be possible. So I think in that way our family was like many, many others, and I feel lucky that I would even have, be considered for this kind of opportunity.
 NC: Your husband hasn't been -- wasn't very kind of visible on the campaign trail. I don't know if he traveled with you with Barack Obama. Do you think he'll be on the stump with you in New York, will he go to Watertown and to Syracuse and to -- 
 CK: Well there's nobody who has a more supportive husband than I do, and he has a business that he runs, and it's his own business, so he has work to do, my kids have school to do, I mean, people have -- there are other things in life besides politics. So he did come, you know, a few times, but he was home with our two children, home last year, so it's kind of a, it's a team effort.
 NC: Do you think he'll be around the state with you a little more than he was last year?
 CK: Well it depends on what's going on in his office. (Huffs.) 
 DH: I mean, does he have a desire to do it, if he can? Or, do you have a desire for him to do that with you?
 CK: I mean, the more time I spend with him, the happier I am.
 DH: Have the two of you figured out how to balance -- I mean, among the other ways in which this is a change, is that it's a change, I assume, in how you each together balance work and family and all that other stuff. Have you figured out how you'll navigate that, if you become Senator? Or how that will change -- 
 CK: Well since I've -- I assume we'll navigate that the way we've always navigated everything. I mean, both of us have had a lot of commitments, you know, up till now I think we've both put our family first. And my kids are really supportive of this idea, I think they understand that it will make -- you know, bring change for them. But you know, again, I think this is, you know, I think he's someone who's committed to, you know, education, science education, you know, he makes children's museums, you know, this is, he -- 
 DH: He's had a really cool career.
 CK: What? Yeah, so for him, that I would have this opportunity, I think he believes strongly that, you know, that I would be great, and that I, this is, you know, an unbelievable privilege that I have, and he's as concerned as I am about, you know, what we see here in this city and state that we both grew up in, and, you know, and that we both care about. So the idea that I can help people here I think is something that he totally is behind. 
 NC: Was he the first person you told -- do you know if you uttered the words, 'I think I'm gonna go for this?' Or, something like it?
 CK: Well, I don't know if I utter those kinds of words, but yes. You know, it was a mutual decision. 
 NC: Could you, for the sake of storytelling, could you tell us a little bit about that moment, like, where you were, what you said to him about your decision, how that played out?
 CK: Have you guys ever thought about writing for, like, a woman's magazine or something? (Laughter) 
 DH: What do you have against women's magazines?
 CK: Nothing at all, but I thought you were the crack political team here. As I said, it was kind of over a period of time, you know, obviously we talked about politics, we talked about what's going on, we've been watching the team that the president-elect is putting together -- Hillary Clinton is going to be a spectacular part of that team, you know, then there was a vacancy here, you know, just like everybody else, you know: who's going to fill it, isn't that interesting, there's a lot of great candidates, you know, obviously I have become much more politically involved than I have in the past, so you know, I figure, why not try, I really think I have something to offer. 
 NC: But there was no one moment you can draw on -- 
 CK: I know I wish there was, I'll think about it.
 NC: If there isn't, that's what it was, that's fine too. We're not the crack political team, we're always looking for good anecdotes and good stories.
 CK: I know, and I understand. I'll think about it a little more.
 DH: It's not an executive branch thing, being a Senator, but there is a sizable staff that any senator manages. As you know from your uncle and many other senators, I'm sure. What management experience have you had? By the way, I think there's some curiosity about, just, what sort of staff do you manage now?
 CK: Um, I, uh, you know, I think there's -- obviously, you need to build a team, and that's how effective, how tough senators are effective. So I understand that that is part of the job. And I have been -- but I also think it's the kind of leadership is also now, you know, kind of a public, there's a public role to it, and it's about building relationships, you know, in the institution, and in the other branches of government. So I think it's a multi-layered effort. I think that building a staff is something that I would have no trouble doing. I think the staff that we built down at the Department of Education in the office that I've been, first, CEO of, and now kind of the Fund for Public Schools staff, is absolutely outstanding, and I think I would be able to do the same kind of thing here. And I think the results there show that. 
 DH: Would you comment on just how, in your personal life, what kind of people do you employ? I think there's a lot of speculation about the Kennedy wealth, and the Caroline Kennedy wealth given that you're looking for this job. Also, I think it gets to the question of whether you can show that you are able to relate to, just, everyday New Yorkers. I think that's the vein that we're asking the question in. But, would you say how many people you have on staff?
 CK: Well I've been writing books. So that, by its nature, is kind of a solitary occupation. And from time to time I have research help, but mostly I've done those completely on my own. So I am not bringing a large management -- that is not my background, in management of large organizations. But I think it's much more focused on the individual. Most of the books that I've written have been focused on, sort of, the individual, and sort of, either a voice, a personal voice, or a kind of transforming event where they step forward to fight for something they value. So that's ... and in terms of, so I don't have large staff -- 
 DH: Do you have any?
 CK: In my house, is that what you're asking me?
 DH: Yeah. I think it gets to the whole, is there a Nannygate issue down the road.
 CK: (Laughs) I think we're heading down to the -- I have somebody who helps me in my house, and I have an assistant who helps me with you, know, kind of all the correspondence, I mean, I'm on the board of the Legal Defense Fund, the Commission on Presidential Debates, I have staff that I work with down at the Department of Education, at the Kennedy Library, so in that way, I'm managing, you know, staff in different places, and so that's really how I do that. They don't work directly for me, but they're people that I work with in all these different capabilities. So in that way it's kind of a decentralized operation.
 NC: Have your personal finances been affected by the economic crash?
 CK: Um, probably -- yes. (Laughter)
 NC: Can you give a sense of how badly?
 CK: You know, I think everybody's -- not as badly as a lot of people's, but obviously everybody's been hurt by this, and it doesn't matter where you live. And, I'm lucky that I'm not afraid of losing my home. And my husband still has a job. And that's not true for a lot of people. So I feel very fortunate, and that's exactly why I would like to help people who are in those circumstances. 
 NC: How much money do you live on each year?
 CK: Um, you know, I'm not really going to answer those kinds of specific questions. If I'm chosen for this, I'm going to comply with every kind of disclosure that's available. If the governor has questions about my finances, I'm happy to talk to him.
 NC: Is it $2 million? Is it less than $2 million? Is it more than $5 million? How much do you live on each year?
 CK: Um, you know, as I said, if I'm selected, I'll probably be able to answer all those questions, but I'm not going to go into that right now.
 NC: The reason I ask is because it goes to the question: What experiences do you have, other than the campaign appearances you made with the president-elect, that give you the ability to relate to how average people live, and the struggles they're facing now?
 CK: Well, you know, I have grown up around politics, I have lived a very advantaged life, and I am very fortunate, and I think that -- but our family tradition has been always to work for, as I said, for working people, and I think my experience in the New York City Public Schools, you know, I've been doing that for six years, and I have a real understanding of the kind of struggles that people are facing. Many of those families are headed by women who are poor, and the kids are poor. So I think that I've seen firsthand, and extensively across this city, the need that there is, the disadvantage those kids are at when they enter school without the kind of support that kids from more fortunate backgrounds have, and the long-term impact of that on our city. We have a dropout rate that is still way too high, these kids aren't graduating. So I've spent a lot of time throughout my life working in the community here, and in politics, so I think I'll have a pretty good understanding.
 NC: How much of that job in the city schools involved going to schools? Did you do a lot of on-site stuff?
 CK: I do a lot of on-site visits, you know, I think the job was really to connect these schools with the broader city communities, so that involved both working with the business community, training -- to train, you know, set up the Leadership Academy to train new principals. So that involved going to meet with business leaders, it also involved many trips to meet the new principals and the schools that they would be working in. When it's an arts curriculum that we put together, we had the cultural community come in and work with the Department of Education, you know, that's trips to the schools where the arts education is being delivered or not delivered, and we did a census, basically, on what kind of arts were going on, how many kids are exposed to how many disciplines of art throughout the city, so that requires a lot of time, too.
 NC: How many schools would you say you've visited over the course of that work?
 CK: I can get you that number because they have a track of it, the Department of Education.
 NC: There have been some discrepancies in the reporting on your job there, which grants you were involved in, like the Gates grant. Some people say that you brought that one in, or, I think Joel Klein said you brought that one in; some former employees of the fund said, actually that grant was pretty much already in the works. Do you feel like maybe the people who are fans of yours have been trying to bolster you perhaps a little too much, and maybe giving you too much credit for the fund-raising?
 CK: Well, the Fund for Public Schools was started in the '80s, and it really functioned as a sort of a pass-through for specific school donations over a certain amount. And it brought in about an average of $2 million a year, with more after 9/11 that was mostly intended for the Lower Manhattan schools. So when we kind of relaunched it and revitalized it, you know, now we've raised $238 million since then. So I think that, whether it's the Leadership Academy, the Gates grant that you're speaking of, you know, went to many of the partner organizations who are developing, starting small high schools. But I think that, right at the end there, I played an important role. So I'm not claiming all the credit for the setup, for the planning -- those are planning grants for 51 small high schools -- I mean $51 million for small high schools. So this work had been going on for a long time. But there was still a pretty -- a skepticism about private funds going to public education, how they were used, and whether there were results. And what we really focused on, what I really focused on, was trying to target those funds to initiatives that would have an impact across the whole system. Because there are a lot of organizations that either work in individual schools, do partnerships, do, you know, arts education services, many other kinds of CBOs and faith-based organizations that work across the system. But there isn't anybody else who's targeting the whole system, so that was kind of an issue we defined for ourselves, and I think that's why it's been effective.
 NC: So your precise role in the Gates grant was what? You came in at the end...
 CK: It coincided with the time that I came into the department, and I think it was important to Bill Gates that I was there. 
 DH: What do you mean? I don't get it. Just that you were there physically? Or just that you had arrived? 
 CK: Well I don't know, you gotta ask him. But I think I, um -- 
 DH: Do you deserve the credit that people are giving you for having helped to bring it in?
 CK: Some of the credit, yeah. 
 DH: Can you talk about -- given your work for the city schools, your support for the schools, we have to ask, though there's nothing wrong with the choice, why you chose to send your own children to private school? What was it about, why exactly did you decide to keep them out of the public schools and go to the schools that they did?
 CK: Well, they were already in school, and they were in middle school, I think, and in high school when I joined -- yeah, so -- 
 DH: When you started to work, yeah. But at the point that you decided to send them to private school, why? What was the reason?
 CK: Why? Well, I think that I made a decision that was best for our family, and I think that everybody should have, obviously, excellent choices, and that's -- I want every kid to have the same kind of opportunities that my kids have. So I didn't obviously want to move them for my own purposes, because they were on their path.
 NC: So you never considered public school for them from the beginning?
 CK: I think that, for us, for our family, the schools that we chose were probably the right ones. 
 NC: What about an issue that's very important in public schools, and you've been involved in: teacher tenure. Are you familiar with Michelle Rhee's proposal to trade tenure for more money, essentially. Do you think that New York City should have a system, for instance, where, or even nationally, we should have a system where teachers should have the chance to give up tenure in exchange for a lot more money? Is that a policy you would support?
 CK: I think that the whole issue of teacher training, teacher support, teacher compensation, attracting and recruiting -- I mean, there are so many people that are looking to become teachers, and for the very best reasons. But I think that what we see is that it's a really tough job, and that we don't support teachers, we don't support the good ones, in a way that so many leave before five years are up. So I think that we need to do an across-the-board work on the teaching profession.
 NC: Is that a good idea, though, that one idea?
 CK: Well I think it's important to raise these issues. I don't -- that's a really controversial idea, and I don't think standing alone, you know -- Washington, D.C., is a separate thing. I mean, New York City has a million -- 1.1 million kids, 90,000 teachers; Washington, D.C., is a really, really small system. So I don't think it is a one-size-fits-all. But I think it's a national priority to support teachers and do a better job of training and certifying -- 
 NC: But really, this is a single important issue, I mean, it would be good to hear your stance on it. Do you think that can work? Do you think that -- 
 CK: I think it has to be done, you know, collaboratively with the teachers and with the union. I think here the school-wide bonuses that we gave, here, that we've done with the union and the city -- I mean, that is, I think, a good model. There've been -- Arne Duncan, the new Secretary of Education, incoming, has worked with the union and I think that the reform efforts that they've made over time will yield benefits in terms of student achievements. So if you just pick out the most controversial one as a stand-alone thing, you know, I don't think that's really the way to go about this. I think if people can vote it'll be really interesting to see what happens. I think there's a lot of experimentation going on around the country that we should pay attention to. But here, I think these bonuses that are shared schoolwide give everyone in the leadership team incentive in the school to work together to raise the kids', you know, achievement, and I think that's going to be an interesting thing to see how that works. And the schools, you know, have almost all signed up for it.
 NC: So you're not going to answer about teacher tenure?
 CK: About that specific proposal?
 NC: Yeah. That's a big one. That could become a national issue, that could become -- 
 CK: Yeah, it could be, so I want to watch -- I haven't talked to her about it, and I know what the concept is, and I think it's really interesting. As I said, I think my initial approach would be to work with, talk to everybody involved with that and see how that is going down. And I think there's a lot going on in Washington, D.C., that's going to play into that.
 NC: Do you think test scores should be a part of tenure decisions? Does that make sense to you in as one aspect -- 
 CK: You know, I think there's also a lot of problems with test scores, and so, you know, I think we need to give the schools the flexibility. There's too much reliance on these, you know, NAPE tests. But No Child Left Behind is going to come up, right, for reauthorization in the next couple of years and that is an area that I feel I would bring a lot, and that's an issue and a set of issues that, you know, were I lucky enough to be selected that we could discuss, you know, in more detail, but that's something, an area that I have a lot of thoughts about.
 DH: Just to talk a little more about issues: a lot of your political positions seem pretty straight-up-the-middle, conventional for a Democrat.
 CK: Does that surprise you?
 DH: No. But I wonder, what are the biggest areas where you disagree with Democratic party orthodoxy? We want to know what sets you apart. You've cited a lot of examples and influences; what would be a subject that we would expect your position to be a real surprise on?
 CK: Well, I think that there's a range of views in the Democratic party. And you know, I am a proud Democrat, those are the values, you know -- middle class tax relief, helping working families, fixing the health care system -- those are the national priorities right now. So those are the issues that I would expect -- I mean, I am a Democrat, that is, you know -- I am trying to become a Democratic senator, so I don't, um -- I mean, there are issues along the way, that I'm sure that people have differences of opinion. There's controversies in all these areas. 
 DH: One where you have a clear-eyed idea about where you stand on something that is diff -- 
 CK: That is different from who? Anybody?
 DH: The party platform. I mean, pick some standard. Just something that would surprise -- 
 CK: I support gay marriage, I support, you know, I've had problems with Nafta, I mean, I don't -- if we're not comparing it to anybody specifically it's hard to say where I'm going to disagree. 
 NC: How about Governor Paterson? 
 CK: But I'm a traditional Democrat, so that's what I want to fight for, those are the values I want to fight for. 
 NC: Is there any issue on which you and Governor Paterson disagree that you can think of?
 CK: Well, I think Governor Paterson has -- I can tell you two of the areas where I think he's done great work. Which is, alternative energy -- 
 NC: That wasn't the question. Is there anything on which you two disagree?
 CK: No, I'm not going to talk about my disagreements with Governor -- I think he's done a great job as a leadership, yeah, absolutely. 
 DH: Two powerful, respected people are allowed to differ.
 CK: They are. They are.
 DH: We just wonder where we'll find out that you differ. 
 CK: Well, you'll find out over time. You know, as issues come along.
 DH: What about Mike Bloomberg? I mean, you worked in his administration.
 CK: Yeah.
 DH: He's not currently a registered Democrat, although he has been in the past, and some say, you walk like a duck, et cetera. But, where do you differ with him?
 CK: Well, I think what people are really looking for is for people to work together, and so, and, you know, you can laugh at that, but it's something I take really seriously and I think that we need Republicans and Democrats, all Democrats, you know, people need to look at what we have in common and what we can get done here. I mean, health care's a perfect example, you know, all the stakeholders are at the table. Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton had different plans, but, you know, I think the goal now is to get quality affordable health care and there's many ways of going at it. And I think the point now is to find something that's going to work, that's going to reduce costs and get more people covered. So I think, you know, now is the time for people to come together and focus on compromise. I think that's one of the things I have learned from my uncle. I mean, he's worked with Republicans, Democrats, anybody who can get the job done.
 NC: Do you plan to vote for the mayor in 2009?
 CK: I plan to vote for the Democrat.
 DH: What if he doesn't get on the Democratic line?
 CK: I plan to vote for the Democrat. 
 NC: Last question and then we'll let you go. What's your favorite place to visit in New York State aside from New York City and Long Island?
 CK: What's my favorite place to visit? Um, you know, there's lots of beautiful places in New York and I have friends, you know, I've been to the Catskills, I've been up to the Adirondacks. I like to go to historical sites. So I loved visiting the battlefield at Saratoga.
 NC: I think we're done.
 DH: I think so, yeah.
 NC: Thank you very much for your time.
 CK: Thank you.
 DH: If I can just throw one more question out there --
 CK: I think we're done.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); LAWYERS (68%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CAROLYN MCCARTHY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



1017 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; BROAD CHANNEL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: The Little Engines That Couldn't

BYLINE: By JAMES ANGELOS

 BODY:
FOR a century, the Broad Channel Volunteer Fire Department has occupied a small red firehouse about 400 feet from the waters of Jamaica Bay, Queens. The building, with one garage door, barely accommodates the department's fleet of two ambulances and two fire trucks, one of which bears the volunteers' nom de guerre, ''Renegade Warriors.'' 
 The Renegade Warriors, one of 10 volunteer fire departments in the city, have long aspired to move from their cramped, rickety building on a narrow road to a larger, modern place more worthy of their nickname. In the mid-1990s, the group bought a plot of land on Cross Bay Boulevard, the island's main thoroughfare, with the goal of constructing a new building that would be part firehouse and part community center. 
 The volunteers raised a good deal of money for the building, and things began to look especially promising in 2005, when, with the support of Representative Anthony Weiner and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, $2 million in federal transportation money was earmarked for the project.
 Since then, the leaders of the volunteer firehouse have been navigating the serpentine process of acquiring approvals for the project from state and city agencies. But they say their plans have been blocked for several months by the city.
 ''We got water thrown on us,'' Dan McIntyre, the volunteer department's chief, said dejectedly the other day as he sat at a table in the firehouse's second-floor meeting room, wearing a jacket stitched with images of a fire truck and a Maltese Cross. On the table lay a stack of paperwork for the project and a rendering of the new firehouse, a two-story red building with four garage doors.
 Since the earmarked money came in a federal transportation bill, the project requires the sponsorship of the city's Department of Transportation to go forward.
 But Marc LaVorgna, a spokesman for the mayor's office, said that the city would not sponsor the project for several reasons, one of them being that the earmarked money falls short of the $5.9 million that the city estimates as the construction cost -- far higher than the volunteers' own estimate of $2.6 million -- and the city, he said, would be responsible for the difference. 
 In addition, Mr. LaVorgna said, the New York Fire Department does not support the project.
 ''There is a significant cost to the city for sponsoring the proposal,'' he said. ''Considering that the F.D.N.Y. does not support it, we can't justify the expense.''
 Steve Ritea, a Fire Department spokesman, added: ''The F.D.N.Y. already provides more than adequate coverage in that area. Any additional funds allotted for fire protection in the city, especially in these difficult economic times, would be best utilized by the F.D.N.Y.''
 Much to his exasperation, Mr. McIntyre said the volunteers had yet to receive an explanation from the city. The situation, he added, has been all the more frustrating given that there has been talk of a new firehouse since he first joined the group in the '80s. After decades, he said, the goal had finally seemed within sight.
 ''We were ready for the score,'' Mr. McIntyre said. ''We were right there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''We got water thrown on us,'' Dan McIntyre, chief of the local volunteer fire department, complained about dashed plans for a new firehouse.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (73%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (72%); MAYORS (61%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (71%); ANTHONY D WEINER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008



1018 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; POLITICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Pension Fight Signals What Lies Ahead

BYLINE: By DUNSTAN McNICHOL

 BODY:
IN a preview of political battles to come over the state's mounting fiscal problems, Republican lawmakers and labor union leaders are voicing opposition to Gov. Jon S. Corzine's proposal to allow county and municipal governments to skip $584 million in pension fund payments in the coming year.
 While Mr. Corzine said the move is necessary to avoid the prospect of big property-tax increases, Republicans are using the plan to seize the mantle of fiscal responsibility. Labor unions argue Mr. Corzine's strategy will jeopardize their members' benefits. The dispute over the pension fund contribution is just the beginning of the fights that lie ahead in Trenton this year as Mr. Corzine and lawmakers confront a shortfall in revenues that threatens their ability to finance many state services. 
 ''None of the choices are going to be good choices,'' said Senator Barbara Buono, a Democrat from Middlesex County who is chairwoman of the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committee.
 The pension fund for thousands of New Jersey teachers and government workers is now about $60 billion, after investments declined by 24.6 percent or about $21 billion through November, according to reports delivered to the State Investment Council.
 About 700,000 retirees are counting on the fund to cover benefits that are scheduled to cost more than $118 billion over the next several decades.
 Governor Corzine said that letting local governments postpone $584 million in deposits they are scheduled to make into the fund this April would help head off double-digit property tax increases this coming year, a year in which residents are facing a crippling recession and Mr. Corzine is scheduled to stand for re-election. 
 In an interview with reporters, Mr. Corzine said it would be unreasonable to demand full pension payments now given the economy. ''The deferral is designed to meet the times,'' he said. ''It is not anything anyone would do in healthy economic times.'' 
 Earlier this month, the pension deferment proposal was pulled from the voting agenda in the Senate after Democrats failed to muster the votes needed to pass it. Mr. Corzine and Richard J. Codey, an Essex County Democrat who is the Senate president, promised to renew their push for the measure this year, but key Democrats continued defecting from the proposal, leaving its prospects for passage murky.
 ''In the past, Governor Corzine decried the underfunding of state pensions and the use of one-shot measures to paper over fiscal problems,'' said Senator Tom Kean Jr. of Union County, the Senate Republican leader. ''This pension gimmick commits both sins, and it's a bad deal for both workers and taxpayers.''
 The pension fight comes amid a burgeoning state budget crisis.
 Before July 1, Mr. Corzine must address a shortfall of at least $1.2 billion that has arisen in the current state budget, since revenues from income, sales and corporate taxes are running far behind the amounts needed to support the original spending plan.
 During the budget year that starts next July 1, the task is even more daunting. The governor has projected a shortfall of at least $5 billion because of the recession, about one-sixth of the total budget. At the same time, New Jersey is facing a 12-year high unemployment rate of 6.1 percent, cutbacks in the financial services jobs that were among the state's most lucrative and a record drop in sales tax collections caused in large measure by the virtual collapse of auto sales.
 ''We are in the worst financial crisis since 1930; everything is going to be up for grabs,'' said Robert Master, lobbyist for New Jersey's largest public employees union, the Communications Workers of America. He is pressing for an increased income tax on high-wealth residents.
 ''We know the ax is going to fall on all kinds of social programs that matter a lot to lower- and middle-income people,'' he said. ''The question is whether Governor Corzine is enough of a leader to make his friends, frankly, step up.''
 Like many governors before him, Mr. Corzine first turned to the pension fund for a lifeline. But it is a frayed line.
 The fund started in 2008 with $81.3 billion in assets, but that was still only 79 percent of the amount actuaries calculated it should hold to cover the benefits retirees have already earned.
 Investment losses would ordinarily prompt steep increases in state and local taxpayer contributions, to keep the pension funds flush. But Mr. Corzine and local leaders face a host of competing demands for the diminished tax returns they control, and the long-term demands of the retirement account have become a tempting source of short-term savings needed to prop up current government spending.
 Already, Mr. Corzine's current budget has saved about $1 billion by contributing only half what actuaries said the state should put into the fund this year. The balance of the state's contribution has not yet been deposited, meaning it could be further reduced to help meet the looming budget shortfall.
 And the new initiative would have let local governments pay only half the $1.17 billion they are scheduled to contribute to the pension system in April. That would save towns $584 million in 2009, and another $509 million next year and $257 million in 2011, as they work their way back to full financing in 2012, according to information presented to lawmakers considering the measure.
 ''Failure to provide this short-term relief will have devastating consequences,'' Ms. Buono said. ''I just can't turn a blind eye to the social costs and human suffering we will be contributing to if we fail to pass this bill.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Jon S.Corzine (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE DERER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. NJ2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1019 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: No Easy Indian Response To Pakistan's Troop Shift

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA; Richard A. Oppel Jr. contributed reporting from Islamabad, Pakistan.

DATELINE: NEW DELHI 

 BODY:
Though tensions have risen in the past few days, neither India's governing coalition led by the Congress Party nor its habitually hawkish political opposition is advocating a military confrontation with Pakistan, the country's neighbor and archrival. 
 Pakistan's redeployment of troops late last week to its border with India, from its tribal areas in the northwest, raised fears. The troop movement came a month after the attacks in Mumbai, India's financial capital, which India says were orchestrated by Pakistan-based militants. 
 Fear of a conflict in South Asia is unlikely to pass quickly, as Pakistan has resisted a broad crackdown on the militants India says were behind the Mumbai assault.
 But for India, many here say, the cost is too high, not just because both sides have nuclear arms. As an Indian official put it, ''Almost anything against Pakistan would be messy.'' 
 The Mumbai attacks prompted bellicose outbursts from the Indian news media and led Indian officials to state that their ''restraint'' should not be mistaken for ''weakness.'' Yet even a surgical strike on terrorists' training camps in Pakistan, one of the options floated in the immediate aftermath of the attack, would bring unwanted risks, according to policy makers and analysts.
 They say it could damage India's economic prospects at a time when the country is vulnerable to the global downturn. 
 Moreover, past military engagements with Pakistan strengthened the political influence of Pakistan's Army and weakened its civilian government. Many in India say they are reluctant to do anything to undermine civilian rule there.
 ''The Pakistan military is itching for a fight,'' said Lalit Mansingh, a retired Indian ambassador to the United States. ''That will give them the excuse not to carry on the fight on Afghanistan.''
 This time, he said, the Indian government is left with no choice but to mount a diplomatic offensive against Pakistan, in part by appealing to some of its most stalwart allies, like Saudi Arabia, China and the United States. ''People realize war would be more costly in its impact,'' Mr. Mansingh said. 
 In that sense, the stakes for the next American president, Barack Obama, are potentially as high as they are for India. A new spike in tension would give the Pakistani Army the rationale it needs to refocus its energy on the eastern flank. The United States has strongly urged Pakistan to concentrate instead on fighting Islamic militants along its western border with Afghanistan.
 The calculus is complicated by India's need to project itself as a world power that cannot be seen as doing nothing in the face of the terrorist attack that killed 163 people, including nearly two dozen foreigners, in Mumbai a month ago. 
 The Indian government insists that the gunmen, including the sole survivor, were Pakistani. It has sent Pakistan a letter that India says he wrote requesting assistance from his home country. The government in Islamabad says it cannot confirm that the man is a Pakistani. 
 Nor has Islamabad agreed to India's chief demand to date: to turn over suspects implicated in this and prior attacks.
 Pakistan's president, Asif Ali Zardari, said Saturday that his government would rein in extremist groups, but ''not on your demarche,'' a clear reference to India. Pakistani officials have also gone on record as saying they do not want war.
 The troops Pakistan moved toward India, believed to number several thousand, represent only a small fraction of its military presence in the northwest. But a Taliban suicide bombing at a polling place in Pakistan on Sunday served as a reminder of the risks of taking too many troops away from battling insurgents inside the country. 
 One of Pakistan's leading newspapers, Dawn, editorialized Sunday that the army ''just cannot afford to redeploy any large number of its troops'' and thus leave ''the 'wild' west in a free fall.''
 Indians point out that their most recent effort to mobilize troops on the border with Pakistan did not end terror attacks. That occurred after a suicide attack on the Indian Parliament in December 2001. It ended in early 2004 with a peace deal, which has been effectively suspended since the Mumbai strike.
 ''You can't fire the same bullet twice,'' said Arun Shourie, a member of Parliament from the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, or B.J.P., which was in power at the time. In a speech in Parliament last week, Mr. Shourie said neither a punitive airstrike nor a conventional troop mobilization was viable now. 
 The only safeguard against a future attack, he offered, would be to ''do a Kashmir on Pakistan'' -- to provide aid to insurgents against the Pakistani state inside its restive provinces, including Baluchistan in the west. 
 The Indian official who warned that almost any action would be messy, speaking on condition of anonymity because he is not authorized to discuss strategic matters with the news media, said the 2001 standoff had accomplished little and resulted in ''hundreds'' of casualties among Indian troops.
 ''It didn't achieve anything last time,'' he said. ''It didn't scare off the Pakistanis.'' 
 But whether the United States can or will lean hard enough on the Pakistani Army is hotly debated. Kanwal Sibal, a former foreign secretary of India, said he doubted that the Obama administration would impose conditions on future aid to Pakistan, which Islamabad needs to supplement its strained budget and finance military operations. 
 Sudheendra Kulkarni, a B.J.P. leader writing in The Indian Express on Sunday, said that it was pointless to expect the United States to ''fight our battle.'' 
 Yet the real crisis, argued Stephen P. Cohen, a South Asia expert at the Brookings Institution in Washington, is Pakistan's inability to control what happens inside its territory. For India, a military strike seems unlikely to change that situation, he said. ''It's hard to find a military way of responding,'' Mr. Cohen said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the growing tensions between India and Pakistan misidentified the office held by Asif Ali Zardari in Pakistan's government. He is the president, not the prime minister.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Indian soldiers standing guard Thursday on the border at Ranjitpura, a day before Pakistan announced its troop redeployment.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VINAY JOSHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (91%); ARMIES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) INDIA (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1020 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; DIVINE RECRUITS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2563 words

HEADLINE: In America to Do a Job, an African Priest Also Finds a Home

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

DATELINE: OAK GROVE, Ky. 

 BODY:
The Rev. Chrispin Oneko, hanging up his vestments after leading one of his first Sunday Masses at his new American parish, was feeling content until he discovered several small notes left by his parishioners. 
 The notes, all anonymous, conveyed the same message: Father, please make your homilies shorter. One said that even five minutes was too long for a mother with children.
 At home in Kenya, Father Oneko had preached to rural Africans who walked for hours to get to church and would have been disappointed if the sermons were brief. 
 ''Here the whole Mass is one hour,'' he said, a broad smile on his round face. ''That was a homework for me, to learn to summarize everything and make the homily 10 minutes, maybe 15. Here, people are on the move very fast.'' 
 Father Oneko is part of a wave of Roman Catholic priests from Africa, Asia and Latin America who have been recruited to fill empty pulpits in parishes across America. They arrive knowing how to celebrate Mass, anoint the sick and baptize babies. But few are prepared for the challenges of being a pastor in America. 
 Father Oneko, 46, had never counseled parishioners like those he found here at St. Michael the Archangel Catholic Church. Many are active-duty or retired military families coping with debt, racial prejudice, multiple deployments to war zones and post-traumatic stress disorder. Nor did he have any idea how to lead the multimillion-dollar fund-raising campaign the parishioners had embarked on, hoping to build an octagonal church with a steeple to replace their red brick parish hall. 
 Cutting his sermons short was, in some ways, the least of Father Oneko's worries when he arrived here in 2004. He did not understand the African-American experience. He had never dealt with lay people so involved in running their church. And yet, in the end, the families of his church would come to feel an affinity with their gentle new pastor, reaching out to him in his hour of need, just as he had tended to them in theirs. 
 To the volunteers at St. Michael's, it was clear that Father Oneko was out of his element in many ways. Marie Lake, the church's volunteer administrator, and her husband, Fred, often invited him for dinner. 
 ''My husband was driving him down 41A and there was a big old statue of Uncle Sam,'' said Mrs. Lake, who owns an accounting business and keeps the church's books. ''He thought it was Sam from Sam's Club wholesale.''
 To help him along, the Lakes gave Father Oneko a high school textbook on American history and government.
 ''Many years ago we sent our missionaries to Africa, and now they're sending missionaries here,'' Mrs. Lake said. ''It's strange how that goes.'' 
 In this largely rural, largely white area of Western Kentucky, the Rev. Darrell Venters, who is in charge of recruiting priests for the Diocese of Owensboro, knew that some of his parishes would never accept Father Oneko, who is short, stout and very dark-skinned. 
 But Father Venters thought that Father Oneko and St. Michael's, a parish on the outskirts of a big military base, with its racial mix and many families who had lived abroad, was a good bet. 
 ''We knew if any parish would accept him, it would be this one,'' Father Venters said.
 Inspired to Serve
 When Father Oneko was growing up, the priest in his Roman Catholic parish was an American who spoke the native Luo language and was beloved by the villagers. He showed the children home movies of his parents and his seminary back in America. 
 ''He inspired me,'' Father Oneko said. ''He was able to speak my language better than anybody I have known. It really interested me, the way I saw him praying the rosary every day. I just admired to be like him.''
 In Kenya, Father Oneko became the sole pastor for 12 satellite parishes in an 80-mile stretch. He served more than 3,000 people communion on a typical weekend and ran a girls high school.
 It was a hardship post. His car, the only one in the vicinity, was used as a school bus, an ambulance and, if the local officers caught a thief, a police car -- with Father Oneko the driver. 
 When his bishop asked for volunteers to serve in a diocese in Jamaica that badly needed priests, Father Oneko put up his hand. He wanted a new challenge, and being a missionary suited his vision of serving the church. 
 He found conditions in Jamaica even more desperate than in Kenya. Violence was so common that thugs had killed a priest at the altar. 
 ''The rats in the rectory ate my clothes,'' he said. ''I got a baby kitten to hunt the rats, but the kitten was eaten by hungry dogs.''
 Father Oneko lasted nearly five years as pastor of five churches in Jamaica. But after so much time in hardship posts, he wanted to taste life in a developed country. He sent letters of introduction to dioceses in the United States. 
 He received offers from two American dioceses. He knew nothing about the Diocese of Owensboro, but picked it because he felt some affinity with its name. 
 ''Our names start with O,'' he explained. ''So I was so much interested in this place that starts with O.'' 
 Priests must have permission to leave their own dioceses, and some bishops are reluctant to let their priests go, especially if their parishes are understaffed. 
 In fact, the flow of priests from the developing world to Europe and the United States amounts to a brain drain: most of those developing countries have far fewer priests in proportion to Roman Catholics than the United States does. Father Oneko's situation in Kenya, serving 12 parishes simultaneously, was not unusual.
 But Father Oneko's bishop at the time, Archbishop John Njenga of Mombasa, said he was receptive to the pleas of the bishops in Jamaica and the United States. He had traveled to Germany and seen parishes closed for lack of priests.
 ''The Lord will reward us for our generosity, for letting men go out there,'' said Archbishop Njenga, who is now retired. 
 Father Oneko arrived at St. Michael's on the heels of a Nigerian priest who had been helping out temporarily. Father Oneko said he was unnerved to hear that the Nigerian had not been a resounding success. Parishioners complained that they could not understand his accent. An American pastor said the Nigerian had seemed overly interested in material goods. When an ophthalmologist offered to fit him for glasses at no charge, he asked for three pairs. 
 But parishioners soon noticed that Father Oneko was different. He listened and won people over with his humility. Where the Nigerian priest had taught the choir to sing African hymns, Father Oneko did not try to impose his worship style. And he learned to keep his sermons to no more than 15 minutes and the Masses to one hour. 
 One Sunday, after he opened his homily with a joke that fell flat, he said, ''I know some of you are looking at your watches, so I'll make it brief.''
 He preached slowly, in his Kenyan accent: ''Late us prrray.'' Sometimes he spelled out words when he saw the congregation looking puzzled. ''B-I-R-D, not B-E-D,'' he said.
 He did not tell the parishioners that in Kenya and Jamaica, he had been a charismatic Catholic, participating in faith healings and leading Masses with spirited singing and clapping that lasted for hours. 
 In Kentucky, he stuck to the music the congregation was used to. At the Saturday evening Mass, that meant a faint choir of three voices; at the 11:30 a.m. Sunday Mass, an extended family of Filipinos played guitar and piano. 
 Some afternoons, the church's deacon, Jack Cheasty, would see Father Oneko sitting alone at the piano in a corner of the church, quietly playing the upbeat charismatic hymns he loved. ''He's cautious to do anything that might be divisive,'' Deacon Cheasty said, ''and that's one of his strengths.'' 
 Tending the Flock
 Father Oneko drove slowly out of the church parking lot one day in his Ford Taurus with a bumper sticker that said, ''The Holy Priesthood: Called, Consecrated, Sent.'' He was making house calls, giving communion to three parishioners too ill to come to church. 
 At the first house, he was offered a seat in an armchair, but instead he chose to sit on a rumpled couch next to his ailing parishioner, SunI Robbins, so frail from lung cancer she could barely sit up. She opened trembling hands to receive the eucharist. 
 ''Don't lose hope,'' Father Oneko said gently, ''because we all love you. Mr. Robbins loves you. The whole church, we are all praying for you. Just trust in God's mercy and love.'' (Mrs. Robbins has since died.)
 Driving well under the speed limit, as is his habit, he said that Africans were far more accustomed to death -- and premature death -- than Americans. In Kenya, he said, so many parents were used to having children die. In Africa, he said, ''We just accept it.'' 
 He drove into the countryside to the home of one of the church's founding members, Shirley Korman. In the yard, Mrs. Korman's son was stalking small game with a rifle. Inside, the house was decorated with large framed prints of Civil War battle scenes. 
 Mrs. Korman, a retired nurse who has congestive heart failure, sat in a glider rocker, a red wig setting off her pale skin. She said that when her husband died, Father Oneko had comforted her and led a moving funeral. 
 ''Father Chrispin,'' she said, ''if you're still here in Kentucky, I want you to come and do my funeral.'' 
 His answer was gentle: ''I hope to still see more of you, but if it happens, I will fulfill your request.''
 On the way out, after passing a portrait of Robert E. Lee, Father Oneko spied a statue of a guardian angel on the kitchen table. The angel was a beautiful woman in flowing robes, and she was black.
 ''I haven't seen one like that before!'' Father Oneko exclaimed, delighted. 
 That night, he settled at a table at a Mexican restaurant filled with soldiers in uniform and their families, where he discovered to his satisfaction that sizzling fajitas tasted a lot like the grilled meat he missed from Kenya. He said that although he saw himself as a missionary, he did not think he was actually spreading the faith in Kentucky. 
 ''People already know their faith,'' he said. ''Mine is only to help them. I'm not planting any new faith here. Mine is only to water it.''
 He confessed that he had an easier time relating to white Americans than African-Americans because he did not understand why blacks carried such resentments toward the United States. 
 ''Their ancestors are long gone,'' he said. ''They are bitter for I don't know what.''
 He has little tolerance for what he sees as unnecessary self-pity. When an unemployed Vietnam veteran told him he blamed his war experience for his poverty, Father Oneko said he told him: ''I blame you, because military people have so many opportunities. You are getting some pension from the government, so you should not complain. 
 ''There are some poor people, poorer than you, somewhere, in Africa, in Jamaica,'' Father Oneko said. ''But you, at least you have freedom. You have somewhere to sleep.''
 'Part of the Family'
 One morning in January, Father Oneko received a phone call from his family in Kenya, where a disputed presidential election had just set off a wave of intertribal anger and violence. 
 A mob had set fire to his parents' house because they had given shelter to a family of a rival tribe the mob was chasing. Father Oneko's 32-year-old brother, Vincent Oloo, arrived in time to help their elderly parents escape the burning house. But the mob turned on Father Oneko's brother, shooting him dead. He left a wife and three children.
 ''My parents were just crying and crying,'' Father Oneko said. ''My father is crying and saying, 'Now I'm losing all the children, who will bury me?' ''
 Father Oneko phoned his friend the Rev. John Thomas and then Mrs. Lake, his faithful volunteer administrator. She was stunned at the news, and for half an hour listened to and consoled her priest -- a sudden role reversal. Father Oneko was troubled to hear his mother wailing on the phone and to know that he could not go to Kenya to perform the funeral. His parents insisted it was too dangerous for him to come.
 Mrs. Lake called three of the church's Silver Angels, a club of elders. They phoned more church members, and in two hours 60 people had assembled at a special noon Mass in memory of Father Oneko's brother. 
 At the end of the Mass, they lined up in the center aisle as if for communion, and Father Oneko stood at the front receiving their embraces one by one. 
 He was overwhelmed by the outpouring of sympathy. Children in the parish school in Hopkinsville made him cards; one showed his brother with a halo, in the clouds. The bishop and priests of the diocese e-mailed and phoned their condolences. St. Michael's and the parish in Hopkinsville took up a special collection for his family that totaled $5,600. 
 ''It seems the whole church is praying with me,'' Father Oneko said a few days later, as he read through the children's cards. ''You feel like you're not a foreigner, just a part of the family. It makes me know how much I am to them.'' 
 Bidding Farewell
 In June, after four years at St. Michael's, Father Oneko was transferred as part of a routine reshuffling of priests in the diocese. When he told the worshipers at the 11:30 Sunday Mass about the transfer, some cried. Several told him they would leave the church. 
 He said: ''Don't come to the church because of me. Come because of God.'' 
 He insisted he did not want a big goodbye party because he was afraid he would cry. Still, he was showered with gifts: calling cards; a white chasuble from the Silver Angels, hemmed for his short frame; a $1,500 check from the parish for his coming trip to see his family in Kenya; and from Mrs. Korman, a replica of the black angel he had seen on her kitchen table.
 He was leaving the parish no more and no less healthy than he had found it. Attendance still fluctuated from 300 to 450 on a weekend -- lower in summer and during troop mobilizations. 
 The campaign to raise money for the new church was still under way. But as a temporary measure, the parishioners had replaced the stacking chairs with wooden pews and built an arched altar, so the old recreation hall looked more like a real church. 
 At his last set of three weekend Masses, Father Oneko began his homily with a rambling African story about a hyena, a monkey and a tortoise. At the punch lines, no one in the first two Masses laughed. By the third, he had the timing down better and some chuckled. The story was about being grateful, and he spent the next 20 minutes thanking everyone he could think of by name. The homily lasted 35 minutes. 
 In one of his last acts, he baptized an 11-month-old baby. With the sun streaming in, the baby, Hope Charity Banse, looked like a porcelain doll in her white christening gown.
 The baby's mother, Jennifer Banse, had been waiting for this moment for months. Her husband had just returned from Iraq, in time for Father Oneko to perform the baptism before he transferred. In her husband's absence, Father Oneko had been a comfort.
 Hope rested her head on her mother's shoulder, then stretched her hand toward the African priest, more familiar to her than her own father. ''Hope Charity,'' Father Oneko said, ''the Christian community welcomes you with great joy.'' 
 Tuesday: An exporter of priests. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Rev. Chrispin Oneko greeting a young parishioner in his Western Kentucky church. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
ON A MISSION: The Rev. Chrispin Oneko celebrating Mass in Oak Grove, Ky. He is one of several priests from overseas in the Diocese of Owensboro.
 BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS: Father Oneko faced challenges adjusting to life in an American parish but soon bonded with his congregation. He made house calls, praying with SunI Robbins, top left, before she died from cancer, and he provided comfort to parishioners with relatives serving in Iraq, including Jennifer Banse, whose husband returned in time for the baptism of their daughter Hope. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (90%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (90%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); RACE & RACISM (86%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); HOMEWORK (74%); HISTORY (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); TEXTBOOKS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%)

COMPANY: SAM'S CLUB (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OWENSBORO, KY, USA (65%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFRICA (92%); KENYA (90%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (76%); LATIN AMERICA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1021 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-CHART; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: The State of Iraq: An Update

BYLINE: By JASON CAMPBELL, MICHAEL O'HANLON and AMY UNIKEWICZ. 
Jason Campbell is a research analyst at the Brookings Institution in Washington. Michael O'Hanlon is a senior fellow at Brookings. Amy Unikewicz is a graphic designer in South Norwalk, Conn.

 BODY:
AS 2008 and the Bush presidency conclude, Iraq has settled into a kind of violent semi-peace. The population-protection strategy initiated by Gen. David Petraeus has been a remarkable success on balance. Its logic continues even though American force numbers in Iraq have nearly returned to pre-surge levels. 
 Former Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and his associates have been recently claiming that the groundwork for the surge was laid during their tenure, and that 2007 was not the first time the Pentagon increased forces in Iraq. But they miss the fact that only in the last two years have our troops, in conjunction with the Iraqi security forces, emphasized protection of the Iraqi population. They also ignore the simultaneous effort to bring Sunni volunteers, the so-called Sons of Iraq, into the counterinsurgency. These points are crucial -- not only to set the record straight and understand current trends but, more important, to fashion future policy. 
 While Iraqi security forces have shown huge improvement, other government institutions still flounder. Inflation is in check and the economy is growing, but quality of life for most Iraqis has improved only modestly. On the whole, we feel that the Iraqi government has met 7 of the 11 ''Iraq index'' benchmarks we have laid out, which include steps like establishing provincial election laws, reaching an accord on sharing oil revenue and enacting pension and amnesty laws. (Our system allows a score of 0, 0.5 or 1 for each category, and is dynamic, meaning we can subtract points for backsliding.) 
 For all the progress in Iraqi politics, including approving the status of forces agreement with the United States that takes effect on Jan. 1, there are still big challenges: agreements on how to share oil among all sectarian groups and provinces; determining the future status of Kirkuk and other places contested by Kurds and Arabs; and the resettlement of four million people.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); TRENDS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); AMNESTY (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ELECTIONS (67%); ELECTION LAW (65%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1022 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: An NPR Reporter Becomes the News

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
In September, Ketzel Levine, a senior correspondent for National Public Radio, came up with an idea for a series about how Americans were handling economic pressure. Called ''American Moxie: How We Get By,'' it began in early December. The subjects were people like an Illinois farmer who loved tending to his cows, but was having to sell them. ''My idea was to look at how we adjust, how we change, what we have to dig deep and find in order to do what it takes to get by, and that's where moxie came in,'' Ms. Levine said. 
 Ms. Levine and her editor didn't want a series of unconnected stories. ''We came up with the idea that each person should be connected with the next somehow, and that was the best part for me,'' she said. ''I'd go on a story and have absolutely no idea what the next story would be -- I'd have to find it while I was there.''
 But there was an unexpected ending. Midway through her reporting, Ms. Levine found out that she had been laid off as part of a 64-employee cut at NPR. 
 Ms. Levine, who has worked at NPR since 1977, said she decided the final episode, and her final piece for NPR, should be about her own situation.
 Ellen McDonnell, the director of morning programming, was not immediately sold on the idea. ''I had some natural hesitation,'' she said. ''As a reporter, you never want the story to be about you.'' At the same time, she said: ''I also recognized a very unique opportunity for Ketzel to tell a story that lots of people can relate to. She found out in a very personal way what it's like to have to start over again and to have that moxie she spoke about.''
 The end result ''was kind of eerie,'' Ms. McDonnell said. ''The whole concept that one person in the story would lead to another, and then it would all end with her, was not something any of us anticipated.''
 In the short piece, which first ran last week just after a ''Moxie'' story about a Chicago landscaper, Ms. Levine took a personal approach. ''It's only today that I'm sane enough to tell you'' about her having been laid off, she told listeners. 
 Ms. Levine, who lives in Portland, Ore., said she had no idea what she would do next. ''Every story that we all do, we're always looking for the perfect ending,'' she said. ''And suddenly it was handed to me. It was not one of my choosing, but as a storyteller, what could make a better story?'' STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ketzel Levine, in 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERENA DAVIDSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); PUBLIC RADIO (89%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (50%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1023 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Online Piracy Menaces Pro Sports

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO

 BODY:
An important National Football League game on a recent Saturday night was dark on millions of television screens, but it lit up an untold number of laptops.
 The game between the Baltimore Ravens and Dallas Cowboys was pivotal in determining playoff teams, and it was the last home game ever for the Cowboys before they move to a new stadium. But because of a long-lasting feud between the NFL Network and many cable companies, many millions of fans could not watch the game on television. Yet they could watch any number of illicit live streams on the Internet.
 After years of focusing on the pirating of highlight clips and photos on the Web, the major professional sports leagues are finding that pirated feeds of live games are now common and becoming a menace to their businesses, especially at a time when leagues are trying to build their own businesses offering live games on the Internet for a subscription fee.
 ''We never felt that the jewel in our crown, the live games, would be vulnerable,'' said Ayala Deutsch, senior vice president and chief intellectual property counsel at the National Basketball Association. 
 The tangible effect on the leagues' business today is small but the stakes are large: each sells the rights to its live games to broadcasters for billions of dollars. More important, each is trying to expand its revenue base by selling rights for games on mobile phones and the Web.
 Major League Baseball has perhaps the most advanced online business of the major sports, and offers a season of games streamed online for $79.95, a price that league executives say will come down slightly in 2009. Robert A. Bowman, the chief executive of M.L.B.com said that piracy hurt business, but that ''it's embryonic, it's not widespread, and we have a distinct advantage in that we have a better product.''
 Ms. Deutsch, the lawyer at the N.B.A., hosted a gathering recently of executives from other sports leagues -- not just in the United States but around the world -- at the N.B.A.'s offices in New York City to discuss ways of combating live-game piracy.
 ''We view it as an international issue,'' she said.
 That is not just because sports leagues abroad face the same issue, but also because the pirates themselves, the hubs of the peer-to-peer networks that facilitate the illicit streaming of live games, are mostly outside the United States. Often they are in China, where some of the most popular services started as student projects, say league executives who have tracked the digital trail of their pirated games. 
 While the biggest services are located in China, it takes a fan, often in the United States, to upload the actual stream for distribution to the wider Internet. This is done by using a PC-tuner card, a $50 device that connects a television to a computer, or by uploading the stream from a legitimate online video subscription to a peer-to-peer network.
 As technology advances, the problem is likely to become worse as the quality of the picture becomes better. ''This can only become a more enjoyable experience,'' said Christopher Stokes, the chief executive of NetResult, a company in Britain that consults with the leagues and acts as a sort of Web detective in locating digital pirates.
 A recent unpublished report for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris, the first major study of the issue, concluded, ''This poses a major issue for the leagues and organizations who own and control sports as the sale of broadcast rights represents a major source of revenue, enabling the sports leagues to thrive and continue, from grassroots level to professional league.'' The organization helps developed nations tackle mutual economic problems.
 David Price, the head of piracy intelligence at Envisional, a consultant that helped prepare the O.E.C.D. report, said: ''I think it's different than looking at movies or music. You might not go to the cinema, but you'll buy the DVD. With sports, they very much have this one shot to get you to watch the game. If suddenly there is a way to get that live transmission for free, then there is a real threat to their business.''
 When leagues try to shut down the pirates, executives can find themselves immersed in an endeavor rife with international intrigue: investigators for the Premier League, England's top soccer league, chased an offender to Cyprus to serve him court papers, according to Oliver Weingarten, a lawyer for the league. 
 On a recent morning at the Manhattan offices of Major League Baseball Advanced Media, M.L.B.'s digital unit, an executive started a laptop and went to a live feed of a soccer game on ESPN Hong Kong that was carried by TVants.com. M.L.B. officials say TVants.com, based in China, is one of the biggest providers of live game feeds.
 M.L.B., which employs three people full time to monitor the Web for piracy, first noticed one of its games being illicitly streamed live on the Internet during a 2006 division series game between the New York Mets and Los Angeles Dodgers. In 2007, M.L.B. documented 3,000 incidents of its live games being stolen; last season that number grew to 5,000. (There are 2,430 regular season games a season).
 ''Even if you take a modest number of viewers per transmission, the number gets very large, very quickly,'' said Michael J. Mellis, general counsel for M.L.B.com. ''We do think it impacts our business, or we wouldn't be so worried about it.''
 The N.B.A.'s popularity in China, thanks in large part to the star power of Yao Ming, the Chinese star on the Houston Rockets, has made its games some of the most popular for pirates and viewers. A single game last year between the Rockets and the Dallas Mavericks drew 1.1 million viewers, mostly in China, over the China-based service Sopcast.
 As a result, the N.B.A. has gone so far as to form a partnership with two peer-to-peer streaming services in China to offer legitimate streaming of live games.
 Gary Gertzog, the general counsel at the N.F.L., says enforcement is difficult. This season alone the league has disabled several hundred sites, but each Sunday its games are available on a number of Web sites. ''Live games online is clearly something that has proliferated over the last two years,'' he said.
 In combating piracy, one method of enforcement is off limits, executives say. They will not, like the music industry did, sue individual fans who are uploading games to peer-to-peer platforms.
 ''I'd like to think we've learned some cautionary lessons from the music industry,'' said Mr. Mellis of M.L.B. ''What is the utility in suing individuals who are part of a larger chain of events?''
 So a steady flow of cease-and-desist letters flow out of the offices of each league's law firms. Moral suasion is used on foreign governments -- M.L.B., for example, has been in discussions with the Chinese government about shutting sites there. Sometimes it works: Sopcast, a service that was begun as a project at Fudan University in Shanghai, now blocks M.L.B. games. (Virtually every other sport's games can still be seen over the service.)
 ''If this is a baseball game, it's still the top of the first, or the bottom of the first,'' Mr. Mellis said. ''This is going to take years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The feed of a Mets-Phillies game on TVants.com of China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TVANTS.COM) (pg.B1)
 TVant.com's online feed of a 2006 Mets-Dodgers playoff game, when Major League Baseball discovered the piracy. (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ONLINE PIRACY (90%); INTERNET CRIME (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); STREAMING MEDIA (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); BASEBALL (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%); DALLAS COWBOYS (91%); BALTIMORE RAVENS (84%); NEW YORK METS (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (82%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (59%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1024 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: The Beneficiaries of the Downturn

BYLINE: By ROB COX and ALIZA ROSENBAUM

 BODY:
The Beneficiaries
 Of the Downturn
 There's money to be made from poverty. That may sound uncharitable, especially at this time of year. But the fact is, when people lose their jobs, buy cheaper goods and default on their loans, someone has to do the dirty work -- and those companies can get well paid for doing it.
 So we at breakingviews.com developed the Poor Getting Poorer Index -- a basket of 22 equal-weighted stocks that includes the retailers, white-label manufacturers, repossession agencies, dollar stores, pawnshops and other public companies poised to capitalize on rising poverty. This year the index would have generated a positive return of about 9 percent, easily outperforming the 40 percent decline of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. 
 In 2005, Citigroup equity strategists coined the term ''plutonomy'' to describe economies powered by a relatively small number of rich people. They also devised their own basket of luxury stocks like Bulgari, Porsche and Sotheby's. Now, with unemployment rising and wages weakening, the downward pressure on the American consumer seems a better bet than the ascent of the gilded class.
 So where is gold to be dug from the widening mire? Let's start with retailers. After all, notwithstanding the economic situation, shopping is an American pastime. Yet splurges at the fancier department stores that anchor malls are being replaced by carefully choreographed outings to discounters.
 Among them, Dollar Tree and Family Dollar place great emphasis on how far a single greenback can go. Though Dollar Tree has already had a 60 percent gain in its shares, the stock trades at a relative low that is 15 times its 2010 fiscal year earnings estimates. Family Dollar fetches just 14 times next year's earnings. 
 Not all discounters have performed as well, however. Big Lots, which sells leftover inventory at cut-rate prices, is down 8 percent this year and recently reduced its earnings guidance. But trading at around eight times earnings, it's advertised as a bargain. 
 Similarly, shares of BJ's Wholesale Club have been flat this year, but its focus on those farther down the socioeconomic chain could give it an edge over rivals. 
 Of course, in retail it would be foolish to ignore Wal-Mart, whose motto is, after all, ''Save Money. Live Better.'' The retailer's market share gives it an unrivaled heft in cutting back suppliers' prices. H. Lee Scott Jr., the departing Wal-Mart chief executive, recently said that demand for food storage items and frozen goods was rising, a sign that Americans are choosing to stay home rather than eat out.
 That trend may benefit fast-food restaurants like Burger King, Jack in the Box and McDonald's. Similarly, generic brands made by Ralcorp and Campbell's canned soups are more likely to crop up on thriftier shopping lists.
 Of course, even in a bad economy, people need to have fun. Expensive movie tickets can be replaced with a $14 monthly Netflix subscription that provides two CDs at a time with no monthly limit. And though leisure travel will take a hit, discount carriers like JetBlue will attract those willing to take 3 a.m. flights from obscure airports. 
 For the unemployed, retraining will be the buzzword of 2009. And there's a good chance that federal money will be channeled their way. That could help publicly traded online educators like Apollo Group, Strayer Education and DeVry. As a result of high projected growth rates, all three have price-to-earnings ratios above 20 times consensus forecasts, representing hefty premiums to the overall market. 
 All of the aforementioned members of the breakingviews index are mainly the beneficiaries of consumers' trading down. But there are others that prey on poverty and thrive on desperation. None are household names, at least not yet.
 Rent-a-Center and Aaron Rents lease appliances and furniture to the down and out. America's Car Mart specializes in selling cars to buyers with poor credit. EZCorp runs a chain of pawnshops and Cash Store offers payday advances. And once consumers do default, there is money to be made as well. Portfolio Recovery Associates collects and manages portfolios of defaulted consumer receivables. So even on the lowest rung of the American economic ladder, enterprising companies find ways to profit. 
 ROB COX and ALIZA ROSENBAUM 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Raul and Yokasta Manana, soon-to-be parents of their second child, shopping at the BJ's Wholesale Club in Jersey City. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN ARRENDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: WHERE WE SHOP WHEN TIMES ARE TOUGH: Here are 22 companies that are poised to do well in poor economic conditions. Most are discount retail stores, fast-food restaurants or rental specialists. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (86%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); REPOSSESSION (77%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); WHOLESALERS (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (76%); MARKET SHARE (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); RESTAURANTS (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (57%); JACK IN THE BOX INC (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JACK (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (50%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (50%)

PERSON: H LEE SCOTT JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1025 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 243 words

HEADLINE: Social Security and the Vanishing 401(k)

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''In Need of Cash, More Companies Cut 401(k) Match'' (front page, Dec. 21): 
 The availability, stability and value of traditional defined benefit pensions are diminished. Americans are experiencing dramatic losses in 401(k) and I.R.A. retirement savings accounts. Home equity is shrinking. Employers have been bailing out of retiree health plans. Unemployment is increasing and now, faced with mounting pressures, some employers are reducing contributions to 401(k) plans. 
 This unfortunate state of affairs serves to remind the nation of the importance of the core mission of Social Security -- to provide widespread and basic protection against loss of income due to death, disability or retirement.
 Although this comes as a surprise to some, Social Security is fundamentally sound, backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government. Projected financing problems, though real, are relatively modest, manageable and many years in the future.
 For those of us fortunate enough to have retirement savings, we can only wish that the value of the other assets in our portfolios are as well positioned to withstand the current economic uncertainty.
 Eric Kingson Manlius, N.Y., Dec. 22, 2008
 The writer, a professor of social work and public administration at Syracuse University, was an adviser to the 1982 National Commission on Social Security Reform and to the 1994 Bipartisan Commission on Entitlement and Tax Reform.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (92%); US 401K PLANS (92%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (77%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); TAX REFORM (63%)

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1026 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 867 words

PERSON: Samuel P. Huntington 

HEADLINE: Samuel P. Huntington, 81, Political Scientist, Is Dead

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN; A version of this obituary appeared in Sunday's late editions.

 BODY:
Samuel P. Huntington, an influential political scientist who taught at Harvard for more than a half-century, produced new analyses of domestic and international conflicts, and served as a mentor to dozens of prominent policy makers and academics, died Wednesday on Martha's Vineyard. He was 81. 
 His death was announced by Harvard, where he was the Albert J. Weatherhead III University Professor. 
 Dr. Huntington was a prolific author whose writings helped shape American views on civilian-military relations, political development, comparative government and, in a 1996 book hailed as prescient after the 9/11 attacks, the global clash of cultures. 
 ''He was an original thinker and without a doubt one of the most influential thinkers in politics for the last 50 years,'' said Henry Rosovsky, an emeritus professor of economics at Harvard and a longtime friend of Dr. Huntington. ''I think the key to his importance is that he wrote many books, every one of them dealing with a centrally important issue of our time. That's a pretty big order.'' 
 Dr. Huntington helped found Foreign Policy magazine, served as president of the American Political Science Association and founded the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard. 
 Dr. Huntington was not solely a creature of the academy, though: he was a foreign policy adviser in Hubert H. Humphrey's 1968 campaign for president. In 1977 and 1978, he served in the Carter White House as coordinator of security planning for the National Security Council. 
 A lifelong Democrat, Dr. Huntington met his wife of 51 years, Nancy Arkelyan Huntington, when they were working together on a speech for the presidential hopeful Adlai E. Stevenson. Mrs. Huntington said that on domestic matters, her husband was always a classic liberal. But on foreign policy, he was widely seen as a hawkish conservative, although one who opposed the invasion of Iraq and had little sympathy for the neoconservatives of the Bush administration.
 Dr. Huntington, who had been in poor health for years, retired from teaching last year, saying in his retirement letter to the university's president that it was difficult for him to imagine a more rewarding or enjoyable career than teaching at Harvard, ''particularly teaching undergraduates.'' 
 ''He loved teaching undergraduates, right up to the end,'' Mrs. Huntington said. ''He loved that they would speak out. And he was a mentor to so many young scholars -- Francis Fukuyama, Michael Desch at Notre Dame, Steve Rosen at Harvard, Eliot Cohen at the State Department, Fareed Zakaria.'' 
 Born in New York City on April 18, 1927, the son of a journalist and a writer, Samuel Phillips Huntington attended Stuyvesant High School, graduated from Yale at 18, served briefly in the Army, did graduate work at the University of Chicago and Harvard, and began teaching government at Harvard when he was 23. 
 Dr. Huntington wrote, co-wrote or edited 17 books and dozens of scholarly articles, many of which attracted fierce criticism.
 In 1957, Dr. Huntington published ''The Soldier and the State,'' which examined the balance of power between civilians and the military, inspired by President Harry S. Truman's 1951 firing of Gen. Douglas MacArthur for publicly disagreeing with his Korean War policy. 
 For the first time, but not the last, Mrs. Huntington said, Dr. Huntington came under criticism from both ideological sides, with liberals attacking the book as militaristic and conservatives upset by the emphasis on civilian control. 
 ''It was extremely controversial,'' said Jorge Dominguez, the vice provost for international affairs at Harvard. ''He wrote in admiration of the U.S. military, but also insisted on the importance of civilian control.'' 
 By the late 1960s, Dr. Huntington had turned his attention to foreign affairs. His 1969 book ''Political Order in Changing Societies,'' still widely used in graduate seminars, analyzed political and economic development in the third world. 
 In recent years, Dr. Huntington was best known -- and, since 9/11, acclaimed -- for ''The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order,'' a 1996 book based on a 1993 Foreign Policy article. The book predicted that in the post-cold-war world, violent conflict would arise from cultural and religious differences among the major civilizations. 
 The spread of American pop culture, he wrote, did not mean the spread of American attitudes. The book has an almost uncanny image of what was to come: ''Somewhere in the Middle East, a half-dozen young men could well be dressed in jeans, drinking Coke, listening to rap, and between their bows to Mecca, putting together a bomb to blow up an American airliner.'' 
 True to form, Dr. Huntington's most recent book, ''Who Are We: The Challenges to America's National Identity,'' raised something of a ruckus with its argument that America has been, and will best flourish, as an Anglo-Protestant nation. 
 In addition to his wife, Dr. Huntington is survived by his sons, Nicholas Phillips Huntington of Newton, Mass., and Timothy Mayo Huntington of Boston; his daughters-in-law, Kelly Brown Huntington and Noelle Lally Huntington; and four grandchildren.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 30, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Monday about Samuel P. Huntington, a political scientist, misidentified the magazine that ran a 1993 article by Dr. Huntington on which he based his acclaimed book ''The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order.'' It was Foreign Affairs, not Foreign Policy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Samuel P. Huntington (PHOTOGRAPH BY MP BARRIOPEDRO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (92%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); WRITERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); IRAQ WAR (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); TERRORISM (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); JOURNALISM (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES (55%); AMERICAN POLITICAL SCIENCE ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools, Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1027 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Presidential Runoff in Ghana Is Mostly Calm

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: ACCRA, Ghana 

 BODY:
Ghanaians voted to choose their president on Sunday in a close election runoff that many hoped would salvage Africa's battered democratic credentials, although episodes of violence and ballot box snatching were reported. 
 The heated presidential contest pitted Nana Akufo-Addo, of the previously ruling New Patriotic Party, against the opposition National Democratic Congress candidate, John Atta Mills, after neither managed an outright win three weeks ago.
 Counting was under way, but full results were not expected before Tuesday at the earliest. Local news media said turnout had appeared to be lower than the inconclusive Dec. 7 first round.
 Both presidential contenders are 64-year-old, foreign-trained lawyers. They have vowed to maintain the stability and growth that have made the former British colony a recent favorite of investors on a turbulent continent.
 Ghana already is one of the world's top cocoa growers and one of Africa's top gold producers, and it expects to start commercial oil output in 2010.
 An election observer coalition, Codeo, reported cases of disorder, intimidation and even violence in several regions, but a senior police officer said none had been serious enough to close a polling station.
 ''Generally, the process ended well, but there were challenges, including several attempts to snatch ballot boxes, especially in Accra and in Kumasi,'' said the deputy police superintendent, Kwesi Ofori. He said arrests had been made in the cases.
 Yakubu Gowon, the leader of an observer mission from Ecowas, a political and trade group of West African nations, said more possible violations had been reported than in the first round.
 ''This time around, it's not as joyful as the first one. We had a bit of incident -- disagreements among party agents, reported snatching of ballot boxes,'' he said.
 The runoff vote came at the end of what some see as a difficult year for constitutional democracy in Africa, tarnished by flawed elections in Kenya and Zimbabwe and military coups in Mauritania in August and in Guinea over the last week.
 ''The U.S. considers Ghana as a model of democracy in Africa, and the country has contributed to keeping the image of the continent afloat by holding consecutive successful elections over the years,'' the top American diplomat for Africa, Jendayi E. Frazer, said in an interview in Accra.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Voters lined up in Accra, Ghana, on Sunday to cast ballots in the runoff election for their next president. Both presidential contenders are 64-year-old, foreign-trained lawyers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JANE HAHN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNOFF ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTION MONITORING (78%); COUPS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); POLICE FORCES (66%); COCOA FARMING (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (54%)

PERSON: JOHN ATTA MILLS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GHANA (99%); AFRICA (95%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MAURITANIA (79%); GUINEA (79%); KENYA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1028 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Post-Christmas, Checking the Consumer Pulse on the Bus to the Outlet Mall

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN

 BODY:
To the extent that New York's retail economy still has an engine these days, it may well sound a bit like the steady rumble of the 111 bus operated by New Jersey Transit.
 Ten times a day, and 14 times on Saturday, the dusty, diesel Motor Coach Industries bus with seating for 49 passengers takes off from the second level of the Port Authority Bus Terminal in Manhattan. Its main destination is Jersey Gardens, a hulking outlet mall with 230 stores near the Port of Elizabeth in New Jersey, where steep discounts are enticing during this dreary shopping season. The bus's next stop: IKEA, the inexpensive Swedish furniture emporium that offers $1.99 wine glasses and 79-cent flower vases to the cash-strapped.
 Around the city, retail sales at post-Christmas sales this year have been disappointing, according to industry surveys. But one wouldn't know it aboard the 111. The route, its driver said, has been packed on Saturdays since November, and on the 11:45 a.m. bus out of the Port Authority on Saturday, it was standing room only. 
 There was a school-trip air of expectation in the back of the bus, where Patricia Williams, 17, sat next to her sister, Melissa, 8, her head tucked into a pink ''I NY'' hat. They were visiting with seven other relatives from Caracas, Venezuela, where clothing and electronics -- and just about everything else imported -- is far more expensive, they said.
 ''We're buying shoes, dresses, clothes and more shoes,'' said Patricia, her rhinestone-inlaid silver hoop earrings swaying with the rhythms of the bus as it made its way through the Lincoln Tunnel and onto the New Jersey Turnpike.
 The family had also gone to the mall the day before and, lured by the 50-percent-off sales at Abercrombie & Fitch and other stores, had decided to go back for more items. 
 Most of the bus's dingy grey velour seats, in fact, were filled with foreign visitors. Yael Lilach and Dana Dekel, both 29, were visiting from Tel Aviv on a 10-day shopping trip, though Ms. Lilach did say that they would be visiting one museum (the one devoted to natural history). 
 David Pollmer, 24, and Laura Henkin, 20, had flown to New York on Friday night from Germany and read about the outlets in a travel book. Cynthia Marques, 48, had just arrived from Rio de Janeiro with her two daughters. ''In Brazil, everything is very expensive,'' Ms. Marques said.
 Crammed between the international passengers were Melissa and her mother, Lourdes, from the South Bronx -- who, like the few other locals on the bus, had lower expectations for the $10.50-a-ticket round-trip outing. 
 ''It's the first time this whole year we're going outlet shopping,'' said Melissa, who did not want to provide her last name.
 Thirty minutes after emerging on the New Jersey side of the Lincoln Tunnel, the 111 roared into the busy mall's parking lot. The Williams family, unused to snow, took snapshots on a small pile of muddy slush outside the entrance, then split up to hit the shops. Patricia rushed over the mall's carpeted floors to Bebe, a women's apparel store, where, after considering a leopard-print dress, she brought a rhinestone-spangled sweater. 
 Her godfather, Rostin Gonzalez, 44, who estimated the family had spent $7,000 over the past several days on laptops and other items, headed to the Nike outlet. A former basketball player, he bought a pair of size 14 sneakers for $40. 
 In the mall, laden with shopping bags, were two Filipino sailors who had just docked at the Port of Elizabeth on a Qatari container ship. Their ship, they said, had evaded pirates shortly after leaving its home port in Dubai. At Jersey Gardens, they stocked up on jeans from Guess and 50-percent-off shirts from Tommy Hilfiger for the trip home.
 ''It's the cheapest place for us to shop,'' said one, Gio Lopez, 32, who is from Manila. ''In Europe, it's crazy.'' 
 But for every person carrying bags at the mall, there seemed to be five more who were empty-handed or clutching a deflated, half-empty plastic sack. The overall atmosphere -- despite the piped-in Christmas carols -- felt subdued. 
 Amid the bus's dingy white overhead bins, the dangling seat belts and the foggy windows of the 111, it was a slow, quiet late-afternoon ride through traffic and light rain back to Manhattan. 
 There was a bit of excitement among a family of four visiting from London. Lucy Waters Rudge, 16, had spent $260 on shirts and pants at the Juicy Couture store. Her father, Andrew, had bought Nike sneakers for $50. ''For us, that's nothing,'' he said.
 But Dwayne Miller, 18, from Jersey City, had only one bag, half-filled with a $20 hooded sweatshirt and a $10 T-shirt from Pacific Sunwear bought with money he got for Christmas. And in the bus's front row, Io-Aurelia Duncan had no bags at all. She had climbed aboard the 111 in Union City, N.J., the one stop it makes between its two endpoints.
 Ms. Duncan, 60, said she had lost her job this year as a computer teacher in Jersey City, so she did most of her holiday shopping at dollar stores. She found mitten and scarf sets, and hand cream and other toiletries to wrap in cellophane. Her holiday shopping budget shrank from $900 to $100, she said, putting even the outlet mall out of reach. 
 As she found a seat between the full shopping bags of tourists, she said she was surprised to hear that they found everything in America so cheap. But she wasn't bitter about it, just matter-of-fact. ''At least we're offering something,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); FURNITURE STORES (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (84%); MOTOR COACH INDUSTRIES INTERNATIONAL INC (58%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (84%); AFT (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); GERMANY (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1029 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Skaters Jump In As Foreclosures Drain the Pool

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY and MALIA WOLLAN

 BODY:
On a recent morning, a 27-year-old skateboarder who goes by the name Josh Peacock peered into a swimming pool in Fresno, Calif., emptied by his own hands -- and the foreclosure crisis -- and flashed a smile as wide as a half-pipe. 
 ''We have more pools than we know what to do with,'' said Mr. Peacock, who lives in Fresno, the Central Valley city where thousands of homes, many with pools behind them, are in foreclosure. ''I can't even keep track of them all anymore.''
 Across the nation, the ultimate symbol of suburban success has become one more reminder of the economic meltdown, with builders going under, pools going to seed and skaters finding a surplus of deserted pools in which to perfect their acrobatic aerials. 
 In these boom times for skaters, Mr. Peacock travels with a gas-powered pump, five-gallon buckets, shovels and a push broom, risking trespassing charges in the pursuit of emptying forlorn pools and turning them into de facto skate parks. 
 ''We can just hit them back to back,'' said Mr. Peacock, who preferred to give his skateboarding name because of the illegality of his activities.
 Skaters are coming to places like Fresno from as far as Germany and Australia. Mr. Peacock said his floor and couch were covered by sleeping bags of visiting skateboarders each weekend. 
 Some skateboarders use realty tracking sites like realquest.com and realtor.com to find foreclosed houses with pools, while others trawl through satellite images from Google Earth. On the Web site skateandannoy.com, where skaters trade tips about how to find and drain abandoned pools, one poster wrote about the current economic malaise. ''God bless Greenspan,'' the post read, ''patron saint of pool skatin'.''
 Pool builders feel differently, of course. In Phoenix, for example, where scorching summers can make pools seem like a survival tool, the city has issued fewer than half the number of residential pool permits this year as in 2007, as builders are being pummeled by declining home construction and evaporating credit for potential buyers. Several large companies have gone bust this year, including Riviera Pools, which once sponsored the swimming pool at Chase Field, where the Arizona Diamondbacks play baseball. Smaller contractors, retailers and pool cleaning companies have also failed, leaving unpaid bills and unfinished projects. 
 ''You've got people that still want to build pools, but now you're getting maybe 20 percent or 10 percent that can actually qualify now,'' said Dave Brandenburg, a pool builder in north Phoenix who estimated business was off 40 percent to 70 percent. ''Before it was, 'Sure, no problem.' Now it's like, 'Sorry.' ''
 Business is just as bad in Florida, where builders like Ben Evans, the chief executive at American Pools and Spas in Orlando, said he had let much of his staff go as orders for pools dropped to 150 this year, from about 1,000 in 2007. 
 ''I'm just looking for my bailout money,'' Mr. Evans said, ruefully. ''Do you know where that is?'' 
 In many warmer states, the authorities are trying literally to bail out pools, using pumps, dredges and strong stomachs to attack a surge in abandoned ones that have attracted all manner of nastiness -- rats or belligerent raccoons, or algae, dead leaves and worse. These so-called green pools can become a breeding ground for mosquitoes carrying West Nile virus.
 California officials estimate that there are tens of thousands of abandoned pools in the state, with as many as 5,000 in places like Sacramento County, where a building boom in the capital's suburbs has gone bust. California law calls for fines of up to $1,000 per day for egregious cases of pools left with standing water, but officials say the sheer numbers of cases are daunting. 
 John Rusmisel, the district manager for Alameda County's mosquito abatement district, said he used a promotional company that flies banners over football games and other events to help find the fetid swimming pools. 
 ''They were up there seeing all these funky pools,'' said Mr. Rusmisel, who added that his workload had doubled in the last year. ''So they just started to take pictures.''
 Once he finds a problem pool, his workers treat it with a combination of insecticide and mosquitofish, pinky-size carp that find mosquito larvae delectable. But they do not empty any pools, he said, because in a good rain, an empty pool can be partially lifted out of the hole by groundwater, he said. ''I've seen them float up a foot or two,'' Mr. Rusmisel said.
 Dirk Voss, a code enforcement agent in Oxnard, Calif., northwest of Los Angeles, said even those residents who manage to stay in their homes often could not maintain the pool. ''They don't want to pay for the power to run the motor or pay for the chemicals to treat them,'' Mr. Voss said. 
 But skaters do not mind doing the work, whether it is that of scouting for pools or scouring them. Adam Morgan, 28, a skater from Los Angeles, said it used to take months to find a good skating pool. Now the task is a breeze. 
 ''There are more pools right now than I could possibly skate,'' Mr. Morgan said. ''It's pretty exciting.'' Mr. Peacock travels around town in his pickup searching for the addresses of homes he has learned have been foreclosed on, either via the Internet or from a friend who works in real estate. He has also learned to spot a foreclosed house, he said, by looking for ''dead grass on the lawn and lockboxes on the front door.''
 Once he has found a pool he likes -- he prefers older, kidney-shaped ones -- he drains the water into the gutter with his pool pump, sometimes setting up orange cones on the sidewalk to appear more official. Later, he returns to shovel out the muck, and then lets the pool dry. In order to maintain a sense of public service, the skateboarders adhere to basic rules: no graffiti, pack out trash and never mess with or enter the houses.
 A day or two later, the skating begins, often in short bursts during the workday to avoid disturbing neighbors or attracting police attention. Twice in recent weeks, Mr. Peacock said, the police caught the skateboarders in an empty pool and demanded they leave but did not issue citations. 
 Mr. Peacock said he was helping the environment. ''I'm doing the city a favor,'' he said, by emptying fetid pools. ''They're always talking about West Nile on the news. Those little fish can only eat so much.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A group of friends skating the pool of a foreclosed home this month in Fresno, Calif. Skaters are coming to places like Fresno from as far as Germany and Australia.
 Skateboarders who go by Josh Peacock and Kyle the Dude cleared a pool in Fresno recently. Kyle tries a maneuver, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKATEBOARDING (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EXTREME SPORTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (67%); BASEBALL (64%); WEB SITES (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRESNO, CA, USA (95%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (86%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (86%); FLORIDA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1030 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: The Stimulus America Really Needs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Time to Reboot America'' (column, Dec. 24):
 As Thomas L. Friedman suggests, the prospect of a $1 trillion stimulus in an Obama administration offers a crucial opportunity for our nation to invest in ''productivity-enhancing infrastructure'' improvements. 
 Nonetheless, productivity, as conventionally defined, remains too narrow a metric to serve as an overarching objective for public policy. 
 Besides advancing productivity, infrastructural investments should support other key social objectives that productivity omits, such as more locally self-reliant economies, a vibrant democratic civil society, social justice and environmental sustainability. 
 Otherwise, the United States will continue down a trajectory toward deepening injustice, instability and inhumanity, rather than epitomizing self-governance, conviviality and hope. 
 Richard E. Sclove
 Amherst, Mass., Dec. 23, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman makes a stirring case for increasing spending on infrastructure and education. The case is not complete, however, without also identifying the spending that must be reduced, namely military and medical. 
 Our gigantic military complex tempts us into adventurism even as it drives us further into debt. Our complicated and inefficient medical system commands an ever-increasing share of our wealth. Neither provides a good, wealth-building return on investment. 
 Nothing about the politics of military and medical spending is easy, but if we really intend to reboot America we will have to address these systemic faults.
 John B. Dougherty 
 New York, Dec. 25, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman is right that it is time to reboot America, but not in the way he describes.
 Sure, America has its problems, but most of them, if not all, were created by excesses of government, with government schools, government roads, government hospitals, government research, government loans, government housing and so on. 
 Mr. Friedman says, ''We've indulged ourselves for too long with tax cuts that we can't afford.'' The money Mr. Friedman wants to watch flow into government coffers is not produced by government, but by private thinking that leads to production and trade. 
 The question is not whether there should be more taxation, but whether we can continue to afford a gigantic, bloated government that strangles the life-blood out of the creative and productive process that caused America to be the economic engine of the world for the last century.
 It is time to return to America's founding principles: individual rights, property rights and the pursuit of happiness, with government only in the form of military, police and courts. 
 Stated another way, America needs to return to capitalism. Mark A. Hurt 
 Creve Coeur, Mo., Dec. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I think it is critically important to also ''reboot America'' ethically and morally. 
 Under President Bush, we have become too accustomed to law-breaking, greed and self-importance, and standing idly by as our fellow citizens lose their jobs, their homes and their hope. 
 We have also done precious little to stop the genocide in Darfur, the killing in Congo and disease pandemics around the world.
 Our economy will come back, but if we are to truly reclaim the greatness that was awe-inspiring to the rest of the world, we must climb out of the morally corrupt hole we have dug ourselves.
 Henry A. Lowenstein 
 New York, Dec. 24, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON LOGAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); ETHICS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (67%); TAX LAW (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (55%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (55%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1031 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Axelrod Puts Stimulus Plan at $675 Billion to $775 Billion

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN

 BODY:
The last Sunday of the year was a quiet one on the network's morning talk shows, with David Axelrod, President-elect Barack Obama's political adviser, looking ahead to the new administration while Laura Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice reflected on the past eight years. 
 In addition, Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni defended Israel's ongoing air assault on Gaza on ''Fox News Sunday'' and NBC's ''Meet the Press.'' Mr. Axelrod said that Mr. Obama was monitoring the situation in Gaza, and that he has spoken with Ms. Rice about the attack. 
 Mr. Axelrod, speaking on ''Face the Nation'' and ''Meet the Press,'' underscored the special relationship between the United States and Israel but did not elaborate on the specifics of the situation in Gaza, stating that ''in America, there's only one president at a time.''
 Regarding the new administration's stimulus plan, Mr. Axelrod also said that the exact dollar amount Mr. Obama will seek has not yet been determined. ''We've talked about a package from $675 billion to $775 billion,'' he said on CBS's ''Face the Nation.''
 ''One thing I think everyone agrees on, economists from left to right, is that we have to do something very large,'' he said.
 The president-elect also intends to follow through quickly on his promise for tax relief for most Americans, Mr. Axelrod said, this time on ''Meet the Press.'' As for repealing the Bush tax cut for the wealthiest Americans, he said that whether it was repealed early or allowed to expire as scheduled at the end of 2010, the tax cut would eventually disappear.
 ''It's going to go, it has to go,'' he said. 
 The ''Meet the Press'' host, David Gregory, pressed Mr. Axelrod on whether Rahm Emanuel, the Mr. Obama's chief of staff, or any of his other advisers had been asked for any favors by Illinois Gov. Rod. R. Blagojevich, who faces federal corruption charges that include trying to sell Mr. Obama's vacant Senate seat to the highest bidder.
 Mr. Axelrod said no. ''There was no reason to believe that there was anything unusual or untoward going on that would require contact with the U.S. attorney's office,'' he said.
 And speaking on CBS's ''Face the Nation,'' Illinois Lieutenant Governor Pat Quinn said that he believed Mr. Blagojevich would be impeached by the Illinois legislature -- by Lincoln's 200th birthday on Feb. 12 -- and that he stood ready to step into his place.
 He said that if he became governor, he would hold a special election for the vacant Senate seat, but that it probably would not be able to take place until June. In the interim, a temporary senator would be appointed.
 ''If I am the governor, I would certainly push that kind of a law, and we'll see what happens,'' he said. It's important, he said, to ''make sure Illinois has two senators at all times.''
 Mr. Axelrod also defended Mr. Obama's decision to invite Rick Warren, the influential evangelical pastor, to deliver the invocation at his inauguration. Mr. Warren, who brought both John McCain and Mr. Obama to his California church this past August, in at least one interview likened committed gay relationships to incest and polygamy.
 While Mr. Obama and Mr. Warren disagree about ''civil rights for gays and lesbians and a woman's right to choose,'' Mr. Axelrod said, the two men agree on issues like fighting poverty and disease in Africa. 
 Mr. Warren's inclusion, he said, was a symbol of Mr. Obama's campaign promise to ''build bridges of understanding and move this country forward.''
 ''The important point here is that you have a conservative evangelical pastor who's coming to participate in the inauguration of a progressive president, and this is a healthy thing and a good thing for our country,'' Mr. Axelrod said.
 Also on Sunday, Secretary Rice and Mrs. Bush took a moment to share some things about themselves that might be little known.
 On CBS's ''Sunday Morning,'' Ms. Rice shared her surprise about the reaction she got in 2005, when she wore the nearly knee-high leather boots with heels paired with a short skirt one chilly afternoon in Weisbaden, Germany. The picture made fashion headlines around the world.
 ''Well, but I wore the boots because it was cold. I've tried so hard to explain to people that that outfit was -- it was really a surprise to me that there was any commentary about it, because I grew up -- well, spent a lot of my life in Colorado. When it's cold, you wear boots,'' she said.
 On her own look-back interview on ''Fox News Sunday,'' First Lady Laura Bush said that President Bush ''was in trouble'' for telling an interviewer recently that one thing he was not looking forward to after the White House was her cooking. 
 But then she conceded on ''Fox News Sunday'' that she ''can't even remember cooking.''
 ''It's been 14 years since we moved into the Texas governor's mansion,'' she said. But, she added, ''I love to read cookbooks. I'm very interested in food, and I'm a reader, as you know.''
 Interviewer Chris Wallace responded, ''I hate to say this, but -- all due respect, Mrs. Bush, reading doesn't actually get the meal on the table.'' 
 The First Lady smiled, and said that she intended to cook for Mr. Bush ''when it's just us.''.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); BLAGOJEVICH CORRUPTION SCANDAL (89%); TAX RELIEF (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); CORRUPTION (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: DAVID AXELROD (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (77%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); TZIPORA LIVNI (56%); PAT QUINN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (93%) ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1032 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: The Labor Agenda

 BODY:
There is no doubt that President-elect Barack Obama has chosen a labor secretary who could be a transformative force in a long-neglected arena. The question is whether he will let her.
 Hilda Solis, a United States representative from Southern California, is the daughter of immigrant parents with union jobs. She has been an unfailing advocate of workers' rights during eight years in Congress and before that, in California politics. 
 Ms. Solis has been a leader on traditional workplace issues, like a higher minimum wage and an enhanced right to form unions. She also has helped to expand the labor agenda by sponsoring legislation to create jobs in green technology, and in her support for community health workers and immigration reform. 
 Her record in Congress dovetails with the mission of the Labor Department, to protect and further the rights and opportunities of working people. It also dovetails with many of the promises Mr. Obama made during the campaign, both in its specifics and in its focus on the needs of America's working families. 
 The main issue is whether the Obama administration will assert a forceful labor agenda in the face of certain protests from business that now -- during a recession -- is not the time to move forward. 
 The first and biggest test of Mr. Obama's commitment to labor, and to Ms. Solis, will be his decision on whether or not to push the Employee Free Choice Act in 2009. Corporate America is determined to derail the bill, which would make it easier than it has been for workers to form unions by requiring that employers recognize a union if a majority of employees at a workplace sign cards indicating they wish to organize.
 Ms. Solis voted for the bill when it passed the House in 2007. Senate Republicans prevented the bill from coming to a vote that same year. Mr. Obama voted in favor of bringing the bill to the Senate floor and supported it during the campaign. 
 The measure is vital legislation and should not be postponed. Even modest increases in the share of the unionized labor force push wages upward, because nonunion workplaces must keep up with unionized ones that collectively bargain for increases. By giving employees a bigger say in compensation issues, unions also help to establish corporate norms, the absence of which has contributed to unjustifiable disparities between executive pay and rank-and-file pay. 
 The argument against unions -- that they unduly burden employers with unreasonable demands -- is one that corporate America makes in good times and bad, so the recession by itself is not an excuse to avoid pushing the bill next year. The real issue is whether enhanced unionizing would worsen the recession, and there is no evidence that it would. 
 There is a strong argument that the slack labor market of a recession actually makes unions all the more important. Without a united front, workers will have even less bargaining power in the recession than they had during the growth years of this decade, when they largely failed to get raises even as productivity and profits soared. If pay continues to lag, it will only prolong the downturn by inhibiting spending. 
 Another question clouding the labor agenda is whether Mr. Obama will give equal weight to worker concerns -- from reforming health care to raising the minimum wage -- while the financial crisis is still playing out. Most members of his economic team are veterans of the Clinton administration who tilt toward Wall Street. In the Clinton era, financial issues routinely trumped labor concerns. If Mr. Obama's campaign promises are to be kept, that mindset cannot prevail again. Mr. Obama's creation of a task force on middle-class issues, to be led by Vice President-elect Joseph Biden and including Ms. Solis and other high-ranking officials, is an encouraging sign that labor issues will not be given short shrift.
 There are many nonlegislative issues on the agenda for Ms. Solis. Safety standards must be updated: in the last eight years, the Labor Department has issued only one new safety rule of its own accord; it issued a few others only after being compelled by Congress or the courts. Overtime rules that were weakened in 2004 need to be restored. To enforce labor standards, the Labor Department will need more staff and more money, both of which have been cut deeply by President Bush.
 Only the president can give the new labor secretary the clout she will need to do well at a job that has been done so badly for so long, at such great cost to the quality of Americans' lives. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); FAMILY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); IMMIGRATION (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILDA L SOLIS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1033 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: The Office Pool, 2009

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
William Safire, a former Times Op-Ed columnist, writes the weekly ''On Language'' column in The Times Magazine.

 BODY:
WHEN Dolph Camilli, Brooklyn Dodger star slugger of the 1940s, stepped up to the plate after whiffing ignominiously in his two previous times at bat, we fans in the Ebbets Field bleachers would nod sagely and murmur, ''He's due.'' 
 Last year, in the 34th annual Office Pool in this space, I predicted that the Dow Jones industrial average would break 15,000 in 2008. (Readers whose pick was ''recession has brokers selling apples for five euros on Wall Street'' won that round.) But this year -- I'm due. For each item, choose one, all or none. Only those daring to play now can claim hooting rights later.
 1. In Demo-dominated D.C., post-postpartisan tension will pit:
 (a) lame-duck Fed chairman Ben Bernanke against Fed chairman-in-waiting Larry Summers and Fed chairman-of-Christmas-past Paul Volcker (a k a ''The G.D.P. Deflator'') over an ''imperial Fed'' 
 (b) Hillary Clinton at State and trade rep Ron Kirk against Labor's Hilda Solis over protectionism
 (c) Chief of staff Rahm Emanuel against United Nations Ambassador Susan Rice, a Zbigniew Brzezinski acolyte, over Mideast policy
 2. Springtime for G.M. will lead to:
 (a) a slippery-slope series of industrial bailouts exceeding $100 billion
 (b) a ''pre-pack bankruptcy'' auto rescue sweetened by federal pension protection and guarantee of new-car warranties
 (c) a multinational merger with troubled Toyota
 3. Toughest foreign affairs challenge will come if:
 (a) Afghanistan becomes ''Obama's War'' or ''Obama's Retreat''
 (b) Iraq backslides into chaos after too-early U.S. withdrawal
 (c) Depressed Russia moves on Ukraine
 (d) India-Pakistan fighting breaks out 
 4. Oil selling below $50 a barrel will:
 (a) threaten President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's June election in Iran
 (b) reduce Arab support of Hamas and, in Israel's February election, help Bibi Netanyahu's Likud party reach the Tzipping point
 (c) be the equivalent of a huge U.S. tax-cut stimulus
 5. Best-picture Oscar goes to:
 (a) ''Doubt''
 (b) ''Slumdog Millionaire''
 (c) ''Revolutionary Road''
 (d) ''Gran Torino''
 (e) ''Frost/Nixon'' 
 6. The non-fiction sleeper will be:
 (a) ''Power Rules,'' a Machiavellian view of foreign policy by former diplomat and Times editor Les Gelb
 (b) ''Deep Brain Stimulation,'' by neuroscience writer Jamie Talan
 (c) ''Bold Endeavors,'' by financier and infrastructuralist Felix Rohatyn
 (d) ''Losing the News,'' by Alex Jones
 (e) ''Ponzi Shmonzi: The Bernie Madoff Story,'' crash-published by a dozen houses
 (f) Fiction: ''Shadow and Light,'' in 1920s Berlin, by Jonathan Rabb
 7. The don't-ask deficit at year's end will be:
 (a) under $1 trillion, thanks to the new administration's cutting of waste, fraud and abuse, as well as tax-soaking of the remaining rich
 (b) $2 trillion, adding to the inherited Bush bailouts a raising-Keynes handout to shovel-ready contractors 
 (c) $1,393,665,042,198 and no cents. (Why so specific? A billion is a thousand million, and a trillion is a thousand billion. That's 10 to the 12th power, or 1 followed by 12 zeroes)
 8. In Congress:
 (a) House Republicans Eric Cantor and Mike Pence will energize the G.O.P.
 (b) Senate Republicans Lindsey Graham and Lamar Alexander will be the fulcrum of a bipartisan ''Gang of 20''
 (c) among Senate Democrats, Judiciary chairman Pat Leahy's influence will rise because Supreme Court nominations will take center stage, while Harry Reid's clout dissipates because of home-state weakness
 9. Post-honeymoon journalists and bloody-minded bloggers will dig into:
 (a) the jailhouse singing by Chicago's felonious fixer, Tony (''Who You Callin' 'Boneheaded'?'') Rezko, to Dewey-eyed prosecutor Patrick Fitzgerald to reduce his six-year sentence
 (b) suspicion by conspiracy theorists about the unremarked lobbying that led to the expensive renaming, after 72 years, of the Triborough Bridge to the Robert F. Kennedy Bridge just in time for Caroline Kennedy's campaign for anointment to an open Senate seat 
 (c) the retaliatory scheme to rename the Brooklyn Bridge the Clintons Bridge
 10. The Supreme Court will decide:
 (a) in nipple exposure or ''fleeting expletives'' on live TV, that the F.C.C. exceeded its authority in fining Fox for indecency
 (b) that the Federal Election Commission was wrong to censure a moviemaker whose ''biopic'' was hostile to Hillary Clinton during her campaign
 (c) that the appearance of impropriety in financial dealings of a West Virginia judge disqualified him from sitting in a coal-company dispute
 (d) that Attorney General John Ashcroft and F.B.I. director Robert Mueller had a ''qualified immunity'' from being sued for racial profiling in imprisoning suspected terrorists
 (e) that in al-Marri v. Pucciarelli, a legal U.S. resident cannot be held indefinitely at Guantanamo
 11. Obama philosophy will be regarded as:
 (a) proudly liberal on environment and regulation
 (b) determinedly centrist on health care, immigration and protectionism
 (c) unexpectedly right of center on national security
 (d) all over the lot
 12. Year-end presidential approval rating will be:
 (a) eroding as recovery stalls
 (b) soaring after economic turnaround propels Dow above 12,000
 (c) sinking but 30 points higher than that of Congress and the news media 
 My picks: 1 (all); 2 (b); 3 (a); 4 (all); 5 (b) (an uplifting film has an edge in hard times); 6 (d); 7 (b); 8 (c); 9 (b) (diehards will still say, ''Take the Triborough to Idlewild''); 10 (all) (I aced the Supremes' decisions in last year's pool); 11 (d) 12 (b).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); BASEBALL (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (87%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); BAILOUTS (71%); PROTECTIONISM (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (69%); CHRISTMAS (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); HAMAS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BEN BERNANKE (56%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); HILDA L SOLIS (52%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (52%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (50%); RON KIRK (50%); RAHM EMANUEL (50%); SUSAN RICE (50%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UKRAINE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1034 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 359 words

 BODY:
GMAC CHANGE IS UNDECIDED Two days after a crucial deadline passed, there is still no word whether bondholders of GMAC, the financing arm of General Motors, approved a plan that would help provide it with federal bailout money. 
 NETWORKS PULL OUT OF IRAQ Quietly, as the news has been dominated by presidential politics, America's three broadcast network news divisions have stopped sending full-time correspondents to Iraq. [B1.]
 A TOUGH YEAR FOR ADVERTISERS A Super Bowl commercial for Coca-Cola Classic was a highlight in a tough year for advertising. Underdog, left, battled for his Coke in a Super Bowl ad. Advertising: Stuart Elliott [B1.]
 THE BIG N.F.L. INTERCEPTION Because of a long-running feud between the National Football League and cable companies, some important games cannot be seen on television. But thanks to piracy, they are streaming live to countless laptop computers. [B1.] 
 H.P. INVADES OTHERS' TURFHewlett-Packard is offering a system to integrate inventory, sales, costs and demand, in an attempt to challenge the leadership of Teradata in the data warehousing field. [B1.]
 BJORK, VENTURE CAPITALIST Bjork, the Icelandic singer famous for her eclectic music, provocative music videos and outlandish fashion sense, is adding ''venture capitalist'' to her resume. Bits. [B5.]
 CRACKS IN U.S.-CHINA RELATIONS The global recession is re-exposing fissures in relations between the United States and China that Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. spent more than two years smoothing over. [B2.]
 IN OBAMA, UNIONS SEE RENEWAL After three decades of decline, American labor unions are looking to Barack Obama and rising economic anxiety to reverse their long slide. [B6.]
 INDYMAC CLOSE TO BEING SOLD IndyMac, one of the largest banks to fail in the subprime mortgage crisis, is close to being sold to a consortium of private equity and hedge fund firms in a deal partly financed by the federal government, people involved in the deal said. [B3.]
 KUWAIT ENDS DEAL WITH DOW Kuwait backed out of a venture with Dow Chemical because of opposition in Parliament, arising from the financial crisis and the collapse of oil prices. [B3.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS MARKETING (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); APPROVALS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); POLITICS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); CELEBRITIES (74%); CABLE INDUSTRY (72%); MUSIC (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); DATA WAREHOUSING (68%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); RECESSION (65%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (63%); CHEMICALS (61%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (53%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); TERADATA CORP (55%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (52%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); TDC (NYSE) (55%); DOW (SWX) (52%); DOW (NYSE) (52%); DOW (LSE) (52%); 4850 (TSE) (52%); ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (92%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1035 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Star-Filled Year-End Releases Draw Well

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- An unusual alignment of top stars brightened Hollywood's holiday box office as Tom Cruise, Brad Pitt and Adam Sandler, as well as Jennifer Aniston, Owen Wilson and a dog, pushed new movies to strong openings.
''Marley & Me,'' a comedy from 20th Century Fox, claimed the top spot with about $37 million for the weekend and $51.7 million since opening on Christmas Day. 
Directed by David Frankel, the film stars Ms. Aniston and Mr. Wilson. But Fox marketers appear to have assured its triumph weeks ago with an advertising campaign that zeroed in on an image of a tail-wagging puppy, which turned out to be a perfect match for a holiday dimmed by consistently bad economic news.
Another comedy, ''Bedtime Stories,'' with Adam Sandler, was second with an estimated $28.1 million for the three-day weekend, though its four-day total of $38.6 million placed it slightly behind ''The Curious Case of Benjamin Button,'' with Brad Pitt, in total domestic ticket sales since both movies opened on Christmas Day. Directed by Adam Shankman and released by Walt Disney Studios, ''Bedtime Stories,'' with a PG rating and strong family appeal, was long expected to be one of the holiday's strongest performers.
''Benjamin Button,'' with its unusual story line about a man who ages backward and an extended running time of about 2 hours 40 minutes, had been a tougher call. But that film, released by Paramount Pictures and directed by David Fincher, also did well, with $27 million in ticket sales for the weekend and about $39 million since Christmas.
Still, the weekend's most significant victory may have been scored by Tom Cruise, the director Bryan Singer and the distributor MGM with their ''Valkyrie,'' which for the last year has been chewed over as one of the most difficult bets in the movie marketplace.
The film, in which Mr. Cruise plays a German officer who tried to kill Hitler, placed fourth for the holiday with $21.5 million in sales for the three days and about $30 million since opening on Christmas.
''We're really happy here,'' said Erik Lomis, who oversees worldwide film distribution for MGM. Mr. Lomis said the film, currently playing in about 2,700 theaters, will probably add locations this week as it capitalizes on strength in midsize markets where Mr. Cruise's star power is helping it keep pace with films for which prospects seemed brighter.
As the long holiday plays out, high-profile movies can expect to collect total domestic tickets sales of four to six times their first three-day weekend, Mr. Lomis noted. Performance on that order means that each of the top openers -- and some of the previous week's new films, including ''Yes Man'' with Jim Carrey and ''Seven Pounds'' with Will Smith -- will ultimately have a solid if not spectacular record at the box office.
''Yes Man,'' from Warner, placed fifth this week, with $16.5 million in weekend sales for a total of $49.6 million since opening. ''Seven Pounds,'' from Sony Pictures Entertainment, was sixth, with $13.4 million for the weekend and a total of $39 million.
Other films ranking among the 10 best performers were ''The Tale of Despereaux,'' from Universal Pictures, at No. 7 with $9.4 million for the three-day period and $27.9 million in all; ''The Day the Earth Stood Still,'' from Fox, at No. 8 with $7.9 million for the weekend and $63.6 million since opening; ''The Spirit,'' from Lionsgate, at No. 9 with $6.5 million for the weekend and $10.4 million since opening on Christmas; and ''Doubt,'' from Miramax, at No. 10 with $5.7 million for the weekend and $8.8 million since opening.
Over all the strong performance kept the 2008 box office close to that of last year, with $9.5 billion in total ticket sales so far in 2008 compared to $9.6 billion at this point last year, according to Media by Numbers, a consulting company. Theater attendance is down about 5 percent, Media by Numbers estimated, but ticket price inflation has kept overall revenue high.
Many of the season's major awards contenders continued to add screens in expanding release patterns meant to capitalize on good reviews and growing expectation of a place at the Academy Awards ceremony in late February.
Among the leaders in the prize race, ''Frost/Nixon,'' directed by Ron Howard and released by Universal, took in $1.5 million for the three days and $1.9 million since Christmas for a total of $3.7 million to date. The film is playing in just over 200 theaters, in the country's 50 largest markets.
Another prize contender, ''Slumdog Millionaire,'' from Fox Searchlight, took in $4.5 million for the weekend for a total of $19.7 million. ''Milk,'' from Focus Features, had $1.8 million in weekend sales for a total of $13.6 million.
''Twilight,'' the teen vampire movie from Summit Entertainment, released in mid-November, continued to play well in the face of new competitors. The film ranked No. 12 for the weekend with $4.5 million in ticket sales and a total of about $167 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Among the stars (with some animal help) who can still sell tickets were Jennifer Aniston in ''Marley & Me,'' the weekend's top earner, and Adam Sandler in ''Bedtime Stories,'' No. 2. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARRY WETCHER/20TH CENTURY FOX
TRACY BENNETT/WALT DISNEY PICTURES)(C1)
 Brad Pitt in ''The Curious Case of Benjamin Button.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MERRICK MORTON/PARAMOUNT PICTURES)(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); THEATER (57%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: ADAM SANDLER (90%); JENNIFER ANISTON (90%); BRAD PITT (90%); TOM CRUISE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011



1036 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Kuwait Scuttles $17.4 Billion Venture With Dow Chemical

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
A multibillion-dollar joint venture between Dow Chemical and a state-owned Kuwaiti company fell victim to the financial crisis and the collapse of oil prices after the Kuwaiti government said Sunday that it would back out of the deal in the face of opposition in Parliament.
 The government of the prime minister, Sheik Nasser al-Mohammad al-Ahmad al-Sabah, said in a statement that it had decided to cancel an agreement to create K-Dow Petrochemicals, a venture between the Kuwaiti company, Petrochemical Industries, and Dow Chemical, that was to be the world's largest maker of polyethylene. 
 The collapse of the deal could complicate matters for Dow and its chief executive, Andrew N. Liveris. He had hoped to use the proceeds to finance the company's $15 billion acquisition of Rohm & Haas, a specialty chemicals company based in Philadelphia. Shares of Dow, which is based in Midland, Mich., and is the biggest maker of chemicals in the United States, have fallen 51 percent in 2008, and the company might find lenders reluctant to finance the Rohm & Haas deal in the current business environment. 
 Like its rivals BASF and DuPont, Dow has been sharply curtailing output in the face of the severe downturn. Prices for some products are falling by as much as 50 percent. Mr. Liveris said in November that he expected ''a pretty protracted global recession, probably going into 2010.''
 Dow Chemical said in a statement Sunday that it had been ''verbally informed'' of the Kuwaitis' decision and that Dow was ''extremely disappointed.'' It said it was evaluating its options. 
 The Kuwaiti cabinet said that as a result of the global economic upheaval and falling oil prices, there could be ''unpredictable consequences to any global firm'' and that the Dow deal would bring an unacceptably high risk. It called on the Kuwaiti government's Supreme Petroleum Council to ''take the necessary legal steps towards implementation of the cancellation without harming the interests of the state.''
 The K-Dow deal, which was to have an enterprise value of $17.4 billion, was announced late last year, but it was only four weeks ago that the two companies signed a final agreement for the alliance. Dow was to sell 50 percent of its plastics business assets to Petrochemical Industries for $9.5 billion and combine some other units. It would have been Kuwait's largest overseas deal. 
 A year ago, the main problem many oil producers faced was how to invest windfall profits as prices soared. But with oil prices now in a long skid and the global economy tanking, Kuwaiti lawmakers had become increasingly critical of the deal. Some lawmakers had threatened to embarrass the prime minister, a nephew of the Kuwaiti emir, with tough questioning in Parliament if the project went ahead over their objections, a move that could have led to a political crisis. 
 Oil prices topped out in July above $145 a barrel, but have since plummeted as the global economy slowed. Crude futures closed Friday in New York at $37.71 a barrel. 
 Petrochemical Industries, based in Safat, Kuwait, is a unit of the state-owned Kuwait Petroleum Corporation. Like other oil producers, Kuwait has been seeking to reduce its reliance on pumping oil out of the ground and add value to its exports by processing more petrochemicals at home. Maha Mulla Hussain, the Petrochemical Industries chairwoman, had argued that a deal with Dow would help to diversify the country's economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS (93%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); JOINT VENTURES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PETROCHEMICALS (90%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (75%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); PLASTICS (69%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); EXECUTIVES (54%); PERSONAL FINANCE (50%)

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (92%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); ROHM & HAAS CO (56%); SUPREME PETROLEUM COUNCIL (52%)

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (92%); DOW (NYSE) (92%); DOW (LSE) (92%); 4850 (TSE) (92%); ALMUDON (KUW) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (52%)

PERSON: ANDREW N LIVERIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) KUWAIT (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1037 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Fifty Herbert Hoovers

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
No modern American president would repeat the fiscal mistake of 1932, in which the federal government tried to balance its budget in the face of a severe recession. The Obama administration will put deficit concerns on hold while it fights the economic crisis.
 But even as Washington tries to rescue the economy, the nation will be reeling from the actions of 50 Herbert Hoovers -- state governors who are slashing spending in a time of recession, often at the expense both of their most vulnerable constituents and of the nation's economic future. 
 These state-level cutbacks range from small acts of cruelty to giant acts of panic -- from cuts in South Carolina's juvenile justice program, which will force young offenders out of group homes and into prison, to the decision by a committee that manages California state spending to halt all construction outlays for six months.
 Now, state governors aren't stupid (not all of them, anyway). They're cutting back because they have to -- because they're caught in a fiscal trap. But let's step back for a moment and contemplate just how crazy it is, from a national point of view, to be cutting public services and public investment right now.
 Think about it: is America -- not state governments, but the nation as a whole -- less able to afford help to troubled teens, medical care for families, or repairs to decaying roads and bridges than it was one or two years ago? Of course not. Our capacity hasn't been diminished; our workers haven't lost their skills; our technological know-how is intact. Why can't we keep doing good things?
 It's true that the economy is currently shrinking. But that's the result of a slump in private spending. It makes no sense to add to the problem by cutting public spending, too.
 In fact, the true cost of government programs, especially public investment, is much lower now than in more prosperous times. When the economy is booming, public investment competes with the private sector for scarce resources -- for skilled construction workers, for capital. But right now many of the workers employed on infrastructure projects would otherwise be unemployed, and the money borrowed to pay for these projects would otherwise sit idle.
 And shredding the social safety net at a moment when many more Americans need help isn't just cruel. It adds to the sense of insecurity that is one important factor driving the economy down.
 So why are we doing this to ourselves?
 The answer, of course, is that state and local government revenues are plunging along with the economy -- and unlike the federal government, lower-level governments can't borrow their way through the crisis. Partly that's because these governments, unlike the feds, are subject to balanced-budget rules. But even if they weren't, running temporary deficits would be difficult. Investors, driven by fear, are refusing to buy anything except federal debt, and those states that can borrow at all are being forced to pay punitive interest rates. 
 Are governors responsible for their own predicament? To some extent. Arnold Schwarzenegger, in particular, deserves some jeers. He became governor in the first place because voters were outraged over his predecessor's budget problems, but he did nothing to secure the state's fiscal future -- and he now faces a projected budget deficit bigger than the one that did in Gray Davis.
 But even the best-run states are in deep trouble. Anyway, we shouldn't punish our fellow citizens and our economy to spite a few local politicians. 
 What can be done? Ted Strickland, the governor of Ohio, is pushing for federal aid to the states on three fronts: help for the neediest, in the form of funding for food stamps and Medicaid; federal funding of state- and local-level infrastructure projects; and federal aid to education. That sounds right -- and if the numbers Mr. Strickland proposes are huge, so is the crisis.
 And once the crisis is behind us, we should rethink the way we pay for key public services. 
 As a nation, we don't believe that our fellow citizens should go without essential health care. Why, then, does a large share of funding for Medicaid come from state governments, which are forced to cut the program precisely when it's needed most? 
 An educated population is a national resource. Why, then, is basic education mainly paid for by local governments, which are forced to neglect the next generation every time the economy hits a rough patch?
 And why should investments in infrastructure, which will serve the nation for decades, be at the mercy of short-run fluctuations in local budgets?
 That's for later. The priority right now is to fight off the attack of the 50 Herbert Hoovers, and make sure that the fiscal problems of the states don't make the economic crisis even worse. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (90%); RECESSION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (76%); ADOLESCENTS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (73%); JUVENILE CRIME (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (67%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1038 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: A Year the News Eclipsed Commercial Breaks

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Queen Elizabeth II described 1992 as ''an annus horribilis'' for her and the royal family. This annus may have not been that horribilis for Madison Avenue, but it came pretty close.
 The biggest problem was that most advertising was overtaken by events as the year wore on. The best-laid marketing plans of mice and men -- or ''Mad Men'' with mice -- proved no match for a historic presidential race and an enormous financial crisis.
 That cut both ways for marketers: overshadowing the best ads, but also drawing attention away from the worst. So half the industry is ending the year cursing its poor timing while the other half is breathing a loud sigh of relief. 
 Here is a recap of some high and low points of 2008.
 BURGER KING After the success of the audacious ''Whopper Freakout'' campaign, which began in 2007, Burger King Holdings kept the heat on its rivals in the fast-food category, with mixed results. Stunts like selling Flame, a meat-scented body spray for men, were viral-marketing hits; the scent and its Web site (firemeetsdesire.com) made more news than if a vegan like Paul McCartney had turned up in a commercial dressed as the chain's King character.
 But a campaign called ''Whopper Virgins'' -- asking residents of places like Greenland and Romania to take part in taste tests, which pitted the Whopper against the Big Mac -- was off-putting; the premise came off like cultural imperialism. Agency for both: Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners. 
 COCA-COLA A Super Bowl commercial for the Coca-Cola Classic brand sold by the Coca-Cola Company was a warm and fuzzy winner in the spirit of Coke classics like ''Hilltop'' and ''Mean Joe Greene.'' Over the skies of Manhattan, two breakaway balloons from the Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade battle for a balloon bottle of Coke, only to lose to that lovable loser, Charlie Brown. Agency: Wieden & Kennedy.
 MICROSOFT After years of enduring a mocking campaign from Apple that turned the phrase ''I'm a PC'' into a punch line, the Microsoft Corporation struck back with ads that surprisingly appropriated the phrase and effectively repurposed it as a rallying cry.
 Teaser spots that preceded the Microsoft counterattack, featuring Bill Gates and Jerry Seinfeld as a talkative odd couple, were less successful. But they generated almost as much publicity as if the pair had plighted their troth as an actual couple. Agency: Crispin Porter & Bogusky.
 MOTRIN Print and online ads for Motrin pain reliever, sold by a division of Johnson & Johnson, foolishly tried to be funny by comparing babies carried by mothers to fashion accessories. J.& J. wound up wearing tons of Pablum tossed at it by parents offended that their efforts to bond with their babies were being trivialized.
 The complaints, many delivered in the form of angry ''tweets'' on Twitter, eventually seemed like overkill, but they killed the campaign. Agency: Taxi.
 BARACK OBAMAOne reason that so few people paid attention to advertising this year was a race for the White House filled with milestones, which ended with a precedent-setting president-to-be. One reason for that outcome was the deft use of media, new and traditional, by the Barack Obama campaign as well as by his supporters.
 An example of an official ad that broke through was a 30-minute infomercial that the campaign ran on seven broadcast and cable networks on Oct. 29. The commercial, filmed like a documentary, managed to be slick and earnest at the same time, and finished with a live flourish with Mr. Obama at a rally in Florida. Agencies: GMMB, part of the Omnicom Group, and Murphy Putnam Media.
 An example of an unofficial Obama ad that succeeded was a video clip, produced by the musician Will.i.am, called ''Yes We Can,'' which was viewed on YouTube and other video-sharing Web sites more than 20 million times.
 STOVE TOP Almost 50 years after Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon demonstrated that in Chicago, some like it hot, Kraft Foods turned on the heat there to promote its Stove Top brand of stuffing.
 Heated roofs were installed in 10 downtown bus shelters to bring to life the Stove Top promise of a warm feeling when eating a meal with stuffing as a side dish. The clever campaign was emblematic of what is known as experiential marketing, which has brought sounds and smells to bus shelters in addition to hot air. Agencies: Draft FCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies; JCDecaux North America, part of JCDecaux; and MediaVest, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe.
 TOYOTA A commercial to promote zero percent loans offered by Toyota Motor featured a version of a 1983 song, ''Saved by Zero,'' by the Fixx. The spot seemed innocuous enough, but incessant repetition got on America's nerves to the point that consumers were threatening to fix Toyota's wagon, station or otherwise.
 There were even groups formed on Facebook to urge Toyota to pull the commercial. Still, all the publicity may have been beneficial at a time when people were thinking more about bailing out carmakers than buying cars; a headline in The Daily News, over an article about the Federal Reserve Board's decision to slash interest rates, asked, ''Are We Saved by Zero?'' Agency: Saatchi & Saatchi, part of Publicis. 
 VOLKSWAGEN A tongue-in-cheek campaign for the Routan minivan sold by Volkswagen of America, part of the German automaker Volkswagen, sought to spoof the image of minivans as mom-mobiles. A celebrity mother, Brooke Shields, was featured as a scold who accuses expectant parents of wanting children just so they can experience the ''German engineering'' of the Routan.
 Like the campaign for Motrin, the Routan campaign seemed tone-deaf. Maybe Americans consider motherhood no laughing matter. Agency: Crispin Porter & Bogusky. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Long mocked by Apple, Microsoft bit back with ads that echoed the ''I'm a PC'' slam. (pg.B1)
 Coke's feel-good ad was the antidote for a feel-bad campaign from Burger King. A Volkswagen spot featured Brooke Shields, and Barack Obama appeared in an infomercial for -- you guessed it -- Barack Obama. (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); SPORTS MARKETING (77%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); MARKETING PLAN (72%); MEAT FREE DIETS (67%); THANKSGIVING (61%); PARADES & MARCHES (61%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (81%); MICROSOFT CORP (81%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (80%); BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (71%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (67%); MDC PARTNERS INC (53%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (81%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (81%); JNJ (NYSE) (80%); BKW (NYSE) (71%); MDZ.A (TSX) (53%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (80%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (71%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (71%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH II (74%); BARACK OBAMA (70%); BILL GATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1039 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: Unions Look For New Life In World Of Obama

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Unions are looking to Barack Obama and rising economic anxiety to reverse organized labor's long slide. 
 Through three decades of decline, union leaders have been predicting a renaissance that has not come. But labor invested more than $300 million to help elect Mr. Obama and enlarge the Democratic majority in Congress, and it expects both to enact legislation that will make it easier for millions of workers to unionize. 
 Skeptics say the outlook for labor is as bleak as ever. Business leaders and Congressional Republicans have vowed to block the new legislation, and Mr. Obama might want to avoid a bitter, divisive fight. What is more, corporate leaders say, a shrinking economic pie could work against union organizing as much as it could work in its favor. 
 ''What's happened with the United Auto Workers has undercut the whole argument that unions are a ticket to the middle class, that unions will lead you to a better life,'' said Randel Johnson, vice president for labor policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce. 
 As part of the $17.4 billion auto bailout package, President Bush forced the United Automobile Workers, once America's mightiest union, to accept a nearly 20 percent cut in hourly compensation. (The union says it will seek a better deal under President Obama.) The U.A.W. has shrunk to less than 500,000 members from 1.5 million in the late 1970s, as the proportion of American workers who belong to unions plunged to 12 percent from 24 percent. 
 ''A lot of people see that the unions drove the auto companies off the cliff,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''That clearly has undermined the argument that unions are a way to a secure and better future.''
 Charles B. Craver, a labor relations expert at George Washington University, said workers and unions across the country could learn a lesson from the auto workers and what he sees as their stubborn resistance to accept concessions to keep the carmakers competitive. 
 ''What's happened with the U.A.W. is their very success brought them to the brink of disaster,'' Professor Craver said, referring to union members' traditionally high wages and benefits. ''What I feel like saying to the auto workers is, 'Would you like no auto jobs and to work at Wal-Mart?' '' 
 ''It's Samuel Gompers who said a century ago that the enemy of the worker is an unprofitable employer,'' he added. ''Unions have to work to make the company successful, and employers have to recognize the contribution of the worker.''
 While union leaders' optimism has proved excessive in the past, they say their optimism is justified this time. They say Americans may have reached a turning point in their attitude to union organizing. In the view of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, John J. Sweeney, rising frustration over stagnating wages, declining health and retirement benefits, and soaring chief executive salaries has shifted the political landscape in labor's favor. 
 ''People are economically pressed and are looking for solutions and protections for themselves,'' Mr. Sweeney said. ''Working people know they need more power to counter corporate power, and they understand that unions can provide that counterbalance.'' 
 Andy Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union, agreed.
 ''Labor will have more influence now because the people we helped elect, the people America elected, were elected to help people who work after 25 years of a market-worshiping, trickle-down economy,'' he said. ''The discussion in America is no longer so much about national security or guns and gays. It's about something that unions are incredibly important to -- in the future, am I going to get a raise and will I get health coverage and a pension?''
 The possibility of enacting the Employee Free Choice Act, which would make it easier to unionize private-sector workers, is also crucial. Many labor leaders say the bill would help add millions of workers to union rolls. 
 Under the bill, employees could gain union recognition as soon as a majority signed cards saying they wanted a union. In a move that business and Republicans say would betray a basic American right, unions could bypass secret ballot elections.
 Corporate executives acknowledge that the bill will make it possible for unions to organize many workplaces, perhaps even banks, McDonald's and Wal-Marts, that have largely been impervious to union drives. 
 ''In a recession, workers are looking for stability and security, and that will cause a lot of them to turn to unions,'' said Stewart Acuff, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s organizing director.
 As proof, he pointed to several recent developments. At JetBlue, 1,800 pilots worried about their health and retirement benefits are scheduled to vote whether to unionize in January. After a 15-year effort to keep out a union, Smithfield Packing said this month that it would grant union recognition to 4,600 workers at its North Carolina pork-processing plant who just voted to unionize. Last month, the Pequot tribe granted union recognition to 2,600 dealers at the Foxwoods Resort Casino in Connecticut.
 Union leaders also note a Peter D. Hart poll, commissioned by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and conducted in December 2006, that found that 53 percent of the 808 nonunion, nonsupervisory workers surveyed said they would vote to unionize immediately if they could. 
 No one doubts that unions will survive in the public sector, where millions of teachers, firefighters and other public employees have unionized in recent decades. But labor's survival in the private sector is more problematic -- just one in 14 private-sector workers are in unions, down from two in five a half-century ago.
 Over all, union membership has fallen to 15.7 million from 21 million three decades ago, although last year union membership jumped by 311,000, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Some academics have called that a statistical fluke, but labor leaders say the increase was the result of their hard work in unionizing construction, health-care and government workers in a year when employment climbed to record levels.
 John Engler, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, sees unions continuing to decline in numbers and bargaining power. He said the very success of unions in improving wages and working conditions over the decades has generally made them unnecessary. 
 ''In the early part of the last century, workers had to deal with some horrific working conditions and work in an environment where there wasn't anything close to the safety net that we have today,'' said Mr. Engler, a former governor of Michigan. ''In the sophisticated workplaces of the 21st century, you see management and labor often working closely together to beat the competition. When they're doing that, the need for unions is obviated. And when management and unions are not working together, unions are not likely to succeed and not likely to survive.''
 Mr. Engler cited some companies -- Harley-Davidson, John Deere and Boeing -- where he said unions were likely to survive because, despite occasional battles, they have worked with management to keep companies competitive and profitable. Without naming names, he pointed to other companies -- most notably Detroit's automakers -- where the unions might not survive because they had demanded, and won, too much in wages and benefits, helping to make their employers uncompetitive.
 ''Unions are going to survive this downturn, but whether they survive as a significant social force depends,'' said Harley Shaiken, a labor economist at the University of California, Berkeley, who was on Mr. Obama's short list for labor secretary. One possibility, he said, was that the Obama administration could help unions by trying to salvage the so-called Detroit model, seeking ''to strengthen working families in a cold winter economically.''
 The Detroit model grew famous after the U.A.W. and General Motors negotiated landmark contracts in the late 1940s and 1950s that led to generous wages and benefits and companies sharing their increased profits and productivity with their workers.
 ''The Detroit model used to mean the middle class for working families,'' Professor Shaiken said. ''What the Detroit model means for the future is being hammered out between these hardest of times and the promise of the Obama administration.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Auto workers and John Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., far right, hope for better times when Barack Obama is president. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES
 ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (83%); AFL-CIO (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1040 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Cracks in U.S.-China Relations Are Widening Again in Crisis

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The global recession is re-exposing fissures in United States-China relations that Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. spent more than two years smoothing over.
 Mr. Paulson, 62, who visited China 70 times during his career on Wall Street, made improving ties a priority when he arrived at the Treasury in 2006. He advocated diplomacy instead of confrontation, establishing a twice-yearly ''strategic economic dialogue'' with officials in Beijing, aimed at cooling tensions and deterring Congress from taking up trade sanctions. 
 The approach produced some results, including a pledge to share data on food safety and agreement to allow foreign mutual funds to invest in China's stock market. The value of China's currency, the yuan, rose 21 percent versus the dollar from 2005 levels to redress what American officials saw as an unfair price advantage for Chinese products.
 But now, heightened tensions between China and the United States may worsen a contraction in world trade that already threatens to deepen and prolong the economic downturn. The friction comes as President-elect Barack Obama readies a two-year stimulus package worth as much as $850 billion that will require the United States to borrow more than ever from China, the largest buyer of Treasury securities.
 ''The American economic slump is running into the Chinese economic slump,'' says Derek Scissors, a research fellow at the Heritage Foundation, a research group based in Washington. ''It's creating the conditions for a face-off between Beijing and the U.S. Congress, possibly leading to destabilization of the world's most important bilateral economic relationship.''
 American businesses, unions and lawmakers are already gearing up to force Mr. Obama's hand. Unions and lawmakers plan to push measures to force China to raise the value of its currency.
 The head of the Senate Finance Committee, Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, plans legislation to raise tariffs on dumped imports from China and elsewhere. And new Democratic congressmen like Larry Kissell of North Carolina and Dan Maffei of New York have pledged actions to stop jobs from being shipped to China.
 China's exports declined in November for the first time in seven years, and economic growth may slow by more than half to as little as 5 percent in 2009, according to the Royal Bank of Scotland. That has prompted China's leaders to increase tax rebates on thousands of exported products; meanwhile, the yuan's steady rise against the dollar stalled in July, and the currency has barely budged since.
 American companies are preparing trade complaints that could lead to increased tariffs. Lawyers representing companies like Nucor, a large steel maker, NewPage, a maker of coated paper, and smaller textile and steel pipe makers say they are considering new trade complaints against China. Policies in both countries are shaped by the need to cope with steep falls in employment.
 More than 10 million migrant workers lost their jobs in China in the first 11 months of this year, Caijing Magazine reported, citing a Labor Ministry official.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); TAX LAW (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); TAX RELIEF (66%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (62%); IRON & STEEL PIPE & TUBE MFG (60%); FOOD SAFETY (55%); LAWYERS (50%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (54%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (62%); RBS (LSE) (62%); RBS (AMS) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%); DAN MAFFEI (79%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); LARRY KISSELL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1041 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: A Page From an Old Playbook

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex. 

 BODY:
Shortly after taking the helm of Hewlett-Packard in early 2005, Mark V. Hurd realized that, despite being one of the world's leading technology suppliers, H.P. had an embarrassing and crippling technology problem.
 There was no easy way for executives to get a picture of what was happening in the entire company.
 Each unit of the Palo Alto, Calif., computer giant had its own systems for tracking information about crucial areas like inventory, component costs and marketing expenditures. No central system pulled all the data together into what Mr. Hurd liked to call ''a single version of the truth.''
 Mr. Hurd developed his passion for that quest during a previous job running the Teradata division of NCR. Teradata pioneered a technology called data warehousing, which allows managers to get a coherent picture of a company's inventory, production, marketing and sales. NCR spun off the unit in October 2007. 
 With all of that information at their fingertips, employees can sift through and see once-hidden trends. Such technology helps companies like Wal-Mart Stores determine which shirt colors are preferred by people in Cincinnati, tells Best Buy what offers it should dangle in front of online shoppers in mid-March and suggests to Wynn Resorts which frequent gamblers should be coddled.
 To Mr. Hurd, who rode his success at Teradata into the chief executive's spot at NCR, data warehousing is a vital tool for making a business much more efficient. He had a few options for fixing H.P.'s information problem: buy Teradata's products, acquire Teradata outright or have H.P. build its own data warehousing technology. 
 Taking a large risk, he chose the third option, encouraging H.P. engineers to meld decades-old technology inherited from the Compaq Computer acquisition with H.P. data analysis software to create a product called NeoView. 
 Mr. Hurd declined to be interviewed about H.P.'s data management strategy. But Randy Mott, H.P.'s chief information officer, said: ''Mark made the assessment that he did not have the information he needed to run the company the way he needed to run it. So the assessment was that, as a company, we were going to have the technology needed to fix that.'' 
 After testing NeoView internally at H.P., Mr. Hurd decided to sell it to H.P.'s customers -- in effect, declaring war on his former employer. 
 H.P. has a tiny presence in the data warehousing business, which is dominated by Teradata, I.B.M., Oracle and Microsoft, with a number of smaller companies also getting in. In the last 18 months, H.P. has managed to sell only around 30 of its systems, according to Donald Feinberg, an analyst with the technology research company Gartner. 
 Some experts in the field say H.P.'s systems, built on expensive, older technology rather than cheap industry-standard components, are dated and too costly. NeoView setups can cost more than $10 million, placing H.P. at the wrong end of a technology that has been declining in price.
 But H.P. is hoping that its recent $13.9 billion purchase of Electronic Data Systems, the data services giant, will change the equation. The reach of E.D.S. could lift Hewlett-Packard's data warehouse consulting business. The company is telling corporate customers that its data warehouse technology, combined with an E.D.S. overhaul of their overall data processes, could save them a lot of money. 
 H.P. is also hinting that it intends to bring NeoView onto cheaper hardware and may rent space in its own data centers to customers instead of asking them to buy hardware. The rental model would complement something E.D.S. has specialized in for years: managing data centers for a large number of businesses.
 In the current difficult economy, H.P. argues, companies need its product more than ever. ''This is not a nice-to-have toy for some data analyst,'' said Mr. Mott, who works in Austin, where two of H.P.'s data centers are located. ''It matters more than anything else.''
 Indeed, the idea of using technology to achieve the legendary efficiencies of companies like Wal-Mart or Dell is alluring to many corporations. Bon-Ton Stores, a retailer that purchased H.P.'s technology, has about 1,000 of its 32,000 employees digging into a NeoView database. Bon-Ton gathers information from 13,000 cash registers and feeds it into the data warehouse. 
 ''We are using the tools to understand the most optimal use of every dollar we spend in the corporation,'' said Jim Lance, chief information officer at Bon-Ton. 
 H.P.'s push into the market comes as other technology companies are also recognizing the growing importance of data warehousing. Oracle and I.B.M. are revamping their relevant products, while a host of start-ups have cropped up offering cheaper, faster hardware aimed at specialized tasks. Analysts think SAP wants to increase its reach in the market, possibly through an acquisition. Microsoft also signaled its intent to take this technology to the masses by purchasing the start-up Datallegro in July.
 Teradata commends H.P. for presenting a relevant message at the relevant time. ''What Mark and Randy are doing is the right thing,'' said Stephen Brobst, chief technology officer at Teradata. 
 Mr. Brobst contends, however, that H.P.'s technology is too expensive and unproven. ''We have not seen them in a deal in probably six months,'' he said. 
 H.P.'s approach to data warehousing is based on database technology originally developed by Tandem Computers, which H.P. had acquired in the 2002 Compaq merger. The Tandem technology, called NonStop, occupies a lofty position in computing lore, running some of the most reliable computer systems ever made, including many at the world's financial exchanges. 
 But NonStop was untried for data warehousing applications when H.P. first decided to enter the business. To prove it would work, the company's own data centers became the guinea pigs. After working on the project for months, H.P. assembled a unified database that 30,000 employees could turn to for instant information about every aspect of the company's business.
 Now H.P. is using the experience of converting its own business as a selling point to other customers.
 But H.P.'s data warehouse strategy revolves as much around personalities as it does technology. Mr. Hurd poached Mr. Mott from Dell just a few months after he arrived at H.P. Mr. Mott has been heralded as the master of data warehouse technology, setting up Teradata-based systems at Wal-Mart and Dell as chief information officer at those companies. 
 And in November, H.P. chose a former Teradata executive, Kristina Robinson, to be the head of a new unit, Business Intelligence Solutions. Ms. Robinson joined H.P. in mid-2006 and had been a vice president in H.P.'s printing group. 
 It will be Ms. Robinson's task to sell this expensive technology in one of the most difficult economic periods in recent history, and develop the fledgling business. 
 To come from behind in this market, H.P. has turned to a hard-sell pitch that says customers can either model themselves after the revamped H.P. by adopting data warehousing or continue to be a mess. 
 ''It's the difference in my mind between winners and losers,'' Mr. Mott said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Randy Mott, now at H.P., gained a reputation as a leader in data management development at Dell. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIN TRIEB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 Mark V. Hurd, chief of H.P., saw the need for a data management system that would provide ''a single version of the truth.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DATA WAREHOUSING (90%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); TRENDS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (70%)

COMPANY: NCR CORP (94%); TERADATA CORP (90%); ORACLE CORP (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); WYNN RESORTS LTD (55%); WAL-MART STORES INC (55%)

TICKER: NCR (NYSE) (94%); TDC (NYSE) (90%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%); WYNN (NASDAQ) (55%); WMT (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (55%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (55%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%)

PERSON: MARK HURD (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1042 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Gaza Crisis Is Another Challenge for Obama, Who Defers to Bush for Now

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and HELENE COOPER; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting from Honolulu.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When President-elect Barack Obama went to Israel in July -- to the very town, in fact, whose repeated shelling culminated in this weekend's new fighting in Gaza -- he all but endorsed the punishing Israeli attacks now unfolding.
 ''If somebody was sending rockets into my house, where my two daughters sleep at night, I'm going to do everything in my power to stop that,'' he told reporters in Sderot, a small city on the edge of Gaza that has been hit repeatedly by rocket fire. ''And I would expect Israelis to do the same thing.'' 
 Now, Mr. Obama's presidency will begin facing the consequences of just such a counterattack, one of Israel's deadliest against Palestinians in decades, presenting him with yet another foreign crisis to deal with the moment he steps into the White House on Jan. 20, even as he and his advisers have struggled mightily to focus on the country's economic problems.
 Since his election, Mr. Obama has said little specific about his foreign policy -- in contrast to more expansive remarks about the economy. He and his advisers have deferred questions -- critics could say, ducked them -- by saying that until Jan. 20, only President Bush would speak for the nation as president and commander in chief. ''The fact is that there is only one president at a time,'' David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior adviser, told CBS's ''Face the Nation'' on Sunday, reiterating a phrase that has become a mantra of the transition. ''And that president now is George Bush.'' 
 Mr. Obama, vacationing in Hawaii, talked to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on Saturday. ''But the Bush administration has to speak for America now,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''And it wouldn't be appropriate for me to opine on these matters.'' As the fighting in Gaza shows, however, events in the world do not necessarily wait for Inauguration Day in the United States. 
 Even before the conflict flared again, India and Pakistan announced troop movements that have raised fears of a military confrontation following the terrorist attacks in Mumbai. North Korea scuttled a final agreement on verifying its nuclear dismantlement earlier this month, while Iran continues to stall the international effort to stop its nuclear programs. And there are still two American wars churning in Iraq and Afghanistan. All demand his immediate attention. 
 Mr. Obama's election has raised expectations, among allies and enemies alike, that new American policies are forthcoming, putting more pressure on him to signal more quickly what he intends to do. In the case of Israel and the Palestinians, Mr. Obama has not suggested he has any better ideas than President Bush had to resolve the existential conflict between the Israelis and Hamas, the Palestinian group that controls Gaza.
 ''What this does is present the incoming administration with the urgency of a crisis without the capacity to do much about it,'' said Aaron David Miller, a scholar at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington and author of ''The Much Too Promised Land,'' a history of the Israeli-Palestinian peace efforts. ''That's the worst outcome of what's happening right now.''
 The renewed fighting -- and the international condemnation of the scope of Israel's response -- has dashed already limited hopes for quick progress on the peace process that Mr. Bush began in Annapolis, Md., in November 2007. The omission of Hamas from any talks between the Israelis and President Mahmoud Abbas, who controls only the West Bank, had always been a landmine that risked blowing up a difficult and delicate peace process, but so have Israel's own internal political divisions.
 Mr. Obama might have little to gain from setting out an ambitious agenda for an issue as intractable as the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. But the conflict in Gaza, like the building tensions between India and Pakistan, suggests that he may have no choice. ''You can ignore it, you can put it on the back burner, but it will always come up to bite you,'' said Ghaith al-Omari, a former Palestinian peace negotiator.
 For Mr. Obama, the conundrum is particularly intense since he won election in part on promises of restoring America's image around the world. He will assume office with high expectations, particularly among Muslims around the world, that he will make an effort at dealing with the Arab-Israeli conflict.
 Early on as a candidate, Mr. Obama suggested that he did not necessarily oppose negotiations with groups like Hamas, though he spent much of the campaign retreating from that position under fire from critics.
 By the time he arrived in Israel in July, he suggested he would not even consider talks without a fundamental shift in Hamas and its behavior, effectively moving his policy much closer to President Bush's. ''In terms of negotiations with Hamas, it is very hard to negotiate with a group that is not representative of a nation-state, does not recognize your right to exist, has consistently used terror as a weapon, and is deeply influenced by other countries,'' he said then. 
 Mr. Obama received an intelligence briefing on Sunday and planned to talk late on Sunday to his nominee for secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, and his choice as national security adviser, James L. Jones, according to a spokeswoman, Brooke Anderson.
 One option would be for an Obama administration to respond much more harshly to Israel's policies, from settlements to strikes like those this weekend, as many in the Arab world and beyond have long urged. On Sunday, though, Mr. Axelrod said the president-elect stood by the remarks he made in the summer and, when asked, noted the ''special relationship'' between the United States and Israel. 
 Otherwise, Mr. Obama could try to pressure surrogates to lean on Hamas, including Egypt, which shares a border with Gaza. He can try to build international pressure on Hamas to stop the rocket attacks into Israel. He can try to nurture a peace between Israel and Mr. Abbas on the West Bank, hoping that somehow it spreads to Hamas. All have been tried, and all have failed to avoid new fighting.
 ''The reality is, what options do we have?'' Mr. Miller said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); MUMBAI TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (52%) HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (95%); INDIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008



1043 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: A Church That Held the Neighborhood's Heart

BYLINE: By PETER DUFFY

 BODY:
It's hard to find much evidence of the Italian-American atmosphere that was once dominant in the Ocean Hill-Brownsville section of Brooklyn. 
 Carlucci's Restaurant on Eastern Parkway is now the Zion Deliverance Temple, a Pentecostal storefront church. Ariola Bakery on Rockaway Avenue has become Wah-Sing Chinese Take-Out. A restaurant offering jerk chicken, oxtail, and curry goat stands in place of the former fruit-and-vegetable store on Herkimer Street. The wise guys who used to run numbers from the corner of Pacific Street and Eastern Parkway? Long gone. 
 ''It's so changed,'' said Susan Pascucci, 87, a native of the neighborhood who moved away in 1971 and was visiting with her daughter and son-in-law. ''I can't even place the way it used to be.'' 
 Only one significant landmark of the old Italian community still stands: Our Lady of Loreto Roman Catholic Church, at the corner of Sackman and Pacific Streets. Its cornerstone was laid in 1906 and work was completed two years later by the firm of Armezzani, Federici and Sons, of Paterson, N.J., according to a Catholic directory published in 1914. 
 But that doesn't tell the whole story. Local legend says that poor Italian immigrants, many of whom worked in the building trades, devoted nights and weekends to finishing the project. ''My great-grandfather, Rocco Pascucci, helped to build this church,'' said Ms. Pascucci's daughter, Barbara Anne Lepak, 57. 
 In recent years the parish has fallen on hard times. With the number of churchgoers dwindling to fewer than 20 on most Sundays, the Diocese of Brooklyn announced in August that it would shutter the church and merge the parish with Our Lady of Presentation, in Bedford-Stuyvesant. Now a plan is moving forward to raze the church -- along with an unused convent and rectory -- to make room for 88 units of housing for low-income residents of the struggling neighborhood. (The parish school has already been demolished.) 
 The Progress of Peoples Development Corporation, an affiliate of Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens, is completing the project with financing from the New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, according to the Rev. Kieran Harrington, a spokesman for the Diocese of Brooklyn. 
 ''The church felt that the real need in that community is affordable housing,'' he said.
 Construction of the housing, which will include 11 four-story buildings, is expected to begin in late 2009 with opening slated for 2011, Father Harrington said. 
 A few months ago, word began to spread among Italian-American natives of the Our Lady of Loreto parish that a beacon from their past was being threatened. Donny Mondelli of Virginia Beach, Va., who maintains a Web site that serves as a clearinghouse for former residents of the parish, urged a letter-writing campaign to stop the project.
 ''We bombarded them,'' said Mr. Mondelli, 52, who grew up across the street from the church.
 Strategy sessions have been held at Aldo's II, a restaurant in Ozone Park, Queens, where many former parishioners now live. Ms. Lepak, who lives in Medford, Long Island, filed an application with the city in September to have the church building declared a landmark. 
 Mary Beth Betts, the research director of the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission, told Ms. Lepak that landmark status of the church building's exterior was under review. An online petition to save the building has, so far, gathered more than 370 supporters. 
 ''It's the last thing we have left that we can hold onto and pass on to our grandchildren,'' said Mr. Mondelli.
 Mr. Mondelli's Web site is full of stories about people like the Rev. Anthony Barretta, who was so tough that recalcitrant teens would rather tangle with the police than with him, and Ruby Oshinsky, who used to sell knishes in front of the church after Mass. In these tales, the nuns are always strict, the celebrations are always festive and the pews are always packed. 
 ''We had very good people in the neighborhood,'' said Mary Chiarello, who now lives in Howard Beach, Queens. ''We had our hoodlums like everybody did, but other than that, it was a very good atmosphere.'' 
 By the early 1970s, with the neighborhood increasingly filled with Hispanics and African-Americans, most of the Italian-Americans had moved to Queens or Long Island, or beyond, part of the so-called white flight from urban communities. Some maintained ties with the church, returning for baptisms, weddings, or funerals, contributing to the parish fund and assisting with needed repair work. 
 Only a small number, including Anthony Corrozo of Ozone Park, returned for regular Sunday services. ''There were only a few older ladies who stayed in the neighborhood,'' said Mr. Corrozo, 60.
 Still, the former residents believe that those who built and supported the church for decades should have a say in its future. They argue that their supporters would be willing to hold fund-raisers to pay for church expenses, noting that about 800 former Loreto parishioners are expected to attend a reunion on March 22 at the El Caribe Country Club in Mill Basin, Brooklyn. ''Churches are centuries old in Italy,'' said Ms. Lepak. ''I guess in this country we don't feel the same way.'' 
 While acknowledging that Our Lady of Loreto has ''real emotional significance,'' Father Harrington said that the diocese's priority was not to spend large sums to maintain an underused building but to care for the pressing concerns of the poor. ''The subsidy would just be extraordinary for 15 or 20 people'' who attend services there, he said.
 Theresa Harrison, 80, one of the few Italian-Americans to remain in the neighborhood, said she felt terrible about the impending demolition. ''To me, it's a sentimental thing,'' she said. Ms. Harrison, whose maiden name was Pennine, still lives in the home where she was born on Jardine Place. ''I was baptized there. First communion. Confirmation. I was married there.'' 
 Still, she has a new church, Our Lady of Presentation, where she attends the 9 a.m. Mass each Sunday. ''I walk 14 blocks to go there,'' she said. ''Thank God my legs are still good.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barbara Anne Lepak, center, with her mother, Susan Pascucci, left, and her daughter, Laura Andrews, are trying to save Our Lady of Loreto from demolition.
 A detail from the exterior. Legend has it that Italian immigrants in the neighborhood helped build the church in their free hours. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (86%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (86%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (76%); RETAILERS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); PUBLIC HOUSING (65%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); CHARITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008



1044 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: The Big Networks Still Deliver a Mass Audience

BYLINE: By JOHN CONSOLI

 BODY:
WHILE newspapers, magazines, radio and local television are all losing advertisers in the recessionary economy, the broadcast networks continue to be an anomaly, with advertisers putting their marketing dollars into national television at levels reminiscent of prosperous economic times.
 ''The shoe hasn't dropped yet,'' said Kris Magel, senior vice president and director for national broadcast at Initiative, a media buying agency. The troubled economy ''hasn't hit national television yet,'' he said.
 It's not because the four major broadcast networks are delivering more prime-time viewers to advertisers than they did last season; they are not. Cumulatively, they are down 10 percent in actual live viewers, with ABC, NBC and Fox all drawing around a million viewers less each night than they did last season. CBS is the one network that has improved from last season; the network is up 1 percent in viewership.
 Among the 18-to-49-year-old audience sought by advertisers, there are also declines. Both ABC and Fox are down 14 percent, while NBC is down 9 percent and CBS is down 3 percent. 
 So why are advertisers still putting their money into broadcast television? Network sales presidents and executives at various media agencies, who do the ad buying for the major advertisers, said that despite the continued fragmentation of national television viewing, the power of the broadcast networks to reach mass audiences on a nightly basis continued to give them an edge over other media.
 ''When the economy goes into a recession, marketers are looking at ad platforms that generate the most efficiency, and that is national television,'' said Rino Scanzoni, chief investment officer for the media agency conglomerate Group M, where he oversees broadcast TV ad spending of close to $3 billion for media agencies Mediaedge:cia, Mindshare and MediaCom. ''When ad budgets are strapped, advertisers turn to the tried and true, and national TV has proven that it works in helping them move product in good and bad economic times.''
 Mr. Magel of Initiative said, ''Broadcast television may be losing ratings, but there is no other medium that has been able to supplant it in a big enough way to negatively impact it at this point.''
 Still, as a result of the ratings declines, the broadcast networks have had to give advertisers make-goods -- free ads -- to make up for failing to deliver the ratings they guaranteed when they sold their ad time to advertisers last May in what is known as the upfront buying period.
 The upfront process, unique to the broadcast and cable networks, is another reason advertisers have remained loyal to the TV networks during economic downturns. In the upfront period, advertisers commit a certain amount of advertising dollars to each network for the coming season. And in exchange for those commitments, the networks offer ratings guarantees; if they are not met, the networks must make good on those shortfalls by giving advertisers free ad time.
 With three of the four major broadcast networks showing significant ratings declines since the start of the TV season in late September, they have been doling out make-goods, particularly in the month of December. That means they are giving back ad time that they cannot sell in what as known as the scatter ad market. Only CBS is doing well enough in prime time that it has not yet had to give out make-goods, so it has been able to sell more of its remaining ad inventory.
 ''We have zero make-goods,'' said Leslie Moonves, president and chief executive of the CBS Corporation, of his broadcast network's prime-time performance. ''Demand is not what we would like it to be. And scatter pricing is basically flat with what the upfront pricing was.'' Last year at this time, it was as much as 40 percent higher. 
 But Mr. Moonves said that not having had to give make-goods so far this season has put CBS in a better position than the other networks to sell more ad inventory now and in 2009, if advertisers remain interested.
 While they are short of available inventory to sell because of make-goods, both ABC and Fox said that heading into the first quarter of 2009, each would be scheduling programming that would raise their ratings and enable them to sell more advertising in the scatter market.
 Fox will have its annual ratings juggernaut ''American Idol,'' while ABC has five new scripted prime-time shows it will introduce from January to March.
 ''We're maintaining our business and have not been faced with any type of major cancellations,'' said Jon Nesvig, sales president for Fox Broadcasting. ''First-quarter upfront retention was over 95 percent, and we're selling scatter for first quarter at upfront pricing or slightly better. We have not renegotiated any deals. Everybody has many concerns going forward, but we're hoping for the best.''
 Production on new shows for this season was limited because of the writers' strike last fall, and as a result, ABC had only one new show in the fall. Because of that, Mike Shaw, president of sales at ABC, said he expected that ratings would be challenged, and that ABC tried to reflect that situation in how it sold in the upfront period. 
 ''Right now our scatter pricing is better than what we sold in the upfront, in all day parts,'' Mr. Shaw said. ''Cancellations by advertisers are at normal levels. And with most of our new programming not coming till the first quarter, our report card really can't be written until March.''
 NBC, which has no new shows that have made any sort of impact with advertisers, said it was still keeping its head above water. 
 ''As expected in this climate, we're compensating our advertisers with make-goods,'' said Mike Pilot, president of sales and marketing at NBC Universal. ''At the same time we're still doing business, although at a slower pace. Our clients continue to recognize the value of broadcast television, they're just spending their money closer to air dates.''
 Mr. Magel of Initiative said, ''Broadcast television may be losing ratings, but there is no other medium that has been able to supplant it in a big enough way to negatively impact it at this point.''
 Most media buyers, who did not want to make any predictions for attribution, said that the broadcast networks might make it through this season, which ends in late May, without any major advertiser defections. The impact of the economy on the broadcast networks could be felt in this May's upfront buying period, when advertisers buy for the 2009-10 TV season, but for now the relationship between national advertisers and the broadcast networks is like any traditional TV season.
 ''We're all waiting for the broadcast TV marketplace to slow down,'' said Mr. Magel. ''We all believe at some point it will. But right now the money keeps flowing -- it's perplexing, but it's reality.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''American Idol'' is an annual ratings juggernaut for Fox. ''We're maintaining our business'' said Jon Nesvig of Fox Broadcasting.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL BECKER/FOX)
 Leslie Moonves, chief executive of CBS, which is up 1 percent in viewership. Major TV networks still draw advertisers' dollars.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN PAUL FILO/CBS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%)

PERSON: LESLIE MOONVES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008



1045 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE EVIDENCE GAP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1484 words

HEADLINE: Patient's DNA May Be Signal To Tailor Drugs

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
For more than two years, Jody Uslan had been taking the drug tamoxifen in hopes of preventing a recurrence of breast cancer. Then a new test suggested that because of her genetic makeup, the drug was not doing her any good.
''I was devastated,'' said Ms. Uslan, 52, who stopped taking tamoxifen and is now evaluating alternative treatments. ''You find out you've been taking this medication for all of this time, and find out you are not getting benefit.''
Ms. Uslan's situation is all too common -- and not just among the hundreds of thousands of women in this country taking tamoxifen.
Experts say that most drugs, whatever the disease, work for only about half the people who take them. Not only is much of the nation's approximately $300 billion annual drug spending wasted, but countless patients are being exposed unnecessarily to side effects. 
No wonder so much hope is riding on the promise of ''personalized medicine,'' in which genetic screening and other tests give doctors more evidence for tailoring treatments to patients, potentially improving care and saving money.
Many policy experts are calling for more studies to compare the effectiveness of different treatments. One drawback is that such studies tend to be ''one size fits all,'' with the winning treatment recommended for everybody. Personalized medicine would go beyond that by determining which drug is best for which patient, rather than continuing to treat everyone the same in hopes of benefiting the fortunate few.
The colon cancer drugs Erbitux and Vectibix, for instance, do not work for the 40 percent of patients whose tumors have a particular genetic mutation. The Food and Drug Administration held a meeting this month to discuss whether patients should be tested to narrow use of the drugs, which cost $8,000 to $10,000 a month.
And a genetic test might help doctors determine the optimal dose of warfarin, a blood thinner used by millions of Americans. Tens of thousands of them are hospitalized each year because of internal bleeding from an overdose or a blood clot from an inadequate dose.
''If you save one hospitalization for every 100 new warfarin users, you more than offset the cost of testing all 100,'' said Dr. Robert S. Epstein, the chief medical officer of Medco Health Solutions, which manages prescription plans for employers. The test typically costs $100 to $600.
For all the potential, experts see some formidable obstacles on the path to the promised land of personalized medicine.
''It's going to take 20 to 30 years for all this to fall into place,'' said Dr. Gregory Downing, who heads efforts by the Department of Health and Human Services to spur personalized health care.
The hurdles include drug makers, which can be reluctant to develop or encourage tests that may limit the use of their drugs. Insurers may not pay for tests, which can cost up to a few thousand dollars. For makers of the tests, which hope their business becomes one of health care's next big growth industries, a major obstacle is proving that their products are accurate and useful. While drugs must prove themselves in clinical trials before they can be sold, there is no generally recognized process for evaluating genetic tests, many of which can be marketed by laboratories without F.D.A. approval.
Genentech, a developer of cancer drugs, petitioned the F.D.A. this month to regulate such tests. It warned of ''safety risks for patients, as more treatment decisions are based in whole or in part on the claims made by such test makers.''
A cautionary case is Herceptin, a Genentech breast cancer drug that is considered the archetype of personalized medicine because it works only for women whose tumors have a particular genetic characteristic. But now, 10 years after Herceptin reached the market, scientists are finding that the various tests -- some approved by the F.D.A., some not -- can be inaccurate.
Moreover, doctors do not always conduct the tests or follow the results. The big insurer UnitedHealthcare found in 2005 that 8 percent of the women getting the drug had tested negative for the required genetic characteristic. An additional 4 percent had not been tested at all, or their test results could not be found.
Tamoxifen, the drug Ms. Uslan took, illustrates the promise and current limitations of genetic testing. In 2003, more than 25 years after tamoxifen was introduced, researchers led by Dr. David A. Flockhart at Indiana University School of Medicine figured out that the body coverts tamoxifen into another substance called endoxifen. It is endoxifen that actually exerts the cancer-fighting effect. The conversion is done by an enzyme in the body called CYP2D6, or 2D6 for short.
But variations in people's 2D6 genes mean the enzymes have different levels of activity. Up to 7 percent of people, depending on their ethnic group, have an inactive enzyme, Dr. Flockhart said, while another 20 to 40 percent have an only modestly active enzyme.
The implications were ''scary,'' Dr. Flockhart said. Many women were apparently not being protected against cancer's return because they could not convert tamoxifen to endoxifen.
The economic implications could be just as scary to big pharmaceutical companies.
Tamoxifen, now a generic drug, costs as little as $500 for the typical five-year treatment. But most patients in the United States are currently treated with a newer, much more expensive class of drugs, called aromatase inhibitors, that cost about $18,000 over five years. Those drugs -- made by AstraZeneca, Novartis and Pfizer -- performed better than tamoxifen in clinical trials before the role of 2D6 was generally understood.
If only women with active 2D6 had been assessed, tamoxifen might have worked as well or better than the newer drugs, according to researchers at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston.
But proving these suppositions and having them incorporated into medical practice have not been easy.
The F.D.A., in its meeting this month, said clinical trials were the ideal way to validate a test. But many test developers argue that trials would be too costly and time-consuming, so many tests are validated by reanalyzing patient data from old trials.
In the case of tamoxifen, Dr. Matthew P. Goetz of the Mayo Clinic and colleagues went back to an old trial and used stored tumor samples to test the 2D6 genes of each patient. The researchers reported in 2005 that 32 percent of the women with inactive 2D6 enzyme had relapsed or died within two years, in contrast to only 2 percent of the other women.
But while some subsequent studies have backed those conclusions, two had contradictory results. That leaves many experts hesitant to use the test, which costs about $300.
There are other complications. Dozens of variants of the 2D6 gene exist, and laboratories can differ in their interpretation of test results. And it is not always clear how to act upon the information the test provides.
Ms. Uslan, who lives in the Woodland Hills neighborhood of Los Angeles, is in a predicament since she stopped taking tamoxifen. The newer alternative, aromatase inhibitors, work only for postmenopausal women and she has not yet completed menopause. To take an aromatase inhibitor, she must have her ovaries removed or take a drug to induce menopause. Because both options are unattractive, many experts say there is no point testing premenopausal women for 2D6.
Such complexities are not confined to tamoxifen testing. The labels of about 200 drugs now contain some information relating genes to drug response, said Lawrence J. Lesko, the F.D.A.'s head of clinical pharmacology. But in many cases, he said, doctors are not told specifically enough what to do with the test results, such as how much to change the dose.
Despite all the obstacles, personalized medicine is coming. Even the drug companies, which have been worried that testing would reduce their sales, are starting to realize that their medicines might not be approved or paid for without better evidence that they work.
Last year, for instance, European regulators said Amgen's colon cancer drug Vectibix did not provide enough benefit to patients to be approved.
So Amgen reanalyzed the data from its clinical trial. After the results showed Vectibix worked better in patients whose tumors did not have a mutation in a gene called KRAS, the drug was approved for those patients only.
As for tamoxifen, an F.D.A. advisory panel recommended two years ago that the 2D6 test be mentioned in the drug's label. But the agency itself was not persuaded there was enough evidence until just recently, Dr. Lesko said. ''There's no 'one size fits all' for evidence that everybody buys into.''
The Evidence Gap: Articles in this series are exploring medical treatments used despite scant proof that they work and are examining steps toward medicine based on evidence. Additional articles in the series can be found at nytimes .com/evidencegap.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. David Flockhart discovered how the body converted the medication tamoxifen.(PHOTOGRAPH BY A. J. MAST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16) CHART: Pairing Drugs and Genes: Genetic screening can help determine which patients are best suited to certain drugs. Here is a sampling of drugs for which genetic markers can help identify the suitable patients. Screening tests range in price from a few hundred dollars for tests for drugs like the breast cancer medicine Tamoxifen or the painkiller Celebrex to $3,800 for a test to guide breast cancer chemotherapy. Because experts do not always agree on whether the genetic links are conclusive or whether the screening tests are reliable, the Food and Drug Administration does not always require that drug labels mention such testing.(Sources: F.D.A., various researchers)(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (90%); DNA (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); CANCER DRUGS (90%); PERSONALIZED MEDICINE (90%); BREAST CANCER (90%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (90%); PHARMACOGENOMICS (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (89%); ANTICOAGULANTS (89%); GENETIC SCREENING (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (78%); COLORECTAL CANCER (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (78%); BLOOD DISORDERS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); GENETIC DISEASE FACTORS (77%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (51%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (51%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



1046 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: After 4 Years, Switzerland Frees Man Suspected of Smuggling Nuclear Technology

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
Swiss authorities have released from jail a man suspected of smuggling atomic technology to Libya and Iran as part of the nuclear black market of Abdul Qadeer Khan, officials and family members said Monday. 
 The suspect, Urs Tinner, was freed Dec. 22 after more than four years in investigative detention, Swiss officials said. They added that his brother Marco remained in jail because of worries that he still had access to nuclear-weapons secrets.
 The developments were a new phase in Switzerland's long efforts to prosecute the family of Swiss engineers, including the Tinner patriarch, Friedrich. All three are suspected of criminal export violations. The father was released from jail in 2006 pending legal action.
 The Tinners are suspected of having worked for Dr. Khan, the Pakistani bomb pioneer who sold illegal materials to Libya, Iran and North Korea before Western nations disrupted his operations in 2003.
 International arms inspectors and Western officials have long worried that blueprints for nuclear arms found on the Tinners' computers may have been sold to clients of the smuggling ring, or copied and hidden for later sale.
 In May, the president of Switzerland confirmed that the government had destroyed a trove of computer files and other material documenting the family's business dealings. He said that the action was taken to keep plans for nuclear arms and technologies from ever falling into terrorist hands.
 But in interviews last summer with The New York Times, American officials said they had urged the destruction less to thwart terrorists than to hide evidence of a secret relationship between the Tinners and the C.I.A. They said that the family provided a unique lens on the secret activities of Libya, Iran and Dr. Khan.
 Last month, a lawyer for Urs Tinner filed a complaint with the European Court of Human Rights arguing that the long pretrial detention and the destruction of the files had breached his client's rights. He described the incarceration as ''worthy of Guantanamo.''
 In Bern, Andreas Muller, the examining magistrate in the Tinner case who is assessing if a trial is warranted, decided Dec. 19 that Urs and Marco Tinner should go free, officials said. Mr. Muller has said that the destruction of the Tinner files complicated the case's prosecution.
 In an e-mail message, Mr. Muller said that Switzerland had not dropped possible charges of export violations against the two men, but that the ''time served in pretrial custody became unproportional'' to the potential punishment.
 If the Tinners are formally charged and their case goes to trial in Switzerland, they face up to 10 years in prison if found guilty of breaking laws on the export of sensitive goods. Time in pretrial detention would count toward any possible sentence.
 On Dec. 21, the Swiss attorney general intervened and asked for Marco Tinner to be kept in jail because of concerns that he still had information on how to make nuclear arms, officials said. 
 A family member, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that Marco Tinner's fate as a prisoner was still unclear but that the family might learn of developments in a few days. The whole episode, the relative added, ''has been very, very painful for a lot of people.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMUGGLING (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FAMILY (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PRISONS (78%); MAGISTRATES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); MEN (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); EVIDENCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (75%); EXPORT CONTROLS (75%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); TERRORISM (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (72%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERN, SWITZERLAND (74%) SWITZERLAND (98%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008



1047 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Riddle

 BODY:
A working-class corner of Long Island is staring at a riddle posed by hard economic times and wondering what to do. 
 Huntington Station is a microcosm of America in the age of suburban immigration. Shops sell pizzas and pupusas in a business district that has been revitalized by Latino entrepreneurs but has a long way to go. Stately Victorians loom among tidy townhouses and shabby rentals. Not far from a platform where bankers board the train to Manhattan, immigrant men sleep in the woods. In the middle of it all, on Depot Road, are day laborers, 100 or more, in rain, shine or snow. 
 When home renovation and landscaping were booming, day laborers made the good times possible. They were a cheap, convenient way to get hard work done and were treated with tolerance. A hiring site was set up on Depot Road so they could wait in shelter and safety. Now that the local economy has flat-lined, their lives are far harder. A hundred men will gather on a typical weekday. Maybe three will find work. 
 The Town of Huntington is grappling again with old complaints about groups of men standing around. Last summer, in a regrettable turn, the town passed an ordinance forbidding anyone from looking for work on public property. Now it is considering phasing out its financing for the hiring site. 
 The town supervisor, Frank Petrone, has supported the site since it opened a decade ago, calling it a pragmatic answer to a problem of traffic management. He wonders whether it is wise to keep spending money on a hiring site where hardly anybody gets hired. 
 Peggy Boyd, who works for the Family Service League, a nonprofit organization that runs the site with financing from the town and two private foundations, is acutely aware of the conundrum. She and her colleagues have kept the place going, getting to know 90 to 100 of the men who gather there to find not just jobs, but also food, warm clothing and English lessons.
 She understands that money is tight. But she also knows that it will take a financial meltdown far harsher than any we have seen to make the laborers disappear. 
 Mr. Petrone deserves credit for resisting -- so far -- the simple solution, which is to pull the plug and to chase the laborers into the shadows. That would defy common sense and the Constitution. The town should commit itself to keep some services going, and thus keep homelessness, vagrancy, sickness and blight at bay until the good times return.
 And until then, the Suffolk County executive, Steve Levy, could also step in, with funds and leadership, to show the rest of Long Island how a community helps all its members, in good times and bad.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); MEN (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (72%); ORDINANCES (72%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (71%); BUILDING RENOVATION (71%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); COUNTIES (68%); FOUNDATIONS (63%); HOMELESSNESS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008



1048 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: As the U.S. Buys Less, Germany Suffers

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: MUNICH 

 BODY:
When American consumers stop buying, companies around the world suffer -- even those that do little business in the United States.
 Take Hawe Hydraulics, which makes valves and conduits here in southern Germany. Its sales have boomed in recent years, driven largely by demand from China and the rest of Asia. But in the last few months, new orders have virtually dried up, almost overnight.
 Only 5 percent of Hawe's products are sold directly to the United States, but sales dropped suddenly as American companies stopped importing products from China that used its components.
 ''It used to be that it took years,'' said Karl Haeusgen, Hawe's chief executive, who propelled the company's global expansion. ''But now the global link works very quickly.'' 
 The United States, with its credit-driven economy, has long ensured that others, notably China, Germany and Japan, have been able to pile up trade surpluses. That dynamic has shifted, with Americans paring purchases at a ferocious rate.
 ''As the American consumer now capitulates, the export bubble is the next to go,'' the chairman of Morgan Stanley in Asia, Stephen Roach, said. ''Export-led economies around the world are in for a very tough rebalancing.''
 In Germany, the world's largest merchandise exporter since 2003, sales to other countries drove growth for the last five years. But in the third quarter, the slump in exports helped push Germany into recession.
 Virtually all economists expect 2009 to be a lost year for Germany, which will pay a heavy price for the downturn. The retrenchment bears out what Mr. Haeusgen is seeing, that there is a strong correlation between the Chinese prosperity that rested in part on American profligacy, and German sales to China and elsewhere. Germany's industrial exports feed a Chinese economy that itself is fed by American demand for goods.
 Jacques Cailloux, chief Europe economist at Royal Bank of Scotland in London, has established a strong correlation between Chinese exports to the United States and German exports to China. The American trade deficit in 2007 was $708.5 billion; Germany's $288.5 billion surplus and China's $262.2 billion excess represent much of the other side of that equation.
 Already, overall manufacturing orders in Germany have dropped significantly. In September, they fell by the largest monthly amount since 1990, when the economy of East Germany was disintegrating. October was nearly as bad. 
 Hawe, founded by Mr. Haeusgen's grandfather after World War II, belongs to the group of German companies known as the Mittelstand -- medium-size businesses, almost always family-owned. Their products are as ubiquitous as they are invisible to consumers.
 With metal shavings littering parts of its shop floor and employees grinding blocks of steel by hand and manually assembling components, Hawe looks like the sort of company that modern economics textbooks suggest would better exist in places with low labor costs.
 In fact, skilled Hawe employees are able to mill crucial parts of its hydraulic systems to tolerances of one micron. Hawe has not been able to find any machine -- to say nothing of an ill-paid worker -- that can manage the feat. It manufactures solely at sites in and around Munich, the capital of Bavaria.
 But for all its success, Hawe is by no means immune to the global economic sickness.
 Hawe generated revenue of 238 million euros last year, capping five years of growth. But sales are now flat and it is bracing for a slight dip in 2009.
 The rapid slowdown in global growth over the last three months means Hawe's traditional Christmas break has been extended, to varying degrees depending on the product. Several hundred temporary workers have been let go. Other idled employees are drawing full paychecks by tapping accounts in which they stored overtime hours during the fat years.
 ''A year ago, this would have been full of employees,'' Michael Knobloch, Hawe's director of marketing, said as he stood between dormant sorters. ''Every machine would have been running.''
 With machines at Hawe and so many other plants silent, other economic activity in Germany has fallen off.
 Deutsche Bahn, the railway operator, has rented space at ports to store train cars this winter for lack of freight. It expects shipments to drop about 40 percent in December over the period a year ago. Specialized manufacturers like Hawe are part of that, but so are iconic automakers like BMW, Daimler, Porsche and Volkswagen, which all extended holiday shutdowns.
 Deutsche Post, the German logistics giant that owns DHL, has been hit by a 15 to 20 percent drop in its freight forwarding business. It is trying to corral new business by cutting rates, just as many of its competitors are.
 ''We are trying to gain market share,'' said Hermann Ude, who runs the freight business. ''That doesn't necessarily mean you gain volume.''
 Recognizing that they must sell more at home to compensate for the drop in overseas sales, many export-driven countries have embraced domestic stimulus programs aimed at halting the slide.
 Last week, Japan announced a $250 stimulus program, while China is planning a $586 billion investment over two years in infrastructure and other projects. The Obama administration is talking about spending at least $500 billion and perhaps as much as $1 trillion over two years in a bid to revitalize the rapidly contracting United States economy.
 Not so Germany.
 The bitterest political dust-up in recent memory has erupted in Europe over Germany's unwillingness to pump larger amounts of cash into its economy. Content, at least so far, with one modest package and another on the way, German officials are wary of spending programs that would bust a nearly balanced budget.
 The country's economy minister, Michael Glos, fought for more stimulus to spur Germany's traditionally weak domestic demand but lost to the finance minister, Peer Steinbruck. That prompted Mr. Glos to say laconically that maybe other countries' packages ''will help our export economy.''
 This perspective resonates at companies like Hawe.
 ''My fear is that the Chinese are reacting more strongly, in a psychological sense, than other countries,'' Mr. Haeusgen said. ''Our hope is that someone decides to turn on the lights again in the next few months.''
 Indeed, German companies, not expecting growth at home, are using the current crisis to reassess how to tap the most lucrative export business. Hawe product designers, executives said, are using the lull to ramp up their efforts; their floor of the Munich headquarters throbs with energy.
 A new pattern of trade may ultimately emerge. In place of American consumers, Germany companies say, they look forward to Chinese customers saving less and spending more as Beijing encourages domestic-led growth.
 ''I could imagine that a future boom comes from the countries that have big savings, particularly in Asia,'' Mr. Ude of Deutsche Post said. ''We shouldn't lose sight of that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: New orders have slowed at Hawe Hydraulics in Munich.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CLIFF SERNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
Hawe Hydraulics, a manufacturer in Munich, had five years of growth through 2007, but it has laid off temporary workers and expects sales to fall next year.
 Hawe, which makes valves, has extended its holiday break to cope with the economic slowdown.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLIFF SERNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RETAIL SALES (77%); NEW ORDERS (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); RECESSION (74%); EXPORT PRICES (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (64%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (64%); RBS (LSE) (64%); RBS (AMS) (64%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (98%); CHINA (95%); ASIA (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008



1049 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Mexico's Fiscal Prudence Fails to Avert a Slowdown

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
Twice in the last three decades, Mexico has demonstrated that one country's profligacy and mismanagement can spell economic catastrophe beyond its borders. 
 In 1982, the country defaulted on its foreign debt and set off a Latin American debt crisis that led to a decade of anemic growth across the region. In 1994, the peso collapsed and halted capital flows to emerging markets around the world, until the Clinton administration arranged a $50 billion Mexican bailout. 
 But this recession, it is the profligate United States pulling down fiscally disciplined Mexico. 
 Like a host of middle-class countries, from South Africa to Brazil, Mexico is credited by economists with prudent economic policies that reduced debt and tamed inflation, but that has not saved any of them from the pain of a global recession. Billions of dollars have been pulled from emerging markets as investors seek the safest haven, which is still considered to be United States Treasury bills. 
 When the American economy began to spiral downward, officials here argued that Mexico's hard-won macroeconomic stability would protect it.
 Now, as each week brings more bad news from the United States, those forecasts seem quaintly optimistic. The North American Free Trade Agreement, or Nafta, which so tightly bound Mexico and the United States and turns 15 on Thursday, is helping drag Mexico down with the United States just as it helped bolster it when times were good north of the border.
 When the American economy was growing, successive governments here counted on foreign investment and exports to generate growth. Exports account for almost a third of Mexico's gross domestic product. But more than 80 percent of them go to the United States, and when American consumers stop buying, there is no market for Mexican-made big-screen televisions, auto parts or expensive winter fruit. 
 ''In the face of the most serious contraction in decades, it is hard to imagine that Mexico will avoid recession too,'' said Gray Newman, Latin American economist for Morgan Stanley in New York. 
 The effect on Mexico is becoming clear. Unemployment is at the highest level in eight years. The peso has fallen 25 percent, leading to a spike in the price of imports, hurting consumers and businesses that reply on imported goods. Exports, industrial production and retail sales have all fallen in the last few months. 
 Although the government has yet to change its growth forecast of 1.8 percent for next year, private analysts say Mexico's economy will not grow at all in 2009. In the worst case, the economy could contract as much as 1.7 percent, according to BBVA Bancomer, Mexico's largest bank. 
 Bad economic news dominates the media. Every morning for the last few weeks, the influential radio journalist Carlos Puig has invited business owners to call in and describe their troubles. ''The last thing we Mexicans lose is hope,'' said one caller, Faustina Garcia, manager of a small building supplies company, Bester Mexicana, before beginning a passionate plea for government aid. 
 After a decade of sound economic management, Mexico's government does have some room to maneuver. Next year the government will run its first budget deficit in five years as it increases spending to give the economy a push. It is also taking on new loans from the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank to support social and environmental projects. The central bank has almost $85 billion in reserves to defend the peso and room to bring down interest rates. 
 On top of that, the finance ministry has dealt with the economy's most glaring vulnerability -- the dependence on oil export revenue to finance almost 40 percent of the country's budget. 
 When Mexican crude was selling at $130 a barrel last summer, officials began selling Mexico's future 2009 exports at $70 a barrel, a price that seemed wildly conservative in those heady days. In the fall, the congress estimated a $70 price for its 2009 budget projections. The government usually locks in the price of its future production by buying options to sell oil at a certain price. When the market price rises above the option price, the government loses money. When the price falls, as it has, the government makes a profit.
 Buying the options cost the government $1.5 billion last summer, but at the current price, now below $30, Mexico would stand to earn more than $10 billion. That money would go to job creation plans in infrastructure, tourism and small business. 
 Mexico's caution is a contrast to the policies of Latin America's other main oil exporter, Venezuela. Under President Hugo Chavez, the Venezuelan economy has become more dependent on oil revenue to finance his social programs. 
 Analysts say that the Mexican government has taken the right steps but warn that more may be needed in the next couple of months. 
 ''At the moment they have done what they can do to face the crisis,'' said Jorge Mattar, the representative in Mexico for the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean, or Eclac. But the effect of the recession in the United States is so large that the measures so far will only be a palliative, he said. In essence, there is only so much the government can do if exports plunge and factories close.
 There are other worries. Even though the oil price Mexico will get is locked in at $70, the amount of crude Mexico can pump is not. On Dec. 22, the state oil monopoly Pemex announced that production had fallen 9.3 percent for the year though November. Exports dropped 17.3 percent. 
 If the economy contracts, tax revenue will most likely fall. And even though Mexico's finances are sound enough that it could borrow more to finance further spending increases, Mr. Newman of Morgan Stanley argues there will not be many buyers for emerging market debt. 
 The government will face particular pressure to continue to increase its social programs as the recession hits the poor hardest -- and midterm elections approach in July. 
 Over the last few years, Mexico and Latin America have finally managed to achieve some success in reducing poverty. Eclac estimates that the percentage of poor in the region has dropped to 33 percent, from 44 percent, since 2002. Extreme poverty has also fallen, to 13 percent, from about 19 percent. 
 In Mexico, a government program that provides payments to five million families to keep their children in school and take them to clinics regularly has been responsible for much of the improvement in extreme poverty. 
 Remittances from relatives working in the United States have also helped reduce poverty in many regions, but those have dropped nearly 2 percent this year. 
 ''There have been substantial gains by the main Latin American countries from the mid-1990s to 2006,'' said Santiago Levy, a vice president at the Inter-American Development Bank in Washington, who started the Mexican program 11 years ago. ''It would be very, very sad if this was lost.'' 
 He recommends that governments shift their spending over to infrastructure projects that create jobs, like building much-needed rural roads. Governments should subsidize employers not to lay off workers and offer temporary scholarships to poor families so that they do not pull their children out of school, he said. 
 But Mr. Levy warns against any temptation to loosen the disciplined fiscal policies that Mexico and other developing countries have kept over the last years. 
 ''Those gains were very hard to get,'' he said. ''We know how to preserve them. And we know how to avoid falling back.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The state oil monopoly Pemex announced that production had fallen 9.3 percent for the year though November. Above, workers on the KU-S oil production platform.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); RECESSION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); IMPORT PRICES (60%); TREASURY SECURITIES (53%); RETAIL SALES (50%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (82%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (96%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008



1050 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: On a Single Day, Five Banks in the City Are Robbed, in Busy Areas and in Broad Daylight

BYLINE: By ANAHAD O'CONNOR; Reporting was contributed by Jason Grant, Mathew R. Warren and Michael Wilson.

 BODY:
The bank runs that regulators feared when they announced plans for an economic bailout in September brought to mind mobs of frantic customers swarming local banks, withdrawing all their deposits. 
 But that terminology took on a different meaning on Monday when banks across New York City were deluged by abrupt withdrawals of another kind: robberies. In what may be the latest sign of the harsh economic times, five banks in four boroughs were robbed on Monday, four of them within an hour and a half.
 But if the robberies, in their frequency and timing, were startling, so too was their brazenness. Most of them occurred in heavily trafficked areas in broad daylight, including one that took place steps away from Lincoln Center in the middle of the afternoon. 
 Bank robberies in the city are up by 54 percent this year, the Police Department said, to 431 as of Monday afternoon, from 280 at this time last year. Robbery statistics over the past 20 years suggest that the robberies may have been fueled in part by the financial desperation that sets in during a recession and the added pressures of the holiday season. 
 The authorities took notice in early September, when the number of bank robberies for the year reached 268, compared with 183 during the same period in 2007. Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly announced that he planned to meet with the executives of major banks to warn them to follow a set of ''best practices'' developed in 2003, during the last surge of robberies.
 Bank robberies have also increased across the country. Last week, there was a string of four major ''take-over style'' robberies in one day in San Diego, and major cities, including San Francisco, Houston and Milwaukee, have all seen drastic spikes in bank robberies this year, said Michelle Renee, a former banking industry executive who tracks bank robbery trends.
 ''It's well documented that during a recession, bank robberies go up,'' she said. ''But also, this time of the year is the busiest time for bank robberies. So you combine those two together and it becomes a dangerous time for bank employees.''
 The rash of apparently unrelated bank robberies in New York on Monday began about 9:20 a.m. in the Bronx, when, according to witnesses, including bank workers, two men held up a Washington Mutual branch at 1051 Westchester Avenue, making off with $3,000. The bank sits in front of a busy elevated subway station in a commercial district with heavy traffic, making the robbery all the more surprising to customers. 
 ''I actually work in the area, and it's making me rethink how safe the neighborhood is,'' said Cynthia Peralta, 20, who uses the bank and works as a medical assistant at a clinic. ''It makes me think that the recession is making people go to extreme measures.''
 Twenty minutes later, another robbery took place in Brooklyn at the Valley National Bank at 1505 Avenue J, near the border between Flatbush and Midwood. The bank, which is directly in front of an elevated train station on a busy street lined with pizza parlors, delis and retail shops, was robbed at 9:43 a.m. Felix Pai, a regional manager who was there at the time, declined to give many details, including whether money was taken, but said that no one was hurt. 
 At 10:22 a.m., the third bank was robbed, an HSBC branch at 22-15 43rd Avenue in Long Island City, Queens, just in front of an elevated stop on the No. 7 line. A teller who was there refused to give her name but said a man came in, passed a note to another teller and said he had a gun.
 ''He only got a couple hundred dollars,'' she said. ''At the time, there were just a few customers in the bank.''
 As the police were investigating that robbery, around 10:45 a.m., a man walked into a Sovereign Bank at 717 Manhattan Avenue, a bustling commercial strip in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. Witnesses said the man, wearing a black cap, passed a note to a teller and claimed he had a gun. Unlike the earlier robbers, however, he did not get away. Officers said they caught him as he ran from the bank toward the Nassau Avenue subway station less than half a block away, near the corner of Norman and Manhattan Avenues. 
 Lauren S. Roberts, 55, who has owned a chiropractic business next door to the bank for 25 years, said the area was usually safe, but she was beginning to worry.
 ''I'm a little nervous, but we don't have any cash here,'' said Ms. Roberts, standing in her office at 715 Manhattan Avenue. ''We have nothing of value here, so hopefully no one will bother us. We're not a cash business.''
 For a few hours, it seemed as if the chaos had ended. But another group of robbers was only lying in wait, planning an even more daring heist, at a bank just south of Lincoln Center. Detectives said that two men entered a TD Bank at Broadway and 62nd Street around 3:30 p.m. and made off with a small but unspecified amount of cash. One bank teller who stepped outside to smoke a cigarette and calm his nerves as the police were inside investigating said it was the second time in about two months that the branch had been robbed.
 ''It's the season,'' he said, ''plus the way the economy is, they think we're soft.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROBBERY (91%); BANK ROBBERY (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); TRENDS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008



1051 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: Black Workers In Auto Plants Losing Ground

BYLINE: By MARY M. CHAPMAN

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Since millions of African-Americans began leaving Southern farms for Northern factories nearly a century ago in what is still known as the Great Migration, the destinies of many of them have been entwined with the auto industry's.
 The car companies were hardly multiracial utopias, but they, especially Ford, employed blacks when many industries would not. Through the decades, the automakers and their higher wage scales provided a route to the middle class for many blacks, especially those with limited education, and their children. 
 Now, with Detroit reeling, many blacks find their economic well-being threatened. 
 By last month, nearly 20,000 African-American auto workers had lost jobs, a 13.9 percent decline in employment, since the recession began last December, according to government jobs data analyzed by the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal Washington research firm. That compares with a 4.4 percent decline for all workers in manufacturing. 
 ''African-Americans earn much higher wages in the auto industry than in other parts of the economy, and the loss of these solid, middle-class jobs would be devastating,'' said a report this month by the Economic Policy Institute. 
 ''The motor vehicle and parts industry, a sector of the economy that has been particularly welcoming to African-Americans, is becoming a shrinking island of prosperity,'' the report said.
 Claudia Perkins, 55, who has worked in the automobile industry for 33 years and is now at G.M.'s assembly plant at Lake Orion, Mich., put it more bluntly. ''If it wasn't for the factory, the average black would not have been able to survive all these years, especially without an education,'' she said. 
 African-Americans occupy most rungs of the car production ladder, from plant workers to white-collar employees to auto suppliers and car dealers. Nelson White III, an industrial materials analyst at Ford Motor's transmission plant in Livonia, Mich., said he was concerned that other African-Americans would not receive the opportunities he has.
 Mr. White started as an hourly worker in a Ford factory, attended college under a Ford program and made the leap to management in 1999. In May, he will graduate with a master's degree in organizational leadership.
 ''There's a saying that when America catches a cold, African-Americans catch the flu,'' said Mr. White.
 As in most recessions, African-Americans have been hit harder by this recession than other workers. The overall unemployment rate for blacks increased to 11.2 percent in November, an increase of 2.8 percentage points over last year. By comparison, national unemployment last month was 6.7 percent, up 2 percentage points from a year ago.
 In all, blacks made up 14.2 percent of the total automotive work force in 2007, according to the policy institute report, compared with 11.2 percent of the overall American work force. Blacks in the manufacturing and parts sector earned $17.08 an hour, compared with $15.44 an hour for blacks in all industries, the report said.
 ''Because African-Americans continue to have less education than other groups, the loss of high-paying manufacturing jobs has long been magnified in the black community,'' said Robert E. Scott of the policy institute. ''When benefits are considered, the auto industry is one of the best sources of jobs for workers without a college degree.'' 
 For instance, 21.9 percent of black workers in the nation's overall work force have four-year college degrees, compared with 33.7 percent of whites in the entire labor force, Mr. Scott said. 
 Almost from the beginning, blacks found opportunities in the car companies when they did not find them in other industries. In the early 1940s, while many industries in the United States were enforcing or even creating segregated workplaces -- United States Steel's factories and dormitories around Birmingham, Ala., were an example -- Henry Ford employed blacks and whites in the same plants. 
 Ford and other auto company owners pioneered the hiring of black workers, though many of them were often given the dirtiest jobs. Ms. Perkins, the G.M. worker, was raised in Jemison, Ala., about 45 miles south of Birmingham. She moved north in the 1950s with her parents, who found work in the auto industry. 
 Her mother took a job in Flint, Mich., at AC Spark Plug, now owned by the Delphi Corporation, while her father worked for 28 years at the Fisher Body plant of G.M., winding up as the operator of a power sweeper. 
 ''There was always so much talk down South about the manufacturing jobs up here and how easy you could get a job,'' said Ms. Perkins, whose siblings and other relatives work in the auto industry. ''People were excited about the pay, and after they'd get a job they would help their families back in the South. They would all the time drive their new cars down and show them off.''
 Ms. Perkins, however, resisted going to work in ''some grungy factory.'' But after an aunt, who was a plant manager, persuaded Ms. Perkins to apply at AC Spark Plug, she gave in. ''I made one paycheck and told myself I'd quit after one more, but that day never came,'' she said, chuckling.
 Her earnings helped her buy a home and pay college expenses for her daughter, an Army major who received a teaching degree. Thus far, Ms. Perkins has escaped the job cuts at G.M. 
 Some black auto dealers have not been as lucky. About 150 of the nation's 2,000 minority dealers have closed this year, and 300 more could shut by the middle of January, said Damon Lester, president of the National Association of Minority Auto Dealers.
 About 95 percent of all minority dealers are first-generation owners, as opposed to 30 percent of the nation's nonminority dealers, who are more established and have more clout at banks, said Mr. Lester, which in these days of tight credit can make a big difference.
 ''Capitalization from a historical standpoint has always been an issue,'' he said. ''Then when a downturn occurs, black dealerships are less likely to weather economic storms.''
 Detroit's three automakers have minority dealer development programs, which have provided training, mentoring and loans to prospective dealers. 
 But as automakers eliminate some brands and models under the restructuring plans they have submitted to Congress, Mr. Lester said, those programs could suffer. Half of all minority dealerships sell Detroit vehicles.
 ''A lot of minorities got their first opportunities through these programs,'' he said. ''And that's a good thing. But we want to make sure those programs don't go away.''
 G.M. said it planned to continue its minority dealer development program although the program would save money by using teleconferencing in place of some physical dealer meetings, said Susan Garontakos, dealer communications manager.
 While G.M. told Congress it would cut its dealership network by 35 percent, black dealers would not be singled out, she said.
 ''Everyone is facing significant challenges in the U.S. market, given changes in the landscape and the economic downturns,'' Ms. Garontakos said. ''But our program is very important, and our diverse dealer network is a strategic advantage. It's very important to the way we look at our business and market our cars and trucks.''
 In Atlanta, Steve Harrell, who is black, said he hoped he would be one of the dealers left standing. Mr. Harrell, president of the Harrell Swatty Company, has 12 showrooms across the country, selling Ford, G.M., Kia, Lexus, and others. . 
 An auto dealer for 21 years, he said he expected his total showroom sales to drop to $200 million by the end of this year, from $320 million in 2007. He has cut his staff to 375 employees, from 600.
 ''All dealers are suffering,'' Mr. Harrell said. ''But we were the last ones to the table, so our staying power, our ability to hang in there, is not as great as nonminorities'.'' If his showrooms are unable to get loans within the next 60 days, ''we could be extinct,'' he said.
 So could some parts suppliers. There are roughly 60 black-owned parts suppliers in the United States, with about $3.5 billion in sales. One is Leon Richardson, who owns a supply company, ChemicoMays, in Chesterfield, Mich., that does 65 percent of its business with the automobile industry. About 60 percent of its 200 employees are black, said Mr. Richardson, who is also chairman of the National Association of Black Automotive Suppliers. 
 ''The credit market has always been extremely tight and difficult for black suppliers even before this meltdown. It was difficult for them to generate cash as it was, and it's going to be more difficult,'' Mr. Richardson said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''If it wasn't for the factory, the average black would not have been able to survive all these years.'' CLAUDIA PERKINS: A daughter of auto industry employees, she has worked in the industry for 33 years
''The credit market has always been extremely tight and difficult for black suppliers even before this meltdown.'' LEON RICHARDSON: The owner of a supplier doing 65 percent of its business with the auto industry (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN McGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
''There's a saying that when America catches a cold, African-Americans catch the flu.'' NELSON WHITE III: An industrial materials analyst for Ford in Livonia, Mich.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN McGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ''Our ability to hang in there is not as great as nonminorities'.'' STEVE HARRELL: Based in Atlanta, the owner of 12 dealerships around the country (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMI CHAPPELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); STATISTICS (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); NEW CAR DEALERS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (83%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008



1052 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall on Concerns About Mideast

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY; Matthew Saltmarsh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks fell Monday in light trading, and oil prices settled above $40 a barrel as Israeli forces continued their offensive in Gaza for a third day, raising fears about the global oil supply.
 Crude oil futures for February delivery settled up $2.31 at $40.02 a barrel, their highest close in more than a week, and shares of energy companies followed them higher.
 Although oil prices have plunged more than 70 percent since July as global consumption fell, Monday's rocket attacks and concerns that Israel was on the brink of an all-out war on Hamas underscored the market's sensitivity to conflict in a region that produces a third of world's crude supply. Analysts said they were especially leery of a statement from oil-rich Iran condemning Israel. 
 ''This is part of what helped us build up to $147 a barrel earlier in the year,'' said John Kilduff, a senior vice president at MF Global. ''It's a reminder of the insecurity of the region and potentially supply, particularly when you have a vocal Iran in the mix.''
 On Wall Street, stocks recovered from sharp midday losses to close slightly lower on the first day of another abbreviated week. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average lost 31.62 points, or 0.37 percent, to close at 8,483.93 while the wider Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 3.38 points, or 0.39 percent, to 869.42. The Nasdaq dropped 19.92 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,510.32. 
 Markets have quieted after months of stark drops and record volatility. The Dow has not ended the day with a triple-digit gain or loss in five sessions.
 ''I think people just want this year to end,'' said Russ Koesterich, head of investment strategy at Barclay's Global Investors. ''You're not seeing a lot of movement either way.''
 Analysts have said that much of the panicked selling that gripped Wall Street in October and November has ebbed, and that investors are essentially in a holding pattern as they wait for the next round of grim quarterly earnings and for President-elect Barack Obama to take office.
 ''It would take a whole new fountain of bad news to bring this market to new lows, not just the same water flowing through,'' David Bianco, chief United States equity strategist at UBS, said. ''We're just in this kind of wait-and-see environment.''
 Shares of Dow Chemical fell 19 percent after the government of Kuwait backed out of a joint venture to create a petrochemical operation, citing deteriorating oil prices and economic instability. 
 The setback raised questions about whether Dow could go forward on a $15 billion purchase of the specialty chemicals company Rohm & Haas, whose stock fell 16 percent. Rohm & Haas released a statement saying it would still pursue the merger.
 Locked credit markets have doomed hundreds of deals this year and reduced the global volume of mergers by a third. Analysts said that the problems between Kuwait and Dow underscored the reach of the financial crisis. ''The long end of the credit market still remains fairly frozen,'' Mr. Koesterich said.
 General Motors stock fell 1.6 percent as investors waited to hear whether bondholders of GMAC, the financing arm of G.M., had approved a crucial step in a plan to convert the company into a bank holding company, giving it access to billions in federal bailout funds. Bondholders had until last Friday to approve a bond exchange program, but days have passed without word from GMAC.
 Shares of the Ford Motor Company fell 3 percent as the billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian sold his remaining shares of the automaker. 
 Credit markets gave off mixed signals on Monday. The TED spread, a closely watched measure of banks' willingness to lend money to each other, fell to 1.4, its lowest level since mid-September, before Lehman Brothers declared bankruptcy. But investors continued to seek safety in Treasury debt, pushing up the price of two-year and 10-year government notes. The 10-year note rose 10/32 to 114 21/32. The rate, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 2.10 percent, from 2.13.
 The FTSE 100 index in London gained 2.4 percent and the DAX in Frankfurt climbed 1.6 percent. Energy and resource stocks led the gains in Europe. BP, the British oil company, added 4.2 percent, and Repsol of Spain was up 1.9 percent. 
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month notes: 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction.(Source: The Bond Buyer)
 The Favorites: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); FUTURES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); HAMAS (78%); PETROCHEMICALS (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); CONSUMPTION (71%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (62%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (60%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (56%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (50%); ROHM & HAAS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); DOW (SWX) (50%); DOW (NYSE) (50%); DOW (LSE) (50%); 4850 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); KUWAIT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008



1053 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: In Housing Fall, Breaking Up Is Harder to Do

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
When Marci Needle and her husband began to contemplate divorce in June, they thought they had enough money to go their separate ways. They owned a million-dollar home near Atlanta and another in Jacksonville, Fla., as well as investment properties. 
 Now the market for both houses has crashed, and the couple are left arguing about whether the homes are worth what they owe on them, and whether there are any assets left to divide, Ms. Needle said. 
 ''We're really trying very hard to be amicable, but it puts a strain on us,'' said Ms. Needle, the friction audible in her voice. ''I want him to buy me out. It's in everybody's interest to settle quickly. That would be my only income. It's been incredibly stressful.''
 Chalk up another victim for the crashing real estate market: the easy divorce. 
 With nearly one in six homes worth less than the mortgage owed on it, according to Moody's Economy.com, divorce lawyers and financial advisers around the country say the logistics of divorce have been turned around. ''We used to fight about who gets to keep the house,'' said Gary Nickelson, president of the American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers. ''Now we fight about who gets stuck with the dead cow.''
 As a result, divorce has become more complicated and often more expensive, with lower prospects for money on the other side. Some divorce lawyers say that business has slowed or that clients are deciding to stay together because there are no assets left to help them start over. 
 ''There's an old joke,'' said Randall M. Kessler, Ms. Needle's lawyer. ''Why is a divorce so expensive? Because it's worth it. Now it better really be worth it.'' 
 In a normal economy, couples typically build equity in their homes, then divide that equity in a divorce, either after selling the house or with one partner buying out the other's share. But after the recent boom-and-bust cycle, more couples own houses that neither spouse can afford to maintain, and that they cannot sell for what they owe. For couples already under stress, the family home has become a toxic asset. 
 ''It's much harder to move on with their lives,'' said Alton L. Abramowitz, a partner in the New York firm Mayerson Stutman Abramowitz Royer.
 Mr. Abramowitz said he was in the middle of several cases where the value of the real estate could not be determined. ''All of a sudden,'' he said, ''prices are all over the place, people aren't closing, and it becomes virtually impossible to judge how far the market has fallen, because nothing is selling.''
 For John and Laurel Goerke, in Santa Barbara, Calif., the housing market crashed in the middle of what Mr. Goerke said had been an orderly legal proceeding. At the height of the market, Mr. Goerke said, they had their house appraised at $2.3 million, which would have given them about $1 million to divide after paying off the mortgage. But by the time they sold last year, the value had fallen by $600,000, cutting their equity by more than half.
 ''That changed everything,'' said Mr. Goerke, who is now nearly two years into the divorce process, with legal and other fees of several hundred thousand dollars. ''The prospect of us both being able to buy modest homes was eliminated. The money's not there.''
 Now, with both spouses living in rental properties, their lawyers still cannot agree on what their remaining assets are worth. Their wealth is ticking away at $350 an hour, times two. 
 ''It's got to end,'' Mr. Goerke said, ''because at some point there's nothing left to argue about.''
 For other couples it does not have to end. Lisa Decker, a certified divorce financial analyst in Atlanta, said she was seeing couples who were determined to stay together even after divorce because they could not sell their home, a phenomenon rarely seen before outside Manhattan.
 ''We're finding the husband on one floor, the wife on the other,'' Ms. Decker said. ''Now one is coming home with a new boyfriend or girlfriend, and it's creating a layer to relationships that we haven't seen before. Unfortunately, we're seeing 'The War of the Roses' for real, not just in a Hollywood movie.''
 In California, James Hennenhoefer, a divorce lawyer, said couples were taking advantage of the housing crisis to save money by stopping their mortgage payments but continuing to live together for as long as they can.
 ''Most of the lenders around here are in complete disarray,'' Mr. Hennenhoefer said. ''They're not as aggressive about evictions. Everyone's hanging around in properties hoping the government will buy all that bad paper and then they'll negotiate a new deal with the government. They just live in different parts of the house and say, 'We'll stay here for as long as we can, and save our money, so we have the ability to move when and if the sheriff comes to toss us out.' ''
 Mr. Hennenhoefer said this tactic worked only with first mortgages; on second and third mortgages, the lenders pursue repayment even after the homeowners have lost the home. 
 Dee Dee Tomasko, a nursing student and mother in suburban Cleveland, expected to leave her marriage with about $200,000 in starter money, primarily from the marital home, which was appraised at about $1 million in 2006. By the time of her divorce last year, however, the house was appraised at $800,000; her share of the equity came to about $105,000. 
 Though she is relieved to be out of the marriage, if she had known how little money she would get ''I might have stuck with it a little more; I don't know,'' Ms. Tomasko said, adding, ''Maybe it would've made me think a little harder.''
 For divorcing spouses with resources, though, there can be opportunities in the falling housing market.
 Josh Kaufman and his wife bought a new 6,500-square-foot house outside Cleveland on five and a half acres, with four bedrooms and two three-car garages, that was worth $1.5 million at the height of the market. When they divorced in June, Mr. Kaufman knew his wife could not afford to carry the home. The longer the divorce process continued, the more the house depreciated; by the time he assumed the house, its appraised value was half what the couple had put into it; he did not pay her anything for her share. 
 ''From a negotiating standpoint we knew that she couldn't afford to stay in it,'' Mr. Kaufman said. ''It appeared as an opportunity to turn the negative situation around. There was no emotion involved. It was a business decision on what made most financial sense. It wasn't an attempt to take advantage of someone.''
 Still, his lawyer, Andrew A. Zashin, said, ''He bought this house at a bargain basement price.'' 
 For Nancy R., who spoke on condition of anonymity because her colleagues do not know her marital status, the impediments to divorce are visible every time she opens her door. 
 ''There's three other houses for sale on our same road,'' she said. ''There's no way our house would sell.''
 For now the couple are separated, waiting for real estate prices to recover. But for Ms. R., that means remaining financially dependent on her husband. He moved out; she remains in the house.
 ''I still feel kept in certain ways, and I don't want to rock the boat,'' she said. ''And it's draining. So suddenly, when there's an economic crunch, we're paying for two places. And we're both eating out more, because it's no fun to eat alone.''
 The same dynamics that marked their marriage now hang over their separation, she said: ''He has the ultimate control.''
 ''We can't sell the house,'' she said, ''and whatever settlement I get depends on a good relationship with him, based on his good will. The lines get blurry and confused quickly, which makes emotions fly easily'' -- especially if she were to start dating.
 ''Any icing on the cake is going to come from his good will,'' she said, ''and that means being the peacemaker. I'm the underdog in this situation. We're basically forced to remain in a relationship after we've decided to end it.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marci Needle in front of the home she and her husband once shared in Alpharetta, Ga.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
 John Goerke said his divorce became bumpier when the housing market crashed. ''That changed everything,'' Mr. Goerke said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); FAMILY LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAWYERS (87%); MARRIAGE (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%)

COMPANY: MAYERSON ABRAMOWITZ & KAHN LLP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF MATRIMONIAL LAWYERS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (88%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (91%); GEORGIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008



1054 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: A South Korean Carmaker Seeks State Aid

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN and BETTINA WASSENER. 
Choe Sang-Hun reported from Seoul and Bettina Wassener from Hong Kong.

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
The Ssangyong Motor Company, the ailing Korean automaker, and its Chinese majority shareholder, the SAIC Motor Corporation, are seeking help from the South Korean government to stave off a collapse of the company. 
 Ssangyong and SAIC, which owns 51 percent in the South Korean carmaker, said Monday that they were seeking financial assistance from the government and banks. 
 Although Ssangyong is the smallest of South Korea's five automobile manufacturers and employs only 7,100 people, the appeal -- the first from the industry in South Korea -- will be closely watched as a test of the willingness of the government and both state-controlled and private banks to extend aid to the country's car sector. 
 Banks in South Korea will begin screening companies in the construction and shipping sectors in January for possible assistance. Kim Jong-chang, the governor of the government's Financial Supervisory Service, said last week that the aid plan did not extend to the car industry. But he left the door open to aid for automakers, saying the policy might change if the situation deteriorated further. 
 Manufacturers in the United States have already received emergency state aid, and the Japanese car giant, Toyota last week warned of a probable operating loss for the year -- an announcement that was widely interpreted as a sign of worse to come for the auto industry.
 The slowing economy has prompted manufacturers everywhere to cut staff, output and planned investment. Hyundai Motor and its affiliate Kia Motors cut their joint 2008 sales forecast by 12.5 percent and announced they would freeze pay for managers. Ssangyong, which sold 87,125 vehicles in the first 11 months of 2008, down 27.4 percent from a year earlier, has halted production and delayed paying salaries.
 SAIC, China's largest automaker, and Ssangyong's main creditor bank, the state-run Korea Development Bank, now appear locked in a dispute about who should bail out Ssangyong. The Korea Development Bank has called on SAIC to provide 120 million won, or $95 million, in cash promised for technology development, and to guarantee 200 billion won of loans from two Chinese banks to Ssangyong, a bank executive speaking on condition of anonymity said Monday. 
 ''These things must be done first before they come to the credit bank to ask for help,'' the executive said. ''It's a very basic procedure in business.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ssangyong is South Korea's smallest carmaker, with about 7,100 workers, but its request for aid is seen as a critical test of the government's willingness to help the auto industry.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NASHA LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (96%); AUTOMAKERS (95%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); BANKING IN CHINA (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); SALES PROJECTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: SSANGYONG MOTOR CO (95%); SAIC MOTOR CORP LTD (92%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (82%); HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (56%); KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK (53%)

TICKER: 003620 (KSE) (95%); TYT (LSE) (82%); TM (NYSE) (82%); 7203 (TSE) (82%); HYUD (LSE) (56%); 005380 (KSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (95%); NAICS811122 AUTOMOTIVE GLASS REPLACEMENT SHOPS (92%); SIC7536 AUTOMOTIVE GLASS REPLACEMENT SHOPS (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008



1055 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Seek Recovery Plan Details

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Republican Congressional leaders sought Monday to pressure Democrats to be more open about the drafting of a huge economic recovery bill that Democrats hope to pass in the first days of the Obama administration. 
 In a coordinated effort, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leaders of the two chambers, called on Democrats to hold hearings on the emerging legislation and not schedule any votes on the bill until it had had at least a week of public review.
 ''A trillion-dollar spending bill would be the largest spending bill in the history of our country at a time when our national debt is already the largest in history,'' Mr. McConnell said in a statement. ''As a result, it will require tough scrutiny and oversight. Taxpayers, already stretched to the limit, deserve nothing less.''
 Both he and Mr. Boehner were careful not to say they would oppose a measure that some economists have said is necessary to prevent an even deeper recession. But they warned Democrats against loading the legislation with provisions they called wasteful.
 ''We must act in a responsible way that helps get our economy moving again, not with more pork-barrel spending that does nothing but give taxpayer money to special interests and campaign contributors,'' Mr. Boehner said in a statement. 
 Congressional Democrats, who have been trying to assemble the framework of an economic recovery plan in concert with representatives of the incoming administration of President-elect Barack Obama, said they were willing to work with Republicans and would try to reach agreement on a process for weighing and acting on the measure.
 ''As families across America continue to struggle, it is essential that we pass legislation to help create jobs and get our economy back on track,'' said Jim Manley, senior communications adviser to Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader. ''Senator Reid understands that the only way that we can do so is with the cooperation of Senate Republicans, and he intends to work on a bipartisan basis to pass an economic recovery package.''
 The Republican demand for transparency was an opening salvo in what could be the first major legislative fight over the economic plan that lawmakers are preparing to take up when the 111th Congress convenes next Tuesday. Such public maneuvering may be one of the best options open to the minority party, given reduced Republican ranks in both the House and Senate.
 Although Senate Republicans would have enough votes to stall any bill by using procedural tactics if they remained united, Democrats would need only a handful of converts to overcome any filibuster, and some Republicans might be reluctant to stand in the way of the new administration's first significant measure.
 Estimates of the price tag for the economic plan have varied widely, but David Axelrod, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama, said Sunday that a cost of $675 billion to $775 billion had been discussed. 
 Democrats have spoken only broadly about how the money would be spent on public works and energy projects. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (79%); POLITICS (79%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); JOB CREATION (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (79%); MITCH MCCONNELL (74%); HARRY REID (59%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008



1056 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: Emphasis on Weatherization Represents Shift on Energy Costs

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: MARRIOTTSVILLE, Md. 

 BODY:
In the basement of Phyllis Fick's ordinary-looking suburban house, Tim Kenny of C&O Conservation, a nonprofit weatherization company, found black streaks of dirt on the yellow fiberglass insulation, evidence of air infiltration from the window beneath, a sure sign of an energy leak. 
 Nearby on the basement ceiling, a drainpipe from the bathroom above had spider webs around it, another bad sign. Spiders build near air currents to draw insects to their webs, Mr. Kenny, C&O's manager, said, and the current probably ran from the basement to the attic, taking heated air with it.
 But the ''aha!'' moment for the C&O team belonged to Brian Kinzer, who put a ladder on the front porch and pulled down the vinyl covering of the underside of the roof overhang. Instead of plywood, he was staring at the bright metal of a heating duct that curved up to the second-floor bedroom of Mrs. Fick's 18-year-old daughter. The duct had been unprotected from the outdoor temperature since the house was built about 30 years ago.
 ''Look at this!'' Mr. Kinzer said in triumph. 
 Call it CSI: Thermal Police -- energy experts armed with mostly low-tech tools but strong sleuthing skills, finding flaws that let the air inside a house go through a full exchange with the outdoors twice an hour, instead of once every two or three hours.
 Correct those flaws, and heating and cooling costs are typically cut by 20 percent to 30 percent, a saving of more than $1,000 annually in some households. In addition, carbon dioxide emissions and the strain on the national electric and gas systems are reduced. 
 About 140,000 houses will be weatherized with public help this year, a total that President-elect Barack Obama has promised to raise to one million, to reduce energy consumption and cut energy costs for households and taxpayers, who often absorb those costs for the poor. This would represent a historic shift in emphasis for the federal and state governments, reducing poor people's energy bills instead of helping to pay them. 
 Weatherizing a million homes annually would also create about 78,000 jobs for a year, according to the federal Energy Department's weatherization project director, Gil Sperling. 
 The current 140,000 annual total creates about 8,000 jobs, Mr. Sperling said. 
 Although that is a tiny fraction of the five million green-collar jobs that Mr. Obama promised in the campaign, ''it's a decent number of jobs per dollar spent,'' said Harry J. Holzer, an economist at Georgetown University and at the Urban Institute, a nonprofit group in Washington. ''The work is productive, and the jobs are at a mix of skill levels.''
 Congress added $250 million to the weatherization budget for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1. Energy experts say that money could be effectively spent in low-income households and in households that have no need of public assistance. 
 In the forgotten corners of tens of millions of American attics and basements, near the old Trivial Pursuit games and out-of-season clothes, are flaws that waste vast amounts of energy. Buildings often resemble colanders. Leaking ducts bleed heated air into areas outside living space. Cold-air returns suck in dust and mold from attics, or gas and oil fumes from garden equipment stored in basements. Long-neglected air filters clog, forcing furnaces or air-conditioners to work harder. 
 Mr. Obama's choice for energy secretary, Steven Chu, told a group in Washington in June that an extra $1,000 could make a new house energy efficient ''but the American consumer would rather have a granite countertop.''
 For the Fick family, the issue was not new countertops. Mrs. Fick and her three children live mostly on disability payments because her husband, Edmund, has multiple sclerosis. For months, she has been paying just enough to avoid having her electricity cut off. Because she is eligible for government aid to help pay her bills, her house, in a subdivision set amid the rolling farm country west of Baltimore, is also eligible for a state weatherization program. 
 Because most of the houses in the subdivision were built by the same developer and probably the same workers, they are likely to have many of the same energy deficiencies, Mr. Kenny, the manager of C&O Conservation, said. 
 C&O, which Maryland has designated as the publicly financed weatherization company for half the state's 24 counties, will work on about 300 of the 2,400 houses that are eligible. 
 Typical repairs require expertise but generally cost $2,000 or less. The most significant improvement for the Ficks' house was an inch-thick piece of foam board, which Mr. Kinzer shaped with a utility knife and applied to the exposed heating duct. 
 The repair cost less than $100, including $10 for materials, but it will cut the Ficks' heating bill by several hundred dollars per heating season, said Tim Kenny's father, Tom, a veteran weatherizer. 
 The larger problem, Tom Kenny said, is selling the concept of weatherization. 
 ''I provide something that's invisible,'' Mr. Kenny said, explaining why there was limited private-sector demand for sealing air leaks, say, compared with the appeal of new windows. But new windows, widely marketed as an energy-saving investment, are not the place to start, experts say. 
 ''We have found weatherization to be a more cost-effective option in decreasing energy bills,'' said Mr. Sperling, of the Energy Department. 
 The four-member team at the Fick home wrapped additional insulation around the water heater, installed compact fluorescent light bulbs, and sealed air ducts with an adhesive compound scooped from a big tub. (Duct tape, Tim Kenny said, has lots of uses, but sealing ducts is not among them.) The work cost about $4,000 and the rate of air infiltration was cut by at least half, he said. 
 Government aid for weatherization has been modest. 
 Energy technology research competes for federal aid, said a spokeswoman for the Energy Department. Some states contribute their own money or divert federal money intended to help the poor pay their energy bills. 
 But utilities that furnish electricity, natural gas and home heating oil have lobbied strongly for programs that provide money to help pay bills. 
 Although Congress added $250 million to the original $227 million budget for weatherization in the current fiscal year, the number of people receiving weatherization aid is dwarfed by those receiving assistance in paying their energy bills.
 ''You have six million families a year getting energy assistance, possibly eight million this year, and 150,000 getting weatherization,'' said Mark Wolfe, executive director of the National Energy Assistance Directors' Association, an organization of state officials. 
 Achieving residential energy efficiency nationwide is a far bigger job than industrial or commercial efficiency because the number of houses dwarfs the number of factories, offices and shopping centers, Mr. Wolfe said. So little has been done in the last few years that ''when you start to look at the infrastructure that's there to do residential energy efficiency in a cost-effective way, it's very thin,'' he said. 
 ''There's been a lot of talk over the years,'' he said, ''but there's not a lot to point to.'' 
 To weatherize a million houses for low-income families every year, Mr. Wolfe said, would require more workers at every level. While it is possible, he said, weatherization companies would have to commit to expanding, and that would happen only if they were persuaded that they would have more work over the long term.
 ''A lot of the companies that do this work are fairly small,'' Mr. Wolfe said. ''They need some certainty it's not a one-year deal, because for them to buy a second truck for $100,000, it's not a minor decision.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kevin Gilbert of Maryland Energy Conservation insulating a home in Marriotsville under a program that subsidizes weatherization services for low-income people.
 Brian Kinzer of C&O Conservation and Nancy Gilbert of Maryland Energy Conservation make a home more energy efficient. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE RUARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); FIBERGLASS (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); INDOOR AIR QUALITY (77%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (76%); HVAC SYSTEMS (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); BUDGETS (69%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); CONSUMPTION (64%); GREENHOUSE GASES (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008



1057 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; DIVINE RECRUITS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: India, Exporter of Priests, May Keep Them Home

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

DATELINE: ALUVA, India 

 BODY:
In the sticky night air, next to a grove of mahogany trees, nearly 50 young men in madras shirts saunter back and forth along a basketball court, reciting the rosary. 
 They are seminarians studying to become Roman Catholic priests. Together, they send a great murmuring into the hilly village, mingling with the Muslim call to prayer and the chanting of Vedas from a Hindu temple on a nearby ridge.
 Young men willing to join the priesthood are plentiful in India, unlike in the United States and Europe. Within a few miles of this seminary, called Don Bosco College, are two much larger seminaries, each with more than 400 students. 
 As a result, bishops trek here from the United States, Europe, Latin America and Australia looking for spare priests to fill their empty pulpits. Hundreds have been allowed to go, siphoning support from India's widespread network of Catholic churches, schools, orphanages, missionary projects and social service programs. 
 At least 800 Indian priests are working in the United States alone. India, Vietnam and the Philippines are among the leading exporters of priests, according to data compiled by researchers at Catholic University of America in Washington. 
 But these days the Indian prelates have reason to reconsider their generosity. With India modernizing at breakneck speed, more young men are choosing financial gain over spiritual sacrifice. 
 ''There is a great danger just now because the spirit of materialism is on the increase,'' said Bishop Mar James Pazhayattil, the founding bishop of the Diocese of Irinjalakuda, as he sat barefoot at his desk, surrounded by mementos of a lifetime of church service. ''Faith and the life of sacrifice are becoming less.''
 Some of the forces contributing to a lack of priests in Europe and the United States have begun to take shape here. 
 Parents are having fewer children, with even observant Catholics freely admitting they use birth control. The Indian economy, which has boomed for years, offers more career options. 
 Many priests once came from large agricultural families. But now land is scarce, the soil tapped out. Families are moving to cities, far from the tight-knit parishes that for generations kept Indian Catholics connected to their faith. And educated young Catholics are increasingly attracted to fields like engineering and technology. 
 In past generations, having a son become a priest increased the family's stature, said the Rev. Jose Kuriedath, a sociologist in Aluva who has written a book about vocations in India. Mr. Kuriedath recounted an adage in Malayalam, the local language: ''It is equal in dignity to have either an elephant or a priest in the family.'' 
 But this is changing. 
 Answering a Call
 At St. Paul's Minor Seminary in the Diocese of Irinjalakuda, sleepy teenage boys clamber from their dormitory every morning down to chapel, past a statue of Mary and portraits of Pope Benedict XVI and Gandhi. 
 Among them is Chacko Kuttuparambil, a stocky 17-year-old who wears high-top basketball shoes and slim, stylish glasses. His prosperous family was not particularly supportive of his joining the priesthood, he said.
 His father, an apartment building manager, wanted him to be a computer engineer. His brother, a business executive, also tried to dissuade him. Chacko is the younger of two sons, and traditionally it is the responsibility of the youngest son to care for the parents in their old age. 
 But Chacko felt called to the priesthood because, he said, as a child he was miraculously cured of a viral infection that paralyzed the right side of his body for two years. 
 ''He gave me life,'' Chacko said, ''so I am to give my life to Him.''
 On a hot day before the rainy season arrived, Chacko and his fellow students boarded a bus for a field trip intended to expose them to ministry work. Along the way, the teenagers clapped and belted out Christian hymns and pop tunes. They craned to look out at billboards of motorcycles, mobile phones and models with bare midriffs advertising sari shops.
 The students arrived at a home for mentally ill adults run by an order of nuns in pink saris. Some students initially recoiled at the patients' odd tics. But as they had been taught, they separated into small groups to talk with the patients, many of whom brightened under the boys' attention. Most of the students were selected for the seminary after attending a ''life guidance camp'' that each year draws hundreds of local teenagers for a three-day session at St. Paul's. 
 Those who seem promising are invited back for a vocation retreat, and the best of those are invited to join the seminary. 
 In a first-year class, the students studied a pamphlet called ''Growing up Gracefully.'' The school's rector, the Rev. Sebastian Panjikaran, demonstrated proper priestly etiquette. Father Panjikaran acted out the wrong way for a priest to walk through town, charging down the aisle between the students' desks, his eyes fixed on the ground. 
 ''A priest should not walk so fast,'' he said, turning to face the students. ''He should walk how?''
 ''Slowly,'' the students said. 
 ''He should walk slowly,'' Father Panjikaran repeated, strolling casually up the aisle and making eye contact with the students. ''And he should ... ?''
 ''Help,'' the students say in unison. 
 If you walk slowly, Father Panjikaran explained, the people will see you are friendly and accessible and will ask you for help. He concluded, ''You can have that sense of usefulness if you do good for others.''
 Changing Landscape
 Catholics represent a tiny proportion of the population in India -- about 2 percent. But they have played an outsize role in weaving the country's social safety net, establishing schools, hospitals, old-age homes and other organizations that serve many non-Catholics. 
 The church here is ancient, with three separate rites, each with its own liturgies and bishops. Here in Kerala, a state in southwest India, Catholics of the Syro-Malabar rite trace their roots to the Apostle Thomas, who according to lore arrived by boat in A.D. 52, made disciples among the ruling Brahmin class and planted seven churches. 
 About 20 percent of Kerala's population is Catholic, and being faithful is more than a once-a-week event. Families pray together at home in the evenings, kneeling at shrines in their sitting rooms. Mass attendance in many dioceses is over 80 percent. And the entire community turns out for local festivals on saints days. 
 After evening Mass one Sunday at Sacred Heart Keezhmad, the parish just up the hill from Don Bosco College, the young altar boys and some friends were helping the priest close the sacristy. Of eight young men, including the president of the local Catholic youth organization, only one said he was interested in becoming a priest. Six said they aspired to be engineers, and one said he wanted to be a doctor.
 Like many seminaries run by religious orders, Don Bosco College traditionally did not accept students who were the only child in their families. But that policy has changed, said the Rev. Sebastian Kalambaden, the seminary's administrator. The seminary also has two students who were brought up Hindu and converted to Catholicism. Until recently, most seminaries avoided taking converts.
 Duty to Serve Abroad
 Some graduates and former teachers of Don Bosco College are now serving overseas. The students are aware that if they do well they might be tapped. And many see it as their responsibility to go. 
 ''People came from foreign countries as missionaries, and because of them we have Christianity, and in many ways we are benefiting,'' said Augustine Thekkepookombil, a seminarian. '' So I feel it is my duty to give spiritual help. That would be the best way of showing gratitude.''
 The Diocese of Irinjalakuda has 10 priests serving in the United States, as well as 3 in Germany, 2 in Canada and one in England. Four are studying in Rome. 
 In the United States, four of the Indian priests are in Birmingham, Ala., where the former bishop arranged about seven years ago to pay the Diocese of Irinjalakuda $5,000 a year for each borrowed priest, an official in the Indian diocese said. Many bishops have such arrangements, giving them a motive other than generosity to loan out their priests. 
 Bishop Pazhayattil said he chose which priests to send abroad very carefully. Some who volunteer, he said, could easily go astray so far from home. 
 And some do not want to go. The Rev. Jolly Vadakken had studied in Rome and worked short-term in parishes in Germany, Minneapolis and Birmingham. Tall and prepossessing, fluent in five languages, Father Vadakken had offers to work as a parish pastor in Italy and Atlanta. But he preferred to stay home. 
 In Irinjalakuda, he runs a Catholic resource center across the street from the diocese's towering pink cathedral. He buzzes around the diocese on a motorcycle, often in his cassock, his cellphone ringing incessantly. He operates a suicide hot line (Kerala has one of the highest suicide rates in India), counsels couples, teaches courses in parenting and runs a program that mediates local conflicts. 
 He said he feels more vital here than he did in the United States or Europe, where he was needed only for the sacraments. 
 ''In the other world, we are official priests,'' he said. ''We are satisfied just doing the Mass and sacraments, everything on time, everything perfect. 
 ''In India, the people come close to us,'' he continued. ''The work satisfaction is different. Our ministry is so much wanted here.''
 At the same time, the Catholic church in Irinjalakuda is expanding. When Bishop Pazhayattil was appointed in 1978, the diocese had 78 parishes; it now has 129. He said it was unlikely he would be so eager to send his priests to Europe or the United States in the future. 
 The rectors of both large seminaries in Aluva, with over 400 students each, each said in separate interviews that the Catholic church in the United States and Europe would eventually need to stop relying on India to supply priests. 
 ''It is not a solution,'' said Msgr. Bosco Puthur, the rector of St. Joseph Pontifical Seminary in Mangalapuzha. ''It is only a stopgap that does not solve the problem.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Students at St. Paul's Minor Seminary in the Irinjalakuda Diocese in India taking a ministry trip. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
PHOTO
PREPARING FOR PRIESTHOOD: Students gather for evening prayers in Aluva, India. Hundreds of young Indians are in seminary, but attitudes are shifting.
 FOCUSED ON FAITH: In Kerala, a state in the southwest part of the country where 20 percent of the population is Roman Catholic, families like the Alengadans pray together at home and Mass attendance is high. The Rev. Jolly Vadakken, at top with seminarians in Irinjalakuda, had offers to work in Italy and Atlanta but wanted to stay in India. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); RELIGION (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); FAMILY (86%); BASKETBALL (78%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); ORPHANS (73%); CHILDREN (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KERALA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008



1058 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: A Tourism Record Amid Hard Times

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
They came. They toured. They ate and drank and shopped and spent -- and they did it more than ever before.
About 47 million people visited New York City this year, surpassing last year's record by a million and most likely safeguarding the city's spot as the nation's top tourism destination, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced on Monday. 
Foreign tourists, who could take advantage of the weak dollar, accounted for most of the increase: their numbers reached nearly 10 million, about a million more than last year, the mayor said.
In all, he added, tourists spent a record $30 billion in New York City this year.
''While we can't promise that we will hit another record next year,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, ''I do think we'll continue to see a lot of tourists on our streets.''
The news is welcome, of course, given that the city is ailing badly from the effects of the global financial crisis, which has hurt profits on Wall Street, New York's main source of revenue.
There are already some telling signs that less bountiful times loom in the tourism industry. The hotel occupancy rate has declined to 85 percent, Mr. Bloomberg said, though it is still 20 percentage points higher than the national average.
The mayor warned of an impending decline in the retail sector, with jobs lost and stores closed after what has been a weak holiday shopping season.
Still, tourism will remain one of the city's main weapons against the recession and will help wean its dependency on the financial sector, Mayor Bloomberg said.
Over the past year, NYC & Company, the city's marketing organization, expanded its reach abroad with new offices in seven cities, including Toronto, Moscow and Mumbai, and media campaigns in Italy and Germany.
There was also a nod to the boroughs outside Manhattan, with the inauguration of a Gray Line hop-on, hop-off bus tour in Staten Island, which Mr. Bloomberg described as a ''phenomenally diverse community'' that has ''some great cultural attractions that people just don't know about.''
The mayor spoke outdoors at Rockefeller Center, next to the area where people line up for the ice skating rink, turning the announcement into a fleeting attraction.
Visitors snapped pictures of him. A contingent from Medford High School in Massachusetts, from which Mr. Bloomberg graduated in 1960, cheered him on. Before going on his way, the mayor thanked all of them for coming, saying, ''We love you; go spend some money.''
FERNANDA SANTOS ALSO
ON THE BLOG
Top 10, 9, 8, 7 ...: In Blogtalk, a roundup of the day's Web offerings, including the best dogs in the city, a haute-barbecue guide and a year-end list of favorite books.
Taking Questions: William Chapman Sharpe, the writer of ''New York Nocturne: The City After Dark in Literature, Painting and Photography, 1850-1950,'' is taking questions about the city at night.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tourists shooting the Flatiron Building in June. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (87%); TOURISM (77%); LODGING (76%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); US DOLLAR (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); ICE SKATING (50%); WINTER SPORTS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



1059 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: A Nonprofit for Veterans Is Faulted on Spending

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A nonprofit organization that Congress set up to help veterans start and expand small businesses was criticized in a recent Senate report for spending federal dollars on expensive dinners, luxury hotels, first-class travel and high salaries.
 Since 2001, the organization, the National Veterans Business Development Corporation, has received $17 million from the federal government to operate walk-in small-business centers for veterans, according to the report, which was released this month. 
 Of that amount, only 15 percent a year on average was spent running the centers, the report said. The percentage fell to 9 percent in the 2008 fiscal year, threatening centers in Massachusetts, Michigan and Missouri, the report said. 
 In addition to the centers, the Veterans Corporation has given grants to the Jewish Vocational Service Centers in Boston and Chicago and programs for service-disabled veterans in San Diego and Syracuse to offer similar assistance.
 The report took the group to task for its other spending. Besides the hotel stays, meals and salaries, money was spent on programs that were not part of the group's original mandate, the report said, including a youth essay contest and the promotion of a film on a disabled veteran. 
 The Veterans Corporation's board chairman, Jeffrey W. Gault, said by telephone that the organization's expenses ''were very reasonable,'' but declined to comment further. 
 Two senators who investigated the organization -- John F. Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine -- called for the money to be given instead to the Small Business Administration, which has an Office of Veterans Business Development. Mr. Kerry is chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, and Ms. Snowe is the ranking minority member.
 In a letter to the two senators dated Dec. 22, Mr. Gault said the Veterans Corporation spent nearly $1.7 million on program expenses in the 2007 fiscal year, the latest full-year figures available, which is about 74.4 percent of its total budget. 
 A group that sets out standards for charitable accountability, the BBB Wise Giving Alliance, has recommended that at least 65 percent of a charity's total expenses be spent on program activities. 
 The Senate committee did not comment on Mr. Gault's assertion, but in its report, investigators criticized the reliability of the Veterans Corporation's accounting because no separate external audit had been done since 2006. Audits are required for nonprofits giving away more than $500,000 a year in federal money, but the Veterans Corporation maintains that it is not required to have an audit. 
 David K. Rehbein, the American Legion's national commander, said the report showed the Veterans Corporation ''has failed miserably in meeting its obligation to the entire veterans' community and should be held accountable.''
 The Veterans of Foreign Wars called for a halt to the group's federal financing. 
 Congress set up the separate entity nearly a decade ago to help veterans as the economy shifted toward services and technology and away from manufacturing. The Veterans Entrepreneurship and Small Business Development Act of 1999 authorized a national network of business resource centers where veterans could learn the skills, one on one, required to open and maintain small businesses.
 But, in 2006, the Veterans Corporation decided that it wanted to provide small-business assistance through other existing organizations, and began reducing funds for the centers. For the 2008 fiscal year, the $180,000 budget of the Northeast Veterans Business Resource Center in Boston was cut to zero, its director, Louis J. Celli, said. The other two centers, in St. Louis and in Flint, Mich., each received only about half of their previous $140,000 grants. 
 Veterans began complaining that they were not getting help they needed, said Joseph Sharpe, deputy director of economics for the 2.7 million-member American Legion.
 ''They were running the three centers into bankruptcy,'' Mr. Sharpe said of the Veterans Corporation, which was found wanting in two previous investigations, in 2003 and 2004, by the Government Accountability Office. 
 The Senate underscored those findings, concluding that the organization had been ''troublingly irresponsible in its use of taxpayer dollars.'' Its top two executives -- including the former president Walter Blackwell who resigned this year -- received compensation far higher that a typical charity's average compensation, according to the 25-page report.
 In the 2007 fiscal year, Mr. Blackwell was paid $187,394, some $42,000 more than the average for nonprofits, according to the federal report, citing Charity Navigator, a nonprofit organization that evaluates how charities spend their money. The combined compensation for Mr. Blackwell and his vice president, John Madigan, was $338,172, or more than 22 percent of the nonprofit's Congressional appropriation for the 2007 fiscal year, according to the Senate inquiry.
 The report also found that executives dined at expensive restaurants, including Bobby Van's Steakhouse in Washington -- where the group is based. More than $5,000 was spent on two meals there -- with no business justification listed -- according to the Senate committee's findings.
 The report blamed the organization's board for lack of oversight. Mr. Madigan, who is acting president, said the nonprofit had made strides in meeting its objectives, which are not only to help veterans start businesses but also to become bonded, to obtain loans and government contracts and to enroll in business courses.
 The Senate committee said its report also found that the nonprofit had never achieved the Congressionally mandated goal of becoming self-supporting. In fiscal year 2007, it spent $240,000 on fund-raising, but collected only $64,000 from donors, the report found.
 The investigation, Mr. Kerry said, ''made me angry as someone who has worn the uniform of my country.''
 The Veterans Corporation is currently operating on a Congressional extension of federal financing, which will expire in March 2009. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (91%); VETERANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); AUDITS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); DISABLED PERSONS (68%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008



1060 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 536 words

 BODY:
DNA MAY THWART DRUGS For more than two years, Jody Uslan, left, had been taking the drug tamoxifen to prevent a recurrence of breast cancer. Then a new test suggested that because of her genetic makeup, the drug was not doing her any good. She is not alone. Specialists say that most drugs, whatever the disease, work for only about half the people taking them. 
 A THREAT TO PROSPERITY Blacks find their economic well-being threatened like no other racial or ethnic group as the auto industry fights for survival. [A1.] 
 The Treasury Department has agreed to take a stake of $5 billion in GMAC, the auto lending company, and to lend General Motors money to reorganize GMAC as a bank holding company. [B1.]
 The Ssangyong Motor Company of South Korea and its Chinese majority shareholder are seeking financial help from the South Korean government. [B4.]
 MADOFF CASE HEADS TO COURT United States District Court Judge Louis L. Stanton, who is handling the civil case against Bernard L. Madoff, will be urged on Wednesday to consider whether to broaden the protections for investors in what Mr. Madoff called a $50 billion Ponzi scheme. [B2.]
 SHIFTING SURPLUSES The United States, with its credit-based economy, has long made it possible for other nations, like China and Germany, to build up trade surpluses. Now that has changed. [B1.]
 CRISIS TOUCHES MEXICO Mexico's economic policies, which reduced debt and tamed inflation, have not saved it from the pain of the global recession. [B1.]
 RETAIL FAILURES START EARLY The Parent Company, an Internet retailer, has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. [B1.] 
 GAZPROM'S TUMBLE Gazprom, the Russian natural gas monopoly, aspired to be the largest corporation in the world. But it is now deep in debt and negotiating a bailout from the Russian government. [B1.] 
 'WATCHMEN' RULING PUT OFF A federal judge has said he was inclined to decide after a hearing scheduled for Jan. 20 whether the release of the film ''Watchmen'' should be blocked. [B3.]
 A PLUS FOR THE NETWORKS Broadcast television is not experiencing the slowdown in advertising revenue that other media are, mainly because marketers see it as a way to quickly reach a big audience. Advertising. [B3.]
 UNPREDICTABLE CHECKPOINTS The inconsistency of the security checkpoint experience. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [B7.]
 A BANDWIDTH PROBLEM With the rise of business meetings using streaming video and online interaction, event organizers, hotels and conference centers are having a difficult time avoiding Internet gridlock. [B7.]
 VETERANS' GROUP IS FAULTED An organization that Congress created to help veterans start and expand small businesses was criticized in a recent Senate report for spending federal dollars on expensive dinners, first-class travel and high salaries. [B3.]
 SHARES DECLINE BUT OIL RISES Stocks declined in light trading but oil prices settled above $40 a barrel as Israeli forces continued attacks in Gaza, causing concern about the global oil supply. [B9.]
 A STANDOUT MOGUL The media mogul John Malone of Liberty Media appears to have salvaged some value for his shareholders while most of his fellow moguls have weathered a difficult year. Breakingviews. [B2.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CANCER (90%); DNA (90%); CANCER DRUGS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BREAST CANCER (90%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (74%); PARENT COMPANIES (74%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (74%); JUDGES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); ETHNICITY (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); RECESSION (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); BANDWIDTH (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); INTERNET VIDEO (69%); INTERNET RETAILING (69%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); STREAMING MEDIA (69%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); PONZI SCHEMES (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (65%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (64%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (64%); RETAILERS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); VETERANS (60%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (50%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (91%); SSANGYONG MOTOR CO (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (91%); GAZP (RTS) (91%); 003620 (KSE) (83%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GERMANY (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008



1061 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; THE LONG COUNTDOWN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2097 words

HEADLINE: The Fight Over NASA's Future

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
NASA has named the rocket Ares I, as in the god of war -- and its life has been a battle from the start.
Ares I is part of a new system of spacecraft being designed by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to replace the nation's aging space shuttles. The Ares I and its Orion capsule, along with a companion heavy-lift rocket known as the Ares V, are meant for travel to the Moon and beyond.
Technical troubles have dogged the design process for the Ares I, the first of the rockets scheduled to be built, with attendant delays and growing costs. And in an age of always-on communication, instant messages and blogs, internal debate that once might have been part of a cloistered process has spilled into public view.
Some critics say there are profound problems with the design that render the Ares I dead on arrival, while other observers argue that technical complications crop up in any spacecraft development program of this scope. 
The issues have become a focus of the members of the presidential transition team dealing with NASA, and the space program could undergo a transformation after Barack Obama takes office.
During his campaign, Mr. Obama expressed support for NASA and criticized the five-year gap between the scheduled end of the space shuttle program in 2010 and the planned debut of the first components of the new system, which NASA has given the overall name Constellation, in 2015. (During the pause in American flights -- a Bush administration plan to conserve money during the development process -- the United States will depend on Russia and its Soyuz spacecraft for trips to the International Space Station.)
But NASA, which has a $17 billion annual budget and most likely would face higher expenses if the gap is to be narrowed and the new program kept on track, will be competing for money as the new administration faces urgent and expensive crises.
The Obama transition team, in meetings and requests for information from NASA, contractors and others with a stake in the process, has asked whether increased financing can narrow the five-year flight gap by speeding development of the new spacecraft. The advisers have also asked what the costs and consequences might be of continuing to fly the shuttles for at least one or two additional flights, or even to keep flying them until the next system is ready.
The team has also asked whether the development program is truly in trouble and, if so, whether the Ares I should be modified or replaced by rockets used by the Air Force to launch satellites, or the Ariane 5 rocket from Europe.
While some involved in developing the rockets have read volumes into the questions, a spokesman for the transition team, Nick Shapiro, said that ''the role of the agency review teams is not to make recommendations on any of the issues they are reviewing. They are fact-finding and preparing the full range of options for consideration by the incoming appointees.''
Nonetheless, tensions have increased between the incoming administration and the management of NASA, whose administrator, Michael D. Griffin, is fighting to keep the program on course. If he is not reappointed by Mr. Obama, his term will end Jan. 20.
John Logsdon, a space historian at the Smithsonian Institution, said Mr. Griffin was fighting for a program ''which he's put his whole reputation on.'' On the other hand, Dr. Logsdon said, a new president needs to press and probe. ''Any administration making a choice that's going to last for a generation needs to make that choice for itself,'' he said.
A New Direction
In an enormous barnlike building at the Kennedy Space Center earlier this year, officials proudly showed off a prototype of the heat shield of the new Orion capsule, a rounded disc some 15 feet across. Startlingly large but oddly prosaic -- it looked like nothing so much as a gigantic muffin top -- it served as a powerful symbol for those at the space center. It meant the first pieces of test hardware were moving from computer screens to reality.
Metal, as they say, is being bent.
President Bush announced the new direction for the space program in January 2004, nearly a year after the loss of the shuttle Columbia underscored the risks inherent in the spacecraft -- especially the potential for debris to strike it during launching. In 2005, NASA lifted the curtain on the Constellation program, with the Orion capsule that would ride on top of its rocket, Ares I, out of the way of launch debris. It would be capable of carrying six astronauts; Apollo held three.
The Ares rockets are very different -- both from the shuttle and each other.
Ares I, uses as its first stage a lengthened solid rocket booster like the ones used by the shuttle. The second stage is a rocket that will burn liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen, as the shuttle's main engines do. Atop the stack will sit the Orion capsule.
The first test of an unmanned Ares I could take place next summer. The test, however, will use a spacecraft that is very different from the Ares I to come. It will involve a solid rocket booster of the same length that the shuttle uses, and the second stage and capsule will be dummies. Four more test flights are scheduled before the rocket is used beginning in 2015.
The Ares V is a much brawnier rocket designed to send equipment to the Moon and beyond. Its first stage includes two solid rocket boosters and a liquid-fueled set of six rocket engines.
The design process has run into technical problems. Orion is far heavier than the Apollo capsule and weight issues have required redesigns of both the capsule and the rocket, further complicating technical issues. Engineers have also had to come up with ways to dampen potentially dangerous vibrations along the shaft of the rocket as the solid rocket engine empties.
Some inside the development program have complained that it is run with a my-way-or-the-highway attitude that stifles dissent and innovation. Jeffrey Finckenor, an engineer who left NASA this year, sent a goodbye letter to colleagues that expressed his frustrations with the program. ''At the highest levels of the agency, there seems to be a belief that you can mandate reality,'' he wrote, ''followed by a refusal to accept any information that runs counter to that mandate.'' The letter was posted to the independent NASA Watch Web site.
Mr. Finckenor has refused to comment further.
Leroy Chiao, a retired astronaut who flew three shuttle missions and served aboard the space station, said that the 2004 announcement by Mr. Bush of NASA's new direction ''was a time of great optimism.'' Mr. Chiao is not involved with the Constellation project today, but he said it was clear from some of the leaked discussions that ''the program has not panned out as I, and the vast majority of people, had hoped.''
Sunny Assessments
NASA officials say the Constellation program is actually coming along well. In an interview in November, Mr. Griffin said, ''I can't imagine somebody thinks you're going to develop a new space transportation system and encounter no challenges.'' The ones NASA is encountering, he said, are ''routine in the extreme.''
Douglas R. Cooke, a leading space agency official on the Constellation program, told reporters this month that the weight and vibration issues were well on their way to being fixed. And Neil Otte, the launching chief engineer for the Constellation rockets, said that solving tough problems was what engineers did for a living. When they encounter a particularly difficult challenge, he said, their attitude is, ''Hey, it's starting to get fun now, and we're earning our money.''
Nonetheless, the chorus of naysayers that has arisen online, and even within NASA, often has a favorite alternative in mind. There is momentum behind using Atlas and Delta rockets developed for satellite delivery, which proponents say could quickly be fitted with the Orion capsule.
Mr. Griffin has proposed using satellite launchers for human flights in the past, a process known as ''human rating'' that involves upgrades to the safety and reliability of the craft. This year, he told French lawmakers that it would be a ''small step'' from today's French Ariane 5 rocket, which has launched a cargo craft to the International Space Station, to ''an independent European human spaceflight capability.'' But he opposes the plan to use the military rockets and has said that the switch would lead to delay and cost increases while risking safety.
Mr. Otte said using military rockets would be far more complex than simply putting a capsule on top of off-the-shelf equipment. Rockets built for satellites would have to be extensively modified before putting humans aboard.
A second group of engineers favors plans for a follow-up system, called Direct 2.0, that is drawn largely from old NASA plans that had been abandoned. Ross Tierney, a spokesman for the group pushing Direct 2.0, said, ''Let's have an independent review and check them all out.''
''We're confident of what the numbers are going to be, and that we'll come out on top,'' he said.
But that concept has gained few followers, and in April, Richard Gilbrech, NASA's associate administrator for exploration systems at the time, testified before the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics that ''we can't justify, based on laws of physics, the performance'' claimed by the plan's proponents.
Edward F. Crawley, a senior professor of aeronautics and astronautics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said that the Ares I was not perfect, but that when seen in the context of its use of components from the shuttle program, military systems and the coming Ares V, it was the product of sensible choices. ''I don't have any reason to believe there are major technical issues to block its success,'' he said.
Building a new rocket ''is a hard thing,'' Dr. Crawley said, and initial test flights often end in embarrassment or even disaster because everything in a very complex system has to go right. ''It's one strike and you're out,'' he said. ''If you put every day of its development under a microscope, you'll find plenty of things to write about.''
To Keep Flying or Not
When Mr. Obama decides what to do about space, he might also decide to narrow NASA's five-year flight gap simply by flying the space shuttles past the Bush administration's 2010 deadline.
Pressure has grown to keep the shuttles flying. In July, former Senator John Glenn of Ohio said in testimony before the House Science and Technology Committee that he favored flying the shuttles until the Constellation craft were ready to fly. ''I never thought I would see the day when the world's richest, most powerful, most accomplished spacefaring nation would have to buy tickets from Russia to get up to our station,'' said Mr. Glenn, the first American to orbit the Earth.
Continuing shuttle flights has also been proposed by the New Democracy Project, a group with strong ties to John D. Podesta, a co-chairman of the Obama transition team.
To Mr. Griffin, though, such proposals threaten to scuttle the new space program by hijacking billions of dollars that could go to Constellation development. He also argues that the shuttle's considerable risks make it unsafe to continue flying it. In an interview in November, Mr. Griffin defended the program he has put in place.
''U.S. civil space policy, in terms of its goals, was headed in the wrong direction after the Nixon administration,'' he said. Today, with the nation talking about going back to the Moon, exploring near-Earth asteroids and even going to Mars, ''that's the right path for us to be investing in,'' he said.
Dr. Crawley of M.I.T. said he would like to see a panel of ''unbiased and wise people'' under the new administration weigh NASA's plans against the alternatives while keeping in mind the broad range of budgetary, workforce and technical issues. ''I don't frankly know what the answer is,'' he said, ''but I know it's a lot closer and a lot more complicated answer than the one playing out in the media and the blogs.''
And then, Dr. Crawley said, get on with it. The space program's $17 billion annual budget is small in comparison with other elements of the nation's spending. But its payoff, he noted, can be big. If the new president seeks to stimulate the economy with ''domestic high-technology jobs that provide stable and rewarding employment,'' he said, ''space would be a well-placed investment.''
The Long Countdown: This is the third article in an occasional series about the shutdown of the space shuttle program and plans for the next generation of American spacecraft.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEXT FRONTIER: Clockwise, from top, an artist's rendering of a portion of a lunar lander in the Constellation program
core components of the J-2X engine for Constellation spacecraft
a depiction of a wind tunnel test demonstrating air flow over a model of the Ares V rocket
and Michael D. Griffin, the NASA administrator, who is fighting to keep the Constellation program on course. (PHOTOGRAPHS, TOP, JOHN FRASSANITO AND ASSOCIATES
MIDDLE AND ABOVE, NASA
LEFT, ELIOT J. SCHECHTER/GETTY IMAGES)(D4) DRAWINGS: Constellation: NASA is developing a new generation of spacecraft to replace its aging shuttle fleet and return astronauts to the Moon by 2020. The first spacecraft in the Constellation program is expected to be launched in 2015, five years after the scheduled end of the shuttle program.
ALTAIR LUNAR LANDER: A two-stage spacecraft, larger but similar in function to the Apollo lunar module used in 1969, will ferry four astronauts to the Moon's surface. The lander is currently in the conceptual stage.
ORION MODULE: Carried aloft by the Ares I rocket, Orion is designed to carry up to six astronauts to the International Space Station, or four on lunar missions. The module will also ferry astronauts back to Earth.
ARES I ROCKET: A two-stage rocket will carry Orion and its astronauts into Earth orbit. Orion will approach and dock with the space station, or, on lunar missions, rendezvous with the Altair lander for a combined flight to the Moon.
UPPER STAGE: After the separation of the first-stage rocket booster, Ares I's second stage will use a liquid-fueled engine to push Orion into Earth orbit.
SOLID ROCKET BOOSTER: The first stage of the Ares I is a solid rocket booster derived from those used to launch the shuttle. When its fuel is spent, the reusable booster separates and falls back to Earth.
REDUCING VIBRATION: Engineers have had to devise ways to dampen potentially dangerous vibrations along the rocket shaft.
ARES V ROCKET: Now in early design stages, the unmanned Ares V will lift the Altair lunar lander or up to 207 tons of other cargo.
UPPER STAGE: For lunar missions, the Altair lander and the upper stage, also known as the Earth departure stage, will first dock with the manned Orion module in Earth orbit. Astronauts will then use the stage's liquid-fueled engine to propel the joined spacecraft to lunar orbit.
CORE STAGE: Six liquid-fueled engines will provide massive thrust. After separation, the core stage will burn up in the atmosphere.
SOLID ROCKET BOOSTERS: Similar to the booster used by the Ares I, but with additional thrust.
 How They Stack Up: Relative sizes of the Ares I and Ares V rockets, compared with the shuttle and with the Saturn V rocket of the Apollo program.(DRAWINGS BY FRANK O'CONNELL/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (Source: NASA)(D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); SPACECRAFT (92%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (87%); SPACE SHUTTLE (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); AIR FORCES (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); SPACE STATIONS (74%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (72%); BUDGETS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH'S MOON (97%); EARTH (95%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



1062 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
City Room 
 A New Year's Gig, Miles From the Waldorf
 Listen to a clip of ''Auld Lang Syne,'' by Guy Lombardo's Royal Canadians with Al Pierson, and a video clip of the band playing ''Boo Hoo.'' Readers can also share memories of a time when Guy Lombardo was synonymous with New Year's Eve. 
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 VIDEO: A DRAMA 
 From World War II
 The trailer and clips from Vicente Amorim's period drama ''Good,'' starring Viggo Mortensen as a mild-mannered professor who becomes a Nazi.
 nytimes.com/movies
 SLIDESHOW: BEST EATING IN 2008
 Frank Bruni and Pete Wells discuss the year's highlights in New York City restaurants, including the best new restaurants, the city's best dishes and chefs to watch.
 nytimes.com/dining
 EDWARD ZWICK: THROUGH THE YEARS
 A filmography of the director Edward Zwick, whose new film ''Defiance,'' starring Daniel Craig and Liev Schreiber, opens Wednesday in New York.
 nytimes.com/movies
 RECIPES FOR HEALTH
 Martha Rose Shulman provides five healthy recipes for beans, including a Black Eyed Peas salad to eat on the first of the year for prosperity. 
 nytimes.com/nutrition
 SLIDESHOW: WHAT YOU GET FOR ... $150,000
 A slide show of a one-bedroom, one-bath set of buildings in the Sonora Desert; a three-bedroom home in Indian Lake, N.Y.; and a two-bedroom house in Leadville, Colo.
 nytimes.com/greathomes
 Economix America's Resilient City
 Wall Street is just about to finish the worst year since 1931, and the country's housing markets are finishing their worst year in recorded history. But New York has weathered downturns before, and housing prices in the city continue to do remarkably well in relative terms.
 nytimes.com/economix

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FILM (90%); HOUSING MARKET (87%); DRAMA FILMS (76%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (74%); HISTORY (71%); WORLD WAR II (71%); REAL ESTATE (71%); HOME PRICES (64%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1063 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Widen Supply Routes In Afghan War

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.; Thom Shanker reported from Washington, and Richard A. Oppel Jr. from Islamabad, Pakistan. Pir Zubair Shah contributed reporting from Islamabad.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The United States and NATO are planning to open and expand supply lines through Central Asia to deliver fuel, food and other goods to a military mission in Afghanistan that is expected to grow by tens of thousands of troops in the months ahead, according to American and alliance diplomats and military officials.
 The plan to open new paths through Central Asia reflects an American-led effort to seek out a more reliable alternative to the route from Pakistan through the strategic Khyber Pass, which was closed by Pakistani security forces on Tuesday as they began an offensive against militants in the region.
 The militants have shown that they can threaten shipments through the pass into Afghanistan, burning cargo trucks and Humvees over recent weeks. More than 80 percent of the supplies for American and allied forces in Afghanistan now flow through Pakistan. 
 And the demands made on supply routes are expected to increase greatly as heavy materials are moved to Afghanistan to build the structures needed for an expanded American presence.
 But the new supply arrangements could leave the United States more reliant on cooperation from authoritarian countries like Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, which have poor records on democracy and human rights.
 The officials said delicate negotiations were under way not only with the Central Asian states bordering Afghanistan but also with Russia, to work out the details of new supply routes. The talks show the continued importance of American and NATO cooperation with the Kremlin, despite lingering tension over the war between Russia and Georgia in August.
 American officials said they were trying to allay Central Asian concerns by promising that the supplies would be hauled only by commercial shipping companies and would not include weapons or munitions. Officials also say that no additional American bases will be required on their territory.
 Some of Afghanistan's neighbors in the area, in particular Kyrgyzstan, already serve as staging areas for American supplies, and officials involved in the talks said these countries appeared eager to increase their role, both to help bring stability to the region and to benefit commercially from the arrangement. 
 Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan share Afghanistan's northern border and have road routes into Afghanistan. 
 Kyrgyzstan, farther to the north, allows American military cargo planes access to its airfields, in a deal that has become more important since 2005, when the government of Uzbekistan ordered the United States to leave a base there in a dispute over human rights issues. 
 American and NATO officials say concerns about Uzbekistan's human rights record are less important to the current negotiations because any new arrangements would not require increased military-to-military cooperation, no new bases are under discussion and any increased supply shipments would be handled by commercial trucking companies.
 Among other states, Kazakhstan is viewed as a potentially important supply hub, while the Caspian Sea port of Baku, Azerbaijan, could be a potential transit point for fuel and other goods arriving from Europe.
 Gen. Duncan J. McNabb, chief of the American military's Transportation Command, quietly visited nations along Afghanistan's northern border last month, according to American military officials who declined to identify the countries by name for diplomatic reasons.
 ''These countries of Central Asia recognize that this is their struggle, too, in Afghanistan,'' said one State Department official, who said those border nations had responded positively to talks on ''how to improve, regularize, expand and find additional routes in.''
 NATO officials say the attacks in Pakistan do not yet present a strategic threat to the American supply lines. But the closing of the supply line through Pakistan on Tuesday underscored the vulnerability of the route on which American and NATO forces depend.
 That route now runs more than 700 miles from the southern Pakistani port of Karachi to Peshawar, in northwestern Pakistan, and then through the Khyber Pass, the ancient gateway between Pakistan and Afghanistan. 
 Khyber and the narrow highway that winds through it were once relatively safe, guarded by tribes paid by the Pakistani government that were subject to collective punishment for crimes against travelers, no matter who committed them.
 But this year militants, including forces led by an upstart lieutenant to the Taliban warlord Baitullah Mehsud, have largely taken over the area as the Taliban have encroached on Peshawar, a frontier hub of three million people. 
 The militants now routinely attack convoys on the route, firing rocket-propelled grenades and Kalashnikov rifles. Many truck drivers have stopped making the trip because it is so deadly. This month, militants ransacked a half-dozen supply depots in Peshawar itself, burning 300 cargo trucks and Humvees destined for NATO troops.
 On Tuesday, troops from the Pakistani Frontier Corps shut down the route. Backed by helicopters, tanks and artillery, they swept through villages in the middle of the night, warning residents to stay inside all day. 
 Then, according to people interviewed by telephone from Jamrud and a nearby village, bulldozers destroyed the homes of men accused of harboring Taliban militants.
 Tariq Hayat, the top Pakistani official in the Khyber region, said that he wanted to end the operation as quickly as possible, but that it was more important to do the job well. ''We cannot do this every day,'' he said. ''We want to do a cleanup once and for all, and increase and expand our comfort zone so we don't have these recurring problems every month or two months.'' 
 Several children and at least one woman were killed, apparently by an errant artillery shell, Pakistani officials said. Residents reported hearing loud explosions and artillery fire. ''We were attacked by helicopters, and we had to run for our lives from our home,'' Taimur Khan, a Jamrud resident, said by telephone. 
 With the expected arrival of 20,000 to 30,000 American troops in Afghanistan in the coming year, the growing threat to the supply route through Pakistan has left American and NATO officials looking for greater flexibility, said Gen. John Craddock, NATO's military commander.
 About 31,000 American troops are in Afghanistan, including 14,000 in a NATO-led mission that has more than 51,000 troops. The increase outlined this month by Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, could nearly double the size of the American presence. 
 That would require taking into Afghanistan not only more war-fighting equipment, food and fuel, but also more lumber, concrete and other construction materials to build barracks and support structures. Maj. Gen. Michael S. Tucker, deputy commander of American forces in Afghanistan, said, ''There's a very huge building campaign that has already begun.'' 
 Under plans described by the American military, a goal would be to buy significant amounts of supplies locally from the Central Asian economies. 
 Other supplies could be flown to Central Asia, but heavy construction equipment and fuel would be sent by rail and then loaded on trucks for the final journey into Afghanistan.
 Some supplies could be sent directly overland from Europe or through Baltic ports, then transported along Russia's well-developed rail system to Central Asia. Russia is the principal source of fuel for the alliance's needs in Afghanistan, and the Kremlin already allows shipment of nonlethalsupplies bound for Afghanistan to travel across Russian territory by ground. 
 In a new development, NATO and Russian representatives are discussing whether NATO may be allowed to move military equipment through Russian airspace, alliance officials said.
 ''Talks are now under way for a NATO-wide air transit for military goods, not specified as nonlethal,'' said James Appathurai, NATO's chief spokesman.
 ''Those talks are going well,'' Mr. Appathurai added. ''The Russian Federation has publicly and repeatedly made it clear that this is an issue of strategic interest to them, and that despite disagreements we have over other issues, this area of cooperation has been walled off and preserved. We expect it to be deepened.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pakistani tanks on Tuesday in Jamrud during an offensive that closed the Khyber Pass, an allied supply route into Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMEER ZADA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A11) MAP: The United States and NATO are looking to Central Asian countries north of Afghanistan for more reliable supply lines. (pg.A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); AIRPORTS (75%); MARINE SHIPPING (74%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (70%); HARBORS & PORTS (69%); TRUCKING (69%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CASPIAN SEA (69%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); ASIA (96%); CENTRAL ASIA (95%); UZBEKISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); TAJIKISTAN (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); TURKMENISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1064 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: When the Watchdogs Don't Bark

BYLINE: By MAURA J. CASEY

 BODY:
Connecticut has 169 cities and towns; New Jersey has 566 municipalities. With government stacked up like layers of a wedding cake, the states need all the news coverage they can get, especially during a time of huge budget cuts. Unfortunately, the sour economy is also choking local news-gathering. 
 The Tribune Company's bankruptcy-court filing affects WTIC-TV, based in Hartford, which broadcasts nightly local news, and Connecticut's largest newspaper, The Hartford Courant, where the most recent cuts in July reduced pages and staff by 25 percent. News of the Tribune bankruptcy followed the announcement by the Journal Register Company that it would close two of the five daily newspapers that it owns in Connecticut -- The Herald of New Britain and The Bristol Press -- and some or all of the 13 weekly newspapers it owns in the state unless it finds buyers. 
 The Tribune Company's troubles are in good part because of the large debt Samuel Zell incurred when he bought the business. But the economic downturn and the Internet's inroads on print advertising have taken a toll on all newspapers. 
 In New Jersey, The Star-Ledger of Newark is letting 151 employees go after they accepted buyouts, including what was the entire opinion page staff. The Record of Hackensack plans to move out of its headquarters and is already encouraging reporters to work from home. The Asbury Park Press has endured three rounds of layoffs this year. The Times's regional coverage has been reduced, too. 
 The most obvious news events, like murders, will always be covered, and journalism on the Internet may fill some of the gap. A feisty local news Web site in New Haven, The New Haven Independent, is currently giving The New Haven Register some competition. But, for now, there's not much original local reporting on the Web, making it all the more likely that local government will get a pass.
 There's less coverage of loopholes in Connecticut's campaign financing law; few have investigated why Connecticut is burdened with the highest electricity rates in the continental United States. New Britain and Bristol have populations of more than 60,000. It's hard to see what would fill the void when its newspapers die. 
 Local television cannot be counted on to take up the slack. There's not much local TV in Connecticut. In New Jersey, where political corruption is almost a way of life, local television is dominated by news of New York City and Philadelphia. If the power of journalism is measured by its ability to spark anxiety in government officials, it's hard to imagine a more relaxing time to hold public office. MAURA J. CASEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (71%); PRINT ADVERTISING (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (61%); CORRUPTION (61%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%); UTILITY RATES (50%)

COMPANY: JOURNAL REGISTER CO (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (74%) CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1065 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: October Report Shows Home Prices Down 18% From Last Year

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
How bad has the housing market gotten? With home values dropping by faster rates each month, a real estate agent near Detroit said that if houses weren't priced as low as foreclosures, they simply would not sell.
 That grim assessment underscored numbers released Tuesday showing that home prices in 20 metropolitan areas across the country dropped at a record rate of 18 percent in October from a year earlier as the fallout from the financial collapse reverberated through the housing market.
 According to the measure, the Standard & Poor's/Case Shiller Home Price Index, all 20 cities surveyed reported one-year price declines in October. Prices in 14 of the 20 metropolitan areas fell at a record rate. 
 ''October was clearly the free-fall month,'' said David M. Blitzer, chairman of the index committee at Standard & Poor's. ''Everything was going against us in October, without exception.''
 After increasing steadily through the first part of the decade, home prices have fallen every month since January 2007, their slide accelerating as troubles in the housing market infected the broader economy and brought down financial firms. Now, as buyers sit on the sideline and a glut of unsold homes clogs the market, economists say that home prices might continue to slide throughout 2009.
 ''It's just been an absolute downward trajectory,'' said Michael Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners.
 According to another report released Tuesday, the December survey of consumers by the Conference Board, overall consumer confidence dropped to its lowest levels on record this month, after rising slightly in November, as Americans braced for a long recession.
 Only 6.6 percent of Americans said that business conditions were good, and 6.2 percent of people said jobs were plentiful, down from 23.6 percent a year ago.
 Prices in every metropolitan area in Case-Shiller's 20-city index dropped from September to October, and six of them -- Atlanta, Detroit, Minneapolis, Washington, Charlotte, N.C., and Tampa, Fla. -- posted record one-month declines. The index excludes many midsize metropolitan areas and some large cities, like Houston and Philadelphia.
 The numbers show that the cities that had the greatest gains in the housing boom are now suffering the steepest drops as a flood of lender-owned homes and distressed sales hit the market. 
 Prices in Las Vegas and Phoenix, where developers built subdivisions stretching into the desert, fell by nearly a third in October from 2008. 
 Prices in Miami fell by 29 percent. There, homeowners who tried to wait out the market are paying a price, said Madeline Romanello, a real estate agent with Douglas Elliman. Sellers who turned down offers of $700,000 for a house they had listed for $900,000 are now scrambling to sell for $550,000, she said.
 Prices in New York declined 7.5 percent in October over the same month a year ago.
 Fourteen of the 20 cities in the Case-Shiller survey posted double-digit declines for the year. The relative winner was Dallas, which had the smallest decline, 3 percent. 
 Realtors said that foreclosure sales and distressed sales dominated the market, forcing other sellers to lower their prices or take their homes off the market and wait.
 ''If the house doesn't have a foreclosure price on it, even if the owners aren't in foreclosure, buyers aren't even looking,'' said Kathy Buterakos, a real estate agent in Grand Blanc, Mich. ''It's the worst I've ever seen it.''
 To stimulate interest in open houses, she has sent out bulletins to neighbors, posted notices in gyms and local apartment complexes and had her sister put up fliers at a hospital. But no one has responded, Ms. Buterakos said.
 The Case-Shiller numbers were the latest round of bleak news for the housing sector, which is at the center of the country's broader economic troubles. Foreclosures, bad loans and collapsing housing prices contributed to the financial crisis earlier this year, and now the widening recession is dragging housing down even more.
 Last week, the National Association of Realtors reported that sales of previously owned homes, which dominate the market, fell to the lowest rate in years. Home values tumbled 13 percent in November from a year earlier, the sharpest drop in more than 40 years, the industry group reported.
 A glut of unsold houses is weighing down the market, and housing is likely to deteriorate further in 2009 as the jobs picture continues to weaken. Unemployment is at 6.7 percent, its highest point in a decade, and is expected to rise further next year, to above 8 percent.
 ''People who think they're going to lose their job don't buy a home,'' Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist at Mizuho Securities, said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Detroit, where this foreclosed house is on the market, was one of six cities with record one-month declines in home prices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The owner of this home in San Francisco is trying to sell in one of the hardest-hit markets in the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: CONSUMER CONFIDENCE: Index measures attitudes toward the economy, 1985 = 100. (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (96%); HOUSING MARKET (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); CITIES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (63%); MARKETING SURVEYS (55%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (78%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1066 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Fee Dispute Threatens Some Cable Shows

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
The increasingly bitter financial dispute between Viacom and Time Warner's cable division took a sharp turn that could result in shows like ''SpongeBob SquarePants,'' ''The Hills'' and ''The Daily Show'' being removed from the schedule in New York, Los Angeles, Dallas and several other cities on Jan. 1. 
 Viacom, the corporate parent of MTV Networks, has insisted on an increase in rights fees for its 20 channels, which include popular destinations like Nickelodeon, MTV, VH1 and Comedy Central. 
 Looking to instigate a full-scale viewer revolt, the company has placed full-page advertisements in The New York Times and several other newspapers on Wednesday featuring some of its characters, including Dora the Explorer, who is depicted crying because she is being taken away from her fans. 
 Time Warner Cable, which operates cable systems reaching about 13 million subscribers, has argued that this is no time to charge consumers more to watch television, especially when much of the content they are being asked to pay for is offered free online.
 ''Our channels provide 20 percent of their audience, and we only receive 2.5 percent of the fees Time Warner pays,'' Philippe P. Dauman, Viacom's chief executive, said Tuesday in an phone interview. Viacom also argued that its fees -- it did not disclose the exact figures -- were 65 percent lower than cable channel operators like Fox, Walt Disney and Discovery charge.
 Time Warner has retaliated, saying that Viacom is trying to squeeze more money in fees because it has had sharp declines in advertising revenue. Viacom's stock price has declined more than 57 percent this year, closing Tuesday at $18.21.
 ''The root of this is that the advertising market has gone soft and Viacom is desperate,'' said Alexander Dudley, a spokesman for Time Warner Cable. 
 Viacom executives have asked Time Warner for a rate increase of 23 cents a subscriber for the entire portfolio of channels. Mr. Dudley called that ''an outrageous increase at a time of the worst economy anyone has ever seen.'' He said the Viacom demand amounts to ''about a 35 percent increase for some channels,'' a figure Viacom executives said was nonsense. 
 Mr. Dauman acknowledged that revenue was a consideration. 
 ''It's important to protect the subscription-revenue stream,'' he said, but he cited increasing costs for popular programming.
 Time Warner will respond to Viacom's advertisement, Mr. Dudley said, by highlighting the availability of television content on the Internet. 
 ''We will be telling our customers exactly where they can go to see these programs online,'' Mr. Dudley said. ''We'll also be telling them how they can hook up their PCs to a television set.'' 
 The moves occurred after a long and fruitless negotiation. The deal between MTV Networks and Time Warner expires on Wednesday with the calendar year.
 MTV Networks cited reports by media analysts indicating that many of their networks are undervalued in existing rights agreements, when compared with what other, lower-rated networks charge. 
 For example, in a report last July for Sanford C. Bernstein, the analyst Michael Nathanson wrote that ''many of Viacom's current monthly affiliate fees (at networks such as Comedy Central, Nickelodeon, Nick at Nite, VH1 and Spike) appear to be between 41 percent and 80 percent too low given their audience delivery.''
 Mr. Dudley said that Time Warner had responded to Viacom with an offer of an undisclosed increase, which one MTV executive dismissed as a pittance. Each side said it hoped to make a deal before the midnight deadline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE TELEVISION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CABLE INDUSTRY (76%); PRINT ADVERTISING (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (74%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (71%)

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (91%); MTV NETWORKS INC (57%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (56%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (91%); TWC (NYSE) (56%); DIS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%)

PERSON: PHILIPPE P DAUMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1067 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: The Answer Lies Behind These Doors

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
The 10 best new restaurants I reviewed this year:
 1. MOMOFUKU KODavid Chang's intimate 12-seat, sushi-counter-style restaurant heads this list not only because its best dishes and moments are so memorable, but because it's a paradigm-busting experiment that, like so much of what Mr. Chang has done, heeds and adjusts for what a new generation of discerning diners cares most about -- and what fuss and frippery they can do without. 
 2. CORTON This blissful collaboration of the restaurateur Drew Nieporent and the chef Paul Liebrandt presents luxury of a more classic sort, at an admirably moment-reflecting price of $76 for a three-course prix fixe with a flurry of amuse-bouches and petit fours. And it finds Mr. Liebrandt at the sweet spot between runaway imagination and good sense.
 3. (TIE) SCARPETTA To what heights can a simple dish of spaghetti al pomodoro rise? Scarpetta provided the answer -- the sky's the limit -- and a host of other delights, its sometimes agitated setting in the meatpacking district not among them. At Scarpetta the chef Scott Conant reconnected with his early glory days at L'Impero.
 3. (TIE) CONVIVIO The post-Conant L'Impero, meanwhile, became this warmer, redder, more convivial restaurant. The chef Michael White's improved menu here pegged him as one of the city's top pasta whizzes, and he showed a Batali-esque enthusiasm for organ meat.
 5. DOVETAIL The chef John Fraser abandoned Compass but not the Upper West Side, reemerging in this somewhat plain but entirely comfortable and charming restaurant, which surpassed just about everyone's expectations, becoming more than just a neighborhood favorite.
 6. MATSUGEN In the TriBeCa space where he had tried to make a lasting success of 66, Jean-Georges Vongerichten decided to treat Japanese cooking in a more straightforward and respectful vein than 66 had treated Chinese. He left the menu and cooking to a team from Tokyo, who rewarded him with underexposed, compelling dishes and excellent soba.
 7. ADOUR ALAIN DUCASSE Mr. Ducasse ratcheted down the opulence of his previous fancy Manhattan restaurant in the Essex House with this successor in the St. Regis, notable for Sandro Micheli's exceptional desserts and for a blockbuster (and pricey) wine list. I'd rank this higher if a first-year change in executive chef and Mr. Ducasse's distant involvement didn't raise questions about consistency.
 8. BAR BOULUD This relatively casual effort from Daniel Boulud doesn't get everything right, but for its outstanding charcuterie, an exemplary wine list and scattered other delights, it deserves big applause.
 9. ALLEGRETTI Alain Allegretti, a French chef who worked under Mr. Ducasse, struck out on his own, choosing an odd block and a risky moment for saucy cooking that was, at its best, a heady ticket straight to Provence.
 10. MIA DONA The chef Michael Psilakis, perhaps more prescient about the economy than some peers, responded to the kudos for his haute Greek restaurant Anthos with this Italian restaurant of big flavors and big portions at accessible prices.
 FRANK BRUNI 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THEY IMPRESSED: Experts in soba and other Japanese fare run the kitchen at Matsugen, left. Below, Convivio, which got a new chef. Adour, far left, in the St. Regis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE, EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TOP, REBECCA MCALPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); MENU PRICES (78%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (66%)

COMPANY: SKY'S THE LIMIT (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (69%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1068 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Glamour Still Rules, but With Fewer Debutantes

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
You had to look hard amid the four-foot floral sculptures and the Vera Wang originals to see signs of the economy's collapse at the International Debutante Ball at the Waldorf-Astoria on Monday night.
 There was the daughter of the Duchesse de Magenta, Pelagie de Mac Mahon, a willowy 18-year-old with chestnut hair who is a great-great-granddaughter of a 19th-century French president. And there were the two sisters from Hong Kong, daughters of a heart surgeon and a jewelry designer, who stayed not two nights but two weeks at the Waldorf, passing the days on the lookout for designer dresses. 
 Champagne flowed. Men in tails waltzed and fox-trotted with debutantes in long white gowns to music by the 12-piece Lester Lanin Orchestra, a fixture at the ball almost since its inception in 1954. And shortly before midnight, the young debutantes, each flanked by a civilian and military escort, ascended the stage for a deep curtsy.
 But the experienced hands, including mothers like the duchesse who made their own debuts in society in this very ballroom, could see the subtle difference in the layout of the hall. And there were fewer debutantes, 47 this year rather than the 58 at the last biennial ball in 2006, and far fewer guests -- 662 instead of 976. 
 The director of the ball, Margaret Hedberg, brushed off the $14,000 cost of a table -- ''Watches cost more,'' she said -- although she acknowledged that perhaps the deepening recession accounted for the smaller crowd. 
 ''People are not going overboard,'' said Mrs. Hedberg, who came out in 1963 and is the niece of the ball's founder, Beatrice Dinsmore Joyce. ''They're not taking three or four tables and inviting everybody's friends' friends. It's a little more conservative that way.''
 Some parents recognized the disconnect between the opulence inside the hotel's gilded doors and the mood beyond them; others took comfort in the fact that the event raises hundreds of thousands of dollars for charity, mainly the Soldiers', Sailors', Marines', Coast Guard and Airmen's Club, a hotel in Manhattan for military members and their families.
 Roxanna Armstrong Himelrick of Scottsdale, Ariz., who was introduced at the 1976 ball, said that when she remarried in the fall, she chose to elope rather than have a lavish celebration, in part so she could afford the ultimate coming-out party for her 18-year-old daughter, Brittany Blair Mack.
 ''Everybody said you shouldn't do it because of the economy,'' Mrs. Armstrong Himelrick said. ''It is extravagant. But I felt it was important for my daughter, and things might get worse. This might be her last chance.''
 Steeped in tradition, the ball is one of the most exclusive debutante galas in New York and around the country, and this year it included young women from 11 states and from England, France, Germany, Greece and Hong Kong. 
 The biggest contingent was from Texas, 11 women who had perfected their signature curtsy, the ''Texas dip,'' which drew gusts of applause from the crowd. The most recognizable name in the pale pink program, which featured full-page black-and-white portraits of the evening's stars, was a Huffington -- Christina Sophia Huffington, daughter of Arianna, the founder of The Huffington Post Web site, and Michael, the oil heir and former California congressman.
 One of the debutantes, Anne Moody, a freshman at New York University from Jacksonville, Fla., said she would not be heading back to her dorm room after the ball because her parents kept an apartment in the Pierre Hotel.
 ''I love it,'' Ms. Moody, 18, said after shaking hands for an hour and a half in the receiving line, wearing a Vera Wang gown inspired by Audrey Hepburn and Mikimoto pearls. ''I'm networking.''
 The ball, which began at 7 p.m. and stretched past 2 a.m. on Tuesday, was by no means the only chance for the women to meet and greet one another or the many young men orbiting them. 
 On Sunday, there was a mother-daughter brunch at a catering spot off Fifth Avenue. That was followed by a party for 325 guests in the Grand Ballroom of the Plaza Hotel. And a final reception at the University Club on Tuesday allowed the debutantes to ''get all together and exchange e-mails,'' Mrs. Hedberg said. ''And then there are a lot of things going on that I don't know about.''
 These days, the gala seems less about unveiling marriageable young women than it once did, and more about having a swell party for a rarefied segment of society.
 ''It's not the 19th century, where it was being brought out on the marriage market,'' said Suzanne Tufts of Forest Hills, Queens, whose daughter, Abigail, a freshman at Dickinson College, was among the guests of honor. ''It really is stepping onto an international forum.''
 Ms. Tufts, a consultant for nonprofit organizations, said she took pleasure in watching her daughter, a volleyball player and rower, dance in a dress from Bergdorf Goodman with delicate white bows on the skirt. ''I'm used to seeing her in sweats and spandex,'' Ms. Tufts said. ''So kid gloves and satin is a nice contrast.''
 Ms. Tufts noted that the event raised money for charity, adding, ''The planning was done a year ago, so you don't renege on your support.''
 Mrs. Hedberg was keenly aware that the ball might seem out of step with the times, but she too pointed out that most of the women learned that they were chosen as debutantes long before the financial crisis hit. ''They made their plans and sent their checks,'' she said. ''And I really can't cancel it in September or October because I signed so many contracts in February with the orchestra and florist and hotel. We all didn't quite see what was happening.''
 And if all those little edible gold leaves adorning the chocolate boxes that contained plump raspberries for dessert seemed a little excessive, Mrs. Hedberg found a sunny side in the spillover effects. ''There are a lot of people who make those dresses and are happy that these gals bought them,'' she said. ''There are a lot of waiters working tonight, so it's doing something for the economy. Plus, it's for charity. So we ought to have some good feelings about that. We can't beat ourselves up about it.''
 Looking back on past recessions, she said, ''We got through '87 and '93, and life does have a way of going on. 
 ''I don't mean it in a flippant way, but romance and having fun and looking pretty -- I hope that doesn't go away.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Texas debutantes practicing a curtsy called the ''Texas dip'' for the International Debutante Ball. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEATRICE de GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 The ball introduced 47 women, 11 fewer than in 2006. With the recession in mind, the event's director said, ''People are not going overboard.'' At left, Alexandra Chunn waiting her turn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEATRICE de GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); FAMILY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); JEWELRY (75%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (68%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (67%); CONSERVATISM (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1069 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; FEED ME; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: A Grown-Up Takes the Long View

BYLINE: By ALEX WITCHEL

 BODY:
I HAVE a weakness for steakhouses, even though I don't love steak. Lamb chops are my game. And the Flintstone-size baked potatoes.
 But more than the food, two things draw me to steakhouses: the lack of pretense and the still somewhat alluring notion that because these places feel related to the starter restaurants our parents took us to, lo, those many decades ago -- white tablecloths, bad oil paintings, women at the next table wearing too much perfume -- they are operated by, and inhabited by, grown-ups. So many men, talking so loudly! They must know what they're talking about, right?
 They're at Sparks, ordering super-Tuscans for tables of 10. They're at the Post House, shaking Mayor Bloomberg's hand, telling him how to run the city. They're at Keens, a lineup of massive backs hunched together, divvying up season tickets to the Rangers or the Knicks. Let the games begin! 
 Or not. In hard times like these, steakhouses get hit hard. All those men tend to lower their voices and head home, wait for things to turn around. Whenever that may be. 
 Instead of contemplating panic, I wanted to talk to someone with the long view, a grown-up with some perspective, who was still getting out of bed in the morning, no matter what the Dow -- or Bernie Madoff -- was doing. I called Ben Benson. 
 Though he made an immediate disclaimer on being a grown-up, Mr. Benson has been operating restaurants in Manhattan for almost 40 years. Before he opened the steakhouse that bears his name at 123 West 52nd Street in 1982, he worked with Alan Stillman, a fellow alumnus of Bucknell. Mr. Stillman opened T. G. I. Friday's in the late '60s and brought Mr. Benson on for its sequels: Thursday's, Wednesday's and Tuesday's. The two men opened Smith & Wollensky in New York together in 1977; Mr. Benson remains a part owner. 
 Mr. Benson met me at his restaurant on a Friday evening, pre-Christmas, wearing a cheerful red sweater. For someone who runs a man's man's place (which is more cordial to women than many of its counterparts), he can seem a bit tentative. That is only because he started losing his sight as a child -- no one knows why -- and by the time he was in college, he was legally blind. ''People think I'm a snob,'' he told me. ''It's difficult because I can't make eye contact.''
 That's O.K. His devoted staff of managers -- and waiters -- some of whom started with him at Wednesday's in 1969, make it instead. And customers in the know seek him out, whether to praise or to complain. Because the Brooklyn-born Mr. Benson is on top of every detail. ''My spoon is always in the creamed spinach,'' he likes to say. 
 We sat down in the dining room, which looked bustling to me. ''The numbers are good until you compare them with last year,'' he said. ''Last night we did 350, which is terrific. Last year on the same night, we did 450.''
 The restaurant, a classic New York steakhouse, stretches its boundaries to include entrees like fried chicken, pork chops and shrimp scampi. Serving sizes here are legend -- the fried chicken is a three-pound chicken, cut in eighths ($29.50). 
 ''Because of our portion size, there's been more sharing,'' Mr. Benson said. ''Across the board, people are ordering less. Our party room has been empty some nights, which is rare this time of year. Our pre-theater is off on the weekends. Radio City cut back on their shows and we feel it.''
 ''Up to date we're off 6.2 percent,'' he went on. ''In the restaurant business, if you're off between 5 and 10 percent, you're knocking profits down 25 percent. What surprises me is our food cost has not come down. We'd like to lower our prices but we can't. I can't do a $28 plate of pasta that has a food cost of $1.12. That's why eating at a steakhouse is always more of a value than going to the French or Italian celebrity chef. I can't disguise the fish, buy it cheap and put sauce on it. We buy the best and prepare it simply.''
 I appreciated his honesty. But he doesn't have a crystal ball. ''In the '89 recession we were resistant,'' he said. ''After 9/11 we bounced back. But this is lingering. Last summer, we were supported by the Japanese and European tourists who thought we were an inexpensive restaurant. I'm concerned about whether they'll be back this summer.''
 All things considered, though, he's doing pretty well. ''I have a loyal base,'' he said. Even his customers at Lehman Brothers, now Barclays, in the building upstairs, and UBS, across the street, are still coming, especially at lunch. ''People who usually go to steakhouses every other week now are going once a month,'' he said. ''This place may not make any money next year, I don't know. I held back money this year, in case. However we got through before, we'll get through again.''
 A party of six came in and was seated at the next table. And a party of four next to them. He allowed himself a small smile. ''What's going on around here, I can't complain,'' he said.
 Which was grown-up enough for me.
 Recipe: Bloody Bull Adapted from Ben Benson's Steakhouse Time: 1 minute
 Adapted from Ben Benson's Steakhouse
 Time: 1 minute
 1 1/2 ounces (3 tablespoons) vodka of choice
 1 1/2 ounces Campbell's double-strength beef broth
 1 1/2 ounces tomato juice
 2 dashes (about 1/4 teaspoon) Lea & Perrins Worcestershire sauce
 2 dashes celery salt
 1 dash Tabasco sauce
 Light sprinkling of freshly ground black pepper
 Lemon wedge, lime wedge or celery stalk, for garnish.
 Fill a 10-ounce highball glass with ice cubes and add vodka, beef broth, tomato juice, Worcestershire sauce, celery salt, Tabasco and black pepper. Stir gently. Garnish with lemon or lime wedge or celery stalk.
 Yield: 1 cocktail.
 Recipe: Bull Shot Adapted from Ben Benson's Steakhouse Time: 1 minute
 Adapted from Ben Benson's Steakhouse
 Time: 1 minute
 1 1/2 ounces (3 tablespoons) vodka of choice
 3 ounces ( 1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons) Campbell's double-strength beef broth
 2 dashes (about 1/4 teaspoon) Tabasco sauce
 2 dashes Lea & Perrins Worcestershire sauce
 Sprinkling of freshly ground black pepper
 Lemon or lime wedge, for garnish.
 Fill a 10-ounce highball glass with ice cubes and add vodka, beef broth, Tabasco, Worcestershire sauce and black pepper. Stir gently. Garnish with lemon or lime wedge.
 Yield: 1 cocktail.
 Recipe: Bloody Bull Adapted from Ben Benson's Steakhouse Time: 1 minute
 Adapted from Ben Benson's Steakhouse
 Time: 1 minute
 1 1/2 ounces (3 tablespoons) vodka of choice
 1 1/2 ounces Campbell's double-strength beef broth
 1 1/2 ounces tomato juice
 2 dashes (about 1/4 teaspoon) Lea & Perrins Worcestershire sauce
 2 dashes celery salt
 1 dash Tabasco sauce
 Light sprinkling of freshly ground black pepper
 Lemon wedge, lime wedge or celery stalk, for garnish.
 Fill a 10-ounce highball glass with ice cubes and add vodka, beef broth, tomato juice, Worcestershire sauce, celery salt, Tabasco and black pepper. Stir gently. Garnish with lemon or lime wedge or celery stalk.
 Yield: 1 cocktail.
 Recipe: Bull Shot Adapted from Ben Benson's Steakhouse Time: 1 minute
 Adapted from Ben Benson's Steakhouse
 Time: 1 minute
 1 1/2 ounces (3 tablespoons) vodka of choice
 3 ounces ( 1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons) Campbell's double-strength beef broth
 2 dashes (about 1/4 teaspoon) Tabasco sauce
 2 dashes Lea & Perrins Worcestershire sauce
 Sprinkling of freshly ground black pepper
 Lemon or lime wedge, for garnish.
 Fill a 10-ounce highball glass with ice cubes and add vodka, beef broth, Tabasco, Worcestershire sauce and black pepper. Stir gently. Garnish with lemon or lime wedge.
 Yield: 1 cocktail.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (63%); BLINDNESS (60%); PAINTING (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (56%); NEW YORK RANGERS (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%); BERNARD MADOFF (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1070 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Telemarketers Take Hefty Share of Charity Dollars, Cuomo Says

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
On average, just 39 cents of every dollar raised by commercial telemarketing companies for charities in New York State actually go to charity, the state attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, concluded in a report issued on Tuesday. The balance, he found, is used to pay fees and expenses associated with professional fund-raising. 
 The report, issued by the attorney general's Charities Bureau, which oversees tax-exempt nonprofit agencies in New York, is intended to ''help New Yorkers to make more informed decisions when giving to charities across the state,'' Mr. Cuomo said. 
 The report examined 553 fund-raising campaigns that were conducted in 2007 on behalf of 442 charities using telemarketers. The campaigns raised a total of $178.7 million. About 60.5 percent of the total, $108.2 million, was paid to the telemarketers as fees and other costs of the campaigns, leaving charities with less than 40 percent of the money actually raised for their causes. 
 ''Especially in today's economy, when New Yorkers give their hard-earned money to charity, they expect the donation to make a difference and to help those in need,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''This report arms New Yorkers with the necessary knowledge to make informed decisions about contributing, and also encourages charities across the state to find more effective ways to raise money.''
 The report, ''Pennies for Charity, Where Your Money Goes: Telemarketing by Professional Fund Raisers,'' summarized information filed with the Charities Bureau by professional fund-raisers who conducted telemarketing campaigns in 2007. Among the report's most significant findings: 
 In nearly four-fifths of the campaigns, 436 of the553, the charities kept less than 50 percent of the funds raised.
 In nearly half, 271, charities received less than 30 percent of the funds raised.
 In nearly one-tenth, 51, the charities actually lost money.
 In only 45 of the 553 campaigns did the charity keep at least 65 percent of the money raised, the amount deemed acceptable under the Better Business Bureau's standards for charitable organizations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (92%); TELEMARKETING (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LAWYERS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1071 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Parched For Credit

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH and VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
''Credit, the disposition of one man to trust another, is singularly varying,'' Walter Bagehot, the financial journalist, wrote 135 years ago. ''In England, after a great calamity, everybody is suspicious of everybody; as soon as that calamity is forgotten, everybody again confides in everybody.''
 He might have been describing modern-day Wall Street, where trust -- and credit -- are in short supply. 
 The financial crisis began in the credit markets, and eventually it will end there. But as the financial industry rounds out one of the most wrenching years in its history, bankers and policy makers are struggling to see the way out of this mess. Despite triage by Washington and trillions of dollars of taxpayers' money, credit is not flowing nearly as much as many had hoped. 
 The problem, as Mr. Bagehot observed, is trust -- or rather, the lack of it. Even after receiving millions, in some cases billions, of dollars from the government, banks are reluctant to lend money. Crucial parts of the financial system have stopped functioning. The exuberance of the boom, which led bankers to make loans to people who could not repay them, has given way to a seemingly intractable fear of making any loans at all. 
 How long this situation lasts will determine the immediate course of the nation's economic life. Will the recession, already a year old, drag on through 2009 -- or even longer? Will the stock market revive soon or shrivel further? What of the beleaguered housing market?
 The answers to those questions will depend on the availability of credit in all its forms -- home mortgages, personal and business loans and bonds sold by corporations, states and municipalities. For now, many banks are hoarding money rather than lending it. Their holdings of cash have nearly tripled to just over $1 trillion in the last three months, according to Federal Reserve data. 
 In the capital markets, bond investors who embraced risk in good times have abandoned all but the safest of investments. Many have rushed to buy ultra-safe United States Treasury securities, driving the yields on those investments to historic lows. Once the credit markets stabilize, bankers hope, investors will start buying other types of debt, unlocking the flow of credit.
 A big worry is the future of securitization, a key mechanism of modern banking that enables banks to bundle loans and bonds into securities for sale to investors. This crucial market is moribund now that many of its creations have plunged in value. Some question when, or if, certain areas of securitization will revive. 
 Securitization, which works like a shadow banking system, has radically changed banking and the credit markets in recent years. Three decades ago, banks supplied $3 out of every $4 of credit worldwide. Today, because of securitization, that share has dropped to about $1 in $3. 
 Unless financial companies can securitize debt -- which, in turn, depends on investors' willingness to buy the bundled loans -- credit will remain tight even if banks resume lending. 
 ''What started in 2008, and is going on now, is the undoing of that shadow banking system,'' said Alex Roever, a short-term credit analyst at J. P. Morgan Securities. 
 The Federal Reserve and Treasury are trying to fill the void, at least in part. 
 Since late November, news that the government planned to acquire billions of dollars in mortgage securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two mortgage finance giants, has driven down home loan rates. The national average 30-year fixed mortgage rate has fallen a full percentage point, to just over 5 percent, setting off a huge refinancing boom. 
 The drop in mortgage rates, coupled with a steep decline in government bond yields, is prompting investors to reconsider riskier, albeit higher-yielding investment-grade corporate bonds. Since October, the difference between the yields on such bonds and comparable Treasuries -- a measure of the risk investors perceive in corporate debt -- has fallen to about 4.3 percent, from 5.7 percent. 
 That's a good sign. 
 ''October was the peak, during which everybody shut down and stopped doing a lot of things,'' said Curtis D. Ishii, the senior investment officer for fixed income at Calpers, the large California pension fund. ''In December, things got a little better.''
 Still, many bond investors and analysts remain cautious. Despite the government interventions, and indeed even because of them, many investors are reluctant to act until they are sure of Washington's next step. 
 ''Investors will regain their confidence when they are sure they understand the rules of the road,'' said Jaret Seiberg, a financial policy analyst at the Stanford Group, a research and consulting firm in Washington. ''In the past 18 months, those rules have been rewritten so many times that nobody is sure when the government will intervene and when it won't.''
 Banks are struggling to navigate various crosscurrents from Washington and Wall Street. Regulators are urging banks to make loans, but they are also instructing them to reduce the amount of money they borrow themselves. Credit card lenders are facing new rules that the industry claims will restrict credit just when consumers need it most. 
 In such an environment, many investors refuse to part with their cash.
 ''The government is trying to use its full faith and credit as a substitute for investor confidence,'' Mr. Seiberg said.
 A crucial test case may come in February, when policy makers try to kick-start consumer and small-business lending with the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility, or TALF. 
 TALF is supposed to help lure investors back to the market for bonds backed by auto and student loans, credit card receivables and small-business debts. Alarmed by rising delinquencies, many investors are shunning these securities. That, in turn, has choked credit, since banks can no longer fashion the loans they make into securities. 
 To allay investors' fears, the Federal Reserve, with the aid of the Treasury Department, will lend money against highly rated asset-backed securities. But the benefits may not trickle down to consumers for several months.
 After one of the industry's worst years on record, many banks are bracing for still more losses in 2009. The collapse of Lehman Brothers in September is still reverberating through the markets: many banks were forced to absorb assets that investors were no longer willing to buy. 
 ''The banks are somewhat fearful,'' said Hyun Song Shin, a Princeton economics professor. ''The fundamentals look somewhat less promising, and the incentive to hoard capital will be stronger.''
 The troubles in the economy, of course, only add to the anxiety. Investors and bankers will be reluctant to extend credit until home prices stop falling and until more people are finding jobs than losing them. In a struggling economy, even a seemingly solid loan can turn bad quickly.
 Analysts say they see few signs that the recession will end quickly, even if the Obama administration enacts a huge fiscal stimulus plan that, according to some reports, could near $1 trillion. All of that spending will not revive the job market and lift housing values overnight.
 ''I don't think it will be a V-shaped bottom,'' said Donald S. Galante, senior vice president for fixed income at MF Global, the securities dealer. ''It might be a double-dip or it might be a pan-shaped bottom.'' 
 Or as Mr. Bagehot observed, confidence -- and credit -- will return when bankers start to forget the pain of 2008. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Three casualties of the financial crisis: Lehman Brothers Holdings filed for bankruptcy protection in September
both Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual were sold to JPMorgan Chase. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS
MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 In October, just days after an initial offer from Citigroup,Wells Fargo made a successful bid for the Wachovia Corporation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHUCK BURTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIZATION (89%); BONDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); BOND ISSUES (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1072 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Shares Climb as G.M. Gets More Money

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks climbed on Tuesday after the government expanded its bailout of the auto industry, bolstering hopes that lawmakers would continue to take steps to minimize the severity of the yearlong recession. 
 The Bush administration said late Monday it would extend an additional $1 billion loan to General Motors and take a $5 billion stake in GMAC, the automotive financing company, in the latest move to ease the credit crisis.
 ''The GMAC news is the driver of the lot,'' said Steve Sachs, director of trading at Rydex Investments in Rockville, Md. ''The government has been telling us for months that they will do whatever it takes, and there is probably more of it in store as we get to the inauguration and a few weeks past that.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 184.46 points, or 2.17 percent, to 8,668.39. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 21.22 points, or 2.44 percent, to 890.64. The Nasdaq added 40.38 points, or 2.67 percent, to 1,550.70.
 The S.& P. has risen almost 18 percent since hitting an 11-year low on Nov. 20, but is still down about 40 percent for 2008.
 The Nasdaq was lifted by shares of big-cap technology companies that have larger cash reserves and are seen as better positioned to withstand the economic slump.
 Shares of Qualcomm, the wireless chip maker, rose 2.5 percent to $34.94, while the software maker Oracle gained 3.5 percent to $17.83, putting them among the top gainers on the Nasdaq. 
 I.B.M. was the leading advancer on the Dow, rising 2.8 percent to $83.55.
 Investors shrugged off another round of economic reports that pointed to a deepening recession. Prices of single-family homes fell a record 18 percent in October, while consumer confidence also fell to a record low.
 In an effort to stem the recession, lawmakers have extended aid to many companies, most recently to the automakers G.M. and Chrysler, a unit of the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management.
 On Tuesday, GMAC announced easier financing terms for car and truck buyers and G.M. announced zero percent financing for some vehicles, which could help bolster sales.
 This month, the government agreed to extend $17.5 billion to G.M. and Chrysler in an attempt to prevent their collapse.
 G.M. rose 5.6 percent to $3.80, while Ford added 3.2 percent to $2.29.
 Volume was slim on the New York Stock Exchange, where about 948.8 million shares changed hands, far below last year's estimated daily average of 1.90 billion. On the Nasdaq, about 1.4 billion shares traded, well below last year's daily average of 2.17 billion.
 Advancers outnumbered decliners on the NYSE by a ratio of about 4 to 1, while on the Nasdaq about two stocks rose for every one that fell.
 Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note was up 14/32, at 115 3/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was 2.05 percent, down from 2.10 percent late Monday.
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auctions of four-week bills and 62-day cash management bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 THE FAVORITES: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. (Source: Charles Schwab) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); SALES FINANCING (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (64%)

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (85%); ORACLE CORP (82%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); QUALCOMM INC (54%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (82%); GM (NYSE) (58%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (85%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (85%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (82%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1073 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 390 words

 BODY:
END OF DRUG MAKERS' TRINKETS Dr. Jeffrey F. Caren, below, has more than 1,200 branded pens, but that collection will stop growing in 2009, when the drug industry begins a voluntary moratorium on goodies. [A1.] 
 NEW AUTO STRATEGIES GMAC, the financing affiliate of General Motors, is easing credit requirements and offering zero percent interest on some models. [B1.]
 Ford is introducing a new hybrid, a midsize sedan, which it says is more fuel-efficient than the similar-size Camry by Toyota. [B1.]
 BRACING FOR 2009 Credit, as well as investors' trust, is in short supply. But the Federal Reserve and the Treasury are trying to reverse that. [B1.]
 INQUIRY INTO TAX HAVENS Prosecutors in the Bernard L. Madoff case are said to be investigating whether offshore accounts were used to avoid taxes. [B1.]
 GOOD TIME TO RENT In Manhattan, it's a renters' market for businesses as prices fall and availability climbs. [B6.]
 WEB'S NEW LANGUAGE NEEDS As Internet use outside North America grows, so does the need for sites to cater to non-English speakers. [B1.]
 LEHMAN WANTS MORE TIME Lehman Brothers Holdings asked the court for a six-month extension to file its Chapter 11 reorganization plan. [B4.]
 VILLAGE VOICE LAYOFFS Three employees of the Village Voice are laid off, including Nat Hentoff, a columnist for the paper for 50 years. [B4.]
 BIOFUEL FLIES HIGH Air New Zealand tests a jet fuel made from the jatropha plant as it looks for resources that are more environmentally friendly. [B5.]
 A FRESH START Despite the headaches in the Rust Belt, the University of Michigan has nine buildings under construction, trying to stay competitive. [B6.]
 SQUABBLE MAY BLOCK COLBERT A fight between Time Warner and Viacom could cause some viewers to lose access to popular cable channels. [B8.]
 RECORD HOUSING FALL Home prices fell 18 percent in October, according to a major index, and consumer confidence hit a low, the Conference Board said. [B3.]
 NEW BRANDS, OLD AGENCIES As advertising agencies struggle, some are creating their own products. Advertising. [B3.]
 DEAL FOR CONSUMER BLOGConsumerist.com, a blog once owned by Gawker Media, will be bought by the publisher of Consumer Reports. [B3.]
 GAZPROM HOLDS FAST Gazprom, the Russian natural gas monopoly, has refused to lift its threat to cut off supplies to Ukraine. [B2.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (88%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); SEDANS (77%); BIOMASS (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); BIOFUELS (71%); JET FUEL (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (66%); WRITERS (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); CABLE TELEVISION (62%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (61%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (64%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); AIR NEW ZEALAND LTD (54%); VIACOM INC (53%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (64%); GAZP (RTS) (64%); GM (NYSE) (58%); AIZ (ASX) (54%); AIR (NZX) (54%); VIA (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (64%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (64%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (64%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (64%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (64%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (65%); UKRAINE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1074 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Ford Hybrid Emphasizes High Mileage

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
With gas prices below $2 a gallon, it would seem an inopportune time for the Ford Motor Company to introduce a hybrid sedan.
 But at 41 miles per gallon in city driving and 36 miles per gallon on the highway, Ford is confident that its Fusion Hybrid will make an impression in the marketplace.
 ''The mileage is a real grabber to the customer,'' said Mark Fields, president of Ford's Americas division. 
 The midsize Fusion sedan is Ford's strongest effort yet to break the dominance of Japanese automakers in hybrid passenger cars. The Fusion's mileage beats the 33 miles per gallon in the city and 34 miles on highways of the Camry hybrid from Toyota.
 And while the Toyota Prius has better mileage, the Fusion is a midsize car rather than a compact like the Prius.
 Ford has set a modest sales target of about 25,000 vehicles a year for the Fusion hybrid and the nearly identical Mercury Milan.
 Even so, the potential payoff to Ford is not limited to sales in the showroom, said one analyst.
 ''It's a halo vehicle, but not a halo performance car like a Shelby Mustang or a Corvette,'' said Erich Merkle of the consulting firm Crowe Horwath in Grand Rapids, Mich. ''This is a green halo vehicle.''
 Detroit's Big Three came under a barrage of criticism when they went to Washington in November seeking financial help.
 The barbs from lawmakers about Detroit's history of poor products were particularly stinging to Ford, which did not ask for immediate government assistance as General Motors and Chrysler did.
 Introducing a best-in-class hybrid will help the company prove its competitiveness, said Mr. Merkle. ''Gas prices are low, but when you look at the political environment, this car couldn't have come at a better time,'' he said.
 Still, the Fusion will face certain challenges.
 Consumers have flocked to the Prius partly because it does not share its design with any other Toyota models. The distinctive look of the Prius is a rolling advertisement for the fuel-conscious owner.
 Also, hybrid versions of larger cars and sport utility vehicles have yet to catch on in a meaningful way in the market.
 Mr. Fields said the Fusion's capabilities should more than make up for its mainstream looks.
 The Fusion will be adorned with small ''road and leaf'' badges that establish its green credentials, but in an understated way.
 ''Our approach is not to make a hybrid vehicle that looks Nascar in terms of the badges on it,'' he said. ''We want it to make a statement with its value to the customer.''
 The Fusion Hybrid will go on sale in the spring with a price tag of about $27,000, Mr. Fields said. That compares favorably with hybrid versions of the Camry and G.M.'s Chevrolet Malibu.
 The Fusion, however, beats both on fuel-economy ratings, even though it has a slightly larger gasoline engine.
 Ford said the Fusion can travel more than 700 miles on a single tank of gas. It is equipped with a smaller, nickel-metal hydride battery that produces 20 percent more power than the company's previous hybrid system used on the Escape S.U.V.
 ''It's a new chemistry that has allowed us to reduce the size of the battery, yet get more power,'' said Nancy Gioia, director of Ford's hybrid systems program.
 The car can reach speeds up to 47 miles per hour strictly in electric-drive mode. ''Many people drive on roads with 45 miles-per-hour speed limits, so we think that's the sweet spot for the car,'' said Ms. Gioia.
 Ford has also developed a braking system that captures more than 90 percent of the energy normally lost through friction during braking.
 Mr. Fields said the Fusion hybrid is important to Ford's overall goal of being viewed as a leader in automotive technology, not a follower of foreign competitors. ''It's all about bringing innovations to the marketplace, which Ford had done for many years,'' he said. ''For a period of time, we lost that leadership and we want it back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Fusion Hybrid gets 41 miles per gallon in city driving and 36 miles on the highway. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARMANDO ARORIZO/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); GREEN MARKET (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); SALES PLAN (68%); SPORTS CARS (66%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); CROWE HORWATH INTERNATIONAL (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1075 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: Postscript

 BODY:
The headline on a front-page article on Friday, on the role in the housing bubble and consumption binge in the United States played by investment from China, could have been misunderstood. The article described how the United States has been tolerating a huge trade deficit with China while Chinese authorities have invested huge sums in American government securities from savings partly created by the inflow of American dollars. ''Dollar Shift: Chinese Pockets Filled as Americans' Emptied'' meant to describe the complications of that situation; it did not mean to imply that China has profited from the weakness of the American economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (88%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (88%); HOUSING BUBBLE (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (85%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1076 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Two Agencies Mixed Signals

BYLINE: By DWIGHT CASS and JEFF SEGAL

 BODY:
The bailout for American automakers is skidding down a slippery slope.
To rescue General Motors, the Treasury Department has set aside $6 billion to prop up G.M.'s finance affiliate, GMAC. But for GMAC to ratchet up its lending, the Federal Reserve may have to take a liberal view of its capital levels. There are other disquieting signs that the Treasury and Fed are not totally in accord, which may further damage the government's credibility.
The Fed required GMAC to scrape together about $30 billion of equity in order to be considered ''well capitalized.'' And the Fed imposed further tough conditions on the company last week when it approved its application to become a bank holding company, giving it access to oodles of government lending. It is requiring GMAC's owners, Cerberus and G.M., to cut their stakes sharply over time. 
But the Treasury seems to be pushing in the opposite direction. It has lent $1 billion of the total to G.M. so that the automaker can participate in a rights offering by GMAC. That will actually increase G.M.'s stake.
There are several reasons the Treasury may have done so. The government is already purchasing $5 billion of preferred stock and warrants; by lending to G.M. rather than buying GMAC common stock directly, it gets a higher position in the pecking order if the automaker and finance company fail.
More worrying is the possibility that this $6 billion is the first of many trips to the well. After all, GMAC is still losing money, after hemorrhaging almost $7.5 billion since the start of 2007. It had $9 billion at the end of September, is raising $2 billion from shareholders, including the rights offering, and now has the $5 billion Treasury investment.
It just concluded a debt for debt-and-preferred exchange offer, the deadline for which it had to extend several times. It says enough bondholders swapped their debt for it to meet the Fed's capital requirement, but that probably doesn't leave it with a huge amount of extra cash to back new loans or act as a buffer against future losses.
If GMAC's woes pull taxpayers deeper into Detroit's mire, it's just one more reason the government should stand firm and force the automakers and their affiliates to reorganize under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
V.C.'s Bleak Outlook
A decade of too much money and dismal performance has finally caught up with the venture capital industry. Only a few well-connected firms can now raise money. This means higher returns for the survivors, but tougher times for most investors and start-ups.
Venture capital firms currently manage some $260 billion, or 14 percent more than they did during the waning days of the Internet bubble in 2000. The glut of capital ensured pitiful returns for a decade. Money was wasted on below-par ideas. Competition was fierce, so promising companies received ludicrously favorable terms.
For funds established since 1998, the best-performing fund vintage was 2002 -- and it returned a measly 5.7 percent, according to Cambridge Associates, an investment adviser. In many years, funds posted negative returns.
Reeling equity markets worldwide have put an end to the cash gusher. Only 55 firms raised new capital last quarter, down 30 percent from the year before. And firms that were unable to sell portfolio companies in 2006 and 2007 probably haven't had a single sizable exit since 2000. That could make raising new money nearly impossible for many firms.
The industry's best-connected firms, however, still seem to be able to find investors. Sequoia Capital, which financed Apple and Google, raised $930 million for a new fund in September. And this month Accel Partners, the firm behind Facebook and RealNetworks, raised two funds totaling $1 billion.
The V.C. crash will eventually mean higher returns for the survivors. They will have their pick of ideas and won't have to enter bidding wars with lesser firms.
But as the number of new venture funds decreases, investors will find it harder to get access. And start-ups will find that, with less competition, deal terms will be tighter. The coming years are likely to be tougher for both venture capitalists and the companies they seek to finance.
DWIGHT CASS and JEFF SEGAL
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The rescue of General Motors has engendered disagreement in government. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY MALERBA/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); PREFERRED STOCK (75%); COMMON STOCK (74%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); LIBERALISM (72%); STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS (72%); BONDS (62%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (50%)

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



1077 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Ad Agencies Fashion Their Own Horn, and Then Toot It

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
ON the blog Mrs. O, fans of Michelle Obama's style can view photos of the outfit she wore on a recent date with the president-elect and find out where to buy the same purple designer coat. 
 The advertising agency behind the blog, Bartle Bogle Hegarty, does not work for Mrs. Obama or for the fashion designers the site features. In fact, mrs-o.org is not for a client at all. It is an entirely new business created by the Zag division of Bartle Bogle, which the agency started to invent new brands. 
 Mrs. O and Zag are part of a business model transformation in the advertising industry. Agencies are parlaying their expertise in marketing the brands of other companies into creating and marketing their own. 
 ''Advertising is a massively old model based on the 1950s. As media has proliferated, it's become a lot harder for us to earn enough money off our ideas,'' said Ben Jenkins, the strategic director of Zag. ''Zag is about creating the properties ourselves from scratch and having 100 percent of it.'' 
 Advertising agencies have dabbled in side businesses for decades, but ''inventing their own brand, not dependent on clients' largess, is the big new thing,'' said George Parker, an ad agency consultant and writer of AdScam, a blog about the industry. As the economy worsens and ad budgets tighten, ''the creation of intellectual property and new products is something you're going to see a lot more of,'' he said. 
 The ad agency Brooklyn Brothers, for example, makes Fat Pig chocolate and is developing a furniture line. Anomaly has created the Avec Eric television series and Web site, which is the personal blog of chef Eric Ripert, and I/denti/tee, a line of music T-shirts. 
 Bartle Bogle started Zag in Britain in 2006 and put new emphasis on its United States business this year. It has produced Pick Me, a line of premade vegetarian meals; Ila Dusk, a personal security alarm; and Dogside, a social networking and e-commerce site for dog owners. 
 Zag got into the fashion blogging business in September, after Mary Tomer, a 27-year-old account planner at Bartle Bogle in New York, hatched the idea for the blog. She noticed Mrs. Obama's style during the Democratic convention, yet could not find information on what she wore. 
 She decided to create a Web site, which she described as ''a central resource for tracking her style and providing as much designer information and commentary as possible.'' 
 Instead of writing the blog in her spare time after work, like most bloggers with day jobs, she approached her employers to see if they would bankroll her new hobby. They readily agreed. 
 ''Mary was very sure about what she wanted, and when you read about the best brands, they are unrelenting,'' Mr. Jenkins said. ''That's what I preached to my clients for the last 10 years, and now we have the chance to do that ourselves.'' 
 The site posts photographs of Mrs. Obama dressed up at public events with her husband and dressed down in yoga pants and snow boots with friends. The writers describe her clothes, shoes and jewelry in vivid detail, drawing historical references to past first ladies and instructing readers where to buy similar pieces. 
 Mrs. O has made a parlor game out of what Mrs. Obama will wear to the inauguration. It has highlighted her favored Chicago designer, Maria Pinto, whom it compares to Oleg Cassini, a designer made famous by another trendsetting first lady, Jacqueline Kennedy (who later became another Mrs. O when she married Aristotle Onassis). 
 Describing a photo of Mrs. Obama meeting voters in Iowa during the campaign, Ms. Tomer wrote: ''The deep peach hue of Mrs. O's silk top, softly folded at the neckline, catches the light and jumps from the page.'' She compared it to a photograph of Mrs. Kennedy on a boat in India, wearing an apricot silk dress reminiscent of Mrs. Obama's blouse. 
 In another entry, the blog praised Mrs. Obama's creative use of a trio of brooches made by jewelry designer Erickson Beamon. In September, she wore them to pin a cardigan and a month later they appeared atop her pearl necklace at the third presidential debate. 
 ''Mrs. O also knows how to get mileage out of her accessories,'' the blog declared. ''She's a master at putting an inspired, fresh spin on the same pieces to make them feel completely brand new.'' 
 Ms. Tomer and the site's other writers find pictures of Mrs. Obama in newspapers or on the photo Web site Flickr and get permission from the photographers to post the photos free. They research her outfits by calling designers, searching on sites like Style.com and, when stumped, turning to the blog's readers. 
 At first, Bartle Bogle thought of the site as an experiment in new media. Quickly, though, ''there was a realization that there was a bigger idea here that was a very viable business opportunity,'' Ms. Tomer said. 
 The site had 120,000 readers in November and is already earning revenue from Google AdSense. It has joined Coutorture, a fashion blog network owned by Sugar Inc. that will syndicate Mrs. O content. Reversing the usual ad agency role and selling ad space instead of buying it, the blog will most likely join the ad network SyndiGO, Ms. Tomer said. 
 Its writers are on the verge of signing a book deal and are producing a T-shirt in time for the inauguration that is inspired by Mrs. Obama's jewelry and designed by a Bartle Bogle graphic designer, Ms. Tomer said. They plan to soon sell other merchandise, like tote bags. Revenue is shared among the agency and the employees who work on the site. 
 Bartle Bogle has spent less than $2,000 on the site, not counting the time that at least 14 staff members have put into writing posts, creating the logo and building the Web site. Maintaining the site is now 40 percent of Ms. Tomer's job. 
 Bartle Bogle learns lessons from the brands it builds that it applies to its client brands, Mr. Jenkins said. 
 ''They will be able to use Mrs. O to say, 'Here's what we did,''' Mr. Parker said. ''It demonstrates an expertise that's outside the old parameters of what ad agencies did.'' 
 Still, he said, the site's creators will have to tread lightly as they try to make money on the site, because audiences want blogs and social networks to be conversation tools, not marketing vessels. ''Particularly with the Obama mystique, anything that smacks of commercialism will blow up,'' he said. 
 Mrs. Obama and the Mrs. O blog succeed as brands, Ms. Tomer said, because the soon-to-be first lady's sartorial choices are thoroughly modern, from her embrace of practical yet fashionable flat shoes to her mix of high-end designer gowns and J. Crew separates. 
 ''On the campaign trail, she's in skinny jeans and a sweater set, and a few hours later on 'Larry King Live,' she's in this beautiful purple frock with a fantastic feathery brooch,'' Ms. Tomer said. ''With Michelle Obama, you see the different roles she takes on in her life reflected in her wardrobe. There's an authenticity, a realness, and people can relate.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bartle Bogle gave an account planner the green light to create the Mrs. O Web site, and now plans to syndicate its content. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); FASHION DESIGN (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); BUDGETS (72%); WRITERS (65%); DOGS (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%); MEAT FREE DIETS (50%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1078 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Afraid to Spend, or Just Broke?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''How to Get the Money Moving,'' by Bruce Bartlett (Op-Ed, Dec. 24), which says the government needs ''new policies that increase aggregate spending'': 
 Mr. Bartlett is indisputably correct when he writes, ''A stimulus is not a stimulus unless it causes an incremental increase in aggregate spending.'' But he says that increasing total spending is ''harder than it sounds'' when in fact it is quite easy. 
 For example, expanding benefits to the unemployed and working poor clearly increases aggregate spending, as the recipients do not have the luxury of saving money. Aid to state and local governments that are about to cut needed public services would avoid these spending cuts. And financing ''shovel ready'' projects puts people to work now.
 The solutions are simple and the consequences are grave. This is not a time to be timid. Steven Skulnik 
 New York, Dec. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Bruce Bartlett tells us that ''the trick is to find a way to get people and businesses to spend money over and above what they would have spent anyway.'' Isn't this how we got into trouble in the first place? 
 What's the point of going into more debt (that's what ''spending'' comes down to) just to keep the economy growing? Hasn't ''growth'' itself now become the problem?
 Adrian Kuzminski 
 Fly Creek, N.Y., Dec. 24, 2008
 The writer, a resident scholar in philosophyat Hartwick College, is the author of a book about the history of populism.
 To the Editor:
 Bruce Bartlett says that ''people are so risk-averse that they are hoarding money, refusing to spend'' and that ''tax rebates don't work because people save them.'' 
 People are not hoarding cash and refusing to spend. They are not saving. They do not have money to save. They are paying down debt or they are broke.
 Tax rebates? Mine went into my gas tank.
 The supposed prosperity that we've had in the last few years has been an illusion. It was not a housing boom or a financial bubble. It was a froth of debt that had to be kept churning or the entire thing would collapse, which it has.
 Debra Wiley
 Inglewood, Calif., Dec. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Bruce Bartlett suggests several compelling ways to get the economy moving again, but dismisses tax rebates, saying that people just save them.
 Tax rebates can work if a small change is introduced: Issue plastic credit cards instead of checks. That way, only products could be bought -- provided there was no option to redeem for cash. Roy Freedle 
 Lambertville, N.J., Dec. 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 We consumers are getting contradictory messages about spending. On the one hand, we are told that our overconsumption is polluting and cluttering up the earth with garbage, using up resources and showing insensitivity to all the needy people in the world. On the other hand, we are told that until we start buying more goods and services, the economy will be in the dumps and we will leave many of our fellow citizens jobless, homeless and hungry.
 Something is wrong with that picture. I personally don't feel like buying much of anything, and my life is a lot less cluttered. Ina Aronow 
 New Rochelle, N.Y., Dec. 24, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RYAN WALLER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (69%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (69%); HOUSING BUBBLE (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1079 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: A Rust Belt Oasis, the University of Michigan Is Spending Billions to Grow

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

DATELINE: ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

 BODY:
An army of ironworkers, masons, carpenters and laborers are swarming the campus of the University of Michigan these days, as the university undertakes a construction campaign budgeted at $2.5 billion, ranking it among the largest university building programs in the United States.
 Nine major buildings for science, medicine, health, art, business, sports, food service and student housing are in various stages of construction here. They encompass nearly three million square feet, at a cost of about $1.66 billion. Five others are in the design stage. 
 This comes after the completion in the last two years of 10 other buildings -- for biomedical research, cardiovascular treatment, science, technology, engineering, public health, public policy and drama -- covering 1.7 million square feet at a cost of $836.4 million. The square footage in the new and renovated buildings comes to the equivalent of 105 acres.
 ''Having the right facilities is crucial to a thriving public research university,'' said Philip J. Hanlon, vice provost for academic and budgetary affairs at the University of Michigan, where the first building was completed in 1840. ''We are producing the work force of the future in the industries of the future. And we are doing that even as the help our state government provides is declining.''
 Indeed, college campuses have emerged this decade as important centers of building design and construction, according to executives overseeing university buildings and operations across the country. As in Michigan's case, university construction programs are often the largest capital projects in their states. 
 University administrators here and in other states say the burst of construction, which began at the start of the decade and accelerated in recent years, has enabled campuses to catch up with years of deferred maintenance and to add new installations that respond to fast-evolving economic priorities and markets. 
 Among the most important of those is attracting the best students and faculty to elite institutions like Michigan, which sees itself as competing with universities like Harvard, Yale, Stanford, Columbia and Virginia and the major campuses of the University of California. 
 Universities are also racing to become leaders in new technologies to produce successful graduates and royalties from spin-off businesses that can contribute to revenue. Michigan is making a particular effort to be a leader in nanotechnology, medical science and new mechanical engineering applications.
 The race for financing is particularly urgent now, development officers say. The national financial crisis has drained endowments and may affect fund-raising. Michigan's endowment at the end of June was $7.7 billion, but it has dropped by about 20 to 30 percent since then, the university said. 
 Still, its construction program proceeded apace even as state funds steadily diminished. For its 24 projects, the university says it has received just $20 million from the state of Michigan for three of the projects. The rest were financed with donor gifts, bonds and operating revenue. 
 Other campus construction programs also have large price tags. The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, for example, is completing a 10-year, $2.1 billion renovation and construction program that included a $122 million genetic research center. The University of Virginia has $1.51 billion in new buildings in the planning and construction stages, according to a report by C. A. Johannesmeyer, the director of facilities planning and construction.
 At the University of Michigan, ''two goals guide the program,'' said Henry D. Baier, the associate vice president for facilities and operations. ''We have to stay competitive. And we need to be good stewards of this campus and this state.''
 The university is one of the most prominent institutions in a Rust Belt state saddled with a jobless rate of 9.3 percent, tied with Rhode Island for the nation's highest. But Ann Arbor, with 114,000 residents, is holding its own, in large part because of its highly ranked university, which has a $5.2 billion budget, 41,000 students and employs more than 30,000 people.
 Nothing about the campus building program will harm its reputation. The biggest projects include a $754 million, 1.1-million-square-foot medical facility to the C. S. Mott Children's and Women's Hospital.
 The university, which already has more than 200 buildings, is also putting up its first dormitory in 40 years, the $175 million, 360,000-square-foot North Quad, which also has classroom space.
 The famed ''Big House'' football stadium is adding 450,000 square feet for luxury boxes, a new media center and more than 2,000 seats, which will give it more than 108,000 seats, surpassing Penn State's Beaver Stadium as the nation's largest. The cost: $226 million.
 The most significant architectural statement is made in the $145 million, 270,000-square-foot Stephen M. Ross School of Business, designed by the New York-based architects Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates. The L-shaped building is six stories tall, with glass walls in the top stories. The exterior base is sandstone topped by terra cotta walls.
 Michigan's program also includes the $132 million, 230,000-square-foot Kellogg Eye Center and Brehm Diabetes Center; the $42 million, 96,000-square-foot renovation and expansion of the Alumni Memorial Hall Museum of Art; and the $48 million, 41,000-square-foot Robert H. Lurie Nanofabrication Facility.
 Jerry A. May, the vice president for development, led an eight-year capital campaign, recently completed, that raised $3.11 billion, a record for public universities in the United States, according to The Chronicle of Higher Education. More than 360,000 of the university's 439,000 living alumni contributed. 
 Mr. May, who headed a team of professional fund-raisers and volunteers, noted that many of the largest gifts for the construction projects came from prominent developers who graduated from Michigan. 
 The largest gift, $100 million, was donated to the business school by Mr. Ross, a New York-based developer who is the chief executive of the Related Companies, which built the Time Warner Center at Columbus Circle.
 Mr. Ross, a 1962 Michigan graduate, was co-chairman of the capital campaign. He also donated $5 million more to help build a $12 million, 38,000-square-foot academic center for university athletes; it was completed in 2006. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Under way: enlarging the C. S. Mott Children's and Women's Hospital, left, and the Alumni Memorial Hall Museum of Art. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); BIOMEDICINE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ROYALTIES (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); STUDENT HOUSING (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1080 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: How Low Can You Go? Lesson From the Dark Side

BYLINE: By DWIGHT GARNER

 BODY:
LOSING EVERYTHING 
 By David Lozell Martin 
 201 pages. Simon & Schuster. $24. 
 The novelist David Lozell Martin's achy-breaky new memoir, ''Losing Everything,'' was written before Lehman Brothers, before WaMu and before television viewers had memorized every contour of Hank Paulson's shaved head -- before, that is, the American economy collapsed and so many lives began spinning on patches of black ice.
 But Mr. Martin's plain-spoken account of what it's like to be stripped of everything -- his spouse, his writing career, his farm, his money, his health, his dignity and eventually his sanity -- may mean a lot to some people who are struggling right now. It's a bruising survival story. 
 ''Losing Everything'' is not a tidy, perfectly stitched account of depression or a crackup, like William Styron's ''Darkness Visible'' or Andrew Solomon's ''Noonday Demon.'' Mr. Martin is not that kind of writer. He's a blue-collar guy with a rowdy side, and his expletive-filled prose arrives at your door as if dressed in scuffed boots and Carhartts, ready to clean out your liquor cabinet and crank up the stereo. 
 Those boots will leave mud on your floor. He is not as gifted a writer as Harry Crews or Larry Brown or Stephen King, but his stuff will put you in mind of all three writers. He keeps you wincing and turning the pages in a way that some finer writers do not.
 ''I owned a farm in West Virginia with my wife and we lived there 12 years,'' Mr. Martin writes in his book's Isak Dinesen-like first sentence. He calls them ''the best years of my life.'' Mr. Martin and his wife kept chickens and geese and cattle and ducks. He wrote novels. She tended to their many horses. Their only worry was that ''one day someone from the Department of Responsible Adulthood would drive up our lane to tell us we had to stop playing around out in the country and go back to the city to get jobs like Responsible Adults.'' 
 Trouble, when it arrives, seems to come fast and from every direction, like the zombies in the film ''28 Days Later.'' ''Between Easter and Christmas of 2003, I lost everything,'' Mr. Martin writes. What took it all ''was not alcohol or drugs, it was life itself, a potent combination of bad decisions, rotten luck, a debilitating lawsuit and outlandish adultery ... eventually involving gunplay, law enforcement, divorce, cancer and at least one dramatic rush to the emergency room. At a distance of five years, I'm still trying to make sense of what happened.'' 
 Before Mr. Martin, 62, unspools the details of his annus horribilis, he describes his equally unsettling childhood. He grew up in Granite City, Ill. and later on a farm with a father, a steelworker, whose occasional fits of rage led him to nearly kill his wife one evening while Mr. Martin, then age 12, watched. For her part, Mr. Martin's mother was clinically insane. She was once found wandering naked in their city's downtown; on another occasion she tried to have sex with the author when he was 14. Mr. Martin, scared of both of them, began to sleep with a butcher knife under his bed. His mother was eventually committed to an asylum. 
 Mr. Martin saw little in his own future beyond steelwork. He was saved, he recalls in this memoir's most buoyant chapter (it is titled ''I Wish I Had Drunk More Gin''), by alcohol. ''I'm not saying that gin saved my life,'' he writes, ''but I am saying that, without the gin dreams of being a writer, I might never have become a writer.'' 
 He discovered beer first. ''I would write sonnets to that beer,'' he declares. ''I don't know what would have become of me if I and beer had never liberated that storytelling voice'' in the back of his mind. 
 Gin sometimes made Mr. Martin act badly and led to horrific blackouts on freeways, but it also, he notes, ''put me into bed with beautiful and crazy women.'' Mr. Martin's early success as a writer (his novels include ''The Crying Heart Tattoo'' and ''The Beginning of Sorrows'') also made him arrogant, he admits, and prone to affairs. His first marriage, to a woman who wanted a tame, suburban husband, ended in divorce. 
 No matter what happened, Mr. Martin writes, gin ''took me back with juniper kisses.'' So what if he sometimes went too far? ''Craziness,'' he says, ''was the family business.'' 
 He met his second wife and settled down. All was well on the farm in West Virginia until the money started to run out. Mr. Martin had switched from writing literary novels to writing thrillers, and he was more successful then ever. Until he wasn't anymore. 
 ''We were fine as long as we were poor,'' he writes. But later, they did not have the sense to pull back and ''live poor again.'' They kept racking up the credit card debt, awaiting the next big score that never came.
 They sold the farm and, in a kind of self-imposed exile, moved in quick succession to Florida and then Saratoga Springs and then Tennessee. In retrospect, Mr. Martin probably should have realized all was not well with his marriage when one day, as he and his wife were cutting brush along a fence line in Tennessee, she said to him, ''I have an overwhelming desire to bury this machete in the back of your head.'' 
 Before long she has had an affair, his writing career bottoms out and he is found to have diabetes. He shaves his head and comes close to committing suicide. He is saved by his adult son's voice on the telephone saying, ''Dad, I need you.'' Soon Mr. Martin is living with that son and his wife and on the slow road to recovering his mental health. There are darkly funny bits amid the bad mess here. About suicide, Mr. Martin writes, ''Life is so short that killing yourself is like falling out of an airplane without a parachute and then, on the way down, you blow your brains out.'' There is this promising chapter title: ''Looking for Work With a Shaved Head and a Twenty-Year Gap in the Resume.'' There is a mantra he discovers for when things look as if they can't get any worse: ''At least we don't own a monkey.'' And there is a scene involving a dangerously constipated Mr. Martin and an emergency-room doctor that is so graphic and disgusting that laughter is the only option. 
 I wish Mr. Martin had left out the self-help bromides he sprinkles into ''Losing Everything.'' He sinks pretty low toward the end, writing (oh, please, no) things like ''Never lose a sense of wonderment'' and ''Take pleasure in small things.'' For the most part, his book is better than that. And the next time I'm feeling down about some aspect of my life, I'll keep in mind that at least I don't own a monkey.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA LUCS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); POULTRY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); LITIGATION (60%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (57%); STEPHEN KING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Losing Everything (Book)>; Losing Everything (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1081 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: A Few Big Ideas

 BODY:
Over the past several months, we've discussed the many, severe challenges confronting America's military services and recommended a set of urgent fixes to relieve the stresses on the men and women fighting overseas and keep the country safe. It is also worth exploring more long-term ideas. Here are three that have particularly impressed us, that we hope will help stimulate a wider debate. 
 Mr. Gates Champions Diplomacy: Cabinet secretaries rarely go to bat for other departments, especially when their own budgets could be at risk. But Defense Secretary Robert Gates has pressed the case for more robust diplomacy and more spending on the State Department and foreign aid. ''But not every outrage, every act of aggression or every crisis can or should elicit a military response,'' he wrote in the current issue of Foreign Affairs magazine. Wherever possible, he said, military action ''should be subordinated to measures aimed at promoting better governance, economic programs that spur development and efforts to address the grievances among the discontented, from whom terrorists recruit.'' That sounds pretty levelheaded to us. 
 It also is a big change from his predecessor, Donald Rumsfeld, who fought to control every aspect of the Afghanistan and Iraq wars -- and pretty much everything else. Many of his generals were a lot smarter, pleading for more help from State Department experts on reconstruction, politics and foreign aid. Too often the State Department lacked enough people with the right skills to do those jobs. 
 America must ensure that its military remains strong. But the State Department also must develop more capacity for conflict prevention and for postconflict reconstruction. We're glad to see that Hillary Rodham Clinton, President-elect Barack Obama's choice for secretary of state, seems determined to bolster the agency's role. We hope that she can depend on Mr. Gates for continued support, no matter how tough the budget fights may get. 
 So What About Transformation?We know that was the buzzword of Mr. Rumsfeld's Pentagon. So it's not surprising that all the talk of high-tech war, and owning the battlefield, has lost a lot of its luster. ''Shock and awe'' did not deliver the promised swift, antiseptic victory in Iraq. A smaller, more mobile ground force proved -- disastrously -- to be far too small for fighting insurgents or rebuilding a shattered Iraq.
 We know that. But continued technological transformation is still essential to the future success of the armed forces. The point is to learn from these past mistakes and get it right. 
 The Pentagon needs to make smarter uses of technology and not forget about other necessary elements and skills of 21st-century warfare -- like adequate postwar planning, sufficient numbers of troops on the ground and better training in dealing with civilian populations. A skilled translator or a civil-affairs specialist could help win hearts and minds while a poorly aimed smart bomb that destroys the wrong house would lose them.
 Superior technology has been America's great comparative advantage on battlefields around the world for generations. It must continue to be so.
 The Army's troubled Future Combat System -- a network of ground vehicles, pilotless aircraft and launching systems intended to provide individual soldiers with a real-time satellite view of the entire battlefield -- exemplifies the great potential value and some of the potential pitfalls of highly advanced technology. 
 Conceived before 9/11, it is not primarily a counterinsurgency weapon. But it would give American ground forces enormous advantages in any future battles against a conventionally organized enemy force. Such contingencies are too likely not to prepare for.
 But since the Future Combat System is built around so many new and previously untested elements, it has encountered major cost overruns and serious delays. Parts of the program have been cut back. And critics are now asking if its development costs might not be better spent on personnel and other more pressing needs. The Army clearly needs to get a better grip on the system's costs and progress. But it is the kind of technology that promises to make American ground forces safer and more effective on 21st-century battlefields.
 Jointness: Another concept that the Pentagon has spent more time talking about than applying is ''jointness.'' Translated, it means getting the Army, Navy, Marines and Air Force to transcend interservice rivalries and practice fighting together, developing and using common equipment and sharing bases.
 Jointness is a terrific idea, which can save a lot of money and make troops more effective on the battlefield. Other militaries, Israel's for example, practice jointness across the board. The Pentagon mostly confines it to special projects. The most ambitious of these is the F-35 joint strike fighter, developed to serve both Air Force and Navy needs. It is scheduled to come into production in 2012. Unfortunately, the Air Force and Navy also developed their own expensive next-generation fighter aircraft while waiting for the F-35 to become available.
 The case for jointness goes far beyond procurement. As William A. Owens, a retired Navy admiral, wrote in a recent Op-Ed article in The Times, the defense budget is padded with redundant spending for communications, intelligence, medical and administrative expenses that the services could easily consolidate. He also pointed out that combining currently separate Army, Navy and Air Force bases into ''megabases'' could save tens of billions of dollars and actually add to military effectiveness.
 It is a big idea that many in the services will resist. But at a time when the country is facing grave threats -- and when the military is under such grave stress -- all of the nation's leaders must be open to big ideas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (87%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); TERRORISM (67%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ROBERT M GATES (75%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1082 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 334 words

PERSON: Robert Nylen 

HEADLINE: Robert Nylen, Publisher, 64; Founded Magazine

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Robert Nylen, a founder and the publisher of New England Monthly, a highly regarded regional magazine published from 1984 to 1990, died on Dec. 23 at his home in Ashfield, Mass. He was 64. 
 The cause was cancer, his wife, Katharine Nylen, said. At his death, Mr. Nylen was a magazine consultant and freelance writer.
 In 1986 and 1987, New England Monthly won National Magazine Awards for general excellence in the under-100,000-circulation category. In 1990 the magazine had a circulation of 140,000.
 Based in Haydenville, Mass., New England Monthly was founded by Mr. Nylen and Daniel Okrent. (Mr. Okrent, the magazine's editor, was later the first public editor of The New York Times.) Among the writers whose work appeared in its pages were John Gregory Dunne, Tracy Kidder and Annie Proulx.
 Mr. Nylen resigned as publisher in March 1990 and was succeeded by Richard Todd. New England Monthly ceased publication that September, a casualty of the economic downturn in New England.
 Mr. Nylen was previously the associate publisher and advertising director of Texas Monthly magazine. With Steven Waldman, he founded Beliefnet (beliefnet.com), a Web site devoted to spirituality, in 1999; Mr. Nylen was Beliefnet's first president and remained a director until it was bought by the News Corporation, Rupert Murdoch's company, last year.
 Robert Nels Nylen was born on April 15, 1944, in Oak Ridge, Tenn. He earned a bachelor's degree in English from Bucknell University in 1966 and an M.B.A. from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 1971. He served with the Army in the Vietnam War, receiving two Purple Hearts and a Bronze Star.
 Besides his wife, the former Katharine Hopkins, known as Kit, whom he married in 1969, Mr. Nylen is survived by a brother, John, and a sister, Suzanne Nylen, both of Wilmington, Del.; and a daughter, Cassie Gray of Ashfield.
 Mr. Nylen's memoir, ''Guts: One American Guy's Reckless, Lucky Life,'' is scheduled to be published by Random House in May.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); VIETNAM WAR (64%); CANCER (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (53%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: BUCKNELL UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (82%); NWS (ASX) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%)

KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (50%) NORTHEAST USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (68%); TENNESSEE, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines, News and News Media

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1083 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: For Kennedy, Self-Promotion Is an Unfamiliar Challenge

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and JEREMY W. PETERS; David M. Halbfinger contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In her bid to be appointed the next senator from New York, Caroline Kennedy has zigzagged across the state and talked with dozens of officials and community leaders. She has aired views on topics from the Iraq war to the auto industry bailout and submitted to a round of press interviews.
But after a lifetime of being wooed by others -- to speak at events, to write books, to lend her aura of celebrity and glamour to this or that cause -- it seems clear that Ms. Kennedy is still finding her stride in what is, for her, a kind of reverse challenge: selling herself.
Interviews with more than a dozen people who have met or spoken with her in recent weeks reveal a fairly uniform portrait of the private Ms. Kennedy in her first turn as a very public woman. Most described her as courteous but reticent, unfailingly gracious but not exactly passionate. 
Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers, who has known Ms. Kennedy for years and had lunch with her this month, said Ms. Kennedy was smart, shy and reserved. Keith L. T. Wright, a Democratic state assemblyman from Harlem who spoke with Ms. Kennedy on the phone a few days before Christmas, said she had yet to light a fire among potential backers.
''I don't know many people who are ready to go 'Rah! Rah! She's our candidate,' '' he said.
And while Ms. Kennedy has declared herself ''a Kennedy Democrat,'' she is still learning, it appears, how to handle the expectations and adulation that come with her name.
When Ms. Kennedy visited the Democratic headquarters in Rochester recently, local officials ushered her eagerly into a conference area known as the Kennedy Room, decorated with pictures of her father, her mother, her younger brother, and Ms. Kennedy herself as a little girl. Ms. Kennedy, while polite, did not appear particularly moved.
''She never responded to the pictures,'' recalled Robert Duffy, the mayor of Rochester and the meeting's host. ''She looked and perhaps nodded. She never said a word about it.''
Few of those interviewed described Ms. Kennedy's performance over the last two weeks as somehow disqualifying. But it appears to have eroded any sense -- real or created -- that her selection for the job by Gov. David A. Paterson is inevitable. And many described her approach as striking for someone who is not only seeking a high office, but one held by Hillary Rodham Clinton, who in her own first bid for the Senate never left New Yorkers wondering how badly she wanted the job, and how hard she was willing to work to get it.
''She has a lot of work to do, and she has a big hill to climb,'' said Representative Nita M. Lowey, a Westchester County Democrat who is among those officials advising the governor on the Senate appointment. ''She has to convince Governor Paterson that she is the best qualified to advocate for New York in these tough economic times. She has to be an articulate spokesperson, a strong fighter.''
Representative Joseph Crowley, leader of the Queens Democratic organization -- whose holiday party Ms. Kennedy attended on Dec. 18 -- said he expected to sit down with Ms. Kennedy soon. But he said he was troubled by her media interviews last weekend.
''She's raised flags,'' Mr. Crowley said. ''The recent flubs have been damaging. I don't think they're fatal.''
Her supporters say that if Ms. Kennedy seems less than fervent in her pursuit of the Senate seat, it is out of deference to Mr. Paterson, who has discouraged open lobbying for the job. They note that a traditional campaign -- the chicken dinner and county fair route -- is not an option. For Ms. Kennedy to be more aggressive would only fuel criticism that she has acted presumptuously, they say, especially because she is under far more scrutiny than any other candidate for the job, including those who have been lobbying behind the scenes as energetically as Ms. Kennedy.
''I think she is reticent because she knows this is Governor Paterson's appointment and I don't think she would do anything to make her uncomfortable with him,'' said Representative Louise M. Slaughter, a Democrat from upstate New York who has endorsed Ms. Kennedy. ''I think she is acting with perfect decorum, given the fact that she really only needs to please one person.'' (Ms. Slaughter, who was at the meeting in Rochester, recalled Ms. Kennedy's reaction to the conference room pictures as gracious but brief. ''She said 'Oh, that's very nice.' '')
Others pointed out that Ms. Kennedy was also laboring under a colossal weight of expectations. Some people seem to expect her to be more, well, Kennedyesque -- gregarious and extroverted. But Ms. Kennedy's own political style seems to have more in common with that of Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who once held Mrs. Clinton's seat: cerebral, restrained, wry.
In an age when flamboyant displays of warmth and empathy seem almost like an obligatory feature of campaigning, Ms. Kennedy simply seems to prefer keeping her feelings to herself.
''She's never been aggressive,'' said Maura Moynihan, a friend and college classmate of Ms. Kennedy's and the daughter of the senator. ''She's never been an egomaniac. She's never pushed her way before the cameras.''
''Caroline,'' she added, ''has never had to sell herself, but she has spent her whole life trying to help other people. She is a person of extraordinary integrity.''
In some of her meetings, Ms. Kennedy has displayed a playfulness that is still more familiar to her close friends than to the public. Byron W. Brown, the mayor of Buffalo, said that when they met recently in his city hall office, he asked if it was O.K. if he called her Caroline. Her response, Mr. Brown said, made for a kind of ''Sarah Palin-Joe Biden moment.''
''Is it O.K. if I call you Byron?'' Ms. Kennedy responded, recalling the vice presidential debate earlier this year.
Assemblyman Vito J. Lopez, a Brooklyn Democrat, who had lunch with Ms. Kennedy in Williamsburg recently, described her as having ''somewhat of an aura about her.''
''When you look at her, there's just something about her,'' he said. ''She's not jumping out at you, but when we sat down we talked for 40 minutes. And she was a very talkative, very knowledgeable person.''
Michael Fishman, the president of Local 32BJ of the influential service employees' union in New York, said that even if Ms. Kennedy did not appear to be burning with ambition, he was more concerned with whether she would stand with labor on issues like collective bargaining and health care.
''I wouldn't say passion,'' Mr. Fishman said in describing her. ''What comes across to me is quiet strength and commitment. She had to have some steel in her spine to do this. That's what you want.''
To some extent, the mixed reaction to Ms. Kennedy may reflect these officials' own ties and interests. Ms. Weingarten, for example, is herself a contender for the Senate job, while Mr. Lopez endorsed Ms. Kennedy shortly after meeting with her. Likewise, if Mr. Paterson appointed another top contender for the job -- Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo -- the Legislature would select a new attorney general, who would then be heavily indebted to the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver.
Mr. Silver, who has been openly antagonistic to Ms. Kennedy's bid, said, ''She clearly hasn't shown herself to have the chutzpa of a Chuck Schumer to go out there and advocate for New York in the way in which he has clearly been effective.''
''There's no question,'' he added, ''she's not used to the political system.''
Ms. Kennedy's whirlwind introduction has raised some doubts about her temperament and political hunger. One person who discussed the Senate job with Ms. Kennedy, and who spoke on the condition of anonymity in fear of retribution from her supporters, said that she did not convey a thirst for the job, adding, ''It was hard to discern if she wants this or if she's doing this out of a sense of duty.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Caroline Kennedy recently met with party officials in a conference room in Rochester. Known as the Kennedy Room, it is decorated with pictures of her family.
 Ms. Kennedy leaving the meeting in Rochester. She said nothing about the pictures in the Kennedy Room, Mayor Robert Duffy said, though another person at the meeting said she had. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (67%); CHRISTMAS (66%); BAILOUTS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DAVID PATERSON (58%); NITA M LOWEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011



1084 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Talking Heads Caught In Moments of Silence

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

DATELINE: RIDGEFIELD, Conn. 

 BODY:
Harry Shearer -- known as the voice of Waylon Smithers, Montgomery Burns, Ned Flanders and other characters on ''The Simpsons,'' and as an actor in comedies like ''This Is Spinal Tap'' -- wears another hat as well: video artist.
 In his exhibition ''The Silent Echo Chamber,'' now at the Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum here, Mr. Shearer displays video of celebrities and politicians sitting silently in the minutes before appearing live on television. Video loops run on nine flat-screen monitors that are hung like portraits along three walls. There is a disquieting sense of being at the wrong end of the telescope: the stars you have watched silently for years are silently watching you. 
 On one screen the political consultant James Carville, wearing a pinched expression, seems to listen to voices only he hears. On another, Keith Olbermann of MSNBC scratches distractedly at something behind his ear. On a third, Henry A. Kissinger, a 10-mile stare on his face, remains absolutely still for several minutes. Elsewhere, Senator John McCain sits with a stiff, military bearing, eyes wide in an expression at once stern and expectant, while Larry King wearily cradles his head in his hands. 
 Confronted with silence, whether from a Pinteresque pause or an unreturned ''good morning'' from that smoldering Irene in sales, we tend to invent an explanation, and it's no different here. Why, one wonders in the glow of the screens, aren't these pundits pontificating?
 ''It's like a Rorschach test,'' said Richard Klein, the exhibitions director at the Aldrich, who installed the show after seeing an earlier incarnation at the Susan Inglett Gallery in New York this summer. For Mr. Klein, the work seems to reflect the current economic crisis. 
 ''They're talking heads and we look to them for guidance, but they don't know what's going on now,'' Mr. Klein said. ''All of these people have strong opinions, but here they are not having any opinion -- and looking worried.''
 Mr. Shearer, who splits his time between homes in Santa Monica, Calif., and New Orleans, said in a phone interview that while he assembled the piece as a response to the 2008 presidential campaign, projecting the financial downturn onto it works, too.
 ''Sure, that's a great view of it,'' he said. ''It's liberating for me because I like in my comedy for people to get the point, and I get frustrated when people might not get the point, and here the point is whatever you think it is, in a sense. I like the idea of saying, 'You figure it out.' ''
 Once a child actor who appeared on ''The Jack Benny Program'' in 1953, Mr. Shearer, 65, was a writer and cast member on ''Saturday Night Live'' in the 1970s and '80s, and has for 25 years hosted ''Le Show,'' a syndicated sketch and music program broadcast on public radio stations. (His recent Grammy-nominated CD, ''Songs of the Bushmen,'' culls material from that program.)
 He also plays upright bass, occasionally accompanying his wife, the singer Judith Owen; has published three books, including the 2006 novel ''Not Enough Indians''; blogs about politics and media on huffingtonpost.com; and wrote, with Tom Leopold, ''J. Edgar!: The Musical.'' 
 Mr. Shearer would not disclose how he obtained the footage for his installation -- ''I try to use the vice president's hedge and say, 'I really don't discuss sources and methods,' '' he said -- but chances are that he intercepted satellite transmissions. 
 Live ''via satellite'' television, of course, requires a signal to be beamed from a studio or on-location van. It then ricochets off a satellite and is retransmitted to Earth. Homeowners with satellite dishes have for decades stumbled across ''raw feeds'' -- footage that networks transmit but don't broadcast -- and the 1992 documentary ''Feed'' gathered intercepted shots of presidential candidates acting decidedly unpresidential before or after appearances on television. 
 Mr. Shearer first encountered such transmissions at ''SNL,'' which had access to several feeds. ''I thought, wow, there is just an unending supply of this material, and it's wonderful and fascinating and funny and sometimes haunting -- but it's always good,'' he said. ''And then I realized that I didn't have to work at NBC to have access to it, and that was the start of the collection.''
 Whatever his methods, Mr. Shearer said that he spends part of every day when in Santa Monica in his basement viewing the material, and that an assistant helps to catalog it. 
 Some becomes fodder for viral videos that he calls ''Found Objects'' and posts on his Web site, harryshearer.com. His footage of the conservative host Laura Ingraham berating Fox News staffers off-air during her short-lived television show over the summer and -- from several years ago -- of Dan Rather, then the ''CBS Evening News'' anchor, debating solemnly and at length whether he should wear a trench coat for an outdoor segment were each viewed more than half a million times on YouTube and MyDamnChannel.com. 
 The Rather video was seen by Katie Couric, who, in yet more footage Mr. Shearer captured, mocks her CBS predecessor, fussing with her own coat before going live. The Couric video drew more than a million views. 
 The clips in the Aldrich exhibition -- and older installations of silent celebrities Mr. Shearer has displayed in galleries on both coasts (and once in a Barneys New York window on Madison Avenue) -- are decidedly more prosaic.
 ''It's not a series of 'gotcha' moments,'' he said. ''I'm not looking for the footage that's 'Here's the one where he picks his nose.' I think that's sort of jejune.''
 Even celebrities Mr. Shearer has skewered satirically on his radio show and Web site can be endearing in the private moments the Aldrich exhibition features: Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. chomping on a cookie, or Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton beaming as if she had just been told to come on down on ''The Price is Right.'' 
 ''This goes beyond satire or being funny into some other realm,'' Mr. Klein of the Aldrich said. ''The more time you spend with the piece, the more there is something profoundly revealing about the personalities of the people and the personality of the medium of television itself.''
 Still, is that enough to qualify the installation as art, especially with Mr. Shearer more established as a comic than an artist?
 ''So much of what is art is the artist's intent, and Harry would be the first to say he made this thing to be seen in galleries and museums,'' Mr. Klein said.
 Mr. Shearer shrugged off the question. ''Oh, I don't know,'' he said. ''Aren't we 40 years too late for that -- didn't Andy Warhol destroy that question? It's art because of the fact that it's happening in an art context.''
 ''Harry Shearer: The Silent Echo Chamber'' continues through Feb. 8 at the Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum, 258 Main Street, Ridgefield, Conn.; (203) 438-4519, aldrichart.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mr. Shearer is a longtime writer, actor, musician, radio host -- and now a video artist. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A new installation by Harry Shearer includes, from left, a steady John McCain
a sullen James Carville
 a sedate Henry A. Kissinger. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); FILM (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1085 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1953 words

HEADLINE: How Caramel Developed A Taste for Salt

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
IT has been a challenging year for investors, homeowners and Republican candidates, but 2008 was very lucky for sweet caramel seasoned with fancy salt.
 The combination has long enchanted French and American chefs, but this year it became one of those rare flavors that works its way from an elite culinary obsession to the American mass market. 
 Haagen-Dazs introduced a reserve brand of salted caramel ice cream in April. Six months later, Starbucks began selling salted caramel hot chocolate. Earlier this month, the flavor showed up in Wal-Mart as one of the selections in a box of store-brand chocolate truffles. 
 And if those markers of mainstream appeal weren't enough, President-elect Barack Obama has taken to salted caramels, too. He likes to treat himself to a Seattle candy maker's version, robed in dark chocolate and sprinkled with smoked sea salt. 
 Even the best minds in marketing couldn't have engineered a smoother run, said Lynn Dornblaser, new-product analyst for Mintel, a consumer research group. ''Everything is coming together at just the right time,'' she said.
 Salt caramel's rise as the flavor of the year illuminates the fast flow of food trends in a country that can grab hold of a relatively unknown ingredient like chipotle and move it through a cultural sluice box that ends at McDonald's.
 Something of an overachiever compared with other upstart flavors like asiago cheese and wasabi, the flavor combination made its successful run from rarefied Parisian pastry shops to American big-box stores in about a decade -- a relatively short period, according to people who study food trends. 
 Like grief, American food trends go through five stages, said Kara Nielsen, a trend analyst at the Center for Culinary Development in San Francisco, where companies like Wendy's and Kraft go to develop new products. The center uses a five-part trend map to trace an ingredient's trajectory from chef's indulgence to supermarket staple. Ms. Nielsen says many dishes or ingredients that eventually make it big first appear in either small ethnic restaurants or fine dining establishments, a view held by others in her field.
 In the case of salted caramels, the influence came directly from France. Heavily salted butter caramels are a traditional treat in Brittany. More recently, Pierre Herme, the Parisian pastry chef known for his experimentation, invented a salted caramel macaron that inspired a small cult among American food professionals in the late 1990s.
 Rising along a parallel path, meanwhile, was a related trend, salted chocolate. Mr. Herme sprinkled chocolate with fleur de sel, a flaky salt hand-harvested from the marshes of Brittany. In 1998, the San Francisco chocolate maker Michael Recchiuti was selling his own fleur de sel caramels covered in chocolate. 
 By 2000, pastry chefs at top New York restaurants like Gramercy Tavern, Le Cirque and Petrossian had fallen completely in love with the way an extra hit of salt can enhance something sweet. They topped chocolate caramel tarts and molten chocolate cakes with crunchy bits of expensive salt, and folded it into ice cream. 
 Stage 1 was complete. 
 In Stage 2, salted caramel made its way into high-end food magazines and specialty food shows. Fran's Chocolates, a Seattle company that makes the caramels favored by Mr. Obama, won the top award from the National Association for the Specialty Food Trade in 2003. The next year, Gourmet magazine published a fleur de sel caramel recipe.
 A flavor moves into Stage 3 when it shows up on menus at more-inventive chain restaurants, like the Cheesecake Factory, or at large cookware chains like Williams-Sonoma, which began selling fleur de sel caramels in 2007. 
 Stage 4 is marked by an appearance in a mainstream women's magazine, a larger chain restaurant or even in supermarkets, as a premium item. Getting picked up by Starbucks is what Ms. Nielsen calls ''high Stage 4.'' 
 When the people who develop drinks for Starbucks told managers and baristas about their new idea, company bloggers balked, said Rachel Antalek, director of espresso. Salt on caramel?
 The skeptics were quickly proved wrong. The chain's salt-caramel hot chocolate became a popular seasonal winter drink, she said, embraced even in parts of the country where new combinations of flavors don't always test well.
 Then Wal-Mart rolled out the flavor in a box of truffles. Welcome, salted caramel, to Stage 5: complete integration in the American mass market.
 But the Obama boost can't be discounted. Someone high in Mr. Obama's Washington State campaign operation turned him and his wife, Michelle, on to the pleasures of Fran's salted caramels. Before long, regular orders were being placed on behalf of the candidate. Reggie Love, his body man, made sure they were kept in plentiful supply, along with other Obama favorites like Nicorette gum and Planters Trail Mix.
 Although Fran's salted caramels were quite popular before word got out about the president-elect's preference, they are now the company's best sellers. 
 ''This put it over the top,'' said a very surprised Fran Bigelow, who founded the company.
 Salted caramel did not make it to the top without help, not the least of which was Americans' longstanding taste for salty mixed with sweet. Tin roof sundaes, turtles, pralines and other combinations of salty nuts and caramelized sugar have long been staples in the nation's confectionary canon. Cracker Jack, with its roasted peanuts and molasses-flavored popcorn, was born in 1893. Snickers bars and Reese's peanut butter cups came along in the 1920s. 
 The salty-sweet combination is so natural for Americans that Dorie Greenspan, a baking expert who wrote a cookbook with Mr. Herme, is surprised that salted caramel had to be imported from France.
 ''We should be annoyed at ourselves that we didn't invent it,'' she said. ''We were close, but we just weren't ready.''
 But first, the American palate needed a little more priming. That came from two other trends. One was the rise of specialty salt itself, with French fleur de sel, sea salt from the Maldon marshes in England and Hawaiian red salt turning up at supermarkets.
 Salted caramels also owe a great deal of gratitude to dulce de leche, the caramel made from cooked milk that is popular in South America and Mexico. Introduced in Haagen-Dazs ice cream in 1997 and in a cheesecake at Applebee's in 2003, the all-star flavor has now been adopted by Hershey's, Taco Bell and Jell-O.
 ''Dulce de leche is what brought caramel back,'' Ms. Nielsen said. ''Without it, you wouldn't have salted caramel's popularity right now.''
 One thing salted caramels conspicuously lack is a health and wellness angle. That surprised Ms. Dornblaser, who said the nation's obsession with healthier eating drives many current food trends. 
 That's why she has her eye on quinoa, which has been showing up in fine dining restaurants for a few years. ''Then all of the sudden, 18 months ago, kaboom!'' she said. ''Whole grain hits.''
 Quinoa has all the signs of going all the way, she said. The popularity of whole grains has manufacturers scrambling to find new products. Quinoa, now carried by stores like Trader Joe's, is easy to prepare and is a complete protein. That appeals to vegetarians and people who, for economic reasons, might be cutting back on meat. It's even gluten free.
 ''Now if Barack Obama says he eats it, too,'' she said, ''it will be perfect.''
 Recipe: Fleur de Sel Caramels Adapted from 'Chocolate Obsession,' by Michael Recchiuti and Fran Gage (Stewart, Tabori and Chang, 2005) Time: 20 minutes plus cooling
 Adapted from 'Chocolate Obsession,' by MichaelRecchiuti and Fran Gage (Stewart, Tabori and Chang, 2005)
 Time: 20 minutes plus cooling
 Flavorless vegetable oil for pan
 1 1/2 cups granulated cane sugar 
 1/2 Tahitian vanilla bean
 1 cup heavy whipping cream (not ultra-pasteurized)
 2 tablespoons light corn syrup
 1 tablespoon unsalted butter, preferably high butterfat, chilled 
 1/2 teaspoon fleur de sel, more for finishing.
 1. Line bottom and sides of an 8-inch-square baking pan with lightly oiled parchment paper. Put sugar in a medium heavy-bottomed pot. Split vanilla bean open lengthwise and scrape seeds into pot. Cook over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until sugar melts. Continue to cook without stirring until sugar just starts to turn dark amber, 5 to 6 minutes. Do not allow sugar to burn.
 2. Meanwhile, in a small saucepan bring cream to a boil over medium heat. When sugar is the correct shade, stir in the corn syrup. Remove pot from heat and slowly pour hot cream into sugar a little at a time. Mixture will sputter and foam. When bubbling subsides, return pan to medium heat and cook undisturbed until mixture registers 252 degrees on a candy thermometer, about 5 to 7 minutes. 
 3. Remove pot from heat, immediately add butter and stir with a wooden spoon. Add 1/2 teaspoon salt and stir until evenly distributed. 
 4. Pour caramel into prepared pan and let cool to room temperature. Refrigerate until ready to cut caramel (at least 10 minutes).
 5. Invert cooled caramel onto a work surface. Peel off parchment paper. With a lightly oiled knife, cut caramel into one-inch squares. Press a few grains of salt onto each square, and wrap each piece in waxed paper, cellophane or other similar paper. Store caramels in a cool, dry place for up to 2 weeks.
 Yield: About 60 pieces.
 Note: Warm caramel can also be poured by the teaspoonful into small, lightly oiled fluted paper cups, then salted.
 Recipe: Fleur de Sel Caramels Adapted from 'Chocolate Obsession,' by Michael Recchiuti and Fran Gage (Stewart, Tabori and Chang, 2005) Time: 20 minutes plus cooling
 Adapted from 'Chocolate Obsession,' by Michael Recchiuti and Fran Gage (Stewart, Tabori and Chang, 2005)
 Time: 20 minutes plus cooling
 Flavorless vegetable oil for pan
 1 1/2 cups granulated cane sugar 
 1/2 Tahitian vanilla bean
 1 cup heavy whipping cream (not ultra-pasteurized)
 2 tablespoons light corn syrup
 1 tablespoon unsalted butter, preferably high butterfat, chilled 
 1/2 teaspoon fleur de sel, more for finishing.
 1. Line bottom and sides of an 8-inch-square baking pan with lightly oiled parchment paper. Put sugar in a medium heavy-bottomed pot. Split vanilla bean open lengthwise and scrape seeds into pot. Cook over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until sugar melts. Continue to cook without stirring until sugar just starts to turn dark amber, 5 to 6 minutes. Do not allow sugar to burn.
 2. Meanwhile, in a small saucepan bring cream to a boil over medium heat. When sugar is the correct shade, stir in the corn syrup. Remove pot from heat and slowly pour hot cream into sugar a little at a time. Mixture will sputter and foam. When bubbling subsides, return pan to medium heat and cook undisturbed until mixture registers 252 degrees on a candy thermometer, about 5 to 7 minutes. 
 3. Remove pot from heat, immediately add butter and stir with a wooden spoon. Add 1/2 teaspoon salt and stir until evenly distributed. 
 4. Pour caramel into prepared pan and let cool to room temperature. Refrigerate until ready to cut caramel (at least 10 minutes).
 5. Invert cooled caramel onto a work surface. Peel off parchment paper. With a lightly oiled knife, cut caramel into one-inch squares. Press a few grains of salt onto each square, and wrap each piece in waxed paper, cellophane or other similar paper. Store caramels in a cool, dry place for up to 2 weeks.
 Yield: About 60 pieces.
 Note: Warm caramel can also be poured by the teaspoonful into small, lightly oiled fluted paper cups, then salted.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WHITE HOUSE BOUND?: Salted caramels in chocolate got Barack Obama's attention. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMANDA KOSTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)
 BEST SELLER: At Fran's Chocolates in Seattle, salt is placed on chocolate-covered caramels. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMANDA KOSTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); CONFECTIONERY (90%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); TRENDS (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (78%); CHEESE (77%); ICE CREAM (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); PRIVATE LABELS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (76%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); RETAIL BAKERIES (75%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); FROZEN FOODS (71%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1086 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (ABC) DICK CLARK'S PRIMETIME NEW YEAR'S ROCKIN' EVE WITH RYAN SEACREST 2009 Mr. Clark, above center, and Mr. Seacrest, above right, man their stations for this countdown, which has heralded the stroke of midnight for 37 years running. Kellie Pickler reports from the East Coast; Fergie, above left, returns to perform and host the party portions of the show on the West Coast. The Jonas Brothers, Taylor Swift and Lionel Richie are to perform in New York. The Los Angeles roster includes Natasha Bedingfield, Fall Out Boy, Jesse McCartney, Ne-Yo, the Pussycat Dolls, Solange, Robin Thicke and Will.i.am, who will present ''It's a New Day,'' which celebrates the victory of President-elect Barack Obama.
 7 A.M. (CBS) THE EARLY SHOW A look at celebrating the holidays during a recession. 
 7 A.M. (NBC) TODAY Carson Daly revs up for the ball drop (see below); also, New Year's celebrations for children and travel trends for 2009.
 7 A.M. (ABC) GOOD MORNING AMERICA Il Divo performs; Cat Cora talks about New Year's Eve parties.
 9 A.M. (Fox) THE MORNING SHOW WITH MIKE AND JULIET James Lipton is the guest; a segment looks at parental alienation syndrome.
 8 P.M. (13), 9 P.M. (49) NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC NEW YEAR'S EVE GALA CONCERT Lorin Maazel, right, takes the podium in his last telecast as the orchestra's music director in this ''Live From Lincoln Center'' production featuring the soprano Susan Graham in excerpts from Bizet's ''Carmen,'' Strauss's ''Ariadne auf Naxos'' and Lehar's ''Merry Widow.'' Renee Fleming is host.
 8 P.M. (MTV) FNMTV PRESENTS: A MILEY-SIZED SURPRISE ... NEW YEAR'S EVE 2009 One ''lucky fan'' (MTV's words) will spend the day with Miley Cyrus and then be the host -- or at least the landlord -- of MTV's New Year's Eve special, which will include a performance by Ms. Cyrus from the fan's bedroom.
 8 P.M. (TCM) PRIME TIME FEATURE: NEW YEAR'S EVE ENTERTAINMENT For those who find themselves far from a ballroom floor, Turner Classic Movies presents the ''That's Entertainment'' oeuvre, starting at 8 with the original 1974 film, starring Fred Astaire and Frank Sinatra, among other dancers and singers, in clips from MGM's greatest musicals. It's followed by ''That's Entertainment! 2'' (1976), at 10:30, with Astaire and Gene Kelly; ''That's Entertainment! 3'' (1994), at 12:45 a.m., which shows off performances by Kelly, Lena Horne and Debbie Reynolds; and ''That's Dancing!'' (1985), at 3, with Kelly, Liza Minnelli and Mikhail Baryshnikov. ''From the Vaults: World Famous Musical Hits'' (2000), a short film at 10:19 p.m., presents excerpts from six MGM musicals: ''Three Little Words,'' ''Because You're Mine,'' ''Till the Clouds Roll By,'' ''The Band Wagon,'' ''Words and Music'' and ''Singin' in the Rain.''
 9 P.M. (History) SEVEN DEADLY SINS: GLUTTONY Just in time for those New Year's resolutions, an examination of the sin of consuming too much food, which fourth-century Christians believed could send a person to hell. Dante suggested padding the punishment by force-feeding overeaters toads and vermin. 
 9 P.M. (Sundance) SPECTACLE: ELVIS COSTELLO WITH ... Mr. Costello sings in a new year with Tony Bennett.
 10 P.M. (NBC) NBC'S NEW YEAR'S EVE WITH CARSON DALY The countdown to 2009 begins in Times Square, where Ludacris, Katy Perry, T. I. and the Ting Tings are scheduled to perform. Mr. Daly, left, will be joined by Amy Robach of ''Today'' and Luke Russert, an NBC News correspondent.
 11 P.M. (Fox) NEW YEAR'S EVE LIVE David Cook, Daughtry, Scott Weiland and Lynyrd Skynyrd are set to perform at the Mirage in Las Vegas, where Spike Feresten and Mark Thompson will tick off the seconds until midnight on the Strip. Chrissy Russo will go behind the scenes of three Cirque du Soleil shows -- ''Zumanity,'' ''The Sensual Side of Cirque du Soleil'' and ''The Beatles Love'' -- as well as the new ''Criss Angel Believe.'' And whether Robbie Knievel will be around for 2009 is anyone's guess when he attempts a 200-foot motorcycle jump over the newly renovated Mirage volcano. (His father, Evel Knievel, shattered some bones 41 years ago to the day when he tried a similar feat at Ceasars Palace.) 
 11:40 P.M. (BBC America) ABSOLUTELY FABULOUS Sibling revelry: Patsy's plans for New Year's Eve are bungled when her long-lost sister arrives. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (86%); DANCE (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); DANCERS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (73%); MUSIC (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (69%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (64%); FILM (60%)

COMPANY: TELECAST ASA (66%)

PERSON: RYAN SEACREST (90%); MILEY CYRUS (68%); JOE JONAS (55%); NICK JONAS (55%); TAYLOR SWIFT (55%); KEVIN JONAS (55%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); WEST USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1087 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Home Sweet Hotel Suite For Obamas In the Capital

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Even in a town where the hotels are swamped for the inauguration, it turns out to be possible to get a room if you're the one being inaugurated. 
 President-elect Barack Obama and his family will move to the capital this weekend in time for his daughters to start school, aides said Tuesday. With the White House still occupied and the official guest residence unavailable, the future first family will hole up in one of the city's most exclusive hotels.
 The decision to come to Washington early will increase the spotlight on Mr. Obama as he tries to prepare for the presidency without yet assuming its burdens. Except for an afternoon visit with President Bush at the White House on Nov. 10, Mr. Obama has stayed away from Washington during the transition, spending his time in Chicago and Hawaii instead.
 Mr. Obama, who wraps up his Oahu vacation on New Year's Day, will hold meetings in Washington next week on how to revive the faltering economy, according to the transition officials, who insisted on anonymity to discuss unannounced plans. Mr. Obama will arrive just before the new Congress is sworn in Tuesday and begins work on the economic package he wants to sign after he is inaugurated Jan. 20.
 Mr. Obama will attend a White House luncheon on Wednesday to which Mr. Bush has invited every former president.
 Although Mr. Obama served in the Senate for the last four years, he spent little time out of session in Washington and never moved his family from Chicago.
 Other new presidents have waited until closer to their inaugurations before arriving. Jimmy Carter came the day before his swearing in and Ronald Reagan six days before his. Bill Clinton staged a daylong trip to Washington three days before his ceremony, retracing the route Thomas Jefferson took from his home outside Charlottesville, Va.
 Mr. Obama, too, has arranged for a symbolic arrival, in his case on a train trip starting in Philadelphia on Jan. 17, repeating part of Abraham Lincoln's journey to Washington. But the private school where he and his wife, Michelle, are sending their daughters, Malia and Sasha, Sidwell Friends, begins class Monday after its holiday break, so the family decided to pack up and move Saturday or Sunday.
 The Obama team had asked about staying in Blair House, the government mansion across Lafayette Park from the White House. But the White House said it was booked for events until Jan. 15, when it traditionally is available to a president-elect.
 The Obama team instead found a hotel with a suite large enough for the presidential family until the Obamas can move to Blair House. Transition officials would not identify the hotel out of security concerns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); PARAEDUCATORS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JIMMY CARTER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008



1088 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Rebates May Be Too Late for Gifts, but They Are in the Mail

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS; Rebecca White contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Once a pre-holiday treat for New York City homeowners, this year's $400 property tax rebate from City Hall will be a post-holiday windfall or a lifesaver, depending on a household's financial bottom line. 
 Resurrected by an unusually rebellious City Council, which pressured Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg into backing off his threat to withhold them to help close a budget shortfall, the rebate checks are in the mail and should be arriving at the beginning of the new year. 
 But if many people used the money to buy extra gifts in years past, this time, their needs are more prosaic. 
 Bronical McRae, 50, a part-time customer service representative who owns a house in East Flatbush, Brooklyn, said he would use the $400 to settle outstanding water bills. Ken Katzeff, 59, an education consultant who owns a co-op in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, said he would put the money toward paying off his credit cards. Magnolia Garcia, 62, a homeowner in Flushing, Queens, who lost her job in banking three weeks ago, said she would use it for food and other household expenses. 
 ''In the past, I counted on the rebate for holiday gifts,'' Ms. Garcia said. ''Four hundred dollars is not a lot, but when you have it you definitely spend more, or at least I do. I used to be a big spender, just not in the past three weeks.''
 There are, of course, homeowners who might feel like teenagers getting an unexpected increase in their allowances: the money is not needed, but since it is there, it will be spent. 
 And there are those like Trinidad Villafranca, 68, a retired public school teacher who has seen her savings dwindle considerably with the market's downturn. ''I'm very upset,'' said Ms. Villafranca, 68, who owns a condo in Elmhurst, Queens. ''So when I get the check, I'm going to buy myself a very nice gift.''
 The rebate checks were at the center of one of this year's most divisive debates at City Hall. On one side was Mr. Bloomberg, who created the rebate program in 2004, but abruptly announced in November that the city would not issue the checks this year because it could not afford to do so, in the face of an increasingly bleak financial situation. On the other side was the Council and its speaker, Christine C. Quinn, who at one point said that there was not ''a snowball's chance in hell'' that she would acquiesce to the mayor's decision.
 Mr. Bloomberg may not necessarily have been motivated solely by good will. By law, only the Council, as it pointed out to the mayor, has the authority to withhold the checks. 
 In the end, both sides got something they wanted, though to homeowners, the deal was a wash, at best. The checks have gone out, but Mr. Bloomberg persuaded the Council to approve a 7 percent property tax increase, effective on Thursday, raising tax bills by hundreds and, in some cases, thousands of dollars a year. 
 ''Giving me a rebate check and raising taxes doesn't make any sense,'' griped Chris Abazis, 28, a real estate broker who has a house in Fresh Meadows, Queens. 
 Speaking to reporters on Monday at Rockefeller Center as a crowd of tourists looked on, Mr. Bloomberg seemed conflicted as to what homeowners should do with their rebate money. ''If you ask me for financial advice, which I should not be giving, I would say be a little bit conservative, you know, wear that dress one more season, wear the cargo one more year,'' he said. ''But on the other hand, if you all do that, then we're going to have the recession that I'm trying to prevent.''
 There is no doubt that the rebate checks will arrive in mailboxes at a grim moment for the city. Wall Street, which accounts for 9 percent of the city's revenue, has logged $500 billion in losses. The financial sector, the bedrock of the local economy, has shed about 150,000 jobs. And the municipal workforce has shrunk by 3,000, including 500 layoffs. 
 To top it all off, the city is facing a deficit of at least $1.3 billion in the fiscal year that starts July 1 and the mayor is legally required to come up with a way to balance the budget. He has ordered agencies to cut their budgets and on Monday, he signed bills authorizing the property tax increase, which will generate an additional $576 million in revenue, and an increase in the hotel tax, which could yield an extra $80 million between March and June 2010.
 The property tax rebate will cost the city $256 million.
 ''I fear that sending rebates at a time of financial deficit will only make the deficit get deeper,'' said Ken Stern, 58, an energy consultant who owns a co-op on the Upper East Side.
 Mr. Stern said he had not expected to receive his $400 this year, so he did not know yet what he would do with the money. 
 ''My overriding consideration at this time is the city's financial condition,'' he said. ''But I suppose if I had my druthers, I would get something for my daughter. Yes, that would be my plan.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''I fear that sending rebates at a time of financial deficit will only make the deficit get deeper,'' said Ken Stern, 58, an energy consultant who owns an Upper East Side co-op. ''My overriding consideration at this time is the city's financial condition.''
 Magnolia Garcia, 62, a homeowner in Flushing, Queens, lost her job in banking three weeks ago. She said she would use her rebate check for food and other household expenses. ''In the past, I counted on the rebate for holiday gifts,'' she said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); SALES REBATES (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008

 
