

1 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Skeletons in the Family Closet

BYLINE: By Drew Gilpin Faust; Drew Gilpin Faust's most recent book is "Mothers of Invention: Women of the Slaveholding South in the American Civil War."

 BODY:

SLAVES IN THE FAMILY
 By Edward Ball.
 Illustrated. 504 pp. New York:
 Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $30. 
 Slavery did not end in the United States with the Emancipation Proclamation of 1863 or even with the ratification of the 13th Amendment in 1865. Through its powerful legacy it has persisted into our own time, moving an American President on the eve of the 21st century to consider an official Government apology as a means of at last laying its ghosts to rest. In "Slaves in the Family," Edward Ball, a descendant of South Carolinians who owned thousands of slaves over a period of more than 150 years, makes a personal effort to come to terms with his history. "To contemplate slavery," he observes, "was a bit like doing psychoanalysis on myself."
But Ball insists that it was not guilt that motivated his search into the past. "A person cannot be culpable for the acts of others, long dead, that he or she could not have influenced," he writes. "Rather than responsible, I felt accountable for what had happened, called on to try to explain it." "Slaves in the Family" is thus an account and an accounting, a chronicle of Ball owners and Ball slaves that is designed to break the silences surrounding the author's troubling heritage.
Ball pursues his goal in travels across the United States and even to Africa, both through documentary research in more than 10,000 manuscript pages of Ball family papers and through oral tradition, stories passed down across the generations to his white relatives and to what he estimates to be the approximately 75,000 living descendants of Ball slaves. Using each type of source to check and amplify the other, Ball revises accepted family wisdom: when his white relatives assure him that his ancestors were the kindest of masters, he points to manuscript evidence of whippings, sales, even amputations of the limbs of rebellious slaves.
But perhaps more important, Ball uses documentary evidence to trace and enrich the stories he hears from descendants of Ball slaves. At a meeting of the Afro-American Historical and Genealogical Society in New York City, he encounters a great-granddaughter of Katie Heyward, a Ball slave born in 1840 and known as "Bright Ma." Ball is able to identify Bright Ma's West African tribal origins as Mende and to uncover a haunting tale of how her aging grandparents were once flogged because an overseer employed by his ancestors suspected them of stealing and eating a plantation sheep.
The ties Ball traces between his forebears and their slaves are never more distressing than in their representations of the intimacy of so much of slavery's cruelty, never more moving than when some glimmer of humanity emerges amid the system's brutality. Thus Ball especially struggles to understand the evidence he finds of interracial sexual liaisons. In the 1730's, for example, the founder of the Ball dynasty, Elias, brought a "Molattoe Wench" named Dolly to work in his house after the death of his wife. Dolly's subsequent child, described as "yellow," was, unlike all other Ball slaves of that era, given an English name, Edward, and later freed. Dolly, too, was allotted special treatment under the terms of Elias's will, convincing the author that she had served as Elias's mistress or concubine. Was this intimacy another form of violence perpetrated by his ancestors, Ball wonders. "Was it rape? Or could they have cared for each other?"
Elias proves to have been hardly unique. Several ancestors who "never married" actually lived, Ball discovers, in long-term unions with slave women. The third Elias rewarded a slave named Nancy with freedom and the substantial annual income of $100 upon his death in 1810. Another ancestor built his black common-law wife a house in Charleston, where she raised their eight children. The white family tree lists him as a bachelor.
Ball tells stories remarkable in their circumstantiality. He finds a slave who ran away during the upheavals of the Revolutionary War, fled to Nova Scotia, then ultimately returned to the land of his father, Sierra Leone, where he composed an eloquent antislavery autobiography published in England in 1798. Ball's most extraordinary achievement is perhaps his reconstruction of seven generations of the family of Priscilla, a 10-year-old girl purchased from African traders in Sierra Leone in 1756. Together with Priscilla's 20th-century descendant Thomas Martin, a retired assistant school principal in his 60's, Ball returns to Limerick, the South Carolina plantation where Martin's grandfather, Priscilla's great-great-grandson, had been a slave. Both Ball and Martin recognize the anger and resentment their pilgrimage into the past arouses among friends and relatives. But Ball shares Martin's sense that Limerick is somehow "hallowed ground" and that their presence there together can serve as at least a gesture of reconciliation.
Ball's excursion into that burdensome Southern past situates him in a tradition of Southern historians and writers who have grappled with the meanings of race and the heritage of slavery's inhumanity. His search cannot but invoke the quest of Faulkner's Quentin Compson in that greatest of all Southern novels, "Absalom! Absalom!" Quentin, too, struggled with histories of cruelty and exploitation, and he, too, endeavored to confront the intermingled black and white legacies. Yet, sadly -- if hardly surprisingly -- Edward Ball is no William Faulkner. For all the richness of his research and for all the inherent drama of the stories he tells, his prose is too often wooden, inadequate to the emotional and moral ironies of his material. His efforts to set a scene when he portrays encounters with descendants of Ball slaves seem almost to revert to formula. He routinely describes their skin color -- "tawny brown," "blond wood," "cardboard," "eggplant," "mahoga-
ny" -- remarks on their giggling, chuckling, cackling or laughing, and notes details of their houses or furniture -- "vinyl," "with plastic covers" -- that seem to embody judgments of taste and feelings of social distance that tell us more about Ball and less about his subjects than he perhaps intended. He misjudges as well in his decision "at times . . . to convey white or black dialect, but not fastidiously." It is in fact overwhelmingly to black speakers, not white, that Ball gives such language, and the "dialect" he renders is little more than an omission of final "g's" and a transformation of "them" into " 'em." Dialect that is not "fastidiously" rendered inevitably and dangerously approaches caricature.
Despite these shortcomings, there is much to admire in Ball's very willingness to challenge the generations of silence in his white family and to search out black kin whose reactions he had every reason to fear. And there is much to learn as well from a book that reminds us that slavery possesses not just a national and cultural significance but, for many Americans, a very direct and personal immediacy, even in the late 20th century. In naming the names -- Bright Ma, Paris, Priscilla, Angola Amy, Binak, Tenah, Daniel and dozens more -- Ball contributes to at least partly reclaiming the humanity slavery worked to obliterate. He reminds us that slavery was not just about economics or politics or even abstract questions of morality, but most essentially about the millions of human beings imprisoned within its chains.
Ball ends his book by returning to American slavery's beginnings on the coast of West Africa, to Bunce Island, where Priscilla was held before being shipped to South Carolina in 1756. "I came from a family of slave buyers," he writes. "In Congo, Ghana, Senegal and Sierra Leone lived the heirs of slave sellers. I went to West Africa to try to find some of them." In an audience with a Maforki chief, descendant of a ruling family that played a significant role in the 18th-century slave trade, Ball confronts slavery's roots. Persuading the Africans to join with him in a ceremony of commemoration and forgiveness, he closes his narrative with a powerful affirmation of his belief that the history of slavery is a shared legacy. Blacks and whites, Africans and Americans, are forever linked by the burdens of this past; together they must challenge history's destructive silences.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SLAVES IN THE FAMILY (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); SLAVERY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); GRANDPARENTS (78%); GENEALOGY (78%); HISTORY (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); WRITERS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); LITERATURE (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); 

PERSON: FAUST, DREW GILPIN; BALL, EDWARD DREW GILPIN FAUST (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



2 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 2227 words

HEADLINE: The Do-It-Yourself Society

BYLINE: By Pauline Maier; Pauline Maier teaches history at M.I.T. Her most recent book is "American Scripture: Making the Declaration of Independence."

 BODY:

A History of the American People
 By Paul Johnson.
 1,088 pp. New York:
 HarperCollins Publishers. $35. 
 "The story of America," Paul Johnson says at the end of this enormous book, "is essentially one of difficulties being overcome by intelligence and skill, by faith and strength of purpose, by courage and persistence. America today . . . is a human achievement without parallel." That's not to say he likes everything about the United States. He has no fondness for planning, government regulations, affirmative action, efforts to preserve the distinct identity of American Indians, multilingual education or contemporary left-leaning intellectuals -- in the academy or the press.
"A History of the American People" is not "balanced" and does not pretend to be. But anyone who dismisses it as a conservative tract will miss the arresting contentions and pieces of fascinating, oddball information sprinkled through its 1,000-plus pages. The book also offers a rare opportunity to witness someone trying to make sense of all 400 years of American history and to discover what "tremendous lessons" it holds for Americans and "the rest of mankind." Like a circus acrobat on the high wire, Johnson may seem fated to fail, but it's hard to stop watching his act.
A prolific British author who writes a weekly essay for The Spectator and has published other big books, including "Modern Times" (817 pages), "A History of the Jews" (644 pages) and "The Birth of the Modern" (1,095 pages), Johnson undertook this project, he says, because American history was something of a black hole in his formal education at Stonyhurst and Oxford, and producing a book is "the only way to study a subject systematically, purposefully and retentively." He set out to provide a "comprehensive account" of American history from the late 16th century to the present, "full of facts and dates and figures, which can be used with confidence by students who wish to acquire a general grasp of American history." That required not just vast reading but a "ruthless selection and rejection of material," which he promised to do "as untendentiously as I know how."
The book starts slowly as he slogs through the colonial and Revolutionary periods, picking up themes that can tie together the story of this "greatest of all human adventures." He finds one in the proliferation of labor-saving, water-driven sawmills in early New England, which showed even the first settlers "moving from an economy of scarcity to an economy of plenty, where men were valuable to a degree unknown in Europe." And plans for "grandiose baronies based on feudal models" always failed. Indeed, "again and again in early America," planning of all sorts fell before an "obstinate individualism" made possible by what is for Johnson a fundamental influence on American history -- the ready availability of land combined, in colonial times, with a persistent labor shortage. America soon became a nation of middle-class "owner-occupiers," a "do-it-yourself society" that worked.
By the mid-18th century, the economy of Britain's mainland American colonies had "one of the highest growth rates the world has ever witnessed. So many things were happening in America, at such speed," that British authorities "simply lost touch." That was no disaster, since from their beginnings the colonies had developed, from British precedents, a system of self-government that included representative assemblies. Irritation with intrusions of English authority became "an early American characteristic," along with a deep-seated antipathy to taxes. So, given the "arrogance" and inflexibility of the "succession of nonentities" who ruled Britain in the early reign of George III, the road of history "led only in one direction, to ultimate independence."
Johnson's heart is less in the early period than in the 19th century, when, finally, he confronts the America he loves, a country "specifically created by and for ordinary men and women" with a "system of government . . . deliberately designed to interfere in their lives as little as possible," a place where "the spirit of laissez-faire libertarianism . . . pervaded every aspect of . . . life." The results were fantastic. Domestic birth rates reportedly reached levels "never before equaled in history," while "a great flood of immigrants" arrived in the United States, which was for them a "paradise" with high wages, low taxes and, above all, "cheap land."
The nation's landmass multiplied with the Louisiana Purchase and the Mexican War. New patents increased at a dizzying rate, and labor-saving machinery like McCormick reapers allowed "gigantic annual additions of land under cultivation" that were "unprecedented in world history." Turnpikes, canals and railroads overcame "the tyranny of distance," facilitating the expansion of markets and of "benevolent prosperity." Then industrial development moved into high gear. By the end of the 19th century, Americans lived in "the world's wealthiest country" and enjoyed "living standards unprecedented in the history of humanity."
The internalized influence of religion -- an adherence to "a God-ordained moral code" rather than a man-made one imposed by the state -- provided the only significant restraint on economic freedom and, it seems, about the only one of which Johnson fully approves. One of his most provocative themes is the continual, fundamental influence of Christian belief on American history. Religious influence, he says, shaped one development after another: he claims that the colonies were founded "primarily for religious purposes," and the American Revolution was "in its origins . . . a religious event." Even business blossomed under its inspiration. The Kellogg "breakfast-cereal empire" was founded by Seventh-day Adventists inspired by a woman who had a "vision of sanctified breakfast food while in a religious transport. And what," Johnson asks, "could be more American than cornflakes?" Maybe Coca-Cola, invented to fight the Devil in the form of hard liquor and sold to "born again" customers in the 1920's by a company that resembled a church. Time and again, Johnson says, "the American religious spirit was transmuted into a secular force while still keeping its religious overtones."
There are no robber barons in this book, only benefactors of mankind, and no real victims, since "the facts" demonstrate "a panorama of general progress in which all classes shared." Thus, Henry Clay Frick, "a simple steelman," accumulated a splendid art collection and left it to the people of New York City. The Jay Gould estate, Lyndhurst, first acquired by "a hard man's graft," is now "one of the noblest artistic delights of the lower Hudson." Businessmen helped make the United States a rich culture as well as a wealthy nation. Meanwhile, the steady development of American painting, writing and architecture, described here at length, further extended the nation's achievements beyond the economic sphere.
The villains of the late 19th century are Populists, middle-class Progressives and other "do-gooders" who sought a new government interventionism, which was first realized in Woodrow Wilson's Administration and became firmly established during the New Deal. Unfortunately, Johnson argues, the economic meddling of Franklin D. Roosevelt and Herbert Hoover, whose policies Roosevelt continued, only protracted the Great Depression. Too bad no one took the "sensible advice" of Hoover's Treasury Secretary, Andrew Mellon, who wanted to "liquidate labor, liquidate stocks, liquidate the farmers, liquidate real estate" and "purge the rottenness from the economy." With such a return to "strict laissez-faire," Johnson suggests, the crisis would soon have been over.
His account of the 20th century is distinctly tendentious. The public image of John F. Kennedy, he says, was "one of the biggest frauds in American political history," and Lyndon B. Johnson had an unscrupulous "dark side." But, strangely, not Richard Nixon, who supposedly survived unreasonable attacks from the news media to become "one of the most respected American elder statesmen since Jefferson" -- as if none of his well-documented abuses of power occurred. Sexual philandering by American political leaders is nothing new, but somehow this century's worst offenders all seem to be Democrats. Could it be that not just Kennedy and Johnson but that old Presbyterian Woodrow Wilson (whose second wife was supposedly so surprised when he proposed that she fell out of bed) as well as Franklin Roosevelt (who was "virile as ever" after his bout with polio) and even Eleanor Roosevelt strayed from the straight and narrow, while Warren Gamaliel Harding was as innocent as a baby, whatever some people said?
MAYBE a book by an Englishman that celebrates the United States should be accepted as a gift horse and not examined too closely. It's nice to be reminded that Americans gave the world not only written constitutions and jazz but refrigeration, soft drinks and Mickey Mouse, and that our writers, painters and composers are world-class. And it's fun to read Abraham Lincoln's comment on spiritualism ("For those who like that sort of thing, I should think it is just about the sort of thing they would like") or Walt Whitman's ode to the "tall masts of Manhattan." Still, Johnson's closing celebration of America falls a little flat after the tawdry picture he paints of many 20th-century political leaders and his judgment that by the late 1990's the country's efforts to end "racial and class deprivation" through "improving civil rights" and enacting expensive welfare programs had failed.
"A History of the American People" will probably prove less than entirely satisfactory even for its natural constituents, churchgoers with a tendency toward conservatism, who judge the book on Johnson's standards. It is not, for one thing, a source to which students can turn "with confidence." There are too many mistakes, not of interpretation (although Johnson's explanation of the First Amendment would give James Madison apoplexy) but of fact. How did he get the idea that all the colonies had adopted written constitutions long before 1776, or that Madison proposed the Bill of Rights in the form that was finally enacted? Some errors border on the comic: important events did occur on June 7, July 2 and July 4, 1776, but not the ones Johnson says happened.
The half-truths are more troubling. Nineteenth-century businesses were subject to more regulations than Johnson acknowledges -- imposed, however, not by the Federal Government but by the states, often through what are for us unfamiliar devices like corporate charters. And for all his celebration of available land, Johnson seems curiously untroubled by the gobbling up of plots by large holders, whether in 17th-century Maryland -- where by his own figures 80 percent of the freemen became tenants or wage laborers because all the accessible vacant lands were already owned by others, not, as he suggests, because they somehow preferred those roles -- or in the 19th-century West. So what if half the land given out in North Dakota under the Homestead Act, which was designed to help the ambitious individuals Johnson likes, went to big companies that found ways to manipulate the system? That "was a small price to pay," he says, "for the immense benefits of having a free market in land -- something which had never before occurred at any time, anywhere in the world."
And what about businessmen's use of the state against unions? The book gives only a brief and inaccurate account of the Homestead strike against the Carnegie Steel Company, which was crushed in 1892 by 8,000 militiamen sent in by the Governor of Pennsylvania. Obviously, unionism sometimes failed for reasons other than, as Johnson would have it, Americans' unwillingness to "subordinate their individuality to the collective interest." The exertion of state power at Homestead undermined community self-government and helped insulate a generation of steelworkers from America's "benevolent prosperity." But there's no suggestion of that in Johnson's telling of the tale.
Finally, like them or not, "do-gooders" -- people who have tried to alleviate the human costs of development or sometimes to extend individual opportunity, whether through private efforts or the state -- have had a long and honorable place in American history. The impulse has many sources, including religion and even enlightened self-interest, since social mobility goes in both directions. Americans also feel an obligation to apply the principles of equality and rights in the Declaration of Independence, which have taken on a quasi-religious power greater at times than that of the Ten Commandments. It is possible, in fact, that the moral principles that bind Americans as a group have more often had secular origins that then took on religious overtones, rather than the other way around.
Our record in realizing equality is better than Johnson suggests. In this century America has established civil rights across racial lines, something Thomas Jefferson couldn't even imagine. And if the dramatic current income inequalities that Johnson describes become a recognized problem, you can bet that the American problem-solving impulse will kick in. The story's not over.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HISTORY OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE, A (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (90%); HISTORY (89%); LITERATURE (78%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); MULTILINGUALISM (70%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (56%); 

PERSON: MAIER, PAULINE; JOHNSON, PAUL (AUTHOR) PAUL JOHNSON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



3 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 4; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
Deals and Discounts

BYLINE: By JANET PIORKO 

 BODY:

HAWAII RENEWED -- The Kapalua Bay Hotel on Maui, which recently reopened after a six-month renovation, is offering an introductory rate of $199 for an ocean-view room through July 31 (tax of 10.166 percent is extra). The resort, on 18 beachfront acres, has 191 rooms and 3 suites, all with new bathrooms; three golf courses; two tennis complexes; two swimming pools, and a new fitness center. For information or reservations, call (800) 367-8000 or (808) 669-5656; or look on the Internet at www.kapaluabay.com.
 
SWISS PACKAGES -- Swiss air has packages to Geneva or Zurich starting at $1,158 in April, May and October for packages to Geneva or Zurich. The price (which starts at $1,366 from June through September) includes round-trip air fare from New York, Newark or Boston; six nights' hotel stay; daily breakfast and a week's car rental with unlimited mileage. A package that includes only air fare and a week's rental of an economy car (like a Fiat Panda) starts at $825 in April, May and October and ranges up to $994 in high season for midweek departures. The prices, guaranteed in dollars, are per person and based on two people traveling together. Reservations: (800) 688-7947. 

JAMAICA FOR FAMILIES -- The Franklyn D. Resort in Runaway Bay, Jamaica, a family-oriented, all-suite, all-inclusive property, is offering a discount program, Mothers First and Last, April 24 to June 4. During that period, families traveling with both father and mother pay for a father's full stay but only the first and last nights of the mother's. (Children under 16 stay and eat free at the resort.) Rates for adults during that period are $255 a night, so a family staying a week would pay $1,785 for the father's stay, $510 for the mother's. Rates include meals, drinks, activities (but not scuba) and transfers from the Montego Bay airport. No minimum-stay is required. Tennis, water sports, a cybercafe, fitness center and other diversions are available. The resort has 76 air-conditioned suites. For information and reservations: (888) 337-5437 or (516) 223-4815; the Internet address is www.fdrholidays.com.
 
ESCORTED EUROPE -- A 15-day escorted tour visiting Poland, Hungary, Austria and the Czech Republic is being offered by Smartours, starting at $1,599 a person, double occupancy. Departures are scheduled monthly from April to November, ranging up to $1,999 in July and August. The price includes round-trip air fare from New York via Helsinki on Finnair, hotel, transportation by air-conditioned bus, guided sightseeing, daily buffet breakfast and four dinners. A further $100 discount is available on some departures for those making reservations by March 16. The itinerary includes Warsaw, Cracow, Budapest, Vienna and Prague, as well as Auschwitz and the Jasna Gora monastery at Czestochowa. Reservations and information: (800) 337-7773. JANET PIORKO

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAMAICA (92%); SWITZERLAND (88%); HUNGARY (79%); FINLAND (75%); EUROPE (70%); CZECH REPUBLIC (70%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ZURICH (88%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KAPALUA BAY HOTEL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAMAICA (92%); SWITZERLAND (88%); HUNGARY (79%); FINLAND (75%); EUROPE (70%); CZECH REPUBLIC (70%); HAWAII, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ZURICH (88%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIR FARES (90%); RESORTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); AIRLINES (88%); FAMILY (87%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (76%); SCUBA DIVING (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); AIRPORTS (71%); 

PERSON: PIORKO, JANET

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



4 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 4; Column 5; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
Car-Rental Offers Abroad

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE 

 BODY:
THIS is usually the month when Americans expecting to go to Europe in the summer can reserve a rental car and lock in a rate, often an advantageous one, in dollars.
This year, with the United States dollar rising -- in France, Germany or Italy, it was worth at least 10 percent more in February than it had been a year earlier -- it's hard to know who is locking in whom. However, the car rental agencies are trying to entice consumers to book now with discounts and upgrades, so travelers may not want to reject the idea entirely. Hassle reduction can be worth money, too. 
 Those who have not shopped for car rentals in Europe before need to know a few basics first.
* Most cars rented in Europe have manual transmissions (and in Britain and Ireland, the stick shift is typically on the driver's left-hand side); automatics, when available, cost 40 percent more, according to one company.
* The lowest prices may be deceptive. Many European two- and three-door cars are small beyond the imagining of Americans. It can be impossible to get two adults and luggage for two weeks into the cheapest models.
* It is not advisable to leave belongings in a rental car in a popular tourist parking area. If you plan to visit monuments along the road, at least specify a car that has a luggage area that is not visible.
* The advertised rates do not usually include the value added tax. (There is no rebate on this tax for car rentals, as there is for many purchases.) It can can be as high as 25 percent. The rental company should be asked if the tax is included in a quoted price, and if not, how much it is and whether an airport pick-up charge is also piled on.
* Renters accustomed to using their credit cards in lieu of buying the collision damage waiver are out of luck in Italy, where renters are compelled to buy the local coverage, costing probably $10 to $15 a day. There are other variations, so renters should check with both the rental company and the credit-card company before rejecting the collision damage waiver.
A Competitive Business
That said, car rental companies that operate internationally have set prices that they guarantee to keep for reservations made by March 31. Some are offering discounts and upgrades. It is a competitive business, and it is worth asking if other companies can match a deal. These offers all include unlimited mileage. Rick Steves's current "Europe Through the Back Door" catalogue estimates gas for 1,000 miles' driving in Europe will probably cost around $130.
Auto Europe, a company in Portland, Me., that acts as a broker for Avis Europe and Europcar, is offering both a 10 percent discount and a one-class upgrade for certain reservations made by March 31.
Imad Khalidi, the president of the company, said the strength of the dollar and a trans-Atlantic air fare war were bringing a rise in reservations. His 10 percent discount plus one-class upgrade is available on particular cars in almost all European countries, including France, Germany, Switzerland, Spain, Britain and Italy.
He cited some examples for France. An economy-class three-door Renault Clio is listed at $146 a week without V.A.T. and damage and theft coverage. A reservation in this class will be upgraded to a compact Renault Megane, ordinarily $202 a week. Cars in the Megane class, if booked at the 10 percent-off price of $182, would be upgraded to a midsized Renault Laguna, usually $247. Reservations must be prepaid to get the discounts and upgrades. There is no penalty for cancellation. Auto Europe: (800) 223-5555.
Avis Europe is offering free upgrades in certain groups on its Early Booker program. This offer covers reservations for Italy, Spain, Portugal, Austria, Belgium, Luxembourg, Switzerland and the Netherlands until the end of the year, but they must be booked by March 31. Prepayment is not required. Dropoffs at other cities in the same country involve no extra charge.
In Italy, a reservation for a Volkswagen Polo or similar car at $180 a week, not counting tax and coverage, would bring an upgrade to an Opel Corsa, a two-door, three-adult model, otherwise $199 a week. And a reservation for the Corsa would bring an upgrade to the Renault Clio group, otherwise $218 a week. A Clio reservation would bring a Volkswagen Golf, otherwise $273 a week.
In Spain, a week's rental of a car in the smallest group, the one represented by the Opel Corsa, would be $120 a week. This reservation would bring an upgrade to a Renault Clio, otherwise $127 a week without tax and coverage. Reserving in the Clio group at $127 would bring an upgrade to an Opel Astra or other four-door car for four adults, whose weekly cost would otherwise be $140, without tax and coverage. Avis Europe: (800) 331-1084.
Twist on the Theme
Hertz varies the theme: A choice of a one-class upgrade for certain types of cars, or one day free in a week, which amounts to a 14 percent discount. These options require full prepayment. There are no cancellation charges.
In France, a one-week rental of an Opel Corsa is listed at $162, without V.A.T. or collision coverage; this may qualify for a one-seventh discount for the free day, which is the first day, or an upgrade to a Ford Escort.
In Britain, a reservation for a Ford Fiesta, listed at $158 for a week, may be discounted by one-seventh, or upgraded to a Ford Escort. In Germany, the Ford Fiesta is $100 before the free day, and the upgrade is to an Escort. Hertz: (800) 654-3001.
The Leasing Option
Travelers going to Europe for at least 17 days and up to six months may want to consider leasing a new European car, which involves buying the car and then selling it back. The cars are then sold as used cars to Europeans, with a tax saving to them. There is no V.A.T. to pay, no collision damage waiver and unlimited mileage. It is also easier to get an automatic model in one of these plans.
Europe by Car, a New York company, offers Renaults, Peugeots or Citroens. (The manufacturers also offer their cars independently.) Europe by Car has 22 Peugeot models, starting with the two-door 106, at $479 for 17 days and $14 a day after that.
The company's Citroens start with the Saxo, also at $479 for 17 days and running up to $2,599 for 175 days. The biggest Citroen is a nine-passenger Combi bus at $1,949 for 17 days and $45 a day after that. Europe by Car: (800) 223-1516; in New York, (212) 581-3040.
Renault's Eurodrive program offers its two-door hatchback Twingo at $480 for 17 days, plus $16 a day thereafter. The Twingo with air conditioning is $690 for 17 days, $18 a day thereafter; with automatic transmission, $845, $19 a day thereafter. Prices rise to $2,695 for a nine-passenger minibus, $30 a day after the first 17 days.
There are fees for picking up or dropping off the car outside France. Renault Eurodrive: (800) 221-1052 in the East; (800) 477-7116 in the West; (800) 777-7131 in Florida and Puerto Rico.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Linda Helton)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AVE (LSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (50%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (50%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, ME, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AVIS EUROPE PLC (50%); AVIS EUROPE&EUROPCAR (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: AVIS EUROPE&EUROPCAR (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (73%); MAINE, USA (50%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; RENTING AND LEASING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) US DOLLAR (90%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); CREDIT CARDS (69%); VALUE ADDED TAX (69%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (62%); 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



5 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 34; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: The Nuke of the 90's

BYLINE: By Roger C. Altman; Roger C. Altman, an investment banker, served in the United States Treasury Department under Presidents Carter and Clinton.

 BODY:
In july 1945, a group of scientists huddled in the new Mexico dawn to witness the first nuclear explosion. They had created a terrible power, but one that nations have successfully controlled for more than 50 years. Now we have unleashed a very different but similarly awesome force, one capable of overthrowing governments and their policies almost overnight. And there are no systems in place for controlling it.
This force is the global financial marketplace. Strengthening for years, the markets have emerged as the ruling international authority, more potent than any military or political power. When arrayed against any nation, including the United States, they can impose previously unthinkable changes. 
 Such changes can sometimes be for the good. Indeed, the global markets have recently propelled many nations toward democracy. But there is a new and frightening downside, which we glimpsed in October but still haven't fully seen or understood. That is the risk of a chain reaction, a global market meltdown that could shatter confidence and plunge the world into recession or worse.
Imagine, for example, that Brazil's currency collapsed, losing more than half its value in a week. The country's banking system would totter while its stock and bond markets plummeted. Big international investors would race for the door, but not before sustaining heavy losses. Fearing that the Brazilian crisis would quickly spread to other Latin American markets, they would bail out of those too, causing them to plunge. The International Monetary Fund could not react quickly enough.
Now incurring wider losses, these same investors would try to protect themselves by pre-emptively selling in other foreign markets. This would trigger a stock market free fall in Asia and Europe, and then on Wall Street. Within a week, worldwide markets might lose an unprecedented quarter or more of their value. Stunned consumers and businesses would cut back their spending plans, fearing that the good times were over. This would be the financial shock that Alan Greenspan obliquely described as the one risk to the American economy today.
This risk of a global meltdown reflects the law of unintended consequences. The worldwide elimination of barriers to trade and capital, and the rise of communications technology, have created the global financial marketplace, which informed observers hailed for bringing private capital to the developing world, encouraging economic growth and democracy.
But in the past five years, as seamless 24-hour markets clicked in, the risks inherent in the new system became apparent. No one had envisioned such growth and the expansion of power that accompanied it. Average daily worldwide trading in financial instruments now may exceed
$1 trillion. Yes, each day. This is largely carried out by huge financial institutions with short investment horizons.
The result is like an extraterrestrial force: gigantic flows of money, directed electronically, which dominate world finance and can change direction in an hour. They are beyond the control of any government or regulator. And there is no method of directly communicating with them.
Nations depend on stable currencies for facilitating imports and exports, for financing trade and budget deficits and for attracting investment capital. But their currencies are traded minute by minute around the world. As long as the markets look favorably on a nation's financial performance, there can be economic stability.
But if they render a negative verdict, the results can be disastrous. This is what happened to Mexico in late 1994, when it effectively went bankrupt. The markets suddenly judged Mexico's Government to be borrowing too much foreign capital on a short-term basis. Foreign investors fled, the peso plunged and the country couldn't pay off its debts. Over subsequent months, its economy contracted and bitter times set in. Only a controversial $20 billion in emergency financing organized by the United States kept Mexico from complete collapse.
Then last June, the global markets delivered a similarly harsh blow to Southeast Asia. It came out of the blue, and it followed years and years of celebrating the "miracle" economic rise of these "Asian tigers." Like the Titanic, they had acquired an aura of invincibility.
But that was shattered like a bullet exploding a glass. The markets judged that first Thailand, then Malaysia, Indonesia and South Korea were presiding over rickety banking systems loaded with bad loans. One by one their currencies were battered, some losing up to 70 percent of their value. The national treasuries all ran out of money trying to stop the plunge, and weakened economies followed. This time it was the International Monetary Fund that organized nearly $120 billion of emergency loans for these four countries to keep them breathing and prevent a domino effect elsewhere.
For the first time we saw what a worldwide collapse might look like. As the Asian financial crisis widened last October, the Hong Kong stock market, the region's biggest, began to fall. Then it plunged, down more than 10 percent in one day. This instantly triggered huge, same-day market declines across Europe and a shocking 554-point drop on Wall Street.
The next day, the world financial community held its breath, unsure whether the chain reaction would accelerate or abate. We were on the precipice. Luckily, markets stabilized, but those events may have been the tremor before the earthquake, and that was only four months ago.
High anxiety among the world's central bankers and finance ministers over the Asian crisis continues. Yes, they want to avoid calamitous impacts on South Korea and Indonesia, both strategically important countries. But their real fear is that the Asian market collapse will suddenly go global. Privately they consider that a real possibility.
What can be done to limit this risk of worldwide financial infection? There is only one bulwark, and it is the I.M.F., the world's emergency lender to nations in distress. But we need a vastly stronger and more alert I.M.F. to successfully contain those regional crises. Even now, global financial markets are unsure if the emergency I.M.F. financing for Indonesia is enough, or whether that nation will still default.
The huge Asian financing package has depleted the I.M.F.'s resources to an alarming degree. It needs a capital infusion from its shareholders, with the U.S. share even bigger than the $18 billion President Clinton has requested. The congressional outlook is uncertain. But a rejection of increased U.S. commitments could, by itself, destabilize world markets.
The managerial capabilities of the I.M.F. also require upgrading. Despite misgivings among finance ministers -- who fear self-fulfilling prophecies -- the fund must serve as an early-warning system for deteriorating national finances. Here at home, the major credit-rating agencies issue an alert if a corporation is faltering or if a city's debt load is getting too onerous. The I.M.F. should do the same.
Today, the I.M.F. expresses its concerns privately to governments with shaky finances. But these warnings are usually ignored by national political leaders, who have no interest in administering tough medicine.
Yet if the I.M.F. remained studiously apolitical, it could issue such warnings publicly, and financial markets would then apply the pressure for change. Yes, such admonitions could themselves trigger crises. But if the I.M.F. sounded the alarm early enough, it would more often move governments toward sounder finances and pull them back from the brink.
World leaders have discussed this warning capability for some time, but it was hard to take such an important step to ward off a danger that seemed, in previous years, to be hypothetical. We no longer have that excuse.
Anyone who thinks that the United States is immunized against all these risks is wrong. We may be in favor with these markets now, but that can change quickly. Indeed, the dollar set an all-time low against the yen only three years ago, causing much nervousness around the world. Should the markets move more strongly against our currency, even America's resources could not sustain its value. Like a long list of nations before us, we could be forced to raise interest rates drastically, which would probably throw the economy into a recession.
We saw some of this in 1978, when the dollar came under pressure. President Carter, trying to placate the markets, promised to adopt a tighter budget. The markets judged his promise weak and smashed the dollar down. One week later, the President had no choice but to announce yet a smaller deficit, even though it upset his political priorities.
We have entered an age of unprecedented financial power and risk. The strength of worldwide markets, already immeasurable, will only grow. Markets will be the dominant, worldwide force of the early 21st century, dwarfing that of the United States or any consortium of nations. And as with nuclear weapons, we are now permanently in their shadow.

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Robert Stivers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; FINANCES; FOREIGN AID; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CURRENCIES (72%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); TRENDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); 

PERSON: ALTMAN, ROGER C; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); ROGER ALTMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



6 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 24; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: On Language;
On the Lam, Who Made Thee?

BYLINE: By William Safire 

 BODY:
"Big-time Clinton-Gore donor Ted Sioeng," wrote The Wall Street Journal's crusading editorialist, "poured some $250,000 into campaign coffers, and has recently been on the lam from nosy investigators."
On the lam means "running away" or "being a fugitive from the law"; bureaucrats would say "in escape status." The origin of the expression is in heated dispute among slang etymologists. 
 In The Random House Historical Dictionary of American Slang, J.E. Lighter defines the term as prison lingo for "an act of running or flight, esp. a dash to escape from custody." In his 1886 "30 Years a Detective," Allan Pinkerton, the first "private eye," explains an operation of pickpockets: "After he secures the wallet, he will utter the word 'lam!' This means to let the man go and to get out of the way as soon as possible." Lighter cites do a lam, make a lam and take a lam early in this century, finally emerging as the passive state of being on the lam.
Lighter speculates that it may be rooted in the dialect Scandinavian verb lam, as in the 1525 "his wife sore lamming him," meaning "to beat, pound or strike." Mark Twain used it twice: "lamming the lady" in 1855 and "lam like all creation" in 1865, both clearly meaning "to beat." The suggested connection is that to avoid a feared lamming (related to slamming), one lams.
At the University of Missouri at Rolla, Gerald Cohen, a professor of foreign languages currently at work on a slang dictionary, has another theory. He notes the cant lammas in Eric Partridge's Dictionary of the Underworld, the lingo of costermongers in London around 1855, alternatively spelled nammou, meaning "to depart, esp. furtively" and related to vamoose in the lingo of the American West.
"Namase with its variant spellings," Cohen says, "was the standard cant term for 'leave/make off/depart/skedaddle.' I don't know why nam became lam, but the meanings are the same."
The good news for investigators is that Yah Ling (Charlie) Trie is no longer on the lam. He has returned from his long sojourn in Macao to face the music (a metaphor first reported in the halls of the U.S. Congress in 1850).
 
DEAD TIGER BOUNCE
A puzzled zoogoer sends in a clip from The Financial Times about a possible recovery of Asian stocks headlined, with no explanation, "Dead Tiger Bounce."
In 1985, the same newspaper quoted Singaporean investment advisers warning of a dead cat bounce: false hopes are stirred when a stock rises slightly after a crash but turns out to be lifeless. This odious variation of a bounce, or temporary upturn, is being applied here to other cats -- the "tigers," symbolizing formerly ferocious Asian economies, now turned by adversity into bruised pussycats.
Thus, a temporary rise in the stock of an Asian company that has recently plummeted is a dead tiger bounce. By this analogy, any agreement to limit the fluctuations of currencies of Asian nations will be called the dragon in the tunnel.
 
GETTING IT RIGHT
At the embattled White House. . . .(Stop there. Embattled now means "under attack, being assailed," with the feisty connotation of "engaged in battle"; beleaguered, rooted in the Old English leger, "camp, bed, lair," means "besieged, blockaded, surrounded, beset by foes" and is more defensive than embattled. Its first use was by John Milton in his "Areopagitica": "In defense of beleagured truth.")
Start again. At the beleaguered White House, Joseph Lockhart, a spokesman for President Clinton, lectured hectoring reporters with, "I understand the competitive pressure that everybody is under, but I do think it's a significant lowering of standards when getting it first supersedes getting it right."
This was an allusion to a journalistic adage that was taken up in the 1940's by Hearst's International News Service: "Get It First, but First Get It Right."
In 1950, Seymour Berkson, then president of I.N.S., told a young interviewer from The New York Herald Tribune that he had made that motto the guiding light of his agency. Accordingly, the reporter handed in his copy with a picture of Mr. Berkson attached, and the suggested caption: "Berkson of the I.N.S.: 'Get it first, but first get it right."'
At the same time, the cub also handed in a profile and picture of Minnie Guggenheimer, the beloved impresario of concerts at Lewisohn Stadium in New York. Unfortunately, the pictures mixed themselves up, and the article about the stern Mr. Berkson appeared under a picture of the grinning Mrs. Guggenheimer. That might have gone relatively unnoticed but for the caption about accuracy.
As the papers hit the street near midnight, the reporter received his first and only call from Helen Rogers Reid, owner of The Herald Tribune. The redoubtable dowager was a good friend of both Guggenheimer and Berkson, who did not look alike, and who both had awakened her in high-dudgeoned protest. The cub reporter and the night editor were told to stop the presses, replate (at considerable cost) and never to forget the second part of the motto.
I was that cub, and found a message from the composing room on my typewriter the next morning: "Get It Last and Get It Wrong." That lesson has been impressed on my mind ever since, and I was pleased to see it cited, in its original form, in the press room at the White House nearly a half-century later.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ON LANGUAGE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (80%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



7 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 40; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 7648 words

HEADLINE: The Little Creepy Crawlers Who Will Eat You In The Night

BYLINE: By Michael Lewis; Michael Lewis is a contributing writer to the Magazine. He is writing a book about Silicon Valley.

 BODY:
There are two parts to this story, and the first, like most things in Silicon Valley, can be dispensed with quickly. It runs something like this: In the 1960's and 70's, the Santa Clara Valley got itself a new name by making silicon chips, personal computers and related goods. The sunshine, the absence of tradition, the willingness of Stanford University to do business with corporations and the presence of a counterculture intent on arming the masses with new technology all made the Valley the place to be for people with a knack for building new machines. Other things being equal, the new will arise where the old simply does not exist.
Soon, enough other things were not at all equal. It turned out that the market for engineers in Silicon Valley did not obey the old economic rules. Each new engineer who migrated into the Valley was not less but more valuable than the one before him. As engineers trickled in, they created even bigger opportunities for even more engineers. The rewards for quitting your job at Bell Labs or I.B.M., packing the wife and kids into the station wagon and driving across country to Paradise grew and grew. A trickle of engineers became a stream; the stream became a river; the river became a torrent. 
 The engineers refused to obey the law of diminishing returns because their technology refused to. The price of computing power fell by half each year, the speed of computers doubled and each new computer chip added value to the chips already in existence. "If these economics applied to an automobile," says John Doerr, a prominent venture capitalist in the Valley who helped to start Sun Microsystems, Netscape, Intuit, @Home and dozens of other new-technology companies, "it would cost 10 bucks, run thousands of miles without refueling and when it got old, you wouldn't bother to trade it in for a new one. You'd just throw it away."
Part 1 of the Silicon Valley story was about men -- all of them were men -- building machines, building them cheaper, faster, smaller and better. They built them so fast and cheap that they made themselves uninteresting. The world came to take them for granted.
Part 2 is what the world has not yet taken for granted. What has happened in the Valley over the past few years has the locals comparing themselves to Renaissance Florentines. It is, as Doerr puts it, "the single greatest legal creation of wealth in the history of the planet." Actually building machines is today a slightly second-rate occupation: the computer has become a commodity. Factories are messy, workers unnecessary. These days, the thrill is in dreaming up things for the ubiquitous computer to do. Software, in a word. Because change is happening too fast for large corporations to control it, the new game favors the new guys. "The little creepy critters who will eat you in the night," as a man from Xerox described them. The speed of growth of the Internet, in particular, has meant that neither AT&T nor I.B.M. nor Xerox nor even Microsoft can dominate the business. It's the age of the creepy critter.
And so all across Silicon Valley you find these office buildings crammed with little creepy critters who will eat you in the night. They are mainly young men who have just discovered their inner entrepreneur and hope to grab their little billion-dollar slices of the new world. Incubators, these buildings are called. Incubators shelter engineers and computer scientists whose ideas might make a fortune but are too fragile at this point to survive in the free market. Big companies like Xerox have incubator projects; venture-capital firms like the Mayfield Fund have them; even local city councils have taken to turning vacant office space into way stations for new entrepreneurs.
One incubator just off Interstate 280 across from a strip mall in San Jose is a case in point. It was created by the National Aeronautics and Space Agency in 1993, when the Valley was experiencing a recession. Granted, it's a little hard to imagine Silicon Valley in recession. With more than 3,000 new businesses starting up each year, unemployment approaching zero and the Valley surpassing Detroit as America's leading exporter, it's hard to believe that there was actually a time when engineers here worried for their jobs. It's true! The hardware businesses were maturing, and there was this fear that the test tubes with the magic potion had gone dry.
The original idea behind the Valley's NASA Incubator was to use funds being offered up by the Federal Government to create a home for technology spun out of the space agency. "The trouble was," says John Gee, the man hired to set it up and eventually to choose its occupants, "there were no businesses waiting to come out of NASA." For the first few months, Gee spent all of his time looking for entrepreneurs. There weren't any to be found. Then something happened.
The nature of the thing is still hard to describe. On April 4, 1994, Netscape was incorporated. Over the next 18 months the Web-browser company climbed in market value from nothing to $6 billion.There followed a raft of giddy Internet-related successes -- Yahoo!, Excite, Amazon.com, Onsale, @Home. But it wasn't just the Internet that was aflutter; the central nervous system of the engineer was aflutter, too. Even now, the odds against success for a new-technology company are extremely long, something like 30 to 1. Yet the combination of a bull market in stocks, a few new-technology billionaires and a zealous faith in the power of software has led a raging horde of boy-men to tell their mothers that they had chucked over the job at I.B.M. to become software entrepreneurs. "It used to be 5 percent of the Stanford masters in engineering wanted to start businesses," Gee says. "Then it was 10 percent, then 15 percent, then 20 percent. Then I'm running this highly selective process." Overnight, it seemed to Gee, the world around him got drunk on the idea of starting its own businesses.
There is no better place to observe this phenomenon than the NASA Incubator. In October 1996, John Gee left the Incubator to start his own new-technology company, and was replaced by Joe Boeddeker. By then, there was a line around the block of young engineers and computer scientists who had some new software in their heads, trying to get an office in which to download. You could have filled the Incubator -- a dreary squat building with the charm of a third-class German motel -- many times over with some of the most expensively educated people on the planet. Hundreds of young Werthers of technology were willing -- willing? delighted! -- to turn down the 85 or 90 grand from I.B.M. or AT&T to work for nothing. Usually they didn't even have a product, just this little idea for a computer program that would... change the world.
The first guy I met at the NASA Incubator was on his way out. His name was Eric Ver Ploeg, and he had come to the Incubator by way of Stanford's engineering and business schools. He had an idea about how to speed up access to corporate databases, and his software company, Angara, had just been handed a few million dollars by a pair of venture capitalists, and so he was moving to a real office. Ver Ploeg was an inspiration to entrepreneurs. Not so long ago, at age 31, he was living entirely off credit-card debt. Each month he received new offers from Visa and Mastercard at 0 percent interest rates; each month he rolled his debts from the old cards to the new. He rented a room in a house belonging to two gainfully employed friends. In the line on the credit-card application where they ask him for his "annual household income," Eric wrote his housemates' joint income, "$190,000." Then the venture capitalists came along and valued his company at a little under $7 million.
Ver Ploeg took me around the Incubator and introduced me to a low-slung man with a heavy Russian accent named Michael Shapiro, who was working on software to help factories manage their assembly lines. In the last days of the Soviet empire, Shapiro had grabbed his wife and, with $1,500 in his pocket, executed a dangerous escape from Moscow to Brest and then through Central Europe, just as you see in the movies. Destination: Silicon Valley. He knew that he would be paid much more to write software there than in Russia. "Do you expect to become rich?" I asked. "What do you mean rich?" he replied. "Fifty million dollars," I offered. He considered this with perfect seriousness, like a man who has forgotten the value of a ruble. "Fifty million is a good number. I would not be surprised if I was worth $50 million. But I do not need to make $50 million right away."
Never have so many had so little regard for the status quo. Just down the hall from Shapiro I met a 49-year-old Stanford researcher named Barbara Hayes-Roth. Hayes-Roth is everyone's picture of the impractical academic, large eyes blinking behind spectacles and lots of polysyllabs. She will tell you in the most professorial tones that never in a million years did she dream she would go into business. But in her Stanford laboratory she happened to create these computer cartoon characters. They could walk, talk, remember what you said to them and empathize with your problems. At some point, they ceased to be experiments and became products. Who would need real live salesmen when you could have electronic ones? You'd arrive, say, at the General Motors Web site to inspect the latest Cadillacs, and Hayes-Roth's creation would be waiting to greet you. You'd have this little... Internet friend. The friend would know your name, your tastes and a fair number of jokes. The friend never had a bad day. The friend is the basis for a company Hayes-Roth has started up called Extempo.
Around the corner from Barbara Hayes-Roth is a guy who never comes out of his office. He just sits hunched over his desk, clasping his forelocks in his fingers, 14 hours a day, thinking up ways to eliminate the phone as we know it. He is trying to create the software for an Internet telephone -- or at least that's what people think he's trying to do. He refuses to talk about it.
Across the hall from him is a 27-year-old Harvard Business School graduate who sleeps under his desk. He could be merging giant corporations for Morgan Stanley, but instead he is curled up with the software he markets. His name is Francis Tapon, and he and his colleagues at Sightech Vision Systems have created the software for a computer that can identify the tiniest flaws in a product being manufactured and eliminate them.
By Incubator standards, Sightech is financially unambitious. If everything goes exactly according to plan, it will be worth maybe $600 million. A mere $600 million... even so! On the rare days Tapon gets away from the office, he goes cycling up into the Santa Clara hills and gazes upon the kinds of houses he will be able to afford if his new technology replaces some old technology. A few weeks ago, when I was cycling with him, he found his dream house, a faux medieval castle owned by some Midwest mutual fund baron originally listed at $29 million but now reduced to $25 million.
From the moment he saw it, he wanted to see more of it. He cycled up and down the hills angling for the best view, until at length he found it. Like just about everyone else in the Incubator, Tapon is, at least for the moment, earning exactly nothing. But every so often he returns to his favorite spot and peers over the red brick wall at the $25 million house and says something that suggests he's serious about this house. "It's the maintenance that kills you," he'll say and peddle away.
You hear people in Silicon Valley talking about millions of dollars in the most familiar tones and you assume that you've arrived at their motives. You put a couple of drinks in them and pop the question: All this new technology is just about making money, isn't it? But if you do this, you expose yourself as a rank outsider -- one of those throwbacks who has crawled out from under some rock back East and simply has no idea.
When you set out to sell the world new technology you have no choice but to eschew ordinary financial ambitions. You are obliged to imagine yourself swimming in bathtubs filled with stock options. For if you succeed in persuading the world to ditch some old technology and adopt your new one, you will necessarily become very, very rich.
That's one of many things people in this new world feel that people in the old one don't understand about them: When a high-tech company offers shares in itself to the public for the first time (that is, an initial public offering, or I.P.O.), the founders do make huge sums of money. But in Silicon Valley, the money is just a byproduct. Anyone with a new concept in his head who says to himself, Once I've done my I.P.O., I'll probably scale back and spend some quality time with my family," does not belong here. To succeed on a grand scale -- to be Jim Clark of Netscape or Larry Ellison of Oracle -- you need the nerve never to be sated by money. If you want to be taken seriously, you must always be new. You must always have about you the aura of newness. You can't let the undeniable fact of $400 million swashing around some Panamanian bank account get between you and your next new thing.
Once a month, a hundred or so rich middle-age men (and sometimes a woman or two) gather for dinner at the Los Altos Golf and Country Club in Silicon Valley. What they have in common, other than their obvious wealth, is a love of new technology. They gather to see if there isn't some new technology coming down the pike that they can put their money behind, and thus create even more money to put into new technology. After the main course, they lean back in their chairs, nod their spectacles onto the ends of their noses and listen to younger men from new-technology companies explain why they deserve to exist. Each dinner, three new companies of the sort being started up in the NASA Incubator parade themselves before the diners, who call themselves the Band of Angels. No Angel forks over any money right at the dinner, but most of them write a check or two in the days following an Angels' gathering. It's an extraordinary little piece of capitalist theater that has been going on for just over three years, and in that time nearly 70 fledgling companies have raised the money to fly.
The Band of Angels is an answer to a problem in the Valley caused by the most recent boom. A tidal wave of investment has crashed down on the Valley. Venture-capital dollars have quintupled from half a billion in 1990 to two and a half billion last year, according to a local consulting firm, Collaborative Economics. The V.C.'s have been forced to become ever more ambitious. Once, they looked to finance companies that might one day, with luck, be worth $50 million. Now they cannot waste time on anything that might not soon be worth a billion. "Even if they get the thing up and running and sell it for $50 to $100 million, it's not of much interest to us," says Michael Levinthal of the Mayfield Fund, one of the Valley's larger firms. "I start out with $250 million to invest. I'm trying to return a billion dollars. I have 40 bets to make to do it. I need companies that have the potential to be worth a billion."
In short, the flood of capital has bored a hole in the local market: there is no one to finance technology companies that might one day be worth merely $100 million. It's not worth the trouble.
This hole coincides perfectly with a missing piece of the Northern Californian social structure: the semiretired engineer in his mid-50's with $20 million or so in the bank has no rightful place in this world. There is, of course, a long tradition of American businessmen not knowing what to do with themselves once they cease to be businessmen. But the situation in the Valley is especially acute. There is no society as such, nothing to dignify and organize the vast sums of old money, defined as any money made more than 10 years ago. The very lack of tradition and structure that made the economic miracle possible in the first place has inverted the usual snobberies about money. New money is the only money that really matters. The newer, the better.
The technology entrepreneur with 20 million slightly stale dollars doesn't find himself pulled into a society of other technologists with $20 million. Instead, he finds himself foot-stomped by 24-year-olds intent on making $50 million. The old money and its owner just sit there, a pair of large lonely lumps on a hill overlooking the Valley, wondering how long it will be before they will be consumed by the new technologies the young bucks down there are dreaming up. "When these guys make a jillion dollars, what do they do with it?" asks Hans Severiens, a 65-year-old venture capitalist who started the Band of Angels in January 1995 with a half-dozen of his richest friends. "They get the house. They get the boat. They get the apartment in the south of France. They get the new wife. But all that takes only a couple of million. What do they do with the other millions? These guys are not golf players. They like the thrill of being involved. Most of them are no longer in business. I think some of these people are a little bit lonely."
Severiens sits on the board of the NASA Incubator, but he barely has time these days to make the meetings. Truth to tell, the Band of Angels is seriously cutting into Severiens' leisure time. He went out looking for a bit of fun and has wound up being flattened by a gold rush. All those people who want to be a part of the greatest legal creation of wealth in world history see Severiens as their Great White Hope. Severiens does not want to be their Great White Hope. He has the accent and the gentle demeanor of the mayor of a small Dutch village who wants mainly to be left alone but who forever is being suborned by marauding armies.
On the one hand, there is the mob of would-be entrepreneurs who won't let him be. "They call every day," Severiens says. "It's always, 'We have the next software plan that is going to take over the world.' Everyone is the next Netscape. The whole Internet thing is out of control. It's crazy. I'm by myself. The phone rings. It rings and rings and rings. I dread picking it up." And so he doesn't. "But even if you leave the telephone off the hook," he continues, more than a bit wearily, "they have a way of finding you. I have no E-mail, purposely."
On the other hand, there are all those engineers who are friends, or friends of friends, with $20 million and no one to play with. They aren't as thin on the ground as Severiens originally imagined. Hundreds of rich old guys have emerged from the Santa Clara hills to ask Severiens if, maybe, they, too, might be Angels. Severiens, who started this thing to make everyone's life a bit more pleasant, finds himself cast as the thug at the door of the hoity-toity nightclub. He could, he says, just ring a gong and let every jillionaire in the Valley in. But then it wouldn't be a band but an army of...what? Four hundred, maybe even 500. And what then? There's not a restaurant in Silicon Valley that can hold all its decamillionaires.
One night in January, at Severiens's suggestion, I hitched a ride with Mike Thomas in a rented car to the Band of Angels monthly dinner. Thomas, at 49, is at least 15 years older than most of the people in his position. A few months before, he had left a lifetime of working for others to start a software company called Spear Technologies. The new software helps mass transit systems service their vehicles. Most cities, it turns out, repair their trains and buses either too often or too little. Whodathunkit? It's one of the many problems the world is being made aware of only because there is now a software solution to it.
Thomas's is the only company peddling this particular solution, and it seems to be catching on -- New York City has paid Spear a great deal of money to maintain its 3,600 buses, for instance. But revenues were not coming in as quickly as money was running out. Already Thomas had sold nearly half of his company to outside investors (among them the famous money manager Peter Lynch) for a bit more than $3 million. He had borrowed $2 million from a close friend, taken a second mortgage on his home and now, at last, had reached the bottom of his bank account.
He needed to raise $1.5 million by the end of the month, or he was in a deep, dark hole. He was willing to hand over another 25 percent of Spear Technologies to get it. The Angels were very close to a backer of last resort; he had no place else to turn. "Spear is a very, very good deal," Severiens, who vets dozens of companies each month to arrive at the three finalists, had said. The problem is that people might think it is too good a deal. Why's Mike selling it so cheaply?
Mike Thomas was selling the company so cheaply because he was terrified it wouldn't sell.
Thomas was to be given 15 minutes to persuade the Angels to see the world as he could: Spear can dominate a largely untapped market. No government could afford not to buy it: the money saved in vehicle repair would pay for the software in a year. "The danger," Thomas said, "is that the Angels won't understand this market. It's not the Internet."
Few of the Angels who met that evening at the Los Altos country club belonged to the club or any other; the only social organization they have in common is their monthly dinners. An hour of cocktails preceded the dinner. It could have been any Midwestern men's club. The lights were not dimmed for dinner; the wives were not present; of the 57 cups of coffee served after dinner, only two were decaffeinated. I actually saw a man tell a joke, slap his thigh and exclaim, "That's a good one!" What could be more Midwestern than that? Almost to a man, the Angels have the closed-crop assurance of the mechanically minded. Severiens is an exception in having been a financier as well as an engineer. It was a roomful of 55-year-old Mr. Fixits. If into this crowd you tossed a busted car engine, it would have been repaired before you came back from calling the tow truck.
As the chicken departed and the puddings arrived, Severiens introduced Thomas. Purposefully, he had scheduled Thomas first, since he thought that his was the best deal and that the attention of the Angels might waver. Thomas rose to face 10 round tables of Angels. A man with an unnaturally deep tan stuffed a lemon square in his mouth; others sipped wine, but most just watched Thomas attentively.
And then something happened. Some combination of Peter Lynch's name being dropped and encouraging questions and men nodding their heads in approval put Thomas in control. In the back of every mind was the same thought: He's new. He has the thing. He's the new guy whose new thing will be picked up by the stock market in 18 months and flung into the stratosphere. The deal was not done, by any means; at the end of his presentation Thomas had no idea whether he had sold the Angels or lost them for all time. Indeed, for the moment, he heard nothing but objections. But three days later, Thomas's little speech to the Angels would net him $2.4 million.
Thomas returned to his seat at the back of the room. He was followed by a man with a method for diagnosing ovarian cancer in its early stages. A roomful of men leaned back and pushed their glasses down their noses; the waning interest was palpable. Ovarian cancer was followed by Internet commerce -- in the person of a young man the size of an upholstered chair. "We estimate the market at $160 billion," he said calmly. "I'll tell you our strategy and how we are going to conquer that market." Hardly anyone seemed to be paying close attention. "How come the fringe benefits are almost half the salaries?" asked one of the engineers of another, pointing to some numbers on the overhead projector.
The second engineer laughed: "Dunno. Must be lots of family members employed."
Silicon Valley has developed a new twist to the old Oedipal struggle. The people who created the old technologies know that they will be displaced by younger men with new technologies. Rather than fight them, they finance them. The result is a closed system. The money from old technologies does not spill over into the nontechnological or into various social defenses of the old technology. It does not fritter away its energies on fripperies. It does not create clubs that exclude arrivistes. There is no point in excluding arrivistes: if you don't bend to their new thing, their new thing will destroy you. And so the old simply metamorphoses into the new. The entropy of success is kept to a bare minimum.
The man who comes closest to embodying the local idea of success is Jim Clark. Whatever else he is, Jim Clark is always new. He's 53, but when you talk to him, you feel as if you are grappling with a giant young yellow Labrador retriever straining at his leash. Back in 1982, Clark left his job teaching at Stanford to found Silicon Graphics. Silicon Graphics made stuff; it had factories. On the eve of the software boom, in 1994, Clark left Silicon Graphics to form Netscape. Eighteen months later, his Netscape stake was worth more than a billion dollars, but Netscape was feeling a bit stale. In 1996, Clark formed Healtheon, a health care industry service using the Internet. Even before Healtheon becomes viable, Clark's energies are shifting to some newer enterprise of shadowy intentions, which he houses in a few square feet on top of a Jenny Craig Weight Loss Center in Menlo Park. "The will to create" is how Clark describes the source of his fortune. "It's just kind of sheer will."
Clark is one of those people who would sit on top of the Silicon Valley social structure, were there a social structure to sit upon. When ambitious people in other parts of the world start thinking that they, too, might like to be successful, they often call up Clark. Most recently, Clark was asked to attend a series of meetings at Princeton University, which was hoping to learn how to create a new-technology boom around itself. After a few hours of listening to them talk about the primacy of pure research, Clark gave up trying to explain. "It can never happen here," he told them. "In my opinion, Princeton is doomed to mediocrity in computer science. You still think the finest thing is to be a physicist or a mathematician. You will never believe that the finest thing to be is an engineer or a computer scientist or anyone who does anything of practical value." And with that, he went back to creating new-technology companies in Silicon Valley.
The Valley has sped up capitalism's normal Darwinian process, and Clark is one of the few people who adapts at every turn to the rapid environmental changes. When he left Stanford to answer the call of entrepreneurship back in 1982, Clark knew little about money. He thought he simply could trust the venture capitalist who backed him, a man named Glenn Mueller at the Mayfield Fund. Before the company's I.P.O., Mayfield had squeezed Clark's share of Silicon Graphics down to about 5 percent. When Silicon Graphics went public in 1986, the V.C.'s made a killing while Clark, whose idea it was, became merely rich -- his stake in the billion-dollar venture was worth around $16 million. "They took advantage of me," Clark says. "And I never forgot that."
By the time he created Netscape, the engineer's hand against the money guys had strengthened: new technology in the right hands meant a new kind of power. Venture capitalists begged Clark to take their money, in exchange for a sliver of the new enterprise. Glenn Mueller was one of those doing the begging. He and Clark had remained friends. Clark came to the Muellers' annual Christmas party, the closest thing in the Valley to a society gathering.
And yet Clark told Mueller no; instead of going again with the Mayfield Fund, Clark called John Doerr of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. Over the next few weeks, Mueller phoned Clark repeatedly, asking to be let in on the deal. He'd keep Clark on the phone for hours at a time. But Clark says he "couldn't forget what happened with Silicon Graphics."
The signature psychological disorder in Silicon Valley is paranoia. To those who have run the gantlet and achieved the aura of newness, a suspicion of those around you is not regarded as a mental problem but as simple street smarts. "Only the paranoid survive" is the motto of Intel's C.E.O., Andy Grove, and to judge from all accounts, he lives by it. It may seem strange to find neurosis alive and well in a purely practical place, but when you think about it, it only makes sense. People who create new technologies become successful by replacing old technologies. The act of creation in such a tightly wound market is, typically, also an act of destruction. From this it requires but a little effort to skip to the next thought: somewhere out there someone is creating something that will finish off me.
No one in Silicon Valley knew that Glenn Mueller was thinking along these lines. The man was at the center of the old Valley; the first boom left him worth upward of $100 million -- what could possibly harm him?
On April 4, 1994, Netscape was incorporated and Jim Clark told Glenn Mueller for the last time that he would not be given a piece of the deal. He would not be granted early admission to the new world. When he got the news, Mueller was on his sailboat off the coast of Mexico. That night, he walked into the cabin, put a gun to his head and shot himself dead.
Later, it emerged that Mueller had said some strange things at home about how the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. were out to get him and how others very close to him were out to destroy his business. "But at the time," Clark says, "no one saw a thing." No one except Clark thought to blame Clark. He spent the next six weeks grieving, recovering only to read a poem at a memorial service for Mueller.
All technology is inherently Political. The words stretched across the chalkboard at the Stanford Business School, behind the man who wrote them there. The man was neither young nor old. He wore gray wool slacks and a striped Oxford shirt open at the collar. He smiled easily and, in spite of what he had scribbled on the board, made a point of being pleasant. He could have been an Episcopal minister or the assistant headmaster at Deerfield, waiting diffidently for the congregation or the students to tell him what they needed.
The man is John Doerr, and he is standing in the eye of a storm. Investors in new technology -- the pension funds, the universities, the rich -- plead with Doerr to take their money and invest it in new technology. Engineers and computer scientists, who now more than ever before want to become entrepreneurs, beg Doerr to give them money. Five out of 10 times they take Doerr's money and make it vanish quickly; 4 out of 10, they return it without much interest. But 1 time in 10, they make it do the most extraordinary things that money has ever done. Netscape! America Online! Onsale! Amazon.com! Sun! The greatest legal creation of wealth in the history of the planet! By 1997, the Kleiner Perkins portfolio of technology companies employed 162,000 people, rang up revenues of $61 billion and had a stock-market value of $125 billion.
The world that swirls around Doerr invents not merely technology but ideas, and people to sell those ideas. Doerr himself is a local invention: his persona could not exist anyplace else but Silicon Valley. If you sent him to Wall Street and made him an investment banker, he would be loathsome. He'd be cast immediately as yet another Wall Street megalomaniac, and no matter how he might resist, the culture would force him to play the assigned role: Stealer of the Old Money Pie. But here the universe is new and ever expanding; in the Valley, Doerr is universally liked and admired. People ask: What's wrong with power? What's so bad about letting one guy cut the pie and hand out the pieces? What's not to like about a guy who came out of nowhere and is now worth $200 million? It's one of the many little miracles of the Valley that its most powerful financier is...a nice guy!
That's new, too.
Anyway, at the beginning of his Stanford performance, Doerr was given something to be nice about. The outline of his talk was supposed to be beamed directly from his computer through an overhead projector onto the white screen. But the projector rejected the computer connection and the lights refused to dim. No one in the audience -- not one of the 400 or so young business-school wizards, engineers, computer scientists, professors and deans who had broken the Palo Alto Fire Department code to get a glimpse of Doerr -- could figure out how to turn the lights off. A couple of guys in suits pressed the switches beside the stage and then started pulling apart a panel near the floor. Wires stuck out in 11 different directions. Still nothing happened. No one knew where to find the switch. So Doerr fiddled a bit with his computer, gave up and then started scribbling on the chalkboard, just as they used to, in the old days, before they had computers or even overhead projectors. He scrawled his slogan about technology being political, and then asked the eager audience to offer other topics and questions for him to consider during the next hour.
"The lawsuit against Microsoft," someone hollered from the back.
"Which one?" Doerr asked, and the room erupt-ed in knowing laughter.
In the Valley, Microsoft jokes are the equivalent of German jokes in France.
"Impact of Intel's Merced chip."
"Good question," Doerr said, and wrote this down. He could assume that everyone knew about something called "the Merced chip."
"How technology can bring parents and teachers together."
The strange thing about the people in the room was that they didn't seem to be out to curry favor directly with John Doerr. Probably some of them wanted to be venture capitalists. But what most of them wanted from Doerr was some insight into how to package their own ideas. They wanted to be the only truly admirable thing there is to be in this economy: an entrepreneur, a new man.
"Really good question," Doerr said, and wrote that one down, too. And so it went until the chalkboard was filled with questions about technology, at which point Doerr pulled down the white screen and tried his projector again. The engineers frantically flipped the switches and pulled the wires, but the lights remained obstinate. The projector went on, however. The bulb was just bright enough that even in the fully lighted room you could make out the black lettering:
OLD economy NEW economy
a skill lifelong learning
managers entrepreneurs
labor vs. mgt. teams
monopolies competition
wages ownership, options
hierarchical networked
sues invests
status quo speed, change
The list went on to describe not so much a new economy as a new way of life. Before you knew what had happened, it wasn't a speech but a worldview. The concepts slid down the minds of the audience as smoothly as Blue Point oysters, and for two hours after the talk, until you forgot what he actually said, the entire murky business of life was clear. Anyone who doubted whether this explosion in new technology could continue -- Is it a bubble? What if the stock market crashes? What if people cling irrationally to their old ways? -- needed only to have heard Doerr to have had his doubts allayed. "If you will permit me a little bit of optimism," he said, "I think it is possible that the Internet has been underhyped. It's like Big Bang -- it's like a creation of a whole new universe. It's going to go on a long, long time. And it's going to affect every part of society."
Part 2 of the Silicon Valley story is, according to Doerr, even better than Part 1: the products have the same magical economic properties, but this time they hardly cost anything to make. To build a new chip, you must build a new factory to build the chip. To create a software, all you need to do is think. Once you've had your thought, you pay a few programmers to handle the details. And once they've finished, there is no cost at all. Nothing. You just collect the toll as people download it from the Internet. "You tell me what it means when your cost of goods is zero," Doerr said, and the audience knew enough to quiver in awe.
When his hour was up, Doerr turned off the projector and took questions. The lights went out. At precisely the wrong moment, someone had flipped a switch in a sound booth at the back of the room. Four hundred pairs of eyes blinked in the dark. For 15 long seconds, the only sound was nervous laughter. Then the lights came on and everything was O.K.
In the new Utopia, invention and the social change it brings are no longer left to rogue geniuses tinkering in their basements. The Valley is a system of planned innovation: ever-more-rapid change brought about by people designed for the task. The message beamed into the renal cortexes of young engineers and computer scientists is simple: Invent something! Start something! For God's sake, man, the world is getting better! Look for something new to do!
That's the message that brought an unlikely 26-year-old Indian named Venkat Krishnamurthy to the NASA Incubator. A few years ago, Krishnamurthy had gone looking for something new to do. As 1 of 30 students chosen from a pool of 600 overqualified applicants to join the Stanford Ph.D. program in computer science, Krishnamurthy was obliged to seek out a problem that would interest a professor who would, in turn, take him under his wing. On the third floor of the university's Gates Building, he stumbled across a machine he had never before seen -- a square black table braced on one side by a three-sided black box and on the other by a long metal rod with a scanner mounted to it. Inside the scanner was a laser, attached to a computer located inside the black box. The apparatus was able to scan crude three-dimensional images into the computer.
The machine was called the Cyberware Scanner and had been created by a father-and-son team down in Monterey. Their original idea to stick the things in shopping malls and scan people's faces didn't pan out. The machine languished, waiting for someone to come along and find a use for it. "I just thought it was so cool," Krishnamurthy says. "I thought there must be something cool I could do with this."
In that seemingly innocent impulse was the energy to trigger a chain of events that might conclude with the death of an old technology, the birth of a new one and millions of investors baying for shares of an I.P.O.
What Krishnamurthy did with the machine was to address a longstanding problem in computer graphics: How do you get an object from the real world into the computer? How do you translate every nook and wrinkle and shadow on a complex solid object into digital data, so that it is no longer a picture of that object but a kind of digital clone that can be reshaped and manipulated at the will of the programmer? How, in other words, do you break down the difference between real life and computer life? "Reality merge" is the term of art sometimes used by people in the field. A Stanford professor named Marc Levoy had taken an interest in reality merge. Krishnamurthy joined Levoy's elite team of graduate students. Two years later, they had written software for the computer attached to the laser that more or less solved the problem.
Once again, the computer was being made to do something new. As Levoy's team progressed, Krishnamurthy came to know Domi Piturro, an artist who had worked with Sony developing models for their play stations division and with Viacom on television shows like "Star Trek: Voyager." In the technical progress of computer art over the past 20 years, Piturro saw an analogy to what had happened to the plastic arts during the Renaissance: the computer was groping toward more realistic depictions of nature. The Stanford technology represented a small Eureka! moment, the equivalent of Donatello's rediscovery of contrapposto. It meant you could quickly translate a human body into raw computer data; the data could be made to respond to a variety of manipulations exactly as an actual human figure. "We had broken through one of the big barriers between working in real life and working in a computer," Piturro says. "As an artist I found that exciting. It was like being Masaccio or something."
There was a time not very long ago when Piturro would have been thinking chiefly of finding a gallery in SoHo to represent him and Venkat would have been thinking chiefly of tenure. But this was Silicon Valley in the beginning of 1997, and they were surrounded by young computer scientists who wanted more than anything else to become entrepreneurs. It took about three weeks and a few conversations with people around Stanford for the artist and the engineer to think their way to the next step: keep the technology and exploit it themselves. "People will always pay to see a more realistic dinosaur," says Krishnamurthy, recalling his first commercial thought. "And we could now create a far more realistic dinosaur much more quickly and much more cheaply than anyone else." To create the dinosaur, they needed capital, a plan and someone to manage the business. They needed to figure out how many hundreds of millions of dollars their idea might be worth. They needed to learn how to sell their new machine to others. They needed, in short, to be plausible. "Me and Venkat running something alone," Piturro says. "It would be like just two tech guys doing cool stuff."
In April of last year Krishnamurthy and Piturro went to Stanford's office of technology licensing to secure the rights to the new software. There, they found more or less waiting an engineer with business experience and a degree from the Stanford Business School named Brian Kissel. Kissel had just turned 38 and was himself look-ing to create his first company. And to create a company in Silicon Valley, you need a new technology.
Kissel, like Krishnamurthy and Piturro, is a character who has redesigned himself for the new way of life. He finished near the top of his class at the Naval Academy and served for three years as an officer on a nuclear submarine. On the rare occasions he imagined himself being out of the Navy, he saw himself at Boeing or Pratt & Whitney or G.E. or some other monolith where he would lead the troops of some big business for 30 years. But then Kissel had one of those hell-if-he-can-do-it moments. Everyone who ditches a career to start one of these new-technology companies knows the sensation. Kissel had worked for a former Stanford Business school classmate at a company called Oblix. He liked and admired his old friend, but after a year of close observation, he found himself wondering, Hell, if he can do it.. . .
If the Silicon Valley boom had never happened, Kissel never would have become an entrepreneur; now that the Silicon Valley boom had happened, he couldn't imagine being anything but an entrepreneur.
By the summer of 1997, Krishnamurthy, Piturro and Kissel had formed themselves into a believable enterprise now named Paraform. At some point, it occurred to them that they needed an office, and through a friend of a friend, they found the NASA Incubator. And once you are inside the Incubator, you're no longer three guys who had never started a business. You're a company that has been selected by the Incubator. Lawyers and accountants lined up to offer their services in exchange for a tiny piece of the new company. Needing capital, Brian Kissel called the Band of Angels; before the Angels called back, Brian was on the line with a dozen venture capitalists, most of whom wanted a piece of the action. Soon enough, the co-founder of Microsoft, Paul Allen, had a jet waiting for the three new entrepreneurs on the Tarmac at the San Jose airport. It took them up to Seattle. They showed Allen and associates the product in action. Allen had but one thing to say: "Cool."
"He said 'cool' twice," Piturro says. "Everybody told us we'd be lucky to get one 'cool.' We got two." Between Paul Allen and Gordon Campbell, who runs a hot firm called Tech Fund, Paraform quickly cobbled together a couple of million dollars.
Their initial plan is to go out and grab the $20 million a year they calculated the movie studios are willing to pay for better dinosaurs. With the stock market valuing software companies the way it did, that would leave them sitting on top of a several-hundred-million-dollar company. All the value that accrued to the companies that made the old dinosaurs would be theirs. "Once we are successful," says Krishnamurthy, "there is a company in Utah that will be put out of business."
But why stop with dinosaurs? "One of my jobs," Campbell says, "is to make sure Brian and his guys don't self-limit. The computer is largely a two-dimensional experience. Why can't it be a three-dimensional one?" Every person who shops for clothing on the Internet, as every person one day might, will want his body translated into data so that it can be fitted on line. And once you start thinking in new-world terms, the applications are endless -- in medicine, industry, electronic games. Kissel doesn't want to get ahead himself, but he has no choice. If he doesn't think big, others will think big for him.
Transform computer space! Anyplace else, only a fool would entertain such a thought. Here, only a fool would object. Out there is a large malleable society, helpless before something new. Somewhere in Utah, a company, which actually is not very old at all, trembles.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hatching New Dinosaurs and Other Incubator Dreams Top from left: Brian Kissel, Venkat Krishnamurthy and Domi Piturro are giving new life to computer imaging. Middle: Barbara Hayes-Roth has a friend she wants you to meet; the Incubator never sleeps; the Sightech guys. Bottom: Angara before it graduated to a "real" office; Michael Shapiro likes the sound of $50 million; Francis Tapon dreams of a $25 million house in the hills. How Green Is the Valley? When it comes to the color of money and the harvesting of new ideas, very. Some 3,000 businesses start up every year and unemployment is near zero. The lack of structure that made the miracle possible in the first place has inverted the usual snobberies about wealth. The newer the money, the better. Making the Pitch Mike Thomas's presentation to the Band of Angels netted $2.4 million. High Living One of the residential areas where the new money is finding a new home. (Photographs by Robbie McClaran)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTU (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (53%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BELL LABORATORIES (55%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (53%); INTUIT INC (53%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE ENGINEERING (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, MICHAEL L JOHN DOERR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



8 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 37; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: ARTS/ARTIFACTS;
Finnish Modern: Defining a Nation By Its Designers

BYLINE: By PAULA DEITZ 

DATELINE: HELSINKI, Finland

 BODY:
WHILE THE frozen streets here glistened with new-fallen snow, the entrances to galleries and museums were aglitter with the same curvilinear glass vase filled with tulips. More than a harbinger of spring, the recurring vase evoked the spirit of its designer, Alvar Aalto, whose centenary this year is the cause for the festive mood in this capital city.
Though Aalto is the best known internationally, he was only one of many Finnish designers and architects whose works defined this country's Modernist sensibility. Streamlined, practical and durable, these designs are familiar in homes and offices all over the world. In addition to the Aalto vase, there are the ergonomically perfect Fiskars scissors, the Everyboy striped shirt made by Marimekko and the red enamel coffeepot designed by Antti Nurmesniemi. 
 The centerpiece of the recent events here is the reopening, after a major interior renovation, of the Museum of Art and Design along with a new permanent display that chronicles the history of Finnish modern design. Situated in a Gothic-revival school building, the museum, which opened in 1873, is the oldest in Scandinavia devoted to design. Its stores have grown rich enough not only to fill its own sleek showcases but also to make generous loans to the Bard Graduate Center in New York for its current exhibition, "Finnish Design: Utopian Ideals and Everyday Realities, 1930 to 1997." This show of 144 works was organized by Marianne Aav, curator of the Finnish museum, and her counterpart at Bard, Nina Stritzler-Levine.
To appreciate the evolution of Finnish design, one has to understand the history of the country. From the 12th century on, Finland was under the dominion of Sweden until it was conquered by Russia in 1809. Finnish architecture began to flourish under the czars, and, with its pale-ocher columned buildings, Helsinki took on the neo-classical style that made it the equal of St. Petersburg. When Finland became independent after the Russian Revolution in 1917, its designers, already leaders at international expositions, turned from a romantic tradition and used their work to assert a new identity. And in time, Finland tied its economic future to a strong domestic industry in the design of modern products.
Along with Finnish success abroad, local companies became synonymous with their products: Arabia for ceramics, Iittala for glass and Marimekko for textiles. Similarly, the packaging for the products, unlike that in other countries, advertised the designers' names, which themselves became household commodities.
Some of the articles displayed at the Museum of Art and Design were limited-edition art pieces. But the real attractions are the everyday objects that have lost neither their beauty nor their practicality even to people long accustomed to seeing and using them.
The first object a visitor encounters is a wooden armchair designed in 1909 by Eliel Saarinen, the famous Finnish architect whose son, Eero, later designed the T.W.A. passenger terminal at Kennedy International Airport. The chair was included in the father's design for the Helsinki railroad station, an elegantly functional building whose illuminated green tower is a beacon that still shines across this port city.
In 1932, four years before Aalto won a countrywide competition for his vase, his wife, Aino, created a ribbed, pressed glass and matching pitcher in various colors; the set is still sold in large quantities at Stockmann's, a local department store.
Viewing the Aalto vase itself in Finland, where it is produced at the Iittala glassworks outside Helsinki, one sees in it the contours of the lakes so prominent in the flat landscape. The museum show displays one in the rare Rio brown tint.
Though few offices are without the orange-handled Fiskars scissors designed by Olof Backstrom in 1967, it is not generally known that they were modeled on an 1880 pair of tailor's shears. The manufacturer just happened to have orange plastic in the machine when it produced the prototype, which was an instant hit with its own office staff. A version for left-handed people was eventually made in red.
IT HASN'T always been easy to get the now-plentiful porcelain cream pitcher designed for Arabia by Kaj Franck. Because of rationing after World War II, a customer wanting to buy one had to present a marriage license to do so. Tall and narrow and fitted with a cork stopper, it could be stored between windows for chilling. Other Arabia tableware on view, like dishes in Ulla Procope's brown Ruska pattern that were ubiquitous in the 60's, is still on the market.
Nothing has been overlooked here in Finnish design, not even a new model for the local trams nor the blue and gold wrapper for the popular Fazer chocolate bar. But no other designs evoke the snowy fields and forests of birch and pine that stretch to the horizon in this country better than Timo Sarpaneva's spooled candlestick or Tapio Wirkkala's drinking glass made in 1968 for Finnair's first trans-Atlantic flight. Blown into carved wooden molds, the glass surfaces resemble the rough ice of the winter landscape. The Wirkkala glass is known as Ultima Thule, after the mysterious Latin phrase for the remote northern reaches of Finland.

GRAPHIC: Photos: TAILOR MADE: A pair of orange-handled Fiskars scissors designed by Olof Backstrom in 1967.; HOUSEHOLD NECESSITIES: A ribbed glass and matching pitcher, above, by Aino Aalto and, below, a red enamel coffee pot by Antti Nurmesniemi are on view at the Museum of Art and Design in Helsinki. (Museum of Art and Design, Finland)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FINLAND (92%); SWEDEN (79%); UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (88%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

COMPANY: FISKARS OYJ ABP (56%); FISKARS OYJ ABP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FINLAND (92%); SWEDEN (79%); UNITED STATES (77%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (88%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

SUBJECT: DESIGN; REVIEWS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); ART COLLECTING (73%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (73%); ERGONOMICS (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (71%); TRADE SHOWS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); AIRPORTS (60%); 

PERSON: DEITZ, PAULA ALVAR HENRIK HUGO AALTO (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



9 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 4; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: Tax Offices Filling Up For Elder Exemption

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
THE assessors' office does not often draw a crowd in Southold, a haven for retired people on the North Fork. But lately the three assessors have been so sought after that they have opened their office on weekends.
In Southold and elsewhere on Long Island, assessors are being overwhelmed by a rush of homeowners 65 and older with incomes of less than $60,000 who are applying for school-tax exemptions under Gov. George E. Pataki's School Tax Relief program, or Star. 
 The deadline for filing is tomorrow.
Of all the budget items and spending plans advanced by Mr. Pataki in New York and President Clinton on the Federal level, nothing matches Star for directly affecting a large number of Long Islanders, officials and others said last week.
Mr. Pataki has raised the potential effects with a plan to accelerate benefits, using $518 million of an expected $1.8 billion year-end budget surplus. If the Legislature agrees, school taxes for qualifying elderly taxpayers would be cut this year by at least 45 percent, sharply increasing exemptions that are assured under the program.
Democrats have criticized Mr. Pataki's $71.9 billion budget, which is 7.6 percent larger than the $66.8 billion last year, an election year plan intended to help Mr. Pataki, a Republican, win a second term in November.
James L. Larocca of Lloyd Harbor, a candidate for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination, also criticized Mr. Pataki for mailing a reminder to apply for the tax exemption. Mr. Larocca, a lawyer and former president of the Long Island Association, said the letter had been paid for with tax money and sent to people who were ineligible because of age or income.
The mailing, Mr. Larocca said in a letter to Mr. Pataki, "appears to have been sent to a wider audience, confirming that the real purpose is to promote your campaign for re-election."
In addition to accelerating the Star program, Mr. Pataki's budget also includes additional aid to education, increases in child and medical care for low-income families and more money for parks. It reflects a stronger economy in the state, spurred by gains on Wall Street.
Some critics said that it depended too heavily on continued economic gains and that a combination of increased spending and lower taxes could not be sustained in a downturn.
The Star program, a four-year plan intended to apply in coming years to property owners of all ages, is a major shift in school financing from property taxes to state aid. Revenues that school districts lose as a result of the exemptions will be made up by increased aid.
School officials on Long Island have supported the program. But they have also raised concerns about whether the state will make up dollar for dollar the losses through exemptions. "If the economy weakens the state can play a shell game with the school districts," said Stephen B. Witt, president of the Nassau and Suffolk School Boards Association.
With the application deadline tomorrow, assessors said they had never been busier. In Southold more than 4,000 of the 21,000 residents applied for exemptions that will save them as much as several hundred dollars. "We are doing our best," one assessor, Robert I. Scott Jr., said. "People are being very courteous. They know this is something our office was never designed to handle."
In Brookhaven, the geographically largest and most populous town in Suffolk County, eight part-time employees are helping. "We're getting about 700 people a day now, and those are just the walk-ins," said Town Assessor James Ryan. About 15,000 applications have been filed, Mr. Ryan added. The office will remain open until 10 P.M. tomorrow.
In Nassau, one of the two counties in the state where the county processes assessments, more than 101,000 applications were filed by an earlier deadline, Dec. 31. "It's been unbelievable," said Charles O'Shea, chairman of the County Board of Assessors. Mr. O'Shea said he expected several hundred additional applications by the extended deadline of tomorrow. He said average savings would be $350.
About 15 percent of the 1.3 million residents in Nassau are 65 or older. But that segment owns a far larger percentage of the 431,600 housing units. The statistics reflect an aging population in a county where more than 80 percent of houses are owner occupied.
Assuming an average exemption of $350 for each of the 101,000 applicants, the total exemption for the statewide program would be more than $35 million just in Nassau. Mr. O'Shea said he did not expect that all the applications would be approved, because some were duplicates or incomplete.
But the total exemption would rise if the Legislature approves Mr. Pataki's plan to accelerate the program with $518 million of the current surplus.
Mr. O'Shea said an approval would spare the elderly from reapplying next year, adding: "It would be a wonderful thing for senior citizens and for assessors. This program is designed for seniors who are getting crushed by school taxes and for suburban homeowners."
Marc M. Goloven, a senior regional economist for Chase Manhattan Bank, said the program was "going to have a very significant impact on Long Island, the outlook for the residential housing market and the amount people pay for school taxes."
School taxes account for more than half of property taxes for Long Island homeowners.
Mr. Goloven said another major effect would be an 8.5 percent increase in the proposed budget to improve public works.
The budget also increases money for renovation and building at State University campuses. Stony Brook would receive $36 million, Old Westbury $4 million and Farmingdale $2.5 million.
Some officials objected to the absence of new spending for community colleges. "There is not one dollar for any project at Suffolk Community College," said Suffolk County Legislator Brian X. Foley, Democrat of East Patchogue.
Social service departments, involved during the first years of the Pataki administration with reducing caseloads and searching for welfare fraud, welcomed the budget.
"Over all this is a beneficial budget for local social services departments," said Dennis J. Nowak, Social Services Director in Suffolk. Mr. Nowak said a surplus in state grants for needy families would be given to counties for child welfare under the budget. Suffolk's share could be $2.8 million, he said, and other surpluses could mean an additional $2.9 million for the county. The budget would also increase financing for child care, up to an estimated $630,000 in Suffolk.
Ruth A. Brandwein, a professor of social welfare at SUNY at Stony Brook and a former head of welfare in Suffolk, said she was "pleased with increases in health care for children," Tax breaks for education and added spending for child care in President Clinton's proposed budget would also benefit low-income families, Ms. Brandwein added.
In general, Long Island officials seemed less certain about the effects of Mr. Clinton's budget. Mr. Nowak, for example, referred questions about proposed changes in food stamps to Albany.
The Federal plan includes $50 million to New York for food stamps for immigrants and increases the local shares of costs for Medicaid and food stamps. The increase, estimated by state officials as $30 million a year, could also raise county costs.
Mr. Clinton's spending plan would also cut payments for school districts with large areas of tax-exempt federally owned lands. One district, East Meadow, could lose payments for students from federal housing at Mitchel Field.
A member of the school board, Robert Kushner, said the district had "never received anything that even approaches the per pupil cost." The district, Mr. Kushner said, received "a few hundred thousand dollars" last year.
The budget would increase by $1 million the $32 million in Federal aid to the Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point. Representative Gary Ackerman, Democrat of Queens whose district includes the academy, said the extra money showed strengthened Federal support.
Representatives Peter T. King of Seaford and Rick Lazio of Brightwaters, both Republicans, said Mr. Clinton's plan would cut financing for South Shore coastal projects. Mr. King said $9 million was needed to continue an Army Corps of Engineers restoration in Long Beach. "Clinton put zero in the budget, and the Army Corps has decided they don't want to be involved in beach restoration unless it involves more than one state," Mr. King said. "So we are going to have to fight for that."
Mr. Lazio criticized the budget for a 75 percent cut in a Housing and Urban Development program to build rental housing for the elderly. "The need for housing for seniors and disabled persons is growing on Long Island and across the country," Mr. Lazio, the Housing Subcommittee chairman, said. "This isn't a very compassionate housing budget."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (56%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (56%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; TAX EXEMPTIONS; PROPERTY TAXES; AGED TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); ELECTIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); REAL ESTATE (69%); FAMILY (68%); 

PERSON: RATHER, JOHN; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



10 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Q&A/Humphrey Tonkin;
Back to the Classroom, Shakespeare in Tow

BYLINE: By R. L. FELSON 

 BODY:
HUMPHREY TONKIN has served as a university president for 15 years, including a decade at the University of Hartford, a private 7,000-student liberal arts school. He will step down in June, spend a year on research as a visiting fellow at the Whitney Humanities Center at Yale, then return to Hartford and the classroom as University Professor of the Humanities, a new position in which he will teach courses relating to 16th- and 17th-century English, his field of expertise, as well as courses on language in society.
Mr. Tonkin, 58 years old, holds undergraduate and master's degrees from Cambridge University and a master's degree and Ph.D. from Harvard. 
 During his tenure at the University of Hartford, the school shifted from attracting primarily Connecticut and New York State students to one that draws from more than 60 nations and almost every state. Academic programs also have broadened, and a $5 million deficit, due largely to the recession of the early 1990's, has all but disappeared.
During an interview in his office, Mr. Tonkin, who is also chairman of the Connecticut Conference of Independent Colleges, spoke of the role of higher education in society, the changing role of the teacher and technology in the classroom, and the constant popularity of Shakespeare. Following are excerpts from that conversation.
Q. The Connecticut Conference of Independent Colleges has lobbyists at the General Assembly. What relationship do private colleges have with the state?
A. Higher education is a public good. Students should have opportunities to attend any of the various institutions in the state -- be they public, be they independent.
And from the point of view of the taxpayer, independent higher education is an extremely good bargain. We give, for example, almost half of the four-year degrees that are given in the state. We give two-thirds of the graduate degrees. So we are a very big factor in the economy.
The reality is that if you simply subsidize a piece of the system, you may in fact not improve the system overall; you may simply move students from one place to another.
So what you really have to do is look comprehensively at the whole system, provide it with the kind of support that allows it to function well, and if you do that effectively then we'll end up keeping more of our students in Connecticut so that they don't wander off to other places, and also attracting good students into the state, who can then occupy some of those jobs for which industry has so much demand.
Q. What direction do you see higher education heading in general, and in the state?
A. I think we have a highly unstable economy in higher education. Independent institutions are getting more and more expensive for the people who attend them. And public institutions are absorbing more and more public money. We may have overextended ourselves in the provisions of resources to higher education generally.
Independent higher education could easily price itself out of the market, and public higher education could easily become so expensive that the states can't afford it.
We need to come up with something more rational. If you look at the state, specifically, if we spend money on the public sector, and we don't look after the independent sector, the result will be a weakening of the independent sector without a parallel strengthening of the public sector. The one will, in effect, simply draw resources from the other. So we need to be looking at a comprehensive public policy approach to higher education generally.
Q. Is that happening?
A. Not to the extent that it needs to be.
Q. Why are leaving your post as president of the University of Hartford?
A. Well, I've been president at one place or another now for 15 years, over a third of my professional life, and I think you reach a certain age where you say to yourself, is what I'm doing now the only thing I've ever wanted to do? So I reached the conclusion that it probably made sense for me to turn myself back into a faculty member.
The other thing is, I think that being a college president is something that one should do for a piece of time but not do forever, because in some sense a part of the job description is that the president be overworked. Go like crazy, and push really, really hard, but in the process of doing that you get tired. Having done 15 years of college presidencies, it's about the outer limit of one person should be able to stand.
Q. What is it about the classroom that excites you?
A. There are two things really. One is the simple give and take. At the end of the day, you feel as though you've done something that will have a long-term effect on people of a positive kind. The second, actually, has to do with the particular point in history that we've reached. I've been assisting other people to make use of new technology. I want to use the new technology, to see what it will do for me and the teaching process.
So there's both the notion that you're actually dealing with one-on-one with somebody on whom who you can actually have a positive effect, and also the very simple fact that the 90's are a terrific and exciting time to be involved in teaching. I'm watching other people do it and I find myself saying, "I want to get in there and do that too'."
Q. Would you say that with new technology in the classroom, the teacher's role is changing?
A. Oh, definitely. To an increasing degree the teacher is becoming guide and mediator in a process as opposed to the font of all wisdom. Students can engage in unmediated communication with a local web site. So the faculty member now plays the role of guide and facilitator.
It isn't that the alternative to learning in a classroom is ignorance, but that the alternative to learning in a classroom is confusion. It's the function of the professor to help students make choices in essence. That's very different from what we've seen before.
But at the same time, the technology can assist us to do things that we could never do before. If I can work with a group of students on Shakespeare, and have at my fingertips the entire text of Shakespeare, there are things that I can begin to do that I could never do before.
Q. What is it about Shakespeare that makes him still so popular?
A. Purely and simply, large numbers of people in this country have actually been through an undergraduate education. So they've read Shakespeare, and he's not somebody who scares people off. Back in 1939, there were 1.5 million people in higher education; today there are 14 million.
Now why does Shakespeare speak to us? I think mostly because Shakespeare tells stories. At the heart of every Shakespeare play, for all its complexity, there is a very simple story. An old man has three daughters, and he decides to divide his kingdom among those three daughters. There is the germ of the plot of "Lear," and you or I can make up the rest, and it will probably come out pretty much where Shakespeare comes out. In an odd kind of way, Shakespeare is both full of surprises and has no surprises. Shakespeare speaks to us in a very direct way.
Q. Do you believe a university has a role or responsibility in a community?
A. Yes. One of the things that we should do as custodians of not just simply intellectual resources, but of much of the expertise of a community, is to share that expertise with the larger community. It's essential to our well-being.
I've done my best to open up the university to other audiences than simply traditional undergraduates. Some years back I founded the President's College, with non-credit courses. Today there are literally hundreds of people taking courses through this program. The university isn't just something with walls around it and shut off from the community, but it's theirs and they can use it, share in it.
We now run the Hartford Scholars Program, whereby any student graduating from high school in Hartford could come to the university for half of the normal tuition. We've had hundreds of students, and many have gone back into the community.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Humphrey Tonkin, abandoning a university presidency for a hands-on experience with the new technology. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (93%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (93%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); LOBBYING (73%); 

PERSON: FELSON, R L; TONKIN, HUMPHRY; SHAKESPEARE, WILLIAM (1564-1616) HUMPHREY TONKIN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



11 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 4; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1692 words

HEADLINE: Antipoverty Group Fighting to Keep Its Center Open

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER 

 BODY:
CEILING tiles are falling down and there is a puddle of water in the middle of the worn wooden floor in the Manhasset-Great Neck Economic Opportunity Commission center's gym. The antipoverty group's basketball team has no place to practice, the computer room is vacant and paint is peeling on the columned facade of the former schoolhouse, constructed in 1929 as the segregated Manhaaset Valley School.
Jerome Blocker, chairman of the board of the community center, was in the last kindergarten class to attend the Negro school in 1964. Partway through that year, desegregation closed the facility and Mr. Blocker and his classmates were divided between the Munsey Park and Plandome Road schools. After class, Mr. Blocker, now a tax preparer who grew up in the projects across the road, returned to the brick building at the top of the hill on High Street, which reopened as a community center, to participate in scouts, music lessons and sports with his neighborhood friends. 
 His two young children may not have the same opportunity. The future of the center, once the focal point of this pocket of subsidized apartments and Cape Cod-style homes nestled between Northern Boulevard, Community Drive and Lakeville Road, is in doubt. In January, the E.O.C. of Nassau County voted to terminate the program, one of eight in the county. The center also houses the Head Start program for 3- and 4-year-olds from the Great Neck, Manhasset, Roslyn and Port Washington areas.
Additionally, in December, the Manhasset-Great Neck E.O.C. filed a lawsuit against the E.O.C. of Nassau County in State Supreme Court regarding the allegedly fraudulent transfer of the deed of the community center property from Manhasset-Great Neck E.O.C. to the E.O.C. of Nassau County in 1992. A temporary restraining order stopping the Nassau E.O.C. from interfering with the center's board, staff and programming has been extended until Wednesday, according to John Brickman, lawyer for the Manhasset-Great Neck E.O.C.
Mr. Blocker said the Town of North Hempstead sold the building to the Manhasset-Great Neck E.O.C. in 1980 for one dollar. While preparing for renovations recently, they discovered they no longer held the title. "This was done without the community's consent or knowledge," Mr. Blocker said.
Mr. Blocker said he had written a letter to the Nassau E.O.C., asking for the building to be transferred back. Besides the Head Start Program, which has 54 children enrolled, the Manhasset-Great Neck E.O.C. has 35 first and second graders in its Adventures in Learning after-school tutorial program. African dance classes, scouts, Planned Parenthood, Alcoholics Anonymous and civic associations meet in the building, which also has a food pantry. Eighty children participate in the center's summer program.
"They didn't respond," he said of the Nassau group. "They had an executive committee meeting. According to the minutes of that meeting, they indicated they had read the letter. A discussion ensued around the cost of maintaining the building. John L. Kearse, chief executive of Nassau E.O.C., Mr. Blocker said, "indicated that the property could be used as a Child Care Development Center and would be renovated by Head Start funds, which would effectively dissolve our board and our rights to the building. In other words, they didn't like my letter. They wanted to dissolve our board so that we had no recourse in the matter."
In an interview, Mr. Kearse said the E.O.C. "was in its right to effect the transfer of the deed." Since the local Manhasset-Great Neck board was in suspension from 1985 to 1994, Mr. Kearse said his agency needed control of the facility in order to obtain financing for renovations and programming. "We wouldn't do anything that we're not legally authorized to do," he said. "We then proceeded to go ahead with our normal policy of local empowerment."
Mr. Kearse, who has headed the E.O.C. since 1970 and is under Federal and county scrutiny for alleged credit union violations and for dismissal of several workers who refused to contribute to an agency-sponsored scholarship fund, said he hoped the entire center can be renovated.
"The administrative offices and certain sections of that building are not safe," he said. "We are not going to close down the Head Start. We have been very diligently searching to find another venue for them so it can be renovated and then everybody can be brought home as they should be. Our plans are to locate the funds with which to renovate and refurbish so it can be a useful community facility. It would be run by the commission. As much as we want to do something, there is no way we can put youngsters in a situation like that and feel comfortable. We've worked too long and too hard to have our communities settle for conditions like that."
The center has a budget of over half a million dollars a year. "There is no reason why the county, the town, even the state and the Feds should not help us get that building refurbished to help the community," he said. "Over the years, we put in more than $2 million into that facility." Mr. Kearse contended that when the building was transferred from the Town of North Hempstead, certain agreements were not kept, "a promise that says when we started out with the transfer of the building, minimally each year, the town would provide the agency with $40,000 for maintenance, taking the garbage away, keeping things clean. That never happened." He added that the county youth board also failed to fulfill a promise to provide financing.
Mr. Blocker said renovations have not been done to the building in 20 years. "We've tried to bring it up a number of times but they've been unresponsive," he said. "They spent $56,000 on the roof and it still leaks. We have trouble getting tables and chairs, much less renovations for the building. They're not telling the truth. What they're doing is retaliation for the lawsuit."
Since the injunction was filed, the executive director and outreach worker were dismissed, although they continue to report to work each day. Lights and telephone service were briefly disconnected. Officials from the Nassau E.O.C. showed up recently with a locksmith and moving company and started tagging tables and chairs. Last September, Mr. Blocker said that the "E.O.C. terminated half our staff because of a disagreement with Nassau County over funding. We had to cut back on programming."
While Mr. Kearse explained that the locksmith and moving company were sent to give estimates, Mr. Blocker maintained that had the police not been called, they would have been ejected that day.
"What's at stake here is our children and the welfare of entire community," he said. "Our community would be devastated. Where would our children go? We wouldn't have anyplace for our children to go and that's our No. 1 concern. We were on the verge of doing some really good things in terms of renovating the building and being able to expand our programming. We were getting a 10-station computer lab down here. We're talking about the economically disadvantaged in the area. There are pockets of poverty throughout the Manhasset-Great Neck area and they are abundant. People don't realize it in the midst of all this affluence."
Because the neighborhood is geographically isolated from the rest of Great Neck and Manhasset, the center is the only recreation facility available to many of the children. "Transportation is an issue and so is safety in getting to places. Great Neck and Manhasset are not the easiest places to get around if you don't have transportation," said Robin Wheat, executive director of the center, one of the dismissed employees.
The Town of North Hempstead Supervisor, May W. Newburger, who is on the center's advisory board, said the town would not allow the community center to be lost if the lawsuit fails. "It is so unfair," she said. "The people here have tried so hard in these last years to revitalize this center. I think they deserve every single bit of help they can get. I'm deeply sorry that John Kearse instead of helping them to become independent and working together, is taking the kinds of actions that have been taken here. It's just wrong. I believe that much more needs to be done and all of us have to be part of it. We're going to do something. I can't let them fail. Most important, what we don't see everywhere, the young people here have taken the lead and I think it's critical that we support them."
The County Legislature has also gotten involved. Lisanne G. Altmann, Nassau County Legislator in the 10th district, said she doubted the facility will be closed down. "We've been in the thick of things. The County Legislature voted to take the money away from the E.O.C. and we now in the County Legislature control a lot of the funding. We're able now to funnel money now and go around John Kearse.
"I believe that they'll be successful. I don't think that anybody's going to let this building get closed down. I think at that point they are going to bring the wrath of all kinds of people down on themselves. They are playing pretty tough tactics with this group here but I don't think they'd actually close them down.
"This is a very strong group of people who have really overcome, finally. I think this is the first E.O.C. that stood up and said, 'We're not going to take this kind of treatment anymore.' That's why they are in trouble with John Kearse, because they dared to stand up and say no. I'm very proud of them. We're making sure they get their money one way or another."
A grievance hearing Monday night was a "reaffirmation of fact that the group is not willing to abide by the the convenants and agreements we entered into or the rules and regulations we operate as a program," said Mr. Kearse, reiterating that the Manhasset-Great Neck community action program no longer has a board of directors or a staff.
"You can't terminate a contract without a hearing," Mr. Blocker asserted. "They were making up their own rules. They were going to ambush us and be done with us. This is all being done by Kearse."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jerome Blocker, top, chairman of the Manhasset-Great Neck antipoverty group, outside gym. Robin Wheat points to ceiling leak. A group of 7-year-olds get instruction in computers at the Economic Opportunity Commission's center. (Photographs by Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MANHASSET-GREAT NECK ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION; EQUAL OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION OF NASSAU COUNTY NASSAU E O C (94%); MANHASSET-GREAT NECK ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: MANHASSET-GREAT NECK ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION; EQUAL OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION OF NASSAU COUNTY MANHASSET-GREAT NECK ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASSAU COUNTY (NY); MANHASSET (NY); GREAT NECK (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SUITS AND LITIGATION SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); LITIGATION (86%); TRENDS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PARENTING (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); PUBLIC HOUSING (74%); BASKETBALL (72%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (71%); CLOSINGS (71%); DANCE EDUCATION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (69%); LAWYERS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: FISCHLER, MARCELLE S JEROME BLOCKER (90%); JOHN L KEARSE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



12 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY;
Where Disney World Meets Camden

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY 

 BODY:
EVERYBODY does it, Elaine Bey had insisted. Stealing from the schools of Camden, a city whose children are the poorest in the country, was no big deal, she seemed to believe.
This attitude became breathtakingly clear one day last September, when Mrs. Bey, 55, strolled out of a Federal courtroom in Newark after pleading guilty to misusing school system money to treat herself and others to restaurants, liquor, entertainment, car rentals and personal vacations while she was president of the Camden School Board. 
 Outside the courtroom, a reporter asked what she was going to do now.
"I'm going to the ladies' room," she declared brightly, smiling into the cameras. "And then I'm going to Disney World!"
Now Mrs. Bey will have to wait a while to take that vacation, as she is due to report to prison on March 30 to begin a five-month sentence that was imposed on her in January by a Federal judge. The judge also ordered her to pay back more than $23,000 in school system funds, and serve five months of house arrest after she gets out of jail.
If there were a criminal indictment of America's miserably failed urban policies, the city of Camden -- which stubbornly posted a 63 percent increase in homicides last year as the murder rate plunged almost everywhere else -- would be entered in evidence at the trial and labeled "the smoking gun." Ordinarily, the amazing audacity exhibited by a school board president who steals and laughs it off could be shrugged off as just another of the incremental outrages in Camden, a city of about 80,000 that has been systematically pillaged by one political regime after another for the past 50 years and now stands out as perhaps the most wretched, God-forsaken city in America.
In this case, however, that brazen taunt -- "I'm going to Disney World!" -- was still very fresh in mind recently when I got a phone call telling me that Leroy Palmer -- a Camden police lieutenant who grew up in the city, attended its public schools and whose career ambition was to be a good cop -- had been shot and critically wounded while coming to another officer's aid during an undercover drug stakeout that went very bad, very fast, on the night of Feb. 13.
All of a sudden, a few tiny disconnected wires in the tangled skein of abstract news touched and sparked with a personal jolt. Lieutenant Palmer's younger brother, Ralph, is married to my kid sister, Susan.
A Camden police officer for 23 years, Lieutenant Palmer, 46, went down in a gun battle at an East Camden intersection. The corner at Bank and Boyd Streets is a notorious drug market where dealers do a brisk business selling to customers who drive in from the suburbs to do the only shopping that still brings out-of-towners into Camden.
Lieutenant Palmer was coordinating the stakeout from an unmarked car just up the block. Dozens of arrests had already been made, and now the undercover officers were almost at the end of their tour.
Just before 11 P.M., though, a 38-year-old Williamstown man, informed that he was under arrest for buying crack cocaine from two undercover officers on the corner, pulled out a revolver and started firing. Joseph Badecki, 35, a state trooper, was the first one shot, in the arm. Tumbling out of the car, Lieutenant Palmer ran to the scene and was struck by a bullet that went through his side, pierced a lung and lodged near his spine. David Lick, 28, a detective with the Camden County Prosecutor's Office, was grazed on the head by another bullet.
The suspect, Byran Girard, was killed as the officers returned fire. The other two officers were treated and released at Cooper Hospital-University Medical Center. As of the other day, however, Lieutentant Palmer was still in critical condition at Cooper, breathing with the aid of a respirator -- and forcing himself to contemplate the horrible possibility that he may never walk again.
Lieutenant Palmer is known, personally and professionally, as an easygoing, decent man with a ready laugh. His wife, Terry, and his two children, Matt, 15, and Kristin, 12, are the center of his life. He was due for retirement in 16 months. After that, he and his wife had planned to move with their children to North Carolina.
"He's a fighter," said Ralph Palmer, 40, who grew up believing that his older brother could do anything, and who now believes that he will manage to get back on his feet before long. "If anybody can do it, he can," he said.
Incidentally, Leroy Palmer loved to take his family to vacations in Florida, including Disney World.
The fervent hope here, as a cop who went down a hero on a thankless job tries to put a life back together, is that Leroy Palmer takes his family on that trip once again -- and that they get there first.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;DISNEY, WALT, WORLD (ORLANDO, FLA) CAMDEN SCHOOL BOARD (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;DISNEY, WALT, WORLD (ORLANDO, FLA)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMDEN (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; POLICE; ATTACKS ON POLICE; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EMBEZZLEMENT; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC CRIME RATES (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (86%); EMBEZZLEMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); SENTENCING (77%); JUDGES (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); MURDER (73%); TRENDS (73%); HOUSE ARREST (73%); HOMICIDE (73%); INDICTMENTS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); ARRESTS (66%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (65%); SHOOTINGS (54%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE; BEY, ELAINE; PALMER, LEROY (POLICE LIEUT) LEROY PALMER (67%); ELAINE BEY (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



13 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: Multiplex Heralded As Linchpin To Growth

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
SCENE 1. Take 1. Roll the cameras!"
It is Mayor Joseph M. Delfino in the director's chair, and he is promising audiences here a good-news tale with a happy ending about their tattered downtown. 
 "Trust me, it's a true story," the Mayor said, his director's clapper in hand. "Just don't forget to save me an aisle seat when it opens."
Mayor Delfino has been euphoric since learning last month that Tishman Speyer Properties and Loews Theaters, a Sony company, plan to open a 24-screen, 5,200-seat theater in the heart of a shopping district that has been down on its luck of late, but -- like an aging star with a new role to play -- poised for a comeback.
The new multiplex, which will become a regional flagship theater for Loews, is to be at the site of an abandoned building once occupied by Macy's. And while not the largest Loews movie theater in the United States in terms of seating, it will have the most screens.
The former Macy's will be razed to make way for the new three-and-a-half-story building, which will feature a glass atrium facing Mamaroneck Avenue, the main thoroughfare where boarded-up storefronts now line the street. Tishman Speyer is also negotiating to buy two turn-of-the-century bank buildings on the block to include in the project. In addition to the theaters, Tishman Speyer/Travelers Real Estate Venture, a recently formed joint venture, plans to provide space for two levels of retail shops, several restaurants and about 300 market-rate apartments.
"It doesn't take a lot of vision to see how the downtown will change," Travis Reid, president of Loews Theaters, said. "This is a fairly densely populated and underserved market." White Plains has not had its own movie theater for a number of years.
Municipal officials, who have long struggled to halt a downslide in what was once known as the City of a Thousand Stores, said they were heartened by news of the $100 million project, which is to begin early next year and be completed by December 1999.
Mayor Delfino, who predicted the new construction would serve as a linchpin for the city's growth, said recently, "It's a major, major step in the overall revitalization of downtown White Plains and will play a crucial role in enhancing our position as the heart of Westchester County."
When Macy's moved out of the building it had occupied in the center of the downtown area for 47 years and into the Galleria mall nearby, its relocation was just another in a series of blows for the once prosperous downtown. Many of the merchants who continue to eke out a living in the shadow of three successful malls welcomed news of the plans.
"It has been so quiet during the last few years," Joseph Romano, the owner of Village Jewelers, said. "Maybe this will give shoppers a reason to come back to Mainstreet U.S.A."
In addition to the growth of malls, there have been other factors contributing to the decline of this once busy retail area. The downtown, at one time also a thriving banking and commercial center and the home of several Fortune 500 companies, has suffered from corporate downsizing and the steady emptying of office buildings.
The vacancy rate early in the 1990's soared to 30 percent and more, although last year it began to edge downward. In general, there appears to be an economic turnabout in the works, business leaders said in recent interviews.
Carl Austin, president of Austin Corporate Properties in White Plains, reported a number of positive signs, including news that Cohen Brothers Realty of Manhattan recently acquired the 623,000-square-foot now empty Kraft Foods complex in White Plains, and Cigna Investments has almost fully leased the 400,000-square-foot Gateway Building office tower formerly occupied by AT&T at the Metro-North Station in White Plains.
Mr. Austin said that the vacancy rate for Class A commercial real estate in White Plains was at last count in the mid-teens, although other properties remained difficult to rent.
The Federated Department Stores property at the corner of Mamaroneck Avenue and Main Street has always been considered a prime location and had been coveted by the movie company for years.
"Loews had been eyeing the site for some time," Jim Loeks, co-chairman of Loews said, "but Macy's was still selling socks there."
An earlier plan to build a multiplex theater near the White Plains train station has since been dropped in favor of the current plans to build downtown. Under the latest proposal, Loews will lease 118,000 square feet in the new structure from Tishman Speyer for its 24 theaters. All told, the retail and movie theater components will cover about 450,000 square feet.
Tishman Speyer and Sony Loews have another joint project -- in Berlin, where they built a two million-square-foot, mixed-use complex, which includes office space, an entertainment center and retail outlets.
Steven M. Wise, director of the project for Tishman Speyer, said market research studies indicated that White Plains was an ideal site for a multitheater complex and would draw from a broad geographical area, including Fairfield County. In addition, a strong infrastructure, including major highways, serves traffic generated by the theater complex, he said.
Several large projects are on the drawing board for theaters in other Westchester cities. In New Rochelle, which like White Plains has tried to attract business and enliven its deteriorating downtown, a 20-screen movie theater will be part of a 375,000-square-foot entertainment, sports and shopping complex. Called the New Rochelle Center, the $106 million project will also include a 70,000-square-foot supermarket, two ice-skating rinks and the county's first IMAX theater.
The complex planned for New Rochelle by AMC Theaters will not compete with the theaters in White Plains, Mr. Wise said, because each will tap a different market.
In Greenburgh, National Amusements, owner of the 10-screen All Westchester Saw Mill Complex in Hawthorne, is negotiating to buy space in a shopping center on Route 9A in Greenburgh for a second 10-screen complex.
In Mount Vernon, National Amusements is one of three bidders -- along with Regal Cinemas and Magic Johnson Theaters -- vying to open a multiplex theater.
In White Plains, David Rockwell, an architect specializing in entertainment properties, will design the megaplex -- which will have oversize movie screens, digital sound, stadium-type seating and either rocker seats or loveseats or possibly both. Every row will be at least 14 inches higher than the one in front of it, increasing sight lines. Plans for the lobby include several box offices, a concession stand and a kiosk featuring movie previews.
Local designers for the site include PEG/Park Architects in White Plains and Warshauer Mellusi and Warshauer, architects in Hawthorne.
"The theater industry is reinventing itself," Mr. Reid said. "It's becoming more service oriented."
In general, real estate developers and retailers are banking on entertainment -- which includes eating and drinking along with movies and games -- to lure increasingly alienated shoppers back. Malls, in particular, are trying to reinvent themselves, especially since the amount of time the average shopper spends at a mall on each trip has declined to about 70 minutes from more than 90 minutes in the early 1980's, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers, an industry trade group based in Manhattan.
Mr. Reid observed that movie theaters in recent years have been in keen competition with other forms of out-of-home entertainment like restaurants and sporting events.
Loews, which operates 1,020 screens in 140 locations in 16 states, is merging with Cineplex Odeon, which operates 1,600 screens throughout the United States and Canada.
Tishman Speyer Properties is one of the oldest and largest real estate organizations in the United States and has developed or acquired properties valued at about $6 billion. In addition to its headquarters in Manhattan, the company has branches in Chicago, San Francisco, Stamford and Houston among other cities. It has international offices in London, Paris, Frankfurt, Berlin and Sao Paulo. Most recently, the company bought the Chrysler Building and the Kent Building, along with adjacent properties, between 42d and 43d Streets and Lexington and Third Avenues in Manhattan. It is also a co-owner and the managing agent for Rockefeller Center.
Neither Tishman Speyer nor Loews would disclose the purchase price of the property here.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The former Macy's site in White Plains on Mamaroneck Avenue at Main Street is to become a 24-screen, 5,200-seat movie complex operated by Loews Theaters. (Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (86%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (86%); NAICS512131 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS (EXCEPT DRIVE-INS) (84%); SIC7832 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS, EXCEPT DRIVE-IN (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LOEWS THEATERS; SONY CORP MACY'S INC (86%); LOEWS THEATRE MANAGEMENT CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOEWS THEATERS; SONY CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: WHITE PLAINS (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; THEATERS (BUILDINGS); GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); TRENDS (69%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); RESTAURANTS (63%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA; DELFINO, JOSEPH M (MAYOR) JOSEPH M DELFINO (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



14 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 4; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Stamford's Old Town Hall Faces Developers

BYLINE: By JACK CAVANAUGH 

 BODY:
IN Stamford, where landmark buildings have been demolished by the hundreds over the last two decade and replaced by an eclectic array of corporate office towers, the Old Town Hall in the heart of downtown has seemed sacrosanct: a striking Beaux Arts structure gracefully bespeaking the city's past and aparently exempt from unending urban renewal.
But as years passed and the Old Town Hall sat unoccupied and deteriorating, following the move of municipal offices to other buildings a decade ago, city officials began wondering what to do with Stamford's architectural crown jewel. Committees were set up by several mayors, including the incumbent, Dannel P. Malloy, but none was able to come up with viable suggestions, or tenants, for the grand old building. 
 Meanwhile, in Greenwich and Norwalk, town halls of the same vintage as Stamford's 1906 stone structure were converted into multipurpose use. In Greenwich, the 95-year-old former town hall on Greenwich Avenue, in the heart of the business district, has thrived as an arts and senior center, offering space to work in galleries, to dance or play musical instruments in studios or to play checkers or cards. In Norwalk, the 86-year-old Colonial revival-style red brick former town hall was recently converted into a museum, although it also has a commercial tenant.
Now Stamford officials are mulling over a proposal: a developer plans to build a 13-story, $200-a-night hotel atop the Old Town Hall. It is a proposal that Mayor Malloy, a Democrat, seems to think may have some merit, as does the local newspaper, The Advocate, but to which many Stamfordites have reacted with alarm and outrage.
Even Don Russell, a longtime broadcaster and columnist in Stamford, who has, by and large, supported the city's transformation into a corporate mecca, has drawn a figurative line in the sand in the case of the Old Town Hall. "There are some things that are sacred to natives and longtime residents, such as parkland and, yes, the Old Town Hall," he recently wrote in The Advocate.
Similar sentiments have been expressed in letters to the editor of The Advocate. Comparing the proposal to the demolition of the old Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan more than three decades ago, Joseph Gatto Jr. of Stamford, wrote, "Stamford is on the verge of creating its own historic blunder, selling the Old Town Hall, having it converted into a luxury hotel and wiping out a piece of Stamford history forever."
In response to such negative comments, Stephen D. Julius 3d, the Stamford real estate developer involved, has said, "What's wrong with putting up something that will accommodate 264 bodies in a building that nobody's been in for 11 years?"
Mr. Julius, who is the president of Proteus Group LLC, explained in an interview, "Here we are, willing to restore the building at a cost of more than $6 million and then create more than 300 jobs in the hotel itself, along with generating other business for downtown Stamford."
Under his proposal, his company, in conjunction with Madison Equities, a Manhattan-based developer, would build an upscale hotel "that would be a major contributor to the city's tax base while removing a potential financial drain." In exchange for doing the necessary restoration, Mr. Julius said, his company and its associates in the venture would want to operate the hotel rent-free for three years. Initially, he also proposed reduced real estate taxes during that period, but that idea was abandoned.
Though the hotel would be designed for an affluent clientele, Mr. Julius said downtown employes and other Stamford residents would be welcome to use the hostelry's restaurants, bars, meeting rooms and other rooms. "We might even put a museum in the basement where traveling art exhibits could be displayed," he said. "And of course the hotel could be used for wedding receptions and other functions."
Mayor Malloy, who recently began a second term, did not return telephone calls about the hotel proposal. But in response to the hotel proposal and one for a brew pub and restaurant (which has since been dropped), the Mayor has been quoted as saying, "The Old Town Hall has been closed for approximately 10 years and life will be brought back to one of our most historical landmarks located in the core of our downtown."
Not many Stamfordites seem to think that the Old Town Hall with its majestic style -- spiral staircase and striking Depression-era murals on the interior, clock tower, plaza and semi-circular staircase on the exterior -- should be brought back to life with a hotel atop it.
"The negative public reaction has been the greatest to any proposal made since urban renewal began," said Renee Kahn, a dedicated preservationist and the director of Stamford's Historic Neighborhoods Preservation Program. "There's been this great sense of outrage, and I don't think the proposal has a snowball's chance in hell."
Others are equally vociferous. "Profit is what has driven all of the redevelopment in Stamford," said Ralph Loglisci, a Republican and the minority leader of the Stamford Board of Representatives. "Everything's done to maximize profit and in the process we have failed to save a lot of historic buildings in town. And building a hotel on top of the Old Town Hall is a terrible idea. If the people of the city chose to save the building, we can do so. Like some other reps, I'm getting a lot of calls on this, and they're all against the hotel idea."
Another representative, Maria Nakian, a Democrat, said she is getting a similar reaction, from constituents and members of the Board of Representatives, which can kill the proposal since the Old Town Hall is city property.
"The consensus among the members is not to approve the hotel proposal," said Ms. Nakian, who is chairwoman of a 12-member committee from the Board that is studying the proposal and is to give a report to the full board tomorrow. "The Old Town Hall is prime real estate and should be used for community purposes," she said. "We should not let the building be caught up in a commercial venture."
Ms. Nakian said that the hotel proposal could be killed by any one of three city boards: planning, finance or representatives. "I doubt very much if it will go through," she said.
Mr. Loglisci and Ms. Kahn were among a group including several city representatives who toured the old Norwalk City Hall, now the Norwalk Museum. "Everyone was impressed with what they've done," said Ms. Kahn, an art historian. "And look what they've done in Greenwich. There's no reason why Stamford can't do the same, or even more."
In Greenwich, the upper two floors of the 93-year-old former town hall, now known as the Greenwich Senior/ Arts Center, were renovated at a cost of about $125,000, all of which was privately raised, according to Betsy Jordan Hand, the executive director of the center.
Meanwhile, almost $235,000 in Federal funds were used to put in a fire alarm system and renovate the lower level and first floor, which serve as the senior center. That money was obtained through a Federal Community Development Block Grant, which provides benefits for low- and moderate-income people, says Nancy Brown, the Greenwich Director of Community Development.
"We're totally self-supporting," Ms. Hand said of the Greenwich Arts Center. "There's always something going on in the building. And we have a waiting list of artists and sculptors who want to lease space, which has to be done for at least a year."
Ruth Sims -- the Greenwich First Selectman from 1978-1981 credited with proposing and fostering the transformation of the hall -- said:"It was one of the major issues I ran on. And the building has been a great success.
"It's a perfect solution with what to do with a functional and attractive old building. And it's benefited the entire town."
Ms. Kahn, the Stamford preservationist, said, "We have an even more attractive building than Norwalk and Greenwich, and it's right smack in the heart of downtown.
"An expensive hotel on top of our beautiful Old Town Hall is certainly not the way to go."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering of a 13-story hotel proposed for the top of Stamford's Old Town Hall, at Atlantic and Main Streets. (Perkins Eastman Architects)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PROTEUS GROUP LLC; MADISON EQUITIES

ORGANIZATION: PROTEUS GROUP LLC; MADISON EQUITIES

GEOGRAPHIC: STAMFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS CITIES (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); WRITERS (69%); INTERVIEWS (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (52%); MUSIC (52%); 

PERSON: CAVANAUGH, JACK DANNEL MALLOY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



15 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Westchester;
For Rye Brook, 429-Home Village in a Village

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD 

DATELINE: RYE BROOK

 BODY:
AN unusual residential project, designed to encourage interaction among neighbors and replicate some of the aspects of life in a small town, is scheduled to break ground next month on 140 acres along King Street, one of the last remaining parcels of land left in this village.
Called BelleFair, the innovative project contains elements that in combination have never been tried before in a Westchester residential community. 
 Designed to evoke the ambiance and architecture of a village or small town, BelleFair will have houses that look out on a village green, many with front porches. Half of its 429 units of housing will be targeted to the elderly, empty-nesters and retirees, the other half to young families. There will also be 12 moderately priced units in three town houses, with priority given to Rye Brook employees.
In addition, there will be a village green, a general store, a community center and a day-care center.
"The young families will be able to take advantage of an on-site day-care center, which is a first in a residential development in Westchester as far as I know," said Mitchell Hochberg, president of Spectrum Skanska, of Valhalla, one of three partners in the joint venture. The others are CareMatrix Corporation, of Needham, Mass., a provider of housing for the elderly, and Benenson Capital Company, a privately owned development concern based in Manhattan.
In designing the project, the developers borrowed concepts from "new urbanism," which in its purest form is meant to create self-contained communities, with their own shops, schools and recreation.
"New urbanism really means trying to eliminate the car completely, and we're not trying to do that here," Mr. Hochberg said. "I don't think that, in its purest form, new urbanism really works. What we're trying to do here is borrow the best of it, which means having all kinds of people together and give them space and reasons to gather. I think it's something that's been happening in other parts of the country, but it's been very slow in coming here."
The houses will be designed to look like those in a place like Charleston, S.C., Mr. Hochberg said. The garages will be at the backs of the houses, with porches on the fronts, to encourage people to congregate outside. "This way people can sit on their front porches and see their neighbors pass by on their way to the village green or the community center.
The focal point of the development will be an oval-shaped village green, which will be almost as large as a football field. The 18,000-square-foot community center nearby will have a pool, full-court basketball gym and a computer room. "From 4 P.M. to 8 P.M., we'll have a teacher at the computer room," Mr. Hochberg said. "We hope to attract 8- to 16-year-olds, and give them something to do after school."
Two of the more unusual features of the project are a 2,400-square-foot free-standing day-care center and the 3,000-square-foot general store.
"The store is very important to me," Mr. Hochberg said. "I envision it as the old-style store, where a bell rings when you open the door. There'll be an old-fashioned soda fountain. We plan to have a wide selection of magazines and newspapers. People can come in to buy their staples like milk and bread, or can sit and have a cappuccino."
The name BelleFair suggests the community's bell tower, which will be the focal point of the village green, Mr. Hochberg explained. "We combined it with the idea of an old town fair where everyone would congregate and there'd be a lot of activity. That's what we hope will happen here."
In a previous incarnation, the project's name was to have been High Point Village, since it was being built on a site once occupied by High Point Hospital, a psychiatric hospital that closed in 1995. "Rye Brook decided that it didn't want a residential community to be called a village," Mr. Hochberg said. "So we had to come up with another name."
The joint venture partnership purchased the 140-acre property in 1995 for $9.1 million. Its final approvals were granted on Jan. 27, and construction is expected to begin in April. The rezoned property, off heavily trafficked King Street, had been zoned for up to 1.2 million square feet of office space. "This use is much better for the village, especially with such a high concentration of housing for the elderly," said Mayor Salvatore M. Cresenzi. "Many of those people won't even have cars."
SINCE the property borders the Westchester County Airport, noise issues were a concern, the Mayor noted. As a result, several noise reduction features, such as triple pane windows and extra insulation, will be added in the construction.
There will be 203 detached three- and four-bedroom homes, 30 of which will be built around the village green and called "village homes." The homes will range in size from 2,000 to 3,200 square feet and be priced from $369,000 to $525,000.
The village homes will start at $429,000, Mr. Hochberg said, since they are "the most desirable, fronting either the village green or green corridors directly off it."
The component for the elderly, which is being developed by CareMatrix, will include a 168-unit, three-story building with studio, one- and two-bedroom apartments, some with dens. Monthly rents of $2,700 to $4,500 will include housekeeping, meals and transportation.
"Residents can also use a fitness center on site," said Michael J. Zaccaro, an executive vice president at CareMatrix, "and get a personalized fitness program. There will also be a on-site health-care coordinator who can visit residents in their homes."
All apartments will be equipped with a push-button emergency response system, Mr. Zaccaro added. "The button will be on the phone, but residents can also wear one or attach it to the wall," said Mr. Zaccaro.
When depressed, it emits a radio frequency that activates the phone system. "An employee will immediately be able to speak to the resident, and someone will be dispatched to the apartment," said Mr. Zacarro.
CareMatrix is also developing 46 "maintenance-free" villas designed for empty-nesters and retirees. These homes, which will be side-by-side duplexes, will have master bedrooms on the ground floor. They will range in size from 1,540 square feet to 2,200 and be priced from $359,000. Residents will have access to services at the community for the elderly on a fee basis. Mr. Zaccaro said the fees have not yet been set.
CareMatrix has developed more than 30 communities nationally, and has an additional 60 under way, according to Mr. Zacarro. "About 30 of those are now under construction," he said. This is the company's first experience in a project not exclusively for the elderly.
"It's great for us," Mr. Zaccaro said, "because our residents can have all the services that we provide and also be able to use the development's recreation as well.
"I hope we'll be doing more such projects in the future. But it's not a strategy that we are pursuing. There aren't a lot of opportunities to do projects the size of this one."

GRAPHIC: Photo: From the left, rendering of BelleFair's 2,400-square-foot day-care center, 3,000-square-foot general store, 18,000-square-foot community center and bell tower. (The New York Times)

Map showing the location of Rye Brook, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CMDC (AMEX) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS623311 CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES (84%); SIC8059 NURSING & PERSONAL CARE FACILITIES, NEC (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: CAREMATRIX CORP (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RYE BROOK (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); AGING (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (74%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EMPTY NESTERS (70%); JOINT VENTURES (66%); BASKETBALL (60%); 

PERSON: VIZARD, MARY MCALEER MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



16 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3480 words

HEADLINE: Do You Know These Women?

BYLINE: By DIANE NOTTLE 

 BODY:
ANNIE OAKLEY slept here -- in Nutley, where she settled for 10 years after touring Europe with Buffalo Bill.
So did Elizabeth Cady Stanton, in Tenafly, where she and Susan B. Anthony began writing their mammoth history of the women's suffrage movement. So did their comrade Lucy Stone, in Orange, West Bloomfield and Newark, until she moved to Massachusetts to carry on her crusade for equal rights. 
 And then there's Christine Todd Whitman. But you know all about her.
In New Jersey as elsewhere, women hold up half the sky -- slightly more of it, in fact. In 1996, an estimated 50.7 percent of the state's population was female, according to the Current Population Survey conducted by the United States Census Bureau. Among its female residents, past and present, the state has had its share of heroines, sung and un-.
Heroine is, of course, a relative term, depending on which side of any given revolution you're on. Most New Jerseyans have heard of Molly Pitcher and the mental health crusader Dorothea Lynde Dix. But what about Sarah Kiersted, Elizabeth Haddon, Betsey Stockton?
Women's History Month honors all of them. This March is the 12th annual Women's History Month declared by Congress, and since 1998 is the 150th anniversary of the world's first women's rights convention in Seneca Falls, N.Y., the observance is doubly significant this year.
Under the broadest definition of feminism -- "the principle that women should have political, economic and social rights equal to those of men," according to Webster's New World Dictionary -- New Jersey women of the last three centuries have been feminists whether they knew it or not. And their concerns have changed surprisingly little over the years.
Marital property rights? The wife of the colony's first English governor had a prenuptial agreement. Sexual assault? The rapes of New Jersey women by British and Hessian soldiers during the Revolutionary War are seldom noted among the tales of sacrifice and patriotism. Equal opportunity? Clara Barton taught school in Bordentown for 20 years until she was passed over for a principalship in favor of a man, and only then made a career change into nursing. Working women? When have New Jersey women not been working?
Many shrines of women's history are long gone, and many institutions of debatable value to women's cause remain. (The Miss America pageant is still going strong in Atlantic City 30 years after feminists who were soon labeled as "bra burners" protested the image of young womanhood that the pageant promoted.) Yet, one by one, the women of New Jersey have indisputably left their mark on the state and the nation.
 
Settlers, Slaves And Suffragists
Who was New Jersey's first heroine? Whoever she was, there's a good chance her name was Elizabeth. Lady Elizabeth Carteret, for whom Elizabethtown was named in 1669, was briefly proprietor of East Jersey in the early 1680's but never actually set foot in the colony, preferring to stay home on the Isle of Jersey in the English Channel. Then there was Elizabeth Smith Lawrence Carteret, she of that prenuptial agreement, a widow who married the first English governor of East Jersey. A century later, Elizabeth Ray Clark Bodly founded Port Elizabeth and set the town on its path to becoming a trade and glassmaking center.
Another candidate is Elizabeth Haddon, founder of Haddonfield. The daughter of a London Quaker family that was friendly with William Penn, Elizabeth was bitten by the New World bug at an early age and traveled to New Jersey -- just 20 years old, alone and bearing her father's power of attorney -- to develop a 500-acre plantation he had bought. Depending on which account you believe, she either came here in hot pursuit of her future husband, a Quaker missionary named John Estaugh, or simply married him here. In any case, she was apparently a woman who knew what she wanted and went after it.
Even before the Elizabeths, a Dutch housewife named Sarah Kiersted was learning the language of the local Lenape Indians, possibly as early as the 1640's. She became a channel of communication between Dutch settlers and the Lenape Chief Oratam, and for her services the chief granted her almost 2,300 acres -- comprising all of Ridgefield Park and sections of Teaneck and Bogota -- in 1666. Even when the English captured the territory three years later, she proved her land grant legitimate and was allowed to keep it. (As for any individual Lenape heroines, they seem to have vanished, not surprisingly, into the mists of history.)
Through the 1700's, women did what women everywhere do: they worked, cooking, cleaning, cultivating, doing whatever was necessary to make their families and the colony prosper. In doing so, some found ways of expressing themselves. Patience Lovell Wright, a Quaker who at 23 had become the young wife of an elderly farmer, at 44 found herself a widow with three children to support. She parlayed a hobby -- modeling clay, bread dough and eventually wax -- into a paying career as a sculptor, especially of commissioned portraits in wax. Within a few years she opened a New York studio (which her children accidentally burned down) and then took her trade to England, where she became friendly with King George III and Queen Charlotte. Her first commission there was a bust of a son of William Penn; later she became known for her images of Benjamin Franklin and William Pitt the Elder, the head of which is still on view in Westminster Abbey, the body having been destroyed in the Blitz. When the Revolution came, she stayed in England but did a bit of spying for the Colonial cause before moving on to Paris during Franklin's ambassadorship there.
For the women back home, the Revolution was not a garden party. New Jersey's leading symbol of female heroism is still Molly Pitcher -- now immortalized as the namesake of a rest stop on the New Jersey Turnpike.
Now generally considered a composite figure of women who carried water to the battlefields for the soldiers, Molly Pitcher "is both as real and as legendary as G.I. Joe," writes Linda Grant De Pauw in her book "Fortunes of War: New Jersey Women and the American Revolution."
One such "Molly" was Mary Ludwig Hays McCauly, born near Trenton in the 1750's; she later migrated to Pennsylvania as a domestic servant but returned to home territory when her husband's Seventh Pennsylvania Regiment was fighting in New Jersey. She earned her nickname for her services at the Battle of Monmouth in 1778, but when her husband fell wounded, she put aside her pitcher and stepped in, loading the cannon and helping to keep the Colonial Army on track to victory.
Eventually McCauly was granted a pension not as a war widow, but for her own services. In addition to the rest stop -- not an inappropriate tribute, given the nature of her work -- she has been honored with a postcard issued by the United States Postal Service in 1978, as well as a bronze monument at the battle site in Monmouth, which was stolen some years ago.
The soon-to-be-state did have its more traditionally feminine leaders, among them Annis Boudinot Stockton of Princeton. Counting two signers of the Declaration of independence among her family, she was the mistress of the estate called Morven, choosing to stay there with her four children when her husband, Richard, traveled to England in 1766. No mere chatelaine, Annis was also a prolific poet, known particularly for her odes to, and correspondence with, George Washington..
Another Princeton woman named Stockton -- this one black -- serves as a reminder of the underside of early American history. Betsey Stockton, born a slave in the household of Robert Stockton in 1798, was given to his daughter, who married the president of what was then the College of New Jersey. Freed at age 20, she educated herself in the library of a family for whom she worked as a domestic servant, then traveled to Hawaii as a missionary four years later. After more than a decade there, she returned to Princeton to do a different kind of missionary work: teaching black children by day and black adults by night. She was also a founder of the Witherspoon Street Presbyterian Church in Princeton, which has a plaque and a stained-glass window in her memory.
During Betsey Stockton's childhood, New Jersey passed the first of a series of laws meant to phase out slavery in 1804, but the process was long and slow.
Many prominent 19th-century feminists had in fact begun their work as social reformers in the abolitionist cause. After the Emancipation Proclamation and the Civil War, women were in turn freed to turn their attention to their own grievances, and their own advancement. In 1867 the New Jersey Woman Suffrage Association was founded, headed by Lucy Stone -- a national suffrage leader who had, publicly and scandalously, kept her own name upon marriage and later refused to pay taxes on her house in Orange on the basis of no-taxation-without-representation.
 
Voices Heard In the Working World
Women like Stone in many ways personified the theory of 19th-century feminism; countless others were the practice as a farm-based economy gave way to business and industry.
Among them was Mary Philbrook. Born in Washington in 1972, Philbrook grew up in genteel poverty after her father left and her family moved to Jersey City. After graduating from Jersey City High School, she found work as a legal secretary but after a few years decided to become a lawyer herself. Applying to the state bar in 1894, she was refused admission not because she lacked a legal education -- most lawyers in those days "read law" in the course of their work, as opposed to attending law school -- but essentially because no other woman had been admitted. Philbrook pressed on and indeed became a lawyer, thanks to feminists' lobbying for a special law, not to mention the first woman to argue before the Supreme Court of the United States.
Years after her death in 1958, a virtually forgotten Philbrook was nevertheless still wielding her influence. In the mid-1970's, Barbara Petrick of Jersey City was looking beyond her home to do graduate work. "I was not interested in women's history," Mrs. Petrick said. "I was really an English major and a teacher. But I had three small children and couldn't travel very far; it was the old story of women." So she went to Jersey City State College, which had no graduate program in English but did have one in history. When she was looking for a thesis topic, she went to the New Jersey Historical Society and found a pamphlet saying the society had the papers of Mary Philbrook.
"They brought up the box, and I started going through it," she said. "What fascinated me was that she was from Jersey City and went to the high school where I now teach. She wasn't a Catholic, but she did social work in the parish where I grew up. She lived a few blocks away. You couldn't get more local than that. I really identified with her."
Today, Mrs. Petrick holds a doctorate in history from Rutgers University and is the head of the history department at Dickinson High School in Jersey City. Her contact with Philbrook "did change my life in a very profound way," she said.
Philbrook also changed other New Jersey women's lives in ways they probably do not recognize: when the current state constitution was being written in 1947, "she managed to change the wording taking out the references to sex," thereby implicitly giving women equal rights under state law, Mrs. Petrick said. "She felt it was her big accomplishment. It has proved to be a crucial point in many anti-discrimination cases."
 
Yesterday's Message For Tomorrow's Women
During the years Philbrook was fighting for on-the-job equality, descendants of the first suffragists were still campaigning for the vote. The idea of votes for women was not an entirely new concept in New Jersey. A state constitution passed two days before the Declaration of Independence gave anyone worth 50 the right to vote, apparently including women and free blacks, and women could vote in local elections from 1790 to 1807, when the state Legislature adopted white male suffrage.
The disenfranchised do not seem to have raise an outcry then, although later in the century, women like Stanton and Stone did. But New Jersey's native daughter who was one of the longest-lived and most militant campaigners for suffrage and beyond was Alice Paul of Mount Laurel.
Born in 1885, she lived until 1977. She held three law degrees and a doctorate in economics. As a young graduate student in England, she went to prison with the Pankhursts, forced feedings and all, and in America she was jailed for picketing the White House in support of suffrage during the Presidency of another New Jerseyan, Woodrow Wilson. Along the way, she founded the National Woman's Party, which eventually grew to 50,000 members; led a coalition that succeeded in adding equal rights for women to the 1964 Civil Rights Act, and in 1923 wrote the text of the Equal Rights Amendment, working toward its passage for 54 years.
Paradoxically, she opposed the amendment as passed by Congress in 1972 because it included a 10-year ratification limit that eventually killed it. But she continued lobbying for it until she died. "People would walk into her nursing home and she would say, 'Who do you know in Indiana?' when it was coming up for a vote in Indiana," said Lucy Beard, president of the Alice Paul Centennial Foundation. "She'd be on the phone from the nursing home lobbying for the E.R.A."
Paulsdale, her home in Mount Laurel Township, is a three-story Greek Revival house built about 1800. After a major renovation in 1880, Alice Paul's father bought it in 1883, and she was born there two years later, living there until she left for Swarthmore College in 1901. Later she used it as home base for her suffragist activities.
In 1984, seven years after her death, a group of volunteers created the foundation to commemorate the centenary of Paul's birth and further her legacy.
Now a National Historic Landmark, Paulsdale is once again a center for teaching women to take charge. In 1993, the foundation formed a committee to provide leadership training to women, and specifically future women: eighth-grade girls, who learned about female leaders of the past and present at one-day workshops in 1995 and 1997. On March 26, the house will be the site of a third workshop, "Leadership 2002: Share Your Voice."
Since the coming of suffrage with the passage of the 19th Amendment, women have been active in politics in increasing numbers. Five have represented New Jersey in Congress: Mary T. Norton, a Democrat who entered politics as soon as women were given the vote in 1920 and served from 1924 to 1950; Florence Price Dwyer, an eight-term Republican who held her seat from the late 1950's to the early 70's; Millicent Fenwick, the outspoken liberal Republican who was prominent in the 1970's (and became known nationwide as the model for Lacey Davenport in the comic strip "Doonesbury"); Helen Meyner, a Princeton Republican who served in the mid-1970's, and Marge Roukema, a Ridgewood Republican who has been in Congress since 1981.
Since 1974, the height of the modern wave of feminism, the state government has had its own Division on Women, with its 11-member Advisory Commission on the Status of Women. "We were originally established to serve as state government's central permanent agency for the coordination of programs and services for women," said Linda Bowker, the division's director. "That means we can do anything we have the money to do." Since she came to the division in 1994, it has focused on economic self-sufficiency and the prevention of violence against women.
The division's projects have included its Rape Care Program, the Domestic Violence Hotline (800-572-SAFE), a Women's Referral Central (800-322-8092), a center for displaced homemakers, and centers for urban and Hispanic women. In addition to monitoring legislation, it has coordinated the Governor's conferences on women in 1996 and 1997 and Take Our Daughters to Work Day for state employees. It also works toward educational equity, "making sure girls are getting same opportunities in education as boys, throughout the system," Ms. Bowker said.
In pursuing educational equity, the state division is carrying on the work of Mabel Smith Douglass, the first dean of the New Jersey College for Women, which opened in 1918 and evolved into Douglass College at Rutgers University. Businesswomen can look back on role models like Mary G. Roebling, who, as a young widow named executor of her husband's estate, began a long career as president of the Trenton Trust, and Lillian Moller Gilbreth of Montclair, whose career as an efficiency expert may have been at least partly a response to her life as the mother of 12. (Remember "Cheaper by the Dozen"?)
Women in the health-care professions may be carrying on the work of Clara Maass of East Orange, who nursed in Cuba and the Philippines during the Spanish-American War and in 1901 literally gave her life -- at 25 -- by volunteering to contract yellow fever so that doctors could study and combat the disease. Or Cora Hartshorn of Short Hills, who helped found Newark Maternal Health Care Center in 1928 to teach married women about birth control. Or Dr. Virginia Apgar, the Westfield native who in 1952 devised the Apgar score used to to assess the health of newborns.
Adventurous souls may look up to the globe-hopping photographer Margaret Bourke-White, whose early industrial images were inspired by her father's foundry in Dunellen, or Anne Morrow Lindbergh, the Englewood-born writer who traveled the world with her aviator husband and survived one of the most publicized cases of maternal bereavement in history. And then there was Alice Huyler Ramsey of Hackensack, who in 1909 became the first woman to drive a car cross-country, who paved the way for women to take the wheel and thus gave themselves the freedom of the road.
In a quieter way, some New Jersey women, who would probably be astonished to find themselves to be remembered at all a century or two after their deaths, told their own stories -- like Jemima Condict, whose diary from her girlhood in the mid-1700's to her death at 24, painted a vibrant picture of New Jersey life before and during the Revolution. Or Sarah Tabitha Appleton Reid, a Monmouth County farm wife whose journal, written from May 1869 to December 1872, is the basis for an exhibition of artifacts from her time on view through June at the Monmouth County Historical Association. But a vast majority of New Jersey heroines -- the mothers, the teachers, the mill girls, the domestic servants -- may have left no trace of their lives, except in the memories of those whose lives they touched.
It has long been said that Anonymous was a woman. But she doesn't have to be anonymous anymore. That's what Women's History Month is all about.
 
To Learn More
 
"NEW JERSEY WOMEN: A HISTORY OF THEIR STATUS, ROLES AND IMAGES"
By Carmela Ascolese Karnoutsos. Published by the New Jersey Historical Commission, 1997. $10.50; may be ordered by writing to Publications, New Jersey Historical Commission, P.O. Box 305, Trenton, NJ 08625-0305; (609) 292-6062; fax (609) 633-8168.
 
"PAST AND PROMISE: LIVES OF NEW JERSEY WOMEN"
By the Women's Project of New Jersey. A biographical dictionary of 300 figures in the state's history. Paperback, Syracuse University Press, 1997.
 
"SUSAN B. ANTHONY SLEPT HERE: A GUIDE TO AMERICAN WOMEN'S LANDMARKS"
By Lynn Sherr and Jurate Kazickaz. Times Books, 1994. A state-by-state guide to women's history sites.
 
ALEXANDER LIBRARY, RUTGERS UNIVERSITY
The special collections department, which is open to the public, has an extensive archive of women's history manuscripts, as well as a published guide to printed materials.
Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 9 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Saturdays, 1 to 5 A.M.; closed during university vacations. 169 College Avenue, New Brunswick. (732) 932-7510.
 
NEW JERSEY HISTORICAL SOCIETY
52 Park Place, Newark. (973) 483-3939. Library includes books on women's history in the state and extensive research files. The exhibition "History's Mysteries," intended for children, includes a section titled "Herstory," matching nine objects used by women from New Jersey's past with their jobs. Through January. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.
 
NATIONAL WOMEN'S HISTORY PROJECT
Mary Ruthdotter, (707) 838-6000
http://www.nwhp.org. Linked to a special web page for Legacy '98: The Women's Rights Movement, 1848 to 1998 (http://www.Legacy98.org), including a list of programs in each state for Women's History Month.
A sampling of Women's History Month activities New Jersey is on page 13.

GRAPHIC: Photos: PAST AND FUTURE Heroines from history include, far left, Mary Philbrook, lawyer, and Alice Paul, suffragist; Lucy Stone, above left; Annie Oakley, above, and Betsey Stockton, below, missionary and educator. Future leaders may include Myiella Adelantar, left, and Niki Gandhi, students at Dicknson High School in Jersey City. (New Jersey Law Journal (Philbrook); United States Postal Service (Paul); Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times; Smith College (Stone); Hawaiian Mission Children's Society (Stockton); tinting by The New York Times)(pg. 1); Paulsdale in Mount Laurel, the home of Alice Paul, is now a National Historic Landmark and a leadership training center for women and girls. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times); Alice Paul, center, stitching a suffrage banner in 1920. A marker of a well in Monmouth County believed to be the source of Molly Pitcher's refreshments. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (56%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (59%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (59%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; FEMINIST MOVEMENT; HISTORY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; WOMEN'S HISTORY MONTH HISTORY (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); WOMEN (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CENSUS (70%); MARRIAGE (70%); PREMARITAL AGREEMENTS (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); COMMUNITY PROPERTY (62%); MARITAL PROPERTY (62%); FAMILY LAW (62%); SEX OFFENSES (62%); 

PERSON: NOTTLE, DIANE MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



17 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE SHELF;
The Art of Managing a Motley Crew, and Keeping a Smile

BYLINE: By DEBORAH STEAD 

 BODY:
IGNATIUS J. REILLY, the misfit hero of "A Confederacy of Dunces," John Kennedy Toole's 1981 Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, winds up as a New Orleans hot-dog hawker. And as denizens of the French Quarter can tell you, Ignatius's eccentric, fictional employer -- Paradise Vendors -- has an eccentric, real-life counterpart: Lucky Dogs Inc.
A haven for the unconventional and the previously unemployed, Lucky Dogs has been managed for the last 25 years or so by Jerry E. Strahan, who began working in the Quarter during high school and never left. Now Mr. Strahan, who also found time to get a master's degree in history, has written a frank and funny corporate biography of sorts. 
 "Managing Ignatius: The Lunacy of Lucky Dogs and Life in the Quarter" (Louisiana State University Press, $24.95) engagingly spins out true tales about this quirky company, its offbeat vendors and the unique precinct it calls home.
Lucky Dogs and its seven-foot-long, wiener-shaped wagons have for years been a legal monopoly in the Quarter. Even the United States Supreme Court has blessed the arrangement, saying the pushcarts, which have been around since the 1940's, are part of the essential charm of old New Orleans.
By the early 1970's, when the author begins as a night manager in the funky warehouse at Lucky Dogs, tourists are plentiful in the Quarter, but so are drug users, prostitutes, strippers, gamblers and lost souls. Reliable, upstanding, sober-citizen-type employees, on the other hand, are scarce.
So Mr. Strahan manages a motley crew: carnival workers between gigs, seamen between sails, unsettled Vietnam veterans and drifters in need of money and -- sometimes -- medication. Still, this ever-changing band sells those steamed dogs, sometimes with flair and wit.
But management problems? Oh, yeah. Some vendors openly guzzle bourbon as they sell the franks. Others give away their dogs when threatened by street toughs. A few workers walk away with the night's take to hop on an interstate bus.
By the time Mr. Strahan is general manager of the 24-hour-a-day operation, he is accustomed to his "diverse work force," as he dryly calls his crew, and is rolling with the punches -- occasionally literally. He is also accustomed to a good deal of autonomy: Doug Talbot, the company's owner, is a trusting, off-premises boss.
Managing this group of transients -- for the most part a decent and likable bunch -- takes imagination and heart. And Mr. Strahan, a self-described "conservative redneck," develops both. He counsels the heartsick and the jealous, hides a vendor who witnessed a mob-related murder, puts up unofficial "wanted" posters in the Quarter to track down those who abscond with company revenue and lays down the law about decorum.
"We do have rules," he writes with mock gravity, after one particularly nondecorous incident. "One is that male vendors are not allowed to fondle other males while on the job. A similar rule applies to heterosexuals."
Beyond the people skills, there are strategic matters to handle -- including expansion. Lucky Dogs is now at the New Orleans International Airport and Disneyland Paris, among other places. There is even a test cart in Beijing.
Mr. Strahan, who also wrote "Andrew Jackson Higgins and the Boats That Won World War II" (also published by Louisiana State University Press, in 1994), is occasionally too generous with storytelling detail. But the book is short on numbers -- there is no mention, say, of the company's annual sales.
Still, "Managing Ignatius" is a terrific entrepreneurial story, one that captures the year-round drama of doing business on the street and the seasonal rhythms of the French Quarter, where vendors await Mardi Gras as eagerly as Macy's anticipates Christmas.
 
DRUCKER REDUX The century's best-known management guru, Peter Drucker, is at the center of two new books this month.
"Peter Drucker on the Profession of Management," edited by Nan Stone (Harvard Business School Press, $29.95) is a straightforward collection of 13 essays published over the years by Mr. Drucker in the Harvard Business Review.
More ambitious is "The World According to Peter Drucker," by Jack Beatty (Free Press, $25). Mr. Beatty, a senior editor at The Atlantic Monthly, where Mr. Drucker has also published, aims for a biographical and intellectual portrait.
But there is only a bit of biography here, with few outside voices and a frankly adulatory tone as the author tries to trace Mr. Drucker's theories through his 29 books. Even this is thwarted as the narrative jumps in and out of quotes and from one decade to another.
Mr. Beatty contends that Mr. Drucker is, at bottom, a moralist. And the book is at its best at the beginning, when it suggests why. In the chaotic and brutal battlefield management of World War I and in the postwar relief organization that saved lives around him, the author says, the young Peter developed a horror of incompetency and an interest in developing a "society of organizations."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LUCKY DOGS INC (85%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY PRESS (60%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); DOGS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (74%); LABOR FORCE (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (52%); SUPREME COURTS (51%); VETERANS (50%); 

PERSON: STEAD, DEBORAH JOHN F KENNEDY (74%); JOHN F KENNEDY (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



18 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: YOUR TAXES;
Who Will Harvest The Nation's Bounty?

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
DEBATES about overhauling tax policy have never lacked vigor, but for the last 15 years they have been restrained by the huge Federal budget deficit, which has rendered talk of any sweeping tax reduction largely academic.
Now the deficit is all but gone, and the tax-cutting wing of the Republican Party is panting at the prospect of big surpluses that could be returned to voters by lowering taxes. But they have already run head-on into another fiscal problem -- the impending insolvency of the Social Security system -- and the determined opposition of President Clinton, who views large-scale tax reductions as an excuse to eviscerate needed Government programs; he even sees a risk that the tax cuts would plunge the budget back into deficit. 
 As a result, a lengthy, high-volume political clash is likely to extend through this year and next and into the Presidential race in 2000, encompassing not just the size and composition of any tax cuts but also the very nature of the tax system.
"To the extent there is a surplus, it enables the Congress to propose all these tax changes," said Gregory F. Jenner, the national director of tax policy at Coopers & Lybrand in Washington. "Having said that, it's obvious the President has a different agenda. They're going to have to find some common ground."
On an ideological level, the conflict is clearly drawn. Although there is a growing rift within the Republican party about how hard to push this year for a big tax cut, many Republicans see taxes as the economy's No. 1 enemy, sapping the nation's entrepreneurial spirit, leaving families working ever harder to make ends meet and feeding the growth of an intrusive, power-hungry Federal bureaucracy. Some Republicans see big tax cuts as a good start, but their ultimate goal remains a radical overhaul of the way the Federal Government raises revenue, starting with the abolition of the progressive income tax and its replacement with a single-rate flat tax or some form of sales or consumption tax.
"The more the Government takes, the less families have to invest in themselves, their children, their retirement, their health care and their communities," said Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. "When the Government takes away the resources people were counting on to help themselves, the people will turn to big Government to solve their problems."
Democrats say they are just as eager to reduce the tax burden -- but not at the risk of repeating what happened after President Ronald Reagan's big tax cuts in the early 1980's, when the deficit spiraled out of control, undercutting the economy's health. What the nation can afford, they say, is a set of modest reductions and credits that address specific problems, like paying for child care and college.
The Administration proposes $24.6 billion worth of these narrowly drawn tax cuts and breaks over the next five years, paid for by the elimination of what it calls unwarranted tax breaks and loopholes. Mr. Clinton favors tightening rules on the tax treatment of real estate investment trusts and annuities, and changing the way multinational corporations are taxed on their sales abroad. All these proposals are strenuously opposed by the industries involved.
The Republicans have not totaled the cost of their various tax-cutting proposals, but many of them would reduce Federal revenues by large amounts. For example, one of their main goals is to eliminate the so-called marriage penalty, the quirk of the tax code that often makes the taxes owed by a husband and wife who both work and who file jointly higher than the sum of those owed by two single persons with the same incomes. The revenue loss from substantially eliminating the penalty could approach $30 billion a year. Less-costly proposals would reduce the penalty without wiping it out.
By comparison, the package of tax cuts included in last year's bipartisan budget agreement amount to $9 billion this year, rising to $35 billion a year by 2003.
ANY talk of broad tax cuts, Democrats say, must wait until the country solves the looming problems of Social Security. And they view the Republican proposals for overhauling the tax system as nothing more than a tax break for the wealthy at the expense of the middle class.
"Under no circumstances can we take any steps that will undo the fiscal discipline we have worked so hard to achieve," Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said. "We propose targeted tax cuts that are fully paid for, in the context of a balanced budget, to benefit working families. We believe there should be no tax cuts that are not fully paid for."
In political terms, the outlook is murky for tax legislation this year. Heading into the midterm Congressional elections in November, Republicans are eager to keep taxes at the top of the agenda, believing that tax cuts will be a winner on the campaign trail.
But the Republicans remain divided about how to pursue their tax agenda, and they have not yet found a way to pay for the tax cuts they favor. Mr. Archer wants to use half of any surplus for tax cuts. Some other Republicans say Congress should look first to further cuts in Government spending to offset tax cuts.
Seeing great political risk in opposing Mr. Clinton's call to put the surplus off limits until the problems of Social Security are addressed, some Republicans are eager to seize on another of the White House's initiatives -- creating a $65.5 billion pool from the proceeds of a settlement with the tobacco industry -- and turn it to their advantage. Instead of spending the money from a tobacco settlement on social programs like hiring more elementary school teachers and building and renovating schools, some Republicans want to designate any windfall from a tobacco settlement for broad-based tax cuts.
Whatever problems they face in enacting their agenda, the Republicans have an ambitious one.
"Some of the Republican proposals are irresistible enough that there will be tremendous pressure to do something, and the marriage penalty is a prime example," Mr. Jenner said.
A couple in which each spouse earns $30,000 and who file jointly, taking the standard deduction, would face a Federal income-tax bill of $7,795 -- $880 more than what their combined tax bills would be if they were single, according to the Congressional Budget Office. The marriage penalty affects more than 20 million couples, the office says, but about 25 million couples pay lower taxes than they would if they were single because one spouse does not work or earns substantially less than the other.
REPUBLICANS also see a squeeze on middle-class taxpayers. To address it, they would consider extending the bottom income-tax rate of 15 percent to higher income levels or allowing taxpayers to deduct the payroll taxes for Social Security and Medicare.
One proposal for widening the 15 percent tax bracket was introduced by Senator Paul Coverdell, a Georgia Republican. He would raise the upper limit of the 15 percent bracket to $35,000, from $25,350, for single filers for 1998; to $70,000, from $42,350, for married couples, and to $52,600, from $33,950, for single heads of households. Mr. Coverdell estimates that his plan would reduce Federal revenues by $37 billion a year.
Republicans are also examining proposals to exempt certain interest income and to simplify the multi-tiered treatment of capital gains introduced in last year's tax-cut law. And they are keeping up their criticism of the alternative minimum tax and of the Federal estate tax.
Even the most ardent tax cutters acknowledge that they will have to narrow their ambitions. But there is still little consensus among Republicans about which goals to concentrate on.
Social conservatives tend to favor taking action on the marriage penalty, seeing that as the most family-friendly option. Economic conservatives see the broad rate reduction implicit in expanding the 15 percent tax bracket as the best way to stimulate stronger growth. The powerful small-business lobby is pushing hard for further reductions in the estate tax, contending that a business cannot be passed viably from one generation to the next if parts of it must be sold to pay estate taxes.
For now, Congressional Democrats have for the most part lined up behind President Clinton in opposing any broad-based tax cuts. And they have eagerly endorsed his idea of using tax credits, rather than new Federal spending, to address a broad range of social issues.
The biggest Administration proposal is a $6 billion set of tax incentives to help school districts and states build or renovate schools and hire more teachers over the next five years. The Administration also proposed a $5.6 billion package to expand the child and dependent care credit to reduce the tax burden on lower-income families and give a tax break to employers who provide child care.
The Administration is also seeking $3.6 billion in tax incentives for energy efficiency, including a credit of up to $4,000 for buyers of vehicles that get at least three times better gas mileage than the base fuel economy for their class.
THE fate of tax legislation this year will be tied largely to the pace of continued improvement in the Government's fiscal condition. The Congressional Budget Office and the White House's Office of Management and Budget are currently forecasting a small deficit for this year, followed by increasingly large surpluses in coming years.
But early indications are that tax revenues are flowing into the Treasury this year at an unexpectedly strong rate, raising the possibility that Congress and the White House could have a windfall of tens of billions of dollars on their hands far sooner than anticipated. And if that happens, members of both parties said, the temptation for Congress to enact tax cuts and spending increases before they go home to campaign this fall could prove irresistible.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Seeing a Surplus"
Thanks mostly to a healthy economy, the Federal Government is facing the prospect of having large budget surpluses, after years of running in the red. Graph tracks deficit and surplus figures, from 1980 through a projected 2008. (Source: Office of Management and Budget)(pg. 20)
 
Chart: "How to Spend a Windfall"
Republicans have laid out an ambitious set of tax-cutting proposals, some fueled by the prospect of budget surpluses in coming years. But President Clinton wants to hold any surpluses in reserve until Social Security's looming financial proplems are solved. And he is demanding that any tax cuts be paid through tax increases or spending reductions. RICHARD W. STEVENSON
 
End the Marriage Penalty
 
GOAL -- Eliminate or reduce the quirk in the tax code that penalizes 20 million two-income, married couples who pay more in taxes than would two single people with the same incomes.
COST -- Up to $30 billion a year.
SUPPORT -- This is a top Republican priority. The White House has not ruled it out, provided the change is not prohibitively expensive.
PROSPECTS -- If any big-ticket tax cut gets through this year, this is likely to be it. But because of the cost, any action is likely to eliminate only part of the penalty.
 
Expand the 15 Percent Bracket
 
GOAL -- Provide a tax cut for middle and upper income earners by raising the ceilings for income taxed at the lowest rate. The limits -- currently $25,350 for individuals and $42,350 for couples -- have not changed since 1986.
COST -- Depends on how high the ceilings are raised. A plan by Senator Paul Coverdell, Republican of Georgia, would cost about $37 billion.
SUPPORT -- A favorite of supply-siders and economic conservatives. It also has strong appeal to members of Congress with big middle-class constituencies.
PROSPECTS -- Doubtful this year because of the cost, unless there is agreement to use some of the budget surplus for tax cuts. Democrats fear that it could plunge the budget back into deficit.
 
Revive the Interest- and- Dividend Exemption
 
GOAL -- Give a small tax cut to nearly 60 percent of taxpayers to stimulate more savings and investment. A proposal by Representative Kenny Hulshof, Republican of Missouri, would exempt the first $400 for married couples and $200 for single filers.
COST -- $15 billion over the first five years, at the levels proposed by Mr. Hulshof.
SUPPORT -- Viewed favorably by many Republicans, including Representative Bill Archer, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.
PROSPECTS -- Could make it into law, although the benefit to most taxpayers would be very small -- as little as $30 a year for a single person.
 
Change the Treatment Of Capital Gains
 
GOAL -- Roll back some changes made in the 1997 tax bill. That measure created a three-tier system of holding periods to determine capital gains tax rates. Republicans want to go back to a two-tier system but keep the top rate at 20 percent.
COST -- Small, according to Republicans. A $100 million increase in revenues over five years, then a small decline over 10 years.
SUPPORT -- Mr. Archer has vowed to include the plan in the tax bill this year, but the Administration is likely to oppose it on the grounds that it encourages stock market speculation.
PROSPECTS -- Has strong political appeal at a time when more and more people are investing in the stock market.
 
President Clinton's Proposals
 
GOAL -- Provide a series of small-scale tax breaks intended to address issues like child and dependent care for low- and middle-income families, installation of home solar-energy systems and worker retirement savings plans.
COST -- $24.6 billion over five years, paid for by tax increases and closing some tax loopholes.
SUPPORT -- White House officials believe their proposals have strong public support; many Democrats are enthusiastic about provisions like an expanded child-care credit.
PROSPECTS -- If there is a bipartisan compromise this year, as there was last year, some of Mr. Clinton's initiatives are likely to survive, perhaps in watered-down form. (pg. 20)
 
Illustrations by Robert Grossman (pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541219 OTHER ACCOUNTING SERVICES (68%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (68%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (68%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL SECURITY (US) COOPERS & LYBRAND (68%); COOPERS & LYBRAND (68%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY (US) OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INCOME TAX; FLAT TAX; SALES TAX; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX RELIEF (92%); TAX LAW (92%); BUDGETS (91%); TAX REFORM (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SALES TAX (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FAMILY (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); KENNY C HULSHOF (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



19 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: YOUR TAXES;
Computing Returns the Feel-Good Way

BYLINE: By PATRICK J. LYONS 

 BODY:
NOT everyone who has a computer at home trusts it entirely. Lurking in the back of many a PC owner's mind is the nagging fear that the machine is booby-trapped to foul up unfixably for an unknowable reason at an unpredictable but crucial moment.
Meanwhile, on a typical nonaccountant's list of pleasant experiences, preparing an income tax return falls somewhere below root canal and just above a three-day bout of salmonella poisoning. 
 Put the two together -- computers and taxes -- and the potential for torn hair and a quick resort to aromatic spirits is sky high.
So when it comes to tax software for consumers -- either bought in a store or used on the World Wide Web -- the important issue is not accuracy, comprehensiveness, the best advice or even cost. It is comfort. Much of the programming horsepower is now devoted to coddling and reassuring the taxpayer before, during and after the ordeal.
Last year's price war knocked some marginal players out of the arena, leaving two main competitors in the sold-in-a-box home tax software field: Intuit's Turbotax for Windows and Macintax for Macintosh, the market leaders, and Kiplinger Taxcut for either operating system from Block Financial, a subsidiary of H& R Block. The products are remarkably similar.
Each program offers three comfort levels: a full interview; a fast-track interview, in which savvier taxpayers can readily skip sections they know they will not need, and a straight-to-the-forms mode for battle-hardened veterans.
In the full interview, the novice is taken by the hand and led gently, step by step, through a tax return. The program asks for just a few answers or bits of information at a time and provides ample opportunity to look up unfamiliar terms and to obtain guidance.
The programs walk a fine line between helpful and annoying. For example, Taxcut needlessly belabors the entering of miscellaneous income from a 1099 form by stepping through the boxes on the form one at a time, even though on 99 percent of such forms all but one of the boxes will be blank.
Both programs have a few quirks that tend to heighten, not allay, a user's foreboding. In the Intuit programs, for example, entering a zero in some fields instead of leaving them blank may cause the program to generate unnecessary forms and stubbornly resurrect them each time they are deleted. Taxcut demands an unimportant "copy number" when entering miscellaneous income; the form that the taxpayer gets from the payer is usually marked "Copy B," but Taxcut insists on a number.
On the noncomfort issues -- convenience, accuracy and completeness -- not much separates the two leading programs. Either is an economical alternative, $20 to $50, depending on the version, to a paid preparer, who would typically charge several times as much. Test drives of a moderately complicated return produced similar refunds, similar red flags about potential Internal Revenue Service queries and similar suggestions about changes to make next year to avoid withholding too much. As for speed, an organized taxpayer using either program can finish a moderately complex Federal and state return in a few hours.
But it is clear that both publishers put the most emphasis on reducing stress.
In the deluxe multimedia versions of the programs sold on CD's, video clips are interspersed at strategic intervals. In them, celebrity personal-finance experts and magazine editors offer a few sagacious sentences on the topic at hand. These warm and fuzzy but time-consuming clips can grow tedious but are not hard to bypass. More usefully, CD-ROM versions of both products let a user click on important terms and obtain relevant text from I.R.S. publications or from a library of tax-advice sources.
Easy access to those I.R.S. publications looms especially large this year because of a swarm of complex changes in the tax code. Software publishers must rewrite their products every year and are at the mercy of the I.R.S. when it comes to timing; this year, each had to ship software before new versions of many forms and publications were available.
Harder to excuse are sloppiness and bugs in the programs; Taxcut this year seems plagued, especially in the version for Macintosh computers, which seems cobbled together as an afterthought. Only a few state tax returns are supported; there are glitches in the way text is displayed on screen; several advertised features seem to be missing, including importing of data from previous returns generated by competing programs; many data fields are too small, obscuring some content, and the shipped version showed a discomforting propensity for crashing.
These two factors -- missing forms and bugs -- make Internet access a must for any buyer of home tax software, preferably through a fast modem. Form updates and bug fixes for both programs can be downloaded from the publishers' Web sites, but the files are large and seem to take forever to arrive at low modem speeds. Users without Internet access must make a toll call during business hours to a customer service line to arrange for update disks to be shipped. An update from Block's Web site corrected the most serious, but not all, problems with the Macintosh version of Taxcut.
Those with fast Internet connections can also take advantage of a growing third option for home-computer tax preparation: preparing the return on line. The leader is Securetax from Universal Tax Systems; Intuit has just introduced a similar service called Turbotax Online.
Instead of selling tax software, Universal makes it available free. The company's Web site (www.securetax.com) is similar to Turbotax or Taxcut, with a comforting interview process, amply larded with tips and advice, guided by a cartoon character named Steve. Users log in through an encrypted link, receive an ID number and password and may store their work if they do not finish in one sitting. The company charges $14.95 for electronic filing and unlimited printing of a 1040 return or $9.95 for a 1040EZ form.
But working over the Internet takes considerably longer than running a program at home; after all, they don't call it the World Wide Wait for nothing.
And there is the comfort zone. Sending important personal tax data flying around the Web can be even more angst-provoking than filling out tax forms. A user starting the Securetax interview gets a screenful of fine print disclaiming any assurance of security or reliability of data. So much for warm and fuzzy.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "WHERE TO GO"
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
http://www.irs.ustreas.gov
 
ERNST & YOUNG
http://www.ey.com/pfc/rca.htm
 
COOPERS & LYBRAND
http://www.taxnews.com
 
TAXCUT
http://www.taxcut.com
 
INTUIT
http://www.intuit.com/turbotax/
 
SECURETAX
http://www.securetax.com/home.htm
 
DELOITTE & TOUCHE
http://www.dtonline.com/taxguide97/cover.htm
 
DENNIS SCHMIDT AT UNIVERSITY OF NORTHERN IOWA
http://www.taxsites.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTU (NASDAQ) (55%); HRB (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (55%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (54%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: INTUIT INC (55%); H & R BLOCK INC (54%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (59%); IOWA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX PREPARATION SOFTWARE (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); INCOME TAX (76%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (69%); BACTERIA (56%); 

PERSON: LYONS, PATRICK J

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



20 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 8; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CHELSEA -- UPDATE;
Eyesore Out, Gallic Cafe In

BYLINE: By BERNARD STAMLER 

 BODY:
It was vacant for nearly five years, boarded up and derelict. But the restaurant at 470 West 23d Street, on the southeast corner of 10th Avenue, has finally reopened, despite the opposition of some neighbors to its sidewalk cafe.
Situated on an increasingly fashionable block near the heart of Chelsea's booming gallery district, the restaurant is now called Le Solex, after a French moped that was popular in the 1950's and 1960's (Brigitte Bardot rode one). It is run by Robert Arbor, who also runs the popular Greenwich Village restaurant Les Deux Gamins, as well as Le Gamin on 21st Street. 
 Mr. Arbor, who has held the lease to the space for more than a year, said the city's Department of Consumer Affairs granted a temporary operating permit for the restaurant's outdoor cafe a few weeks ago, after minor changes in the restaurant's appearance had been cleared by the Landmarks Commission. Approval for a permanent license was endorsed by members of Community Board 4 last month, he said, with only two dissenting votes.
One of the dissenters on the board was Ed Kirkland, who has long sought removal of the restaurant's cafe, calling it an eyesore unfit for the historic character of the neighborhood. He said that he still believed that the cafe should be removed for that reason, even though it was built in 1979 and predates the creation of that part of the Chelsea historic district.
But Mr. Arbor says it would be economically impossible to run the restaurant without the added sidewalk space, which increases the size of the premises from 450 to 1,200 square feet. And many people in the neighborhood, tired of looking at a graffiti-covered shed, are pleased that the space has at last been occupied.
"It looks like a very nice place," said John Bowe of the West 400 Block Association. BERNARD STAMLER

GRAPHIC: Photo: A sidewalk cafe has reappeared at the southeast corner of 10th and 23d. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LE SOLEX (NYC CAFE)

ORGANIZATION: LE SOLEX (NYC CAFE)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CHELSEA (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; SIDEWALKS; ZONING RESTAURANTS (91%); RESTAURANT INSPECTION & LICENSING (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); ZONING (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); APPROVALS (73%); 

PERSON: ARBOR, ROBERT; STAMLER, BERNARD BRIGITTE BARDOT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



21 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: SPENDING IT;
Who Will Profit by Covering The Cards?

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
TWO of the biggest guns in American business are at war. They are calling each other names and slamming each other in lawsuits and newspaper ads.
But what are Maurice (Hank) Greenberg, the chief executive of the American International Group, and Henry R. Silverman, his counterpart at the Cendant Corporation, fighting over? A product that consumer advocates say hardly anyone should buy -- yet is highly profitable. 
 The object of their desire is an obscure Miami-based company, the American Bankers Insurance Group. In late December, Mr. Greenberg announced that his company was buying American Bankers for $47 a share, or a total of $2.2 billion. A month later, Mr. Silverman countered with a bid of $58 a share, or $500 million more. Now, both executives are furiously vying for the approval of shareholders and regulators, while fighting in Federal court over whether a bid from Mr. Silverman could even be considered by the American Bankers board. Shares of American Bankers have been trading lately at about $56 -- they closed on Friday at $56.25 -- an indication that Mr. Greenberg may have to raise his bid to win the prize.
At stake is control of a company that has become the leader in a little-noted field of insurance that promises to pay off the balance on a credit card or finance company loan if the policyholder dies or becomes disabled or unemployed. It is one of the most lucrative lines of insurance, consumer advocates say, but extremely expensive and almost always not the best kind of protection.
American Bankers defends its product as meeting the needs of millions of Americans. Most of its customers, it says, have annual household incomes of about $30,000 a year. Insurance agents, working on commission, generally look for clients with higher income, and American Bankers says its insurance is often the only coverage its clients have.
But consumer advocates say that, with a little scouting around, almost anyone can obtain a basic life policy, and that most people probably already have at least some disability and unemployment benefits through state and Federal programs.
For consumers, the cost of American Bankers insurance often seems trivial: an average of 65 cents for every $100 of debt coverage a month. But the little charges can add up.
American Bankers says its typical insured credit card balance is $1,500 to $1,700 a month. That amount of coverage costs at least $9.75 a month, or $117 a year. Compare that with what New York Life, one of the biggest life insurers, charges for $50,000 worth of basic, or term, life. For a healthy 45-year-old man, that policy would cost $153.50 a year, or just $3.04 a month more than buying coverage for $1,500 in credit card debt. The same $50,000 in life insurance would cost a 50-year-old man $7.54 more a month. Thus, for little more than the credit premium, most people could buy 33 times the coverage.
American Bankers says such comparisons are misleading because its policies provide more than just a form of life insurance and because the cost and risk of insuring a multitude of $1,500 policies are much higher than writing a smaller number of $50,000 policies. It also says it provides coverage to anyone who applies -- without a physical and detailed questioning -- which is not generally the case with other insurance.
AS costly as it is for customers, the American Bankers insurance is a dream for lenders. They get about half the monthly premium as a commission for helping to sell the coverage, and they are also named as beneficiaries. Once a customer signs up, American Bankers adds the premium charges to the customer's credit card balance.
Instead of buying insurance piecemeal -- a small policy to pay a credit card balance, another for cancer or for airplane trips -- most people can get comprehensive coverage with a single life insurance policy, said Raymond E. Forgue, a former president of the American Council on Consumer Interests. In the event of death, the life insurance should replace the family breadwinner's income for several years, providing enough to pay off all manner of bills with a comfortable amount left over.
"People ought to be buying broader coverage like term life," said Mr. Forgue, who teaches family finance at the University of Kentucky. "All this does is pay off your credit card bill. What about feeding your family and other expenses?"
But the battle for American Bankers is not about consumerism. It is about corporate profits. Without doubt, American Bankers knows how to make money. In the insurance business, companies eventually pay out most of every premium dollar for claims and operating expenses, making their money by investing premiums until they are called upon to pay the claims. American Bankers makes money both ways.
In 1996, American Bankers paid out slightly less than 38 cents of each premium dollar in claims, down from 40 cents in 1994. Insurers of homes typically make claims payments of 80 to 85 cents per premium dollar; payouts on autos run in the range of 70 to 75 cents.
AMERICAN BANKERS sells its insurance mainly through banks, finance companies and big retailers like Macy's, Radio Shack and Circuit City, which issue their own charge cards. Retailers offer the insurance when customers buy a television, say, or a sofa on credit. For a fee, the credit card companies give American Bankers their customer lists and American Bankers solicits business with phone calls and mail.
Both Mr. Silverman and Mr. Greenberg say the company meshes perfectly with what they already do, offering a bonanza in cross-selling.
Cendant also uses credit card lists to sell a lot of its products. The company was created in a merger in December of CUC International, a discount shopping organization, and HFS Inc., the franchiser of Avis rental cars and hotels like Howard Johnson and Ramada Inn.
American International Group is not using this sales channel now, but sees it as a great way to sell its life, auto and homeowners' insurance. And because it operates in 130 countries, it sees a golden opportunity to introduce credit card insurance in places where it is unheard of.
With $2.7 billion in revenue in 1997, American Bankers is nearly four times larger than its closest competitor. The other credit card insurers are either subsidiaries of larger corporations or are not publicly traded; they are not for sale.
In the deal with Mr. Greenberg, American Bankers agreed not to entertain offers from others until late April, at which point the transaction was expected to have been virtually closed, leaving little or no room for rival bids. Overturning that agreement is one objective of a Federal suit Mr. Silverman has filed.
The normal politesse in the clubby insurance industry has been abandoned as Mr. Silverman and Mr. Greenberg have accused each other in newspaper ads and court papers of issuing "false and misleading" information and planning to decimate the 3,000-member work force of American Bankers in blind pursuit of profit.
For its part, the American Bankers board says it is neutral on the two offers. But it says it is reinforcing a "poison-pill" provision that makes it more difficult for hostile offers like Mr. Silverman's to succeed.
Shareholders are scheduled to vote this week on Mr. Greenberg's $47-a-share bid, and Florida regulators are to hold hearings later this month on the qualifications of Cendant and American International to run American Bankers. Meanwhile, the battle in the courts continues.
As bitter as the fighting has become, Mr. Silverman says that neither anger nor ego is driving his challenge. "This is business," he said. "You don't get angry. You look at opportunities and see if there is a way of exploiting them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maurice (Hank) Greenberg, top, chief of American International, and Henry R. Silverman of Cendant are fighting for American Bankers Insurance, a high-profit seller of credit card insurance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); CAR (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (72%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (72%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (72%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (72%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC; CENDANT CORP; AMERICAN BANKERS INSURANCE GROUP INC AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (72%); AMERICAN BANKERS INSURANCE GROUP INC (57%); NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (55%); FEDERAL PROGRAMS (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC; CENDANT CORP; AMERICAN BANKERS INSURANCE GROUP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER PROTECTION; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; INSURANCE; LIFE INSURANCE CONSUMER LAW (90%); INSURANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); CREDIT CARDS (87%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); TERM LIFE INSURANCE (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); APPROVALS (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (63%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B HENRY R SILVERMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



22 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2346 words

HEADLINE: Selling Europe on the Stock Market

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT

 BODY:
TWO years ago, Boris Ogursky was working for the catering arm of Lufthansa, the German airline, when he saw the future and made a bet.
The German Government was selling off the last bits of the airline to investors, and Lufthansa management was trying to introduce employees to the idea of having a stake in the company's success. In place of a pay raise, employees could choose between a onetime cash payout and an equivalent amount of stock. 
 And to make the notion of stock ownership too good to refuse, Lufthansa added a twist: Employees could borrow money interest-free from the airline to buy additional stock at market prices. After two years, they could either sell the shares and pay back the loan or hold onto them and pay it off gradually. If Lufthansa's share price rose, the employees pocketed the profit; if it sank, the company promised to buy back the shares at no loss to the employee.
Mr. Ogursky bit. He purchased 67 Lufthansa shares at 20.60 German marks, or nearly $12 a share. On Friday they closed at 34.35 marks, or almost $19; Mr. Ogursky's 110 shares -- he later added to his holdings -- are now worth about $2,100.
Stock ownership in Europe is nothing like it is in the United States. Forty-three percent of adult Americans own shares either directly or through mutual funds, compared with only 6 percent of adult Germans, 16 percent of the French and 25 percent of Britons. Investing in stocks has long been considered too chancy a move in the Old World, where the middle-class investment of choice is a virtually risk-free Government bond.
But that is changing. In 1995, when Lufthansa first offered its risk-free stock-buying program, only about half the employees signed up. When the airline repeated the offer last year, almost 60 percent bought in. And two-thirds of those purchased extra shares with an interest-free loan.
Nor are the Lufthansa employees alone. Across Europe, as governments sell off more and more enterprises, the welfare state is pruned back and economies coalesce, Europeans -- like it or not -- are having to learn to become shareholders, and, indeed, to think about money in entirely new ways.
The Continent's long march toward a single currency, and the low inflation and tight monetary policy that go with it, have pushed interest rates lower and lower. That steady descent is prompting individuals and families to shift their savings from bonds, insurance policies and bank accounts to common stock and, even more so, to mutual funds.
Economic change is sculpting something bigger, too: a greater sense among people, be they German or French, Italian or Spanish, that they alone are responsible for their financial security.
"There is an insecurity that the state might no longer guarantee your future," said Mr. Ogursky, who is 29. "The state is not yet saying that, but I've got 35 years ahead of me, or longer, and that's why I believe it will get more like in America, that you will have to look after yourself."
The analogy appeals to American investment banks and brokerage firms, which are confident that their experience at home gives them a leg up in what will become, with the arrival of Europe's common currency, a playground rivaling the American marketplace in size. With American-style pension funds to create, mutual funds to sell and a new hunger for stocks to sate, both European and American financial services companies are rapidly digging trenches for the coming fray.
In December, the Bankers Trust New York Corporation acquired the European equities division of Britain's National Westminster Bank. A month earlier, Merrill Lynch bought one of Europe's largest investment firms, the Mercury Asset Management Group. Likewise, many of the past year's big Wall Street deals, like Travelers Group's $9 billion acquisition of Salomon Brothers, have been undertaken with Europe in mind -- driven, at least partly, by a desire to meld the global equity and bond underwriting capacity of one partner with the international retail distribution network of the other.
Insurance companies are also scrambling for position. Last week, Commercial Union P.L.C., one of Britain's largest insurers, announced that it would pay $10.8 billion to acquire General Accident P.L.C., creating a company that would rank among the top five insurers in Europe. Deregulation of the European life insurance market and the restructuring of welfare laws played a part in the planned deal, the companies said.
OF course, the new investor mindset is hardly universal. Many Europeans remain uncomfortable with the idea of buying financial security for tomorrow by playing the stock market today.
"You have to know the rules of the game," said Massimo Mandorino, 39, who operates a photo agency in Rome. "You have to follow your investments carefully, diversifying as much as possible. And even then it's not a sure bet. You're still running a risk." When he accumulates capital, he prefers to invest it back in his business.
The virtues of the market also have failed, so far, to penetrate broad swaths of rural and blue-collar Europe. But even here, change is in the offing. In Italy, for instance, private pension funds are being established for workers in the chemical and metalworking industries to take up the slack left by cutbacks in the Government pension system.
Maurizio Benetti, a pension expert at the big CISL labor union federation, said the resulting increase in familiarity with the stock market was likely to encourage blue-collar workers to shift savings from traditional investments in real estate or government bonds into stocks. Moderates like Mr. Benetti say employee shareholdings will help shift the balance of power in Italian corporations toward the workers, though left-wing unions disagree.
Still, despite the fears and hesitation, what Germans call an Aktienkultur and the Italians a cultura dell'azione -- both of which translate roughly as an "equity culture" -- is emerging.
Throughout the region, privatizations of huge state enterprises have planted the seeds. Britain went first, in the early 1980's. The initial sale of British Telecom stock by the Government of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher created 2.5 million to 3 million shareholders; the sale of British Gas produced 5 million more. Even in France, where politicians have openly sneered at Anglo-Saxon models of free-market capitalism, stock is selling. When France Telecom was sold to the public in 1997, 3.8 million people bought.
The next big step is expected in 1999, when 11 European nations will scrap their national currencies and replace them with the euro. European investors accustomed to focusing on their national economies and currencies are expected to reach increasingly for Europe-wide opportunities -- weighing sectors like pharmaceuticals against automobiles, or pulp and paper against steel -- and to look more closely at credit risk.
The economic logic behind it all is simple. Governments simply do not have the money to pay for social services as they did in the past, so private savings have to be mobilized.
"There is a huge wave of needs -- in pensions, health, education -- and governments cannot deficit-finance it," said John Llewellyn, chief global economist at Lehman Brothers in London. "Fewer basics will be paid for by tax contributions, and more by the private sector. There is no alternative."
Among the beneficiaries of this fundamental change will be the American stock markets. Just as Americans have been urged for years to diversify their stock portfolios by investing internationally, Europeans bit by the investment bug are funneling money into foreign markets, including the United States. According to a report by J. P. Morgan Securities in London, net foreign purchases of American shares in the first half of 1997 totaled $30.1 billion, more than twice the amount for all of 1996; much of that money came from Europe.
GABRIELA Bracconi, a smartly dressed woman in her 40's, sits at a booth inside a Milan branch of Credito Italiano, one of Italy's largest banks. An employee of an advertising agency, Ms. Bracconi is using a new investor service created by the bank about two years ago. As she fills out a questionnaire and chats with an investment adviser, the bank gets a picture of her assets and investment needs and ranks her in one of 10 investor categories, depending on the rate of return she wants and the risk she is willing to accept.
If all of this sounds very familiar to Americans, it is new to Italians. As Italy tightened its fiscal belt to qualify for the euro, bond yields tumbled, causing conservative investors, including Ms. Bracconi, to scramble into more lucrative investments like stocks. And people just entering the work force have even less choice about searching for yield. Ms. Bracconi will get 80 percent of her final salary as a Government old-age benefit, but thanks to pension reform, younger workers can count on collecting only about 50 to 60 percent of their final pay.
"When government bonds began yielding less, I needed an alternative," Ms. Bracconi said.
After the Italian Government privatized Credito in 1993, the bank hired Alessandro Profumo from McKinsey & Company's European banking group as its chief executive. Mr. Profumo undertook sweeping changes, replacing about two-thirds of the bank's top management. Sniffing an industry revolution in the air, he overhauled the branch offices and trained 700 employees -- some newly hired, others transferred from other jobs -- as asset managers.
"If you're 30 years old and they tell you the welfare state is disappearing, you will look around" for financial advice, explained Luca Majocchi, a McKinsey alumnus who is director of retail and private banking at Credito. "Now we have to transform ourselves into real consultants, managers with expectations regarding the ratio of return and risk."
The transformation is well under way. As interest rates in Italy plunged to 5 percent, from 15 percent three years ago, Credito's assets under management soared to $33 billion last year, more than double the level of a decade ago. That growth includes a sixfold increase in its mutual fund assets since just 1995.
Typically, Credito has shied from developing many new products on its own, preferring to use its network of 700 branches to sell mutual and pension fund products or bank card services developed by outside specialists.
For example, during Ms. Bracconi's visit to the Milan branch, she signed up for a Genius card, which among other services offers discounts on travel and entertainment for a fee ranging from $8.50 to $17 a month. The card is distributed by CUC Europe, a unit of the Cendant Corporation based in Stamford, Conn. The unit provides similar products for customers of a variety of European banks.
Credito also has a deal with Capital International Ltd. in London, a unit of the Los Angeles-based Capital Group, a manager of big American mutual funds like Washington Mutual Investors and the Investment Company of America. Capital International manages Credito assets invested in developing markets like Latin America and Asia, while Credito has developed Italian mutual funds for Capital to sell outside Italy.
Bankers like Mr. Majocchi see creation of financial products like mutual funds as primarily the domain of big players; the wave of mergers and acquisitions in Europe's financial services aims to create economies of scale and scope. But Mr. Majocchi says the sales of funds and other services will remain largely in the hands of local players, if only because of the prohibitive cost of building new retail networks.
Still, such a two-tiered structure would move the center of gravity in European investing toward individual investors and those who serve them. "The power is shifting away from the institutional investors," said John J. M. St. John, the head of European equity capital markets at Salomon Smith Barney in London.
"The next 10 years will bring rapid change," Mr. St. John added. With a single currency, he said, "you're talking about getting a share of what will be the world's largest market."
Bond traders exult as much as stock brokers when they imagine the market's dimensions.
From Europe's grab bag of fragmented national bond markets, these experts see the emergence of one immense market denominated in one currency. Even if only Europe's five core countries -- Germany, France, and the so-called Benelux states of Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg -- are part of this new single bond market, it will still be the world's second largest, exceeding that of the Japanese yen and falling only about 30 percent short of the dollar market's $9.5 trillion.
European institutional investors now bound by statutory requirements to buy a portion of bonds in local currencies will be free to range, since local currencies will no longer exist. Fund managers trading between, say, Frankfurt and Milan now parlay the risk from foreign-exchange volatility into about half of their returns. But with little or no foreign-exchange risk, they will be begging for high-yielding, high-risk bonds, a search that many believe will spawn an American-style market in high-risk corporate bonds.
Junk bonds are quite a journey from the simple privatizations and other stock offerings that gave Boris Ogursky, the Lufthansa employee, and other Europeans a boost into the capital markets and a stake in their financial security. And so no one is predicting that the transformation of Europe into a continent of sophisticated investors will be either unwavering or swift; there is plenty of uncertainty to go around.
But at Lufthansa, that has given Mr. Ogursky something akin to celebrity status. Befuddled fellow employees who -- like their parents and grandparents before them -- had never owned stocks have come to him for advice.
"Guys I work with, shares have to become familiar to them," Mr. Ogursky said over coffee at Frankfurt's huge international airport. "They have to learn the basics."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The decline of the European welfare state creates a need for financial advice, said Luca Majocchi, director of retail and private banking for Credito Italiano. "We have to transform ourselves into real consultants," he said. (Maki Galimberti for The New York Times); After investing in the shares of his employer, Lufthansa German Airlines, Boris Ogursky is sought out for stock advice by co-workers. (Wolfgang M. Weber for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
 
Graphs: "The Geography Of Opportunity"
The biggest European countries are still in the early stages of developing a culture of stock investing. Compared with the 43 percent of Americans who own stock directly or through mutual funds, the numbers in Europe remain small. Graph tracks the percentage of the population in Britain (1993-1997), France (1982-1996), Italy (1993-1997), and Germany (1988-1997) who own stock. (Sources: ProShare Ltd. (Britain); Commission des Operations de Bourse, SBF, Banque de France (France); Eurisko-Prometeia (Italy); Infratest polling group (Germany))(pg. 1)
 
"A Taste for Stocks"
Trading volume on stock markets is growing as more Europeans own stocks. Graph tracks total trading volume on the German, London, and Milan stock exchanges, as well as total that on the Paris Bourse, 1993-1997. (Sources: Deutsche Borse A.G; London Stock Exchange; Borsa Italiana; SBF)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (94%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (94%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (94%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (92%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BONDS (89%); GERMAN MARK (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); COMMON STOCK (76%); CURRENCIES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (71%); INSURANCE POLICIES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (63%); MONETARY POLICY (60%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN BORIS OGURSKY (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



23 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
So Far, a Good Year in Europe

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
LOWER interest rates, corporate cost-cutting and a positive outlook for earnings have sent European stock indexes to more new highs this year than the leading American indexes have reached. And because the dollar, while volatile, has not changed much in value against European currencies, Americans who invested in Europe have done well so far.
The best performers among Europe's big markets, measured in dollar terms, are Spain and Italy, which have benefited from a sharp drop in interest rates as they strove to qualify for their expected entry into Europe's single currency at the beginning of next year. Two smaller markets, Finland and Ireland, did even better. 
 And while the biggest markets -- Germany, France and Britain -- have not done as well, their benchmark stock indexes have outperformed the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. In dollar terms, Germany's DAX-30 index is up 10 percent, and France's CAC-40 and Britain's FTSE-100 are up more than 12 percent; the Dow and the S.& P. 500 have risen just over 8 percent. (The table below shows different results because it uses a different set of indexes.)
From here on, the forecasts of an economic rebound in continental Europe and continued low inflation make the outlook positive, analysts say, although European markets are at their highest valuations in at least a decade.
Peter Oppenheimer, European strategist for HSBC James Capel in London, said the markets would also get a continuing lift from corporations' cost-cutting. "It is a secular trend that is going to last for some time," Mr. Oppenheimer said.
But some analysts are warning about the drag from Asia on earnings, a factor that has, so far, been dismissed even more in Europe than in the United States. Matt Dennis, European strategist at ABN Amro in London, is staying away from industrial companies until that issue is sorted out. He is also less interested in markets, like Germany's and Sweden's, that are dominated by industrial companies.
With the drop in oil prices, oil and oil-related companies also face trouble, despite a bounce from the merger announced last week of the Halliburton Company and Dresser Industries.
Mr. Dennis also worries about bumps on the road to the single European currency. He said some turmoil might spill over into equity markets after the final entrants to the new currency system are chosen in May.
But Mr. Dennis likes financial stocks, which have been helped by lower interest rates and corporate mergers in Europe. Some consumer companies also look good as a defense against a stronger-than-expected drag from Asia.
As for their bets on individual companies, both Mr. Dennis and Mr. Oppenheimer are sticking with Italy and Spain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (84%); ABO (ASX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (84%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (90%); FINLAND (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (84%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; SPAIN; ITALY; EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (90%); FINLAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (96%); CURRENCIES (91%); EURO (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TRENDS (79%); MERGERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BONDS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (65%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN MATT DENNIS (83%); PETER OPPENHEIMER (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



24 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: The World;
In Drug War, America Barks but Fear of Bite Fades

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE driver was late, the aide had the directions all wrong, and as Colombia's Ambassador rode up Capitol Hill the other day to defend his country's drug-fighting record before one more skeptical audience, his only armor was two copies of a thin, boring-looking Government report. For the emissary of a country whose drug-enforcement efforts had failed the United States' certification test two years in a row, the Ambassador, Juan Carlos Esguerra, was looking remarkably unperturbed.
"When we didn't know what it would mean to be decertified, we were terribly worried that it would have catastrophic effects," Mr. Esguerra said, recalling the all-out lobbying campaigns that Colombia waged in past years in vain attempts to avoid the Clinton Administration's censure. "Once you know the impact, you know you can handle it." 
 The 12-year-old Federal law requires that, by the end of every February, the White House publicly evaluate the drug-control efforts of countries that produce or ship the cocaine, heroin, marijuana and methamphetamines that are consumed in the United States. And each year by the beginning of March, critics attack the process known as drug certification, mostly because of the anger and irritation it produces in American relations abroad.
 
Superficial Irritation
Lately, though, the irritation has appeared to be mostly skin deep. For countries like Mexico -- which was fully certified again on Thursday despite a confidential assessment by the United States Drug Enforcement Administration that was stingingly pessimistic -- it has become clear, officials say privately, that considerations like trade will outweigh dissatisfactions over the drug issue. Similarly, the practice of recent years has shown nations like Pakistan and Lebanon that even if they are denied certification, their strategic importance to the United States is such that they can expect the White House to waive the penalties in the national interest.
Under the 1986 statute, the penalties include a mandatory halt to some American foreign aid, a requirement that the United States vote against their applications for multilateral development bank loans, and the possibility of trade and economic sanctions. But when the law was written, both the cold-war power of the United States and the promise of such sanctions had a fresher smell.
Last year, as the Administration and Congress wrestled with the question of whether to decertify Colombia for the second year in a row, the Government of President Ernesto Samper dispatched its police chief and half a dozen cabinet members to lobby in Washington. The issue was Mr. Samper himself, and the $6.1 million that American officials say he took as a campaign contribution from cocaine traffickers. But his Government nonetheless took out full-page advertisements in American newspapers to describe the sacrifices that Colombia's people had made, the blood that its soldiers and police had spilled. Brightly colored booklets detailing the country's anti-drug achievements inundated Congress.
 
Taking a New Tack
This winter, the strategy changed. "No publicity. No advertising. Absolutely none," Mr. Esguerra said. "The certification issue has become less important." (Last week, in a gesture that American officials did not take seriously, Mr. Samper offered to resign a few months early if it would improve Colombia's relationship with the United States.)
At a Senate subcommittee hearing about certification Thursday, Senator Joseph Biden, the Maryland Democrat, spoke up for the process. It remains, he said, "an effort to prod other governments into action -- actions they would not otherwise take."
But in the past, American officials have been able to count on at least some flurries of police activity abroad as the judgment day nears: drug traffickers arrested, drug crops eradicated, drug shipments seized. Recent years have seen less and less of that kind of push.
More significant than the end of Colombia's lobbying are the issues on which it flatly ignored American appeals -- and threats of further decertification. In November, the Samper Government allowed the legislature it controls to reinstate its extradition treaty with the United States with the proviso that it would not apply retroactively -- and thus to the powerful Cali Cartel bosses who are serving relatively short prison sentences in Colombia but are wanted by American courts.
The frustration of American law-enforcement officials with Mexico has been harder for some in Washington to interpret: Last year, the Government of President Ernesto Zedillo has overhauled its anti-drug force, arrested some military and civilian officials on corruption charges and taken small but potentially important steps toward extraditing Mexican drug criminals to the United States. But at what is typically the busiest time of the law-enforcement year, American agents were reporting to their headquarters that the "new" Mexican police units were making no discernable effort to arrest the most important traffickers.
In Pakistan, the Government has steadfastly ignored American pleas for the release of a Pakistani employee of the Drug Enforcement Administration who is serving a five-year sentence at hard labor for helping American law-enforcement agents with an undercover operation that led to the jailing of two Pakistani air force officers on charges of heroin trafficking. The drug-enforcement aide, Ayyaz Baluch, was found guilty of "seducing" the officers to commit a crime. Pakistan's Ambassador to the United States, Riaz Khokhar, dismissed what he said had been open threats of decertification over the matter. "We have lived with certain sanctions in the past," he said in an interview. "Frankly, it won't bother us."
Some American officials blame the toothlessness of decertification on the limits of the law. Colombian officials, for their part, noted that they have been authorized to receive more anti-drug aid since being decertified. In Washington, support is rising for a multilateral approach to setting drug-enforcement standards. But even if American legislators have an alternative, they may still have a problem. "If you favor repeal of the certification statute, then you look like you're weak on drugs," said Lee H. Hamilton, the Indiana Democrat who is the ranking minority member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "And that's still an uncomfortable position for a politician to be in."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Mexican peasant harvests opium paste from a poppy for processing into morphine and heroin. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (95%); PAKISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

COMPANY: US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (54%); US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (54%); US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; COLOMBIA; UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (95%); PAKISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (77%); COCAINE (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); COLD WAR (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (72%); HEROIN (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); POLICE FORCES (69%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (68%); METHAMPHETAMINE (67%); CANNABIS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



25 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: The World: Good Deficit, Bad Deficit;
The Fear Is Gone, Not the Danger

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
YOU'VE heard it before and you'll hear it again: Trade deficits are bad. So the 24 percent jump in America's deficit, to a whopping $10.8 billion in December, and the near-certainty of further increases this year add up to trouble for an otherwise blessed economy.
Or maybe not. While it's tempting to discount the White House's Pollyanna-ish assessment -- Janet Yellen, the President's economic adviser noted that it represented only "a modest increase" in light of rapid growth -- establishment opinion on the new trade figures also ranges from resigned to indifferent.
 
Bludgeoning Reagan
"The trade deficit is only an indirect indicator" of the economy's health, said Laura Tyson, the former Clinton aide who now teaches at the University of California at Berkeley. In the 1980's, the trade deficit was used to bludgeon President Reagan for his "What? Me worry?" policies. This time around, Ms. Tyson said, "it's consistent with all sorts of good things -- high employment, stable prices, low interest rates." 
 While fears about the deficit may have been out of proportion in the past, there is reason to worry that the deficit may not remain benign. The U.S. deficit (and foreign surpluses) are the product of millions of individual, mostly private, transactions -- decisions to move earth with Komatsu bulldozers instead of Caterpillars, to drink Corona instead of Coors, to fly British Airways instead of United. The transactions are voluntary and generally take place between consenting adults. So why is it anyone's business but theirs?
In the early 1980's large deficits were seized upon as evidence of America's lack of competitiveness -- or perhaps just the perfidy of our trade partners (American skis were barred from Japan as unsafe because the customs inspectors insisted Japanese snow was different). But neither argument held up under close inspection. While trade barriers can distort commerce, exchange rates between currencies largely determine who sells what to whom. Put another way: If the dollar ever became weak enough, Americans would export bananas to Honduras.
Some in the Reagan Administration seized on the confusion to turn conventional wisdom on its head. The trade deficit, they argued, was driven by the strong dollar, which made imports cheap. And the strong dollar was a product of foreigners' abiding faith in the American economy. Why else would the Japanese pour their profits from exports into AmericanTreasury bonds and real estate, and why else would Europeans plow their savings into DuPont and Merck?
The current inclination to treat the trade deficit as evidence of America's economic superiority parallels the spin employed by the Reaganites. Healthy economies running at full capacity tend to suck in imports, while those in recession (Japan's) or in chaos (Korea's, Indonesia's) demand little from abroad and work like crazy to export their surplus production. So the ballooning American deficit, the reasoning goes, is nothing to worry about. In fact, buying all those terrific Asian cars, clothes and computer chips at bargain-basement prices is nothing less than America's duty to the New World Order. "America is the economic locomotive for the globe," said Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics.
Cutting through the half-truths, Robert Lawrence of Harvard's Kennedy School of Economics argues that the only certain conclusion to be drawn from the persistence of American trade deficits is that "we're borrowing more abroad than they are borrowing from us." And the virtue or vice of deficits, he concludes, turns on what the borrowed resources are used for.
 
Saving Too Little
If the money is invested in productive capacity, it's good; if it's used for consumption, it's bad. Viewed this way, America's large and growing deficit is worrisome, for Americans are saving far too little to sustain the living standards of the baby boomers when they retire. And inviting foreigners to accumulate American assets will only compound this pinch since Japanese and European investors will presumably cash in their securities when they, too, retire and claim wedges from the same economic pie.
But by a more immediate test -- the one uppermost on the minds of Democrats who fought NAFTA -- the current trade deficit seems relatively benign. While it is hard to deny that buying Lexuses instead of Cadillacs reduces employment in Detroit, it is equally hard to argue that overall employment opportunities in the booming American economy have been reduced by the imbalance of trade. Indeed, suggests Ms. Tyson, imports have served as a safety valve, releasing pressure on prices and giving the Federal Reserve the courage to allow unemployment to fall well below the level thought to be inflationary.
Arguably the most difficult question is whether the import orgy will have an unhappy ending -- whether the rest of the world will wake up someday and punish the United States for its profligacy. In the 1980's the economist Stephen Marris warned of a "hard landing" in which record-high American deficits would cause foreign investors to lose confidence in the dollar. And in their rush to move their accumulated billions to safer havens, they would trigger a big spike in interest rates and a nasty recession.
It never happened. But after the series of currency crises beginning with Mexico in 1994 and perhaps not ending in Indonesia in 1997, Peter Kenen of Princeton University wonders whether complacency about the hard landing scenario is appropriate. "The only definition of an unsustainable deficit is one that wasn't sustained last week," he said. "The day could come when investors suddenly decided that the yen or the new euro was the only place to be."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "That Pesky Trade Deficit" tracks the U.S. trade deficit, in billion of current dollars, annual rate, from 1960 through the early 2000's. (Source: Standard & Poor's DRI)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAY (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); HONDURAS (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); HONDURAS (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT PRICES (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); US DOLLAR (87%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (68%); INSPECTIONS (66%); INTEREST RATES (66%); SKIING (62%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



26 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: The World;
America, the Lone Wolf With a Following

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
AMERICANS watching the military and diplomatic drama in Iraq might easily wonder why Washington seems to bear every burden and get so little gratitude or support, even from the countries most threatened by Saddam Hussein.
With the sharp exception of Britain, a loyal ally that has learned the art of leading from behind, America has seemed a most unappreciated global policeman, pressing a crusade that other countries found excessive. 
 The French seemed willing to play along with a military buildup to make a diplomatic retreat palatable to Mr. Hussein, but they had no intention of participating in anything so violent as an air war. The Russians, with whom America should be having a honeymoon in Boris Yeltsin's second term, loudly opposed any use of force, whatever the rationale, while sidling up to their once and future commercial partners, the Iraqis.
Even Washington's Muslim allies, from the Saudis to the Turks, made their edginess about air strikes clear, especially when the raids were bound to kill ordinary Iraqis while not eliminating Mr. Hussein or his weapons.
The solution worked out through the agency of the United Nations Secretary General, Koffi Annan, produced an Iraqi retreat that left the United States and its allies looking more united than they are. But that will remain true only if Saddam Hussein keeps his end of the bargain, which few in Washington really expect.
At the heart of this rather sorry spectacle, with the Anglo-Americans in one corner and most of the rest of the world either taking a free ride or talking smarmily about "Wag the Dog," are sharp differences in interests, and in history.
 
Who's a Demon?
The United States sees Mr. Hussein as uniquely evil, a "Hitler" who threatens world peace and oil routes through his pursuit of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. Even if Washington won't invade, it will work to weaken him, and can't imagine lifting sanctions on Iraq so long as he rules.
But America's allies see Mr. Hussein as bad, certainly, but not demonic -- already weakened by defeat in the gulf war, by restrictions imposed on much of his territory, and by the United Nations weapons-inspection regime. Whatever its failings, they argue, inspection is still a more efficient tool than bombing to control a chemical and biological arms program that is portable, easily reconstituted and lives largely in scientific minds.
Saddam Hussein is a reality, they argue, and he need not be expunged. He can be contained, and also engaged, politically and commercially. The Americans should stop trying to transform the world, and understand that it may be enough to manage it.
The tribes of Europe and the Middle East have long experience at neutralizing the nasty people next door, if only because none of them has ever been powerful enough to order their own neighborhood as they would like. Napoleon, Hitler, Nasser all tried, and all failed.
Americans, however, have been supreme in their hemisphere, and they're not into maintenance. When they venture overseas, they want to solve grand problems once and for all -- problems that can usually be traced to the masters of local subtleties, who find themselves needing the aid of the bumbling giant beyond the oceans.
It may be easy enough for Americans to write off weary old-world wisdom as cynical, and like the Senate Majority Leader, Trent Lott, to disregard the world's opinion and to press Washington to act on its own.
But what, in the end, is the nature of this solitude? American internationalists consider it the lonely burden of global leadership; skeptics call it the arrogance that led America into Vietnam.
For Mr. Lott and other conservative Republicans, allies don't seem to matter much, and the use of Mr. Annan in Baghdad was a stroke of weakness, not tactics. "The Secretary General is calling the shots," Mr. Lott said. "The United States is not."
For its part, the Administration portrays Mr. Annan, whom it helped install, as nothing more than a messenger for American interests, as if he went to Baghdad representing Washington alone, and not the Security Council.
Both sides, of course, are playing politics and being economical with the truth. But taken together with what happened at the now infamous town hall meeting in Columbus, Ohio, Mr. Lott's comments display the difficulty of the American role in the post-Soviet world, and the ambiguous feelings Americans have about it.
Listen, for example, to Mr. Clinton's national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, on Iraq: "We have a strong tradition of non-engagement and self-reliance in the world, yet here we are in a position where other countries look to us to lead. But if we lead with too heavy a hand, they resent it." He rejected the idea that acting in America's interests means having to act alone. "Iraq is an example of acting multilaterally, but with the U.S. being way out front," he said.
Another senior American official said: "The United States has to be prepared to act to defend national interests, as we will, if necessary, on Iraq. But we are stronger and more effective with an international consensus."
In the Middle East of 1998, though, there is a special difficulty. In 1990 and 1991, Iraq's desperate neighbors accepted American intervention because President Bush seemed to promise a solution to their Hussein problem. But now even senior American officials will acknowledge that their policy of isolating both Iraq and Iran is falling apart. Arab countries are normalizing relations with both, the European Union is normalizing with Iran, and even Baghdad and Teheran are talking.
And while Administration officials are no longer allowed to say so in public, some will say in private that one big reason for Arab disillusionment with Washington is American failure to deliver on the promise that the entire Middle East atmosphere would be transformed after the 1991 war -- not just in Baghdad, but in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, whose tensions still radiate, gnawing at the stability of conservative Arab regimes.
James A. Baker 3d, who was then the Secretary of State, explicitly linked the two issues in House testimony in September of 1990, a month after Iraq invaded Kuwait. Given Palestinian support for Iraq at the time, Mr. Baker was asked if Washington should "give up on the peace process."
 
An Unredeemed Bargain
"One of the most telling arguments that Saddam Hussein makes, is that he's the champion of the downtrodden Arab," Mr. Baker said. "He's the champion of Palestinians who have no place to go and who are sorely put upon. And that is why I think it is important that we keep our eye as well on moving that ball towards some resolution of that problem -- because when we do, the ground will not be as fertile as today."
That was the implicit bargain that drew the Arabs to the American coalition against Mr. Hussein. Washington's inability to secure a Palestinian-Israeli peace has been a source of deep disappointment, while aiding Iraq's new semi-acceptability. "The world has changed," Iraq's Deputy Foreign Minister, Riad Qaissi, said Wednesday. "We are part of the world."
American officials seem to be listening. With the Iraq crisis losing steam, one senior official said last week, it is time to get back to the central issue of America's Middle East policy -- the lagging effort to produce an Arab-Israeli peace.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An F-14 ready to be catapulted from the American aircraft carrier Independence for patrol over southern Iraq. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); BOMBINGS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



27 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: The World: Clueless;
Tests Show Nobody's Smart About Intelligence

BYLINE: By GEORGE JOHNSON 

 BODY:
AFTER decades of agonizing over the fairness of S.A.T. scores, the differences between male and female mathematical skills and the gaps in I.Q. between various races and ethnic groups, the notion of intelligence and how to measure it remains more political than scientific, and as maddeningly elusive as ever.
Confronted with a seemingly irreconcilable mix of good and bad news about the state of America's intellectual skills, one is tempted to conclude that the country's dismal aptitude for mathematics carries over to the very people designing and administering the tests. Are Americans getting dumber or smarter? The numbers don't add up to a convincing answer. 
 Last week, results from the Third International Mathematics and Science Study showed American high school seniors near the bottom compared with some 20 other countries. The outcome would surely have been worse had the overachieving Asian nations chosen to compete.
Even more jarring were the results of the competition between the world's most precocious seniors, those taking physics and advanced math classes. No other country's best and brightest performed more poorly than the Americans.
These results are puzzling when one considers this country's dominance in technological innovation and scientific research. And the news was hard to reconcile with recent reports showing that scores on the math portion of the Scholastic Assessment Tests reached a 26-year high last year, continuing to pull out of the "Great Decline" that began in the early 1960's. For a variety of reasons -- possibilities include grade inflation, the freewheeling style of the 60's and the increasing economic and ethnic diversity of college-bound students -- scores peaked and then went into a free fall lasting until the early 80's.
S.A.T. results are notoriously difficult to interpret. Other tests, however, also show signs of improving mathematical abilities. Just a year ago, the federally mandated National Assessment of Educational Progress test found that the percentage of 12th graders with at least average math scores had increased to 69 percent from 64 percent the year before. This test is given not only to college-bound seniors but to a broad range of students. Maybe things are getting better -- at least with the third of the three R's. Scores on the verbal portion of both the S.A.T. and the N.A.E.P. remain flat, showing little signs of recovering from the Great Decline.
This roller-coaster ride of encouraging and discouraging reports has taken place against the backdrop of a perplexing phenomenon called "the Flynn effect": all over the world I.Q. scores are steadily rising. Since at least the late 19th century, right on through the S.A.T. decline, people have been getting smarter, or at least better at taking I.Q. tests.
This strange brew of statistics is not necessarily inconsistent. "The S.A.T. is an achievement test rather than an intelligence test," said Dr. Ulric Neisser, a Cornell University psychologist and head of a recent American Psychological Association task force on human intelligence. "It is aimed at what kids learned in school. It's perfectly possible for kids to get smarter in an I.Q. sense -- especially in terms of logical reasoning and analysis -- and yet learn less and less of the substantive curriculum.
"The U.S. ranks near the bottom on schoolchildren's knowledge of math and science," he said, "because our society is not committed to the importance of learning these subjects."
 
Decade of the Brain
Part of the problem in gauging the gross national mental product is a sheer lack of scientific understanding. This is the next-to-last year of the much-vaunted Decade of the Brain and what is there to show for it? All kinds of data on which parts of the head light up when a person balances a checkbook or listens to classical rock, but very little about how all the chemicals sloshing around in the head combine to produce the neuronal buzz called thinking.
A hundred years ago, in science's blissful ignorance, intelligence seemed naively simple. One can measure kidney or heart function, so why not brain function? And so came the I.Q. tests, attempts to quantify some kind of general intelligence, which the psychometricians called "g."
The idea is not completely crazy. The brain is presumably some kind of information processor. Why can't the cerebral engineers measure how well the neurons are manipulating data in much the same way computer engineers benchmark the blazing speed of an Apple G3 chip against that of an Intel Pentium 2? Studies indeed show that the value of g measured on I.Q. tests correlates somewhat with something called "nerve conduction velocity" and other purported gauges of neurological processing speed.
But the meaning of these tests is as open to interpretation as the S.A.T., and the idea of a general intellectual skill has been eclipsed over the years by the view that intelligence is a many-faceted thing. Trying to capture it with a single number is like gauging the abilities of a supercomputer by how much heat it emits.
According to the psychologist Robert Sternberg's triarchic model, there are three fundamental kinds of intelligence: analytic (what the I.Q. tests measure), creative and practical. Kenyan children who are great at identifying medicinal herbs (high in practical intelligence) score low on I.Q. tests, and vice versa.
In his more extravagant theory of "multiple intelligences," the psychologist Howard Gardner adds even more flavors: linguistic, musical, logical/mathematical, spatial, bodily/kinesthetic and intrapersonal and interpersonal abilities. If you're not a candidate for Mensa, you might be a genius at the tango. In his best seller, "Emotional Intelligence" (Bantam, 1995), Daniel Goleman argued that things like empathy, self-control, persistence and other affective skills are more important to success in life than I.Q.
But the importance of g may be making a comeback. The mysterious Flynn effect, described in "The Rising Curve" (American Psychological Association, 1998), a forthcoming book of essays edited by Dr. Neisser, applies not to how well you get along with others or figure-skate but to the old-fashioned definition of intelligence -- how well you do on tests of abstract reasoning. I.Q., according to the Flynn effect, is rising by about three points a decade.
Escalating even faster are results of Raven's Progressive Matrices, often billed as the best gauge of g. Takers of the test are shown a 3-by-3 grid. Eight of the nine cells contain geometrical patterns. The challenge is to discern the rules by which the patterns are arranged and then fill in the missing one.
There is nothing trivial about the task, and it is somewhat astounding that people are getting better at it all the time, even while studies show a profound level of ignorance over matters like whether dinosaurs lived at the same time as cavemen or whether the earth orbits around the sun. Can people really be getting sharper and more ignorant at the same time?
Flynn himself (James R., a political scientist in New Zealand) has infuriated many of his colleagues by refusing to believe in his own effect, dismissing it as an artifact. It seems implausible, he argues, that we are so much smarter than our grandparents.
Other psychologists have embraced the unexpected good news, offering a variety of possible explanations. Most compelling is that the increasing complexity of the world is challenging the brain to become more and more agile, stretching the synapses further every year. Video games, programming the VCR -- even the willfully ignorant are exposed to ever more intricate visual patterns and forced to learn more complicated tasks.
Why then did students in the early 1960's do so much better on S.A.T.'s -- especially on the verbal scores? Maybe they compensated for their slower brains by studying harder, reading books instead of watching black-and-white TV.
While the brain's natural ability to grasp visual patterns has probably been getting more exercise, there is another kind of thinking that doesn't come so easily -- the plodding, step-by-step labor of following through a chain of logical deductions, or composing a coherent paragraph and combining it with others into a compelling argument.
This deliberate, serial thinking, which many consider the hallmark of humanity, doesn't get much of a workout from playing Tetris or watching MTV. And it's the hardest of all to quantify.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by George Booth; photograph from James C. Amos/Photo Researchers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: SA T CEREALES ASTIGI (93%); SA T LOS GONZALEZ (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE; TESTS AND TESTING; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MATHEMATICS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); MATHEMATICS (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ETHNICITY (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (75%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (75%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); 

PERSON: NEISSER, ULRICH (DR); JOHNSON, GEORGE

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



28 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By BILL WELLMAN

 BODY:

CONSUMER CONFIDENCE
Don't Be Happy, Worry
Though no one would guess it from listening to Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, consumer confidence surged to a 30-year high in February as Americans' satisfaction with low unemployment and strong economic growth overshadowed economic turmoil in Asia and political problems at home. The Conference Board reported that its index of consumer confidence rose to 138.3 in February, from a revised 128.3 in January. The February figure was the highest since October 1968, when it reached 142.3. Consumer sentiment is viewed as important because consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of the nation's overall economic activity. In testimony before Congress on Tuesday, Mr. Greenspan said, "Events in the months ahead are not likely to unfold smoothly." On Friday, the Commerce Department gave Mr. Greenspan a bit of support, reporting that the American economy ended 1997 by growing at a 3.9 percent annual rate, a downward revision from January's 4.3 percent estimate. 

PRICES
Zero Inflation
The biggest drop in energy prices in nearly seven years wiped out inflation in January. Consumer prices overall were unchanged, marking the first month without an increase since January 1994, the Labor Department said. The inflation report underscores analysts' belief that Federal Reserve policy makers are not likely to increase interest rates because there is little prospect of an inflation breakout. Later in the week, the Commerce Department said orders for durable goods rose 0.7 percent in January, indicating that the Asian economic crisis had little impact on American manufacturers. The increase was below the 1 percent gain that analysts, on average, had expected.
 
ADVERTISING
Hey Sailor, Nice Web Page
In 1994, when New York City started cracking down on prostitutes and their clients, there were more than 9,500 arrests. In 1996, there were fewer than 2,000. So what happened to the world's oldest industry? Many of the city's streetwalkers had simply gone high-tech, advertising on the World Wide Web, which, they say, offers distinct advantages over pounding the pavement: it is anonymous and connects to a vast client base, it is safer than the mean streets and it is relatively cheap. Apparently the Web is also pretty easy to use. As one male prostitute put it, "It doesn't take a rocket scientist to do this job."
 
MUTUAL FUNDS
A Switch to Bonds
The pace of new cash going into stock mutual funds is slowing from last year's record pace, but bond funds are attracting increasing numbers of new investors, according to the Investment Company Institute. Its latest report said a net $14.58 billion went into stock funds in January, which was about half of the record $28.9 billion the previous January, and down 5.6 percent from December. At the same time, the industry's trade group said a net $11.3 billion was invested in bond funds, the highest monthly net inflow since August 1993.
 
INDONESIA
First Mirrors, Now Smoke
As if currency and other economic troubles were not enough, Southeast Asia may soon see another, familiar problem. The eastern coast of Borneo, dry after a year of drought, is bursting into flame again, raising fears that a wave of choking smoke could soon blanket the region as it did last fall. A report last week said the 1997 fires and the resulting smoke and haze caused $1.4 billion in damage to the region, most of it to Indonesia itself. Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore all suffered costly drops in tourism, not to mention added health costs and lost habitat. "The Indonesian Government initially laid the blame for the fires on slash-and-burn farmers, but satellite images showed that approximately 80 percent of the fires originated in lands controlled by industry," according to Worldwatch magazine, referring to timber companies seeking to expand their plantations.
 
CANADA
A Balanced Budget
After several years of deep cuts in social programs, Canada introduced its first balanced budget in nearly 30 years. While vowing not to return to the days of big spending, the Liberal Government promised to increase expenditures for education and health while offering tax cuts for five million lower-paid Canadians.
 
ENERGY
Pulling the Plug on Waste
Light sweet crude oil, a worldwide benchmark, fell 61 cents a barrel last Monday on the news that a tentative agreement had been struck to avert a United States military strike against Iraq. The price matched the four-year low reached the week before. But while consumers may be saving energy costs on one front, they are losing on another. Americans spend about $3.5 billion a year just to power their growing accumulation of electronic gear -- and $1 billion of that is used to power equipment when it is not in use, according to Consumer Reports. These "standby power losses" run about 5 percent of the average electric bill, the magazine says in its March issue, with the culprits including items like the color TV, VCR, cable TV box, microwave oven and answering machine. That 5 percent, according to the Environmental Protection Agency, is the equivalent output of six average-size power plants.
 
MICHAEL MILKEN
Talk Wasn't Cheap
Michael R. Milken, the financier who ruled a huge junk bond empire in the 1980's, using it to make or break a swath of big American companies, agreed to pay $47 million to settle Securities and Exchange Commission charges that he had violated a 1991 order barring him from the securities industry. Federal prosecutors said they would not recommend new charges against Mr. Milken. He neither admitted nor denied the allegations, which stemmed from the advice that he provided for such financiers as Rupert Murdoch and Ronald O. Perelman when he was on probation as part of the sentence for his conviction on securities fraud charges in 1990.

GRAPHIC: Photos. (Associated Press; Chang Lee for The New York Times)
 
Graph shows manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, since August 1996. (Source: Commerce Department)
 
Drawing by Tom Bloom

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INVESTMENT CO PLC (60%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS.COM INC (56%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS EXPORT GROUP (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (95%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BONDS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (86%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); DURABLE GOODS (71%); PROSTITUTION (68%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); BOND FUNDS (63%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



29 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Tinkering Perilously With Europe

 BODY:
With Washington preoccupied by other events, the Senate is rapidly moving toward a momentous decision on NATO expansion. Though the issue has stirred little passion outside the foreign policy fraternity, the eastward extension of NATO ought to concern every American because it may damage the country's paramount security interests for decades to come. There is still time for the Senate to weigh these risks and to reject a plan that is likely to undermine the very goals the White House insists it will achieve, including the advancement of democracy and unity in Europe.
Redrawing the map of Europe does not happen every day. When it has been tried over the centuries, by treaty or force of arms, it has often led to devastating conflict. In promoting NATO membership now for Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, and creating an expectation of future invitations for other Eastern European nations, the Clinton Administration is betting that several potentially harmful consequences will not result. That is a bet the country should not make, especially when the potential gains of expansion are so slight. 
 The clearest danger zone is Russia's relationship with Europe. The political, economic and military stability of the continent depends heavily on whether Russia completes its transition to democracy and a market economy. Any move that impedes or reverses that transformation is clearly not in European or American interests.
Yet that is precisely what NATO expansion may do. For the moment, Boris Yeltsin has grudgingly accepted NATO growth as the price Moscow must pay for harmony with the West and the financial assistance that comes with it. But Bill Clinton and his aides mistake Mr. Yeltsin's acquiescence for permanent Russian acceptance. His successors may well prove less cooperative. In Russia's volatile political environment, NATO expansion could easily be exploited by nationalist forces intent on diminishing democracy and chilling relations with the West.
Even under Mr. Yeltsin the prospect of expansion has taken a heavy toll. A vital treaty to reduce nuclear arms is stalled in parliament. With NATO forces likely to move hundreds of miles closer to its border, Russia has already placed greater reliance on its nuclear weapons as a first line of defense. Relations with Washington are deteriorating across a range of issues, from the handling of Iraq to the management of Russia's nuclear materials.
In exchange for these serious consequences, NATO expansion would bring no discernible gain. East-West divisions are evaporating and free markets are spreading. An increasingly democratic Russia poses no threat to its neighbors. This is not a picture that cries out for enlarging a military alliance whose core purpose, defense against the Soviet bloc, is obsolete. Even a majority of citizens in the Czech Republic see no need to join NATO.
It remains a mystery why absorption in the European Union is not the preferred way to promote unity and prosperity in Europe. It would do so in a way that embraces rather than excludes Russia. There will be ample time in the future to plant the NATO flag farther east if Russia should turn threatening again.
Then there is the financial expense of expansion. The Pentagon recently came up with a new estimate of the cost, $1.5 billion over 10 years. The number is laughable, clearly cooked to reassure the Senate as it approaches a vote. Only a few months ago the Pentagon calculated the cost could run as high as $35 billion over 13 years. Two years ago the Congressional Budget Office estimated the price tag might be as high as $125 billion over 15 years.
In giving the Senate the power to ratify and amend treaties, the Constitution expects more of the Senate than it is delivering on NATO. There must be a serious, sustained debate about enlargement, not the rush to approval that the White House would prefer. The 50th anniversary of NATO's birth in 1999, Washington's deadline for installing new members, is hardly a compelling reason to force a decision that the country is likely to regret well into the next century.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); HUNGARY (92%); POLAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; POLAND; HUNGARY; CZECH REPUBLIC; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); HUNGARY (92%); POLAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



30 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: New Shape To Triangle Tying U.S. And Koreas

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Feb. 26

 BODY:
The United States and South Korea have always been a bit like spouses as well as allies, and Seoul's basic demand of Washington has been for diplomatic fidelity: thou shalt not commit adultery with North Korea.
Whenever American diplomats have even proposed sitting at a table with North Korean counterparts, there has been plenty of explaining to do in Seoul. But now as South Korea searches for ways to engage its longtime enemy to the north, there are hints that it may consider releasing the United States from its vows -- and that leaves Washington with the challenge of figuring out how to respond. 
 The new South Korean President, Kim Dae Jung, suggested in his inaugural address that it would be fine "if North Korea pushes for interaction and cooperation with our friends, including the United States and Japan." Indeed, some South Koreans are wondering aloud whether a bit of diplomatic two-timing by the United States might be the best way to clear the air.
"Many members of our party think it can be considered as a useful and practical tool for the United States to recognize North Korea to stabilize the Korean Peninsula," said Kim Min Seuk, a member of the National Assembly from the governing National Congress for New Politics, which is also President Kim's party.
That remains the minority view in South Korea, but it does suggest that President Kim's inauguration may have opened new options for the United States -- even if Washington does not seem eager to pursue them.
For now the United States still appears committed to its policy of applying economic sanctions against North Korea and limiting official contacts. The United States and North Korea have agreed to work toward eventual diplomatic recognition and an exchange of embassies, but that seems a long way off.
Years ago there was discussion in the United States about recognizing North Korea as part of a cross-recognition deal whereby Russia and China would recognize South Korea. But in the end Russia and China established diplomatic relations with the South on their own, and the United States still has almost no dealings with the North.
What contacts do take place are usually limited to specific subjects. There have been direct discussions between the United States and North Korea on curbing the North's missile program and on recovering the bodies of American soldiers killed in the Korean War. And there are periodic four-party talks involving China and the United States as well as the two Koreas, aimed at building peace on the Korean peninsula.
Part of the problem is that the North is about as unpalatable a diplomatic partner as one can imagine, making Iraq look like a democracy. American officials say North Korea has engaged in acts of terrorism, including the bombing in 1987 of a South Korean civilian aircraft that exploded in midair, killing all 115 aboard.
In addition, North Korea has resisted even exchanging liaison offices, a step toward eventual diplomatic relations.
The United States' formal position is that relations should improve first between the two Koreas and that it does not want to irritate an old ally like South Korea unnecessarily. Even if President Kim now seems more open to the idea of relations between the United States and North Korea, many other South Koreans are deeply anxious about it.
Lee Hong Koo, an influential former South Korean Prime Minister, said that growing contacts between the United States and North Korea are inevitable, but he warned that the United States should proceed very carefully to avoid inflaming South Korean society.
"We have a sizable conservative bloc in Korea," Mr. Lee said, "and they are the bloc of people who have the greatest doubt about Kim Dae Jung. So if suddenly the United States comes up with that sort of proposal and that becomes an item of consultation between Seoul and Washington, that could really do a great disservice to Kim Dae Jung. That's the kind of thing Washington should be very careful about."
The American Ambassador in Seoul, Stephen W. Bosworth, emphasized the United States' sensitivity to these South Korean concerns. He carefully sidestepped a question about whether it was time for the United States to re-evaluate its Korea policy and to discuss further links with North Korea.
"That's not the answer to the problem," Mr. Bosworth said. "The answer to the problem is for the North and South to talk to one another."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

SUBJECT: NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); KOREAN WAR (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); POLITICS (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); BOMBINGS (64%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D KIM DAE JUNG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



31 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: Sanctions an Indiscrete Harm to Iraqi Bourgeoisie

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Feb. 28

 BODY:
As Sami Kaftan, one of Iraq's most famous actors, strolled into a hotel this week, people stopped and smiled. Some rushed to shake his hand, quoting a funny line or two from a score of movies, plays and television shows he has starred in over three decades.
They may have wondered why they see so little of him these days. None, however, would have been surprised to learn that with the collapse of the Iraqi entertainment industry under the weight of more than seven years of economic sanctions, he has teamed up with his close friend and artistic partner, a playwright named Ahmed Alsaleh, to work 20 hours a day in a kiosk selling cigarettes, cookies and imported soda. 
 Both are resigned to their fate, noting that they are not worse off than most professionals in this country of 22 million.
"What matters now is survival," said Mr. Alsaleh, 41. "Doctors are working in restaurants. Historians and professors sell their libraries on the sidewalks, artists are hawking currency."
Mr. Kaftan, 55, added: "All my kids care about is a sense of security. To me acting is a noble profession, but what you do to make money carries no value in itself anymore. Our society and our sense of values have changed."
Much has changed in this country since the 1991 war that forced Saddam Hussein's army out of Kuwait, and this was especially evident during the recent standoff over arms inspections that threatened new military action against Iraq.
As late as 1996, many in Baghdad viewed the West as a potential savior from an oppressive leadership -- despite the bombs that fell here during the war. What is striking now is how many have come around to a perception of the West as indifferent to Iraqi lives and fortunes. In the last couple of years, the prospect of sanction-free relations with the outside world has remained as distant as ever, and the sense of despair and futility has become overwhelming.
Last week the most important man for many here was neither President Hussein nor his primary adversary, President Clinton, but rather the United Nations Secretary General, Kofi Annan, who had come to negotiate an end to the dispute over access to suspected Iraqi weapons sites, and thereby avert an American air strike.
Rightly or wrongly, many Iraqis were convinced that Mr. Annan had traveled here to rescue Iraq from its miseries. As a result, recent American Congressional attacks on Mr. Annan and the agreement have played into the hands of the Iraqi Government.
Still, in interviews and conversations with a wide range of Iraqis last week, the fact that an American bomb attack had been avoided, at least for now, by Mr. Annan's visit hardly even registered as a blessing.
To be sure, fear of Iraq's fierce security system continues to constrain political discourse. But what resonates is the sense of having been abandoned by the rest of the world, and the deepening poverty that is destroying Iraq's once powerful and prosperous middle class.
Everyone listens to everything on the radio, from the Voice of America to the BBC to hostile opposition messages; seven years of sanctions have turned Iraqis into obsessive political analysts. But it is far from evident that these broadcasts have led them to place the whole blame for their predicament on their own leaders.
"The West forgets that Iraq is a tribal society within a clannish culture," said an Asian ambassador here. "In this society, as in much of the Middle East, a chief is admired if he wields power. Iraqis by now are disillusioned about the West. All they see is that America wants to keep them in a box, along with Saddam. It is no surprise that there isn't an organized opposition to Saddam in Iraq. Until a credible party promises deliverance, the edict of the state, and of Saddam, will run far and wide."
For Hussein Hassan, a poet and fiction writer who now gets by doing translations from English to Arabic, the sanctions' destructiveness is the real issue. "We've been bombed so long, so hard," he said, "that's not new. What would be new is the possibility that this siege might end."
He sipped sweetened tea in a dingy little cafe off Almutanabi Street, where he and scores of other intellectuals come every Friday in hopes of selling old books hauled from home. This total upset of their society, as poverty separates them from art and learning, is now their overriding concern.
It has always been said in the Arab world that "Egyptians write, Lebanese print and Iraqis read." That is why Almutanabi Street is an important barometer of what is happening to Iraqi society.
Dia el-Hagab, a cartoonist, was strolling down the street picking books for his 10-year-old son, Mohammed. This is a necessity, he explained, because the quality of teaching has fallen steeply. Some classrooms have no desks or chairs, not to mention books, which used to be freely available.
"I make sure he reads at home," Mr. el-Hagab said. In his hands were Arabic translations of Western children's books.
On the street, Salah Abdelhadi, 24, a chemistry student at Baghdad University, was supervising the sale of science texts that he spends his spare time buying around town. They are expensive, running up to $3.30, about the average month's pay here.
"At school we have no chemicals to work with at the laboratory," he said, adding, "The machines that break down cannot be replaced under the embargo." So the students must rely on books in place of laboratory equipment. "It's theory, but it's better than nothing."
Mr. Alsaleh, who also sold books before shifting to the cigarette-vending business, smiled bitterly as he said that the wrong people were doing the buying. He remembered the time a merchant, apparently one of a small minority who have found a way to prosper under the sanctions, asked him how much he wanted for all of his nicely bound collection of Arab literature.
When asked exactly what he was looking for, the merchant made clear it was quantity, not quality. "Look," he said, "give me everything you have in this two-meters-by-three-meters here."
He wanted the books to cover a wall in a new house he had build, Mr. Alsaleh said.
"You can't try to make sense of this," he added. "People are starving and others are buying books like tomatoes, to cover their walls."
Two kinds of books are selling well now. The first is religious books, which delve into the metaphysical meanings of faith, and the other is books published in the 1950's.
Why these old books? a man in his late 60's was asked. He had just sold a bunch of magazines at one stand and was asking for old issues of Al Arabi, a literary magazine.
Because, he said, "they take you away. They have nothing to do with what's happening now."
This has become a country of people turning away from an all-too-harsh reality. Many decline to discuss politics -- perhaps out of fear, perhaps out of hopelessness and a belief that the problems facing this society have become unmanageable.
Mr. Alsaleh said he and his wife agreed six years ago not to have more than their two children, Rafeef, 9 and Ali, 7.
"I don't know how good the quality of the water we drink is," he said, "and God knows how polluted the air that we breathe is because of our aging fleet of cars. We have no machines to test environmntal quality. No vitamins. No medication. Our passports are worthless because no one will give us visas. We are living in dangerous times. To bring another kid into this would be almost criminal."
A few years ago, Mr. Kaftan and Mr. Alsaleh collaborated on a play called "The Fig Leaf," about an ethics professor who expelled a student for working as a prostitute. Later the professor was revealed to be leading a clandestine life of debauchery.
Mr. Kaftan said this story resembled Iraq's confrontation with the West: "What I mean is, this is the same West that committed all these crimes across centuries, starving us in the name of virtue. That, my friend, is why I prefer fiction."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sami Kaftan, left, an actor, and Ahmed Alsaleh, a playwright, now sell soda. "What you do to make money carries no value in itself anymore," Mr. Kaftan said. "Our society and our sense of values have changed." (Peter Dejong for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); ARMIES (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (70%); WRITERS (70%); TRENDS (70%); HISTORY (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); THEATER (58%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (57%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M; KAFTAN, SAMI; ALSALEH, AHMED BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



32 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Staff Starts to Put Race Policy Into Practice

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 28

 BODY:
Back in December, Jon Jennings, a White House Fellow, was trying to figure out what he could do to further President Clinton's Initiative on Race. To get the message out to a broader audience, he decided to use his contacts in professional sports; before his White House Fellowship, Mr. Jennings had been an assistant coach with the Boston Celtics.
Calling acquaintances and friends in the world of sports, Mr. Jennings eventually reached executives of the National Football League who agreed to produce a public service announcement by Mr. Clinton and broadcast it just before the introduction of the players at this year's Super Bowl. As a result, an estimated 133.4 million viewers heard Mr. Clinton say: "As we enjoy today's Super Bowl, let's remember that Americans of all races and ethnic groups are on the same team. Working together we can win." 
 Securing a free 30-second commercial during the third most-watched television show of all time is just one of the ways -- some large, many small -- that Mr. Clinton's much-touted and often-criticized race relations initiative has begun to permeate the Administration's thinking.
Much of the public attention given to the President's Advisory Board on Race has been on the missteps, including the fact that the panel's early public meetings were criticized for lacking focus and excluding conservatives. In recent months, the Administration has been spewing out ideas and policies and holding events designed to bolster race relations and to enhance the living and educational standards of minority groups.
In many cases, the actions consist of little more than sponsoring seminars within executive branch agencies, or making sure that Government reports contain chapters on the status of racial and ethnic minorities, or getting Cabinet and sub-Cabinet level officials to participate.
Some students of the country's racial dilemma say that the initiative is not doing enough to tackle politically difficult issues like continued segregation in public schools and housing.
Perhaps the area where the race initiative has had the biggest impact has been in Mr. Clinton's budget for the 1999 fiscal year.
In November, the Advisory Board for the Race Initiative, headed by the historian John Hope Franklin, recommended that the Administration strengthen enforcement of Federal anti-discrimination laws.
The budget sent to Congress in February proposed an increase of $86 million, or more than 16 percent, in financing for agencies like the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division.
The Office of Management and Budget revived the practice of analyzing the budget's impact on civil rights, an effort that had been dropped in the Reagan Administration. When the budget was being prepared late last year, Judith A. Winston, executive director of the Race Initiative, met with Franklin D. Raines, director of the Office of Management and the Budget.
As a result, the budget has several policy initiatives on race relations and minority advancement, including an increase in housing vouchers for poor families who leave welfare, restoration of food-stamp benefits for legal immigrants, and a Hispanic education proposal.
"It affects your budget decisions," said Gene Sperling, director of the National Economic Council, referring to the race program. "You go through the agency's requests and say, what are you doing in this area?"
Whether the items in the budget related to race are approved by Congress is an open question.
Still, Administration officials say many ideas that have been bubbling beneath the surface within several agencies have received renewed life.
Last month, Mr. Clinton announced a five-year, $400 million plan to increase life expectancy and health standards for minority groups.
Recently, the Administration announced an agreement with the major automakers to raise to 5 percent the number of contracts going to minority suppliers. And in recent weeks the White House has also announced an increase in loan guarantees to businesses owned by Hispanic people and blacks.
Weekly reports submitted to the White House by executive departments now must include events or policy directives that are completed or contemplated that will help the race initiative. And the annual report on the economy put together by the Council of Economic Advisers has, for the first time, contained a separate chapter on how racial and ethnic minority groups are faring.
In addition, Cabinet secretaries and sub-Cabinet officials have been a part of more than 140 race relations dialogues in more than 40 cities since the start of the initiative.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (57%); BOSTON CELTICS (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); BOSTON CELTICS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON CELTICS (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); BOSTON CELTICS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; HOUSING; DISCRIMINATION SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ETHNICITY (88%); ETHNIC GROUPS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); RELIGION (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (68%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (64%); RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); HISTORY (62%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); FRANK RAINES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



33 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: Americans Abroad Learning Studies Now Offer a Bargain

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Marie Claire Santos-Lim returned to Yale University this winter after a highly satisfying autumn semester in which she immersed herself in Spanish language and culture at the University of Seville.
"It's an amazing experience to study abroad," said the 21-year-old Manhattan woman, who expects to graduate in May with a major in American studies. 
 Just as amazing -- to her parents -- was the discovery that sending their daughter on a once-in-a-lifetime adventure abroad was also a way to trim thousands of dollars from the cost of a semester of college.
With the average bill for private schools in this country now more than $20,000 a year -- and costs elsewhere in the world much lower -- a growing number of families are finding that an experience that once was largely restricted to the well-to-do is turning into something that the middle class can no longer afford to ignore.
The number of Americans studying abroad has jumped 84 percent over the last decade. And while economic globalization is the most frequently cited cause, "the financial consideration is significant," said Mary Anne Grant, executive director of the International Student Exchange Program in Washington.
"One of the things students say is, 'Can I afford this?' " she said. "And I tell them, if your tuition, room and board costs $24,000 a year, you can probably find a program that costs $10,000 less."
The number of students seeking bargain educations abroad has grown so quickly, in fact, that a backlash has been seen, both at American schools and those in foreign countries.
The University of Pennsylvania, for example, now charges students going abroad the same amount they would pay on campus in Philadelphia. Some countries that heavily subsidize higher education, including Britain, have taken to charging foreigners full price.
A decade or two ago, foreign study was generally an "elitist undertaking" aimed at acquiring a new language, said David Larsen, director of the Center for Education Abroad at Beaver College. The suburban Philadelphia school runs one of the country's largest foreign-study programs and was a pioneer in translating foreign credits and grades for acceptance by American institutions.
Now, though, the luxury has become so democratized, Dr. Larsen said, that many students going abroad are from relatively inexpensive state universities. They find that it can cost even less to study in Toulouse -- or possibly Paris -- than, say, in Columbus, Ohio.
Indeed, increasing numbers of students are looking beyond the traditional destinations of Britain, France and Spain, venturing to low-cost countries in Eastern Europe, Latin America, Africa and the Far East.
In most cases, students receive full credit toward graduation for their overseas classes, though courses do not always count toward a major or a student's grade-point average.
Moreover, many institutions allow their financial aid to accompany students abroad. The Government now requires that all Federal support, such as Stafford loans and Pell grants, be portable.
Ms. Santos-Lim's semester in Spain, coordinated by Sweet Briar College in Virginia, cost $7,870 plus air fare. Though she has a need-based scholarship that covers her tuition -- every penny of which Yale contributed toward Ms. Santos-Lim's study abroad -- that still made for a substantial saving, according to her father, Jose Lim, a building manager in Manhattan.
"For going to Spain, it cost us about $4,000," he said. "For staying at Yale, the out-of-pocket would have been $6,000 or $7,000." Mr. Lim called the saving "a pleasant surprise" -- especially gratifying since he would have otherwise paid for his daughter to take an expensive European trip after graduation.
Another example of enriched education at a handsome saving is Megan Hoyt, a 1996 graduate of Carleton College. Ms. Hoyt, a Russian major, studied at the University of Glasgow during the first semester of her junior year and then moved on to the Russian State University of St. Petersburg for the remainder of the year. The total cost? About half the $23,375 that year would have cost at Carleton, in Minnesota.
"Not only is it broadening for the student, it very definitely is a boon to the parents financially," said her father, Sam Hoyt, a New York investor relations consultant. With the help of Carleton's financial aid, Mr. Hoyt estimated, "I wound up paying something like $5,000 for the entire year."
The number of American college and graduate students studying abroad for credit has almost doubled over the last decade, to more than 89,242 in the 1995-96 school year, the most recent for which the Institute of International Education, a leading exchange and training group, has compiled figures. And the tempo is continuing to pick up, according to Edwin A. Battle, the group's director of publications.
"There has been an explosion of new programs attracting students to areas that were once considered very out of the way or, in the case of the former Soviet Union, almost inaccessible only a few years ago," Mr. Battle said.
The growth seems only marginally affected, experts say, by incidents in which students come to physical harm abroad, such as the rapes of five American students in Guatemala in January, and the resulting movement to hold universities legally liable.
While administrators and students acknowledge that saving money is often a consideration in the choice to study abroad, they insist that the paramount factor is the educational experience. Career-oriented students, specialists say, recognize the value that corporations place on time spent abroad in today's increasingly global markets.
"We've got companies beating down the door," said John Grandin, director of an unusual engineering program at the University of Rhode Island under which students are provided with paid six-month internships in Germany. In effect, they get five years of schooling -- including a B.A. degree in addition to their B.S. -- for the price of four years at home.
The program is part of a pattern in which business and science, as opposed to just languages and the arts, have emerged as common subjects for study abroad. The shift holds for both men and for women, who continue to account for two-thirds of the Americans studying abroad.
Not surprisingly, the huge saving available these days -- especially for students paying the full cost of expensive private colleges -- has made some administrators and professors uneasy about the revenue loss and the absence, albeit temporary, of those who are often among their best students.
"There are some institutions that are sort of desperate to keep their enrollments up," said J. Michael Delaney, director of study abroad programs at the University of Colorado.
Some, he said, are limiting the number of students they allow to go abroad.
Others, even schools like Middlebury College in Vermont that are less pressed, have had to nudge more students to take their terms abroad in the autumn so the school will not suffer so much from empty dormitory rooms and classroom seats during the far more popular spring term.
Still other colleges -- particularly smaller, financially struggling institutions, many of them church-related -- are insisting that students who go abroad pay regular, stay-at-home fees. The schools then pocket the savings from lower-cost foreign study. (For its part, Penn says it uses the difference to upgrade and improve the monitoring of study-abroad programs.)
And publicly supported institutions, of course, are leery of the criticism they might face for using taxpayer money to support students in glamorous overseas settings.
"It is much less common now to have schools aid travel," said Dr. Larsen, at Beaver College. "The treasurers are taking over."
Some foreign nations are tightening controls, as well. Though schools in Canada are heavily recruiting price-conscious American students, some popular European countries have become decidedly less interested in having foreigners fill their subsidized classroom slots.
For instance Britain -- still host to more than twice as many Americans as any other country -- charges foreigners full, unsubsidized costs, as do Ireland and Germany. France has also raised fees for foreign students substantially.
But while the choicest destinations are becoming more expensive, money-saving choices are more numerous than ever. It is just that a student may wind up in Salamanca or Braunschweig instead of Madrid or Berlin. And one still profits, most students and administrators agree, if foreign study proves no better than a break-even financial proposition.
"It can cost no more for a student to be in Australia or Hungary or Japan than to be here," said Layne Hoppe, who until September served as director of international education at Texas Lutheran University in Seguin, Tex.
So all things being equal, he said, Texas Lutheran is happy to see its students go overseas.
"We're in a part of the country where study abroad is not a part of the culture," he said, "so that's important to us."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Where They Study"
While a few big Western European nations continue to be the most popular destinations for American college students earning academic credit abroad, increasing numbers are studying in nontraditional host countries like Costa Rica and Russia. In 1996, 14 countries each attracted more than 1,000 American students.
 
1995-96 Academic year
 
Britain -- 20,062
Spain -- 8,135
Italy -- 7,890
France -- 7,749
Mexico -- 6,220
Germany -- 3,552
Australia -- 3,313
Costa Rica -- 2,298
Japan -- 2,010
Israel -- 1,667
Ireland -- 1,594
Austria -- 1,486
Russia -- 1,482
China -- 1,396
 
(Source: Institute of International Education)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (55%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); COSTA RICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (90%); SPAIN (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); GERMANY (50%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (55%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (59%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (59%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); COSTA RICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (90%); SPAIN (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); GERMANY (50%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; AMERICANS ABROAD; FOREIGN STUDENTS; TUITION FOREIGN STUDENTS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); FAMILY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (74%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); GRADES & GRADING (65%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MEGAN HOYT (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



34 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1535 words

HEADLINE: Pastor to President Says Morality Includes Courage, Caring and Proportion

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
When the Rev. J. Philip Wogaman, a noted Christian ethicist, inherited the plum pulpit of Foundry United Methodist Church here six years ago, his predecessor bequeathed him a bombshell powerful enough to shatter the church.
Foundry's beloved former minister, the Rev. Edward W. Bauman, sent a letter to each church member confessing that during his nearly 28 years as their pastor, he had "relationships of a sexual nature" with several women in the congregation. 
 The next Sunday, Mr. Wogaman delivered what he regards as his "most important sermon" ever, and a telling prelude. He told the congregation that Mr. Bauman had violated the boundary between clergyman and congregant and that the church could not condone his behavior. "But at the same time," Mr. Wogaman said, "I acknowledged the immense fruitfulness of his ministry, which had been a shaping influence in the lives of many people for a long period of time."
Now, as the pastor to President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton, Mr. Wogaman finds himself once again preaching, above all, a sense of proportion when judging the personal morality of public leaders. What might sound to some like an elaborate apologia for the President is to Mr. Wogaman a demonstration of how he applies Christian ethics to a complicated controversy.
Sexual misconduct does not automatically render a leader immoral, Mr. Wogaman said in a recent interview in Washington. He said he believed that the morality of politicians should also be judged by indicators like courage, concern for the poor, fostering world peace, running the economy responsibly and furthering racial equality.
Mr. Wogaman emphasized that he believed the President's adamant denial about the accusations of sexual impropriety and perjury. But if the accusations should be proved true, "there are credible stories of what you might call moral lapses by Martin Luther King Jr.," Mr. Wogaman said. "But to define his life on the basis of those moral failings would be to miss the point about Martin Luther King Jr."
In an era when the loudest preachers are those who say that morality is absolute, Mr. Wogaman is a preacher who likes to weigh the relativity of issues. He says the only absolute is God, and when human beings make absolutes out of a "cultural expression" like heterosexuality or sexual fidelity, then they have succumbed to "idolatry." He has been attacked by conservatives as being too liberal, but his colleagues insist he has been mischaracterized.
"There isn't an ideological bone in his body, in the sense that he's going to know ahead of time where he's going to come out," said Larry Rasmussen, a professor of social ethics at Union Theological Seminary in Manhattan.
Mr. Wogaman, 65, shocked his academic colleagues when he returned to pastoring after 26 years of teaching Christian ethics, 11 of those as dean at Wesley Theological Seminary, a Methodist school here. His books on ethics are used as textbooks in Protestant seminaries across the country.
His outspokenness on social and political issues has often landed him in the hot seat with religious conservatives, many in his own denomination. He has spoken out against racism in the church, written in books about his opposition to pacifism, led a task force investigating the Swiss company Nestle's marketing of infant formula to the poor, testified in favor of sanctuary for Central American refugees and written a pamphlet advocating abortion rights. He recently became president of the Interfaith Alliance, a group formed as a counterpoint to the religious right.
"I think Phil obviously has been one of our most visible United Methodists," said James V. Heidinger 2d, president of Good News, an evangelical movement among Methodists, "and it has been painful for many of us that our most visible United Methodist has been taking views that many of us feel can't be supported by the biblical text."
Mr. Wogaman lives in northwest Washington with his wife, daughter and granddaughter in a pillbox brick house decorated for living in, not for show. Games and children's books are stacked on shelves in the small living room. Photographs of his four grandchildren and four children -- a musician, a Marine major, an artist and a lawyer -- are propped up on the bookcases and the piano. On first impression, Mr. Wogaman's serious demeanor is offset by an incongruous wiggly smile. But when he speaks, his tone is deep and weighty, giving him a gravity perfect for the pulpit.
He declined to discuss his pastoral relationship with the First Family, and would not say whether he has any privileged information on which to base his skeptical view of the accusations against President Clinton. But he criticized the ethical standards of others involved in the crisis enveloping the White House: the press, the legal establishment and Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel investigating the relationship between President Clinton and Monica S. Lewinsky.
"The whole purpose in having a special prosecutor is to insure that, in the examination of wrongdoing by people very high in public office, there will be no hint of partisanship or self-interest infecting the professional decisions made," Mr. Wogaman said. "I think the public is perceiving that the special prosecutor's office has not risen to that standard and that things are being pursued almost in the spirit of a desire to find something to bring the President down."
When he took the Foundry's pulpit in July 1992, Mr. Wogaman had no idea that a future President and his wife would be joining him for worship. Foundry is a gray stone church on 16th Street, about a mile northwest of the White House in the Dupont Circle neighborhood, with a membership of 1,320. The church was established soon after the War of 1812 by a wealthy Georgetown foundry owner, and was the church of President Rutherford B. Hayes. Former Senator Bob Dole and his wife, Elizabeth, president of the American Red Cross, worshiped there for many years. Former Senator George McGovern still does.
The Clintons, when they first moved to the nation's capital, visited many churches. But eventually Mrs. Clinton, a Methodist, began frequently attending Foundry, while Mr. Clinton, a Southern Baptist, worshiped two blocks away at First Baptist Church. After First Baptist changed its pastor, the entire Clinton family, including Chelsea, became regulars at Foundry. They are not formal members, however, having kept memberships in their home churches in Little Rock, Ark.
For a few years, Mr. Wogaman preached simultaneously to both the Democratic President and Mr. Dole, who would challenge Mr. Clinton for the Presidency as the Republican nominee in 1996. But the Doles left in 1995, about the same time that a conservative research group, the Institute on Religion and Democracy, released a scathing report on what it called Mr. Wogaman's liberal influence, and Cal Thomas, a conservative commentator, wrote a syndicated column chastising the Doles for attending Foundry, saying "Wogaman's theology is as liberal as his politics."
On an issue that has divided the Methodist Church for years, Mr. Wogaman said he used to believe that gay men and lesbians were "either pathological or sinful." He said his opinion has since changed. Mr. Wogaman has served on a Methodist Church committee whose majority recommended, after four years of study, that the denomination drop its position that homosexuality is "incompatible with Christian teaching."
The denomination's ruling assembly did not agree. Two years ago, Foundry's board decided in a close vote to become a "reconciling congregation," one of 143 Methodist churches that have declared themselves to publicly welcome the full participation of gay men and lesbians. Mr. Wogaman supported that move as well.
Wesley Pippert, a Foundry member since 1966, said that a handful of evangelical and charismatic Methodists have left the congregation because they said Mr. Wogaman emphasized the social gospel more than personal faith. Still, the church embraces liberals and conservatives, people who come for laying on of hands on Wednesday nights, and openly gay couples from Dupont Circle, Mr. Pippert said. "I don't think the church is any less diverse now."
Mr. Wogaman said his approach to the ministry was inspired by his father, a Methodist minister who was a pastor at small churches in Ohio and agricultural towns in Arizona's Yuma Valley, where white migrant farm workers from Oklahoma vied with Hispanic workers for jobs. When signs went up in the grocery store in Somerton, Ariz., saying "No Colored Trade Solicited," Mr. Wogaman said his father went to a labor camp to invite Jamaican farm workers to worship in his church. They came, he said, and the signs came down.
As a clergyman, Mr. Wogaman came of age in an era when progressive Protestant leaders were in the forefront of social causes. Now mainstream denominations like the Methodists are in a period of "quietism," said M. Douglas Meeks, the dean at Wesley Theological Seminary.
"We sometimes have lost confidence in the Gospel's ability to speak to the realism of the world," Mr. Meeks said. "But Phil Wogaman is a great exception."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. J. Philip Wogaman, the pastor to the Clinton family, says public leaders must be judged by the whole of their character. (Mark Graham for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: METHODIST CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: METHODIST CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: SEXUAL HARASSMENT; ETHICS; FOUNDRY UNITED METHODIST CHURCH (WASHINGTON, DC) PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); ETHICS (90%); RELIGION (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MISCONDUCT (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (76%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); SEX SCANDALS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: GOODSTEIN, LAURIE; WOGAMAN, J PHILIP (REV); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



35 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: COURTS EXPANDING EFFORT TO BATTLE WATER POLLUTION

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 28

 BODY:
A wave of lawsuits brought by environmentalists is compelling state and Federal authorities to enforce a long-dormant provision of the Clean Water Act, opening a new front in the struggle over pollution and requiring the Government to make new assessments of whether water standards are being met.
Environmental advocates, in lawsuits in about half the states, are demanding that regulators move from controlling individual points of pollution -- like factories or waste-water treatment plants -- to improving the overall quality of larger watersheds. 
 This river-by-river, stream-by-stream approach on pollution may be a powerful legal tool for environmental advocates to influence many kinds of economic activity -- from logging in national forests to spreading manure on cornfields -- that were not rigidly controlled before.
"This is like the Tet Offensive," said Oliver A. Houck, director of the environmental law program at Tulane University's law school, referring to the 1968 uprising by Communist forces that shocked the American military establishment during the Vietnam War. "All the old assumptions are challenged."
In a Federal court case in Manhattan, plaintiffs are demanding that the Environmental Protection Agency force the state to set pollution limits in upstate watersheds at levels strict enough to protect New York City's drinking water. The plaintiffs are also demanding that citizens groups be allowed to participate in setting pollution limits.
Similar lawsuits involving 13 other states are on the Federal dockets, according to the E.P.A.'s count, and more suits are expected.
Already, Federal courts have ordered the E.P.A. to establish pollution limits in nine states -- Alaska, Arizona, parts of California, Delaware, Georgia, New Mexico, Oregon, Pennsylvania and West Virginia -- if the states themselves do not impose acceptable ones. All but two of those court orders were imposed last year. In only a handful of states have environmental litigants lost in the courts.
The 1972 Clean Water Act required states to issue permits telling polluters what technologies to use to keep from fouling the water at specific discharge points. In a provision that has routinely been disregarded, the law also told states to measure the local water quality more broadly in order to determine if the system of permits was working, and to impose across-the-board limits on pollution from all sources until clean water standards were actually met.
But 25 years later, many watersheds are still polluted, often by runoff from farms, cities and enterprises that are not required to have these pollution permits. In about two dozen states, plaintiffs have now sought to force state or Federal authorities to list these polluted waters accurately, and to clean them up.
The environmental advocates have embarked upon a new strategy in which they ask the Federal courts to force the Environmental Protection Agency to intervene where states have not acted to meet broader pollution standards.
In some states, the courts have ordered profound changes. Last year, Judge Marvin H. Shoob of the Federal District Court in Atlanta imposed strict and detailed cleanup schedules on Georgia and on Federal environmental agencies. He threatened that unless they complied, no new pollution permits could be issued for streams where the new limits were not being enforced.
The ruling is tantamount to holding economic development hostage until the state corrects its longstanding violations of the law.
"He threw down what we call the nuke, which was telling E.P.A. that he would order them to take the whole clean water program back from the state of Georgia," said Doug Haines, executive director of the Georgia Center for Law in the Public Interest, one of the plaintiffs.
The E.P.A., for its part, would rather leave enforcement up to the states, and it has recently heightened pressure on the states to produce acceptable cleanup plans. By April 1, every state is supposed to give the agency a new list of polluted waters and a cleanup schedule for them.
All over the country, local environmental groups are scrutinizing those lists and preparing to challenge inadequate ones, said Jessica Landman, a lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council.
Correcting these problems will take time. About 1,000 watersheds around the country -- close to half of all total -- are expected to show up on those problem lists, according to the E.P.A. The agency has indicated that it expects corrective actions to take eight years or more, and the courts so far have been accepting cleanup schedules from the states that are of the same time frame.
And while the pollution limits are supposed to address polluted runoff from farms and city streets as well as the discharge pipes of factories and sewage treatment plants, it is much harder for the agency to enforce controls on runoff.
Still, E.P.A. Administrator Carol M. Browner said in an interview that the new approach is becoming "the cornerstone of how you deal with pollution watershed by watershed, and it is the centerpiece of the President's clean water action plan." The White House last week proposed a five-year, $2.2 billion Federal program intended to improve watershed quality across the country.
Several elements of that plan, from issuing grants to the states to imposing water-quality rules on lands owned by the Federal Government, are linked to the new stream-by-stream pollution limits.
The limits are called "total maximum daily loads." Basically, a "total maximum daily load" is a quantitative assessment of water quality problems and those sources contributing to pollution. It specifies how much each pollutant needs to be reduced to meet water quality standards, and allocates pollution control responsibilities among all the sources of pollution in a watershed.
Under the law, the states identify specific waters where problems exist or waters that are protected, and make all the main decisions, subject to approval by the E.P.A.
Congress viewed this approach as an insurance policy that would guarantee continuing progress toward cleaning up the nation's waters, while leaving maximum power in the hands of the states.
A Federal advisory committee, in a draft report, urges the E.P.A. to deny new permits to sources of pollution in waterways where contamination is exceeding the maximum daily loads, and demands that the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management adhere to the limits when approving timber sales or grazing permits on public lands.
"Waste-water treatment plants for communities and industry may need new technology," says a fact sheet published by the state of Oregon. "Farmers and ranchers may be asked to use alternative methods in their operations to prevent fertilizers and pesticides from reaching rivers. Cities may be required to control and treat runoff from their streets."
Now, plaintiffs are making increasingly stiff demands on states like New York, which has already agreed to set limits around the reservoirs upstate that supply New York City's water. The Natural Resources Defense Council, in its litigation, asserts that these agreements do not satisfy the full demands of the law. A court may rule soon on E.P.A.'s request to reject the complaint.
According to Mr. Houck, of Tulane's law school, without these lawsuits nothing would have been done to enforce the 1972 law. "Nothing works in environmental law unless citizen pressure forces the regulators to move on the regulated entities," he said. "It is like a fish nipping at a fish nipping at a fish."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TULANE UNIVERSITY (56%); TULANE UNIVERSITY (56%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TULANE UNIVERSITY (56%); TULANE UNIVERSITY (56%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY WATER QUALITY (92%); WATER POLLUTION (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (90%); RIVERS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION (78%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (78%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (72%); POLLUTION MONITORING (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); DEREGULATION (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (54%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (54%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



36 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: City Hall Memo;
Is This Henry Higgins Playing to the Nation?

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY 

 BODY:
Perhaps there is need for pause when a big-city mayor's call for basic civility becomes national news. Then again, the city is New York, where anyone who smiles is regarded as mentally unbalanced. And the Mayor is Rudolph W. Giuliani, whose charms tend to be muted by a sometimes abrasive manner.
Given those dynamics, one can understand why the three major networks recently televised segments that portrayed Mr. Giuliani as Prof. Henry Higgins, poised to teach proper soup consumption and other manners to a city of Eliza Doolittles. 
 But questions naturally arise. Does the Mayor feel the need to distinguish himself before a broader audience from New York's huddled masses of jaywalkers, spitters and foul-mouthed louts? In his call for mutual respect, is the Mayor trying to minimize the bad publicity surrounding the Federal indictments of five police officers in a matter of gross disrespect -- the alleged brutalization of Abner Louima? Just what is the Mayor up to?
Although he clearly enjoys the adoring national publicity -- one TV segment positioned him in City Hall Park, where birds obediently chirped -- Mr. Guiliani has, to his credit, tried to counter the hyperbole surrounding his proposal.
He has explained that when he delivered last week's speech, one bearing the ambitious title "Creating a More Civil City," he was not handing down a set of municipal commandments; there is no plan for parochial-school uniforms for everyone. Instead, the city will enforce traffic and bicycle laws more diligently and improve the quality of cabdrivers, all to stop the rise in fatalities among pedestrians. It will crack down on illegal car alarms and other unnecessary noises, with the police conducting what he called "intensive noise sweeps."
He also called on city employees to respect citizens and, he emphasized, vice versa. "We realize the meaning of considerate behavior, which lifts the city up and eventually brings us all together as human beings," he said.
Who could argue with such sentiments? Crime is down, the economy is up, and while other matters need urgent attention -- the poor conditions of schools, for example -- Mr. Giuliani assures us that he can do many things at once.
Then why has the Mayor's Platonic call received some measure of resistance -- even ridicule?
One reason is that by answering inquiries about his political ambitions with winks and grins, Mr. Giuliani encourages us to view his second-term performance in the context of a probable pursuit of higher office. Fanning such speculation are his plans in the coming weeks to deliver speeches at Republican fund-raising events in Michigan and Arizona.
The Mayor's advisers say that no polling has been done since his re-election in November, that no political calculation is at play; his personality alone drives the mayoral agenda. He genuinely yearns for another time -- maybe one that exists only in his mind -- when New Yorkers were sarcastic, curt, combative, but always respectful. And if that captures the nation's fancy, they say, all the better.
"It's like chicken soup; it can't hurt,' said Raymond B. Harding, a close adviser who could not resist a gentle taunt of former Mayor Edward I. Koch. "I don't think anybody has ever said of Rudy Giuliani that the totality of his ambition would be fulfilled by playing a judge on NBC television."
Another reason why the Mayor's call for civility has prompted a New York response along the lines of "Whatta-you-kidding-me?" centers on his personality. Mr. Giuliani can be earnest, diplomatic and, at times, very funny. He can also be snide, vindictive and, at times, very nasty.
Cristyne F. Lategano, the Mayor's communications director, said that respecting people's rights does not mean that one cannot also be tough -- even "colorful," to borrow one of the Mayor's descriptions. And when he lays into critics like Mr. Koch and former Mayor David N. Dinkins, he is simply defending himself.
Ms. Lategano dismissed a suggestion that the Mayor's call for civility might be strengthened if he showed more restraint in responding to the barbs of his predecessors. And she somehow turned the suggestion into an attack on Mr. Dinkins and Mr. Koch.
"Instead of acting like statesmen, they're constantly picking and poking and ridiculing, and it's almost to the point of embarrassing," she said. "What the Mayor is doing is sticking up for himself like any good New Yorker."
Those who watch Mr. Giuliani for a living, then, are left with conflicting images of the man who would have us be civil. He flashed one image on Friday, when he smiled warmly at the "Today" show's Katie Couric and admitted that "I have to improve my behavior just like everyone else."
The other image came three weeks ago. The Mayor had just spent 90 minutes enthusiastically explaining his many accomplishments to the public. But the last question from the press centered on the latest zing from Mr. Dinkins -- critical of the Mayor's handling of the Grammys -- and Mr. Giuliani's face turned to stone.
"If I had his record I'd be kind of embarrassed to even show my face," the Mayor said, then went on to defend his refusal to embrace the Grammys because its top executive had been abusive to one of his aides. "That's a matter of principle. I wouldn't expect that my predecessor would have any understanding of that."
Having eviscerated a man who has been out of public office for more than four years, the Mayor had one more thing to say before leaving his stunned audience: "Thank you."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CUSTOMS, ETIQUETTE AND MANNERS MAYORS (91%); CITIES (90%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); CRIME RATES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (71%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (69%); INDICTMENTS (68%); TRENDS (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); BARRY, DAN RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



37 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1897 words

HEADLINE: At Brookhaven, a New Charge That Radiation Threatens Water

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

DATELINE: UPTON, N.Y.

 BODY:
Raising new questions about pollution at the Brookhaven National Laboratory, a former scientist there has charged that the lab has jeopardized local drinking water by draining millions of gallons of discarded water into basins near an old but still potent radioactive hot spot.
The scientist, Robert Ramirez, a hydrologist, voiced fear that decades of seeping waste water, along with rain, may have caused the radioactivity to penetrate far into the underground water supply. 
 Some environmentalists say this could turn out to be the worst of the many pollution problems at Brookhaven Laboratory's sprawling campus here, which was declared a Federal Superfund cleanup site in 1989. After concluding last year that the laboratory had placed science ahead of environmental safety, the Federal Department of Energy, which owns the lab, dismissed the lab's longtime contractor.
Laboratory officials dispute the contention that radioactivity has entered the drinking water, and tests at nearby county wells have not detected any contamination.
But lab officials concede that the 90-by-90-foot site is dangerous, and in recent interviews, they said for the first time that they would probably spend millions of dollars to dig up tons of contaminated soil at the site and ship it as far as Nevada or Utah for disposal. The site was contaminated in the 1950's and 60's by the improper disposal of wastes from the cleaning of tainted equipment.
The environmentalists contend that while removing the toxic topsoil would be a welcome step, it would not recapture the radioactivity that they believe has moved beyond Brookhaven's 5,300-acre campus in Suffolk County.
The hot spot and the rest of the laboratory complex sit atop deep strata of wet sand, formed in the glacial age, that stretch across Long Island and serve as the sole source of its water supply.
Until now, much of the public attention and cleanup efforts at Brookhaven have centered on other underground plumes of chemical and radioactive tritium contamination resulting from various laboratory activities. Some plumes have drifted beyond the southern borders of the lab into the adjacent community of Shirley.
As a precaution, Brookhaven Laboratory has paid for 1,400 families in Shirley to abandon their private wells and hook up to the Suffolk County Water Authority.
Laboratory officials have acknowledged that the hot spot is one of the most contaminated sites here. To prevent needless exposure to the radiation, an eight-foot-high barbed wire fence surrounds the patch of overgrown grass, weeds and shrubs. Ominous bright yellow and purple contamination signs warn people to keep out.
But the fence and signs were erected only three years ago, even though the hot spot dates back at least four decades. And so far, it is the only remedial action the laboratory has taken there.
Critics say the fence offers no protection to the groundwater below. They also accuse Brookhaven -- which did not provide for excavation when it adopted its initial cleanup plan for the hot spot in 1996 -- of reversing itself now, under pressure. Laboratory officials deny that, claiming they have been considering excavation all along.
The water authority -- which has eight well fields near Brookhaven's campus, including one directly across the road -- has raised its own concerns about the hot spot. In 1995 the authority formally asked the laboratory to cap the site with clay or concrete to prevent seepage to lower levels. Brookhaven's officials rejected that request as unnecessary, saying that the contamination, described by one critic as "a lethal soup," had stabilized in the top few feet of soil.
Brookhaven's past mistakes and current cleanup efforts pose a major challenge to the laboratory's new management, which formally takes over today. The new operators, Brookhaven Science Associates, led by the State University of New York at Stony Brook, have said that environmental concerns are a top priority.
The Brookhaven complex includes 350 buildings where 3,000 employees work on sophisticated medical, commercial, academic and government research. Its equipment includes a high flux beam reactor now shut down because tritium had leaked from a fuel pool without detection for at least 12 years. Energy Department officials are debating whether to reopen the reactor, which is used for neutron beam research in medicine and technology.
Mr. Ramirez, the former Brookhaven hydrologist, said he became frustrated in working on the cleanup programs there and left in 1996. He recently took his research to the environmental group Standing for Truth About Radiation Foundation, saying he hoped to prompt action. The group, known as the Star Foundation, contacted The New York Times.
Mr. Ramirez said he fears that "we're impacting the residential neighborhood in Shirley, and have been for decades, with a slew of radionuclides."
Scott M. Cullen, a lawyer for the environmental group, said, "What makes the hot spot worse than the other problems is both the toxicity of what's there and its potential spread."
Both sides have cited data from soil and water samples to support their arguments.
Laboratory officials contend there is no proof that the radiation has moved much. The institute's interim manager for environmental restoration, Robert F. Howe, said: "We're not 100 percent certain, but we're pretty confident that it's not moving, and if we find something, we'll address it. We're not going to walk away from it."
The hot spot, right in the center of Brookhaven's semirural property, has radioactive cobalt, cesium, europium, plutonium, radium and strontium. All are highly carcinogenic; plutonium is one of the deadliest substances known. Other contaminants there include arsenic, cadmium, calcium, copper, lead, magnesium, manganese, mercury, nickel, vanadium and zinc.
"You've got a lethal soup there," said Star Foundation's vice president, Dr. Helen Caldicott, a pediatrician, author of books on radiation and founding president of Physicians for Social Responsibility. "This stuff is in the aquifer and will be there for hundreds of years," she said. "That's all you need to know."
Contamination at the site -- officially known as the Building 650 Sump Outfall Area -- dates back at least 40 years. Brookhaven's records do not show the beginning date, but by 1959 workers were using an outdoor concrete pad next to Building 650 as a platform for steam cleaning contaminated equipment. The waste water was supposed to be stored in underground tanks and discharged to the laboratory's sewage treatment plant for safe disposal.
But in 1969, a release of five curies of tritium at Building 650 failed to show up in testing at the treatment plant. A follow-up investigation discovered that the wastes had instead been going into a leaky 800-foot-long underground clay pipe. The pipe ended in a modest concrete abutment in the woods, where the wastes flowed down into a natural depression in the ground, creating the hot spot.
The institute immediately halted the discharges. Regular testing of the hot spot did not begin until about 1972. It continued over the years, including aerial inspections for radiation. In 1989, Federal officials designated the site "a source of groundwater contamination, a potential direct contact hazard and an area of known radiological contamination with an undefined nature and extent."
Mr. Ramirez said his concern focused on the role of two huge drainage basins next to the hot spot.
About 1.5 million gallons of used cooling water from the laboratory has been discharged there every day for years, to be drained into the ground. Because the water's high natural iron content might otherwise foul the plumbing, chelating agents were added to keep the iron in solution. A significant amount of the water flowed through the sandy soil around and under the hot spot.
As a staff member, Mr. Ramirez said, he warned his superiors that the repeated daily surges of cooling water, and its chelation, posed a major threat of picking up radioactivity and carrying it far from the hot spot. Groundwater moves through the soil here at 9 to 12 inches a day, adding up to hundreds of feet a year and a mile in 15 to 20 years.
Mr. Ramirez said he was especially troubled by elevated radiation -- about 10 times the average in the area -- found in water sampled from a test well at the institute's border, near the homes in Shirley. His analysis concluded that the underground action of the cooling water was the cause.
But he said that laboratory officials brushed his concerns aside and that they had already decided what to do about the hot spot. "It was squashed," he said of his concerns.
Now those officials say they recall little about Mr. Ramirez's expressing concerns, but they agree that the basic mechanism he outlines is quite plausible. They say they share the concern and are monitoring the site with various soil and water tests.
"We're very much aware of this possible scenario," said Mr. Howe. "We're still investigating it." So far, evidence shows only modest movement of the contamination, apparently because the radioactivity is bonding with carbon in the soil, he said.
But laboratory officials discount the elevated radiation that prompted Mr. Ramirez's concern, saying they suspect it was an erroneous reading or naturally occurring radioactivity.
Disputing Brookhaven, Mr. Ramirez and the Star Foundation say the laboratory has glossed over troubling test results and limited its research. Little contamination has been detected in the nearby sandy soil, they say, because it has virtually no carbon to bond and hold the radioactivity, which they contend has moved farther away.
Although no final decision has been made to remove the hot spot's contamination, Mr. Howe said he hoped excavation could start by the end of 1999. But before that can happen, the project requires the approval of the three regulatory agencies overseeing the cleanup: the Federal Department of Energy, the Federal Environmental Protection Agency and the State Department of Environmental Conservation.
Paying for the excavation and removal would require Federal funds, and there are already complaints that the Government is shortchanging other cleanup efforts here. The lab's annual budget is about $400 million.
Although institute officials say money was never a deciding factor in the cleanup efforts, their records raise the financial issue.
The current projected cost for removing all contaminated soil at the complex is $40 million, with the Building 650 hot spot accounting for about a tenth of the volume to be excavated, or about $4 million of the total cost.
But in 1996, when the institute declined to choose excavation, it estimated a cost of up to $34 million to remove just soil from the sump outfall hot spot. The reasons for the drastic drop in price, institute officials say, are economies of scale, cheaper packaging methods and new options of shipping the waste to Utah or Nevada instead of to Washington State, the basis of the first estimate.
In originally rejecting excavation, the institute's records show that its analysts concluded that "there is a high cost associated with excavation and storage of radiologically contaminated soil." They added that the more limited action chosen then was "the most cost effective."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the center of the 5,300-acre campus, a fence with warning signs encloses a 90-by-90-foot site that laboratory officials say is dangerous. (Lois Raimondo for The New York Times)(pg. 33)
 
Map of Suffolk showing site of radioactive hot spot: Laboratory officials deny radioactivity is in drinking water. (pg. 33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY BROOKHAVEN SCIENCE ASSOCIATES (95%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; RADIOACTIVITY WATER QUALITY (91%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (90%); TEST LABORATORIES (90%); PHYSICS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (89%); SUPERFUND (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (77%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTERVIEWS (67%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ROBERT; LAMBERT, BRUCE ROBERT RAMIREZ (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



38 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1570 words

HEADLINE: Uneasy Renaissance on Harlem's Street of Dreams

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
On 125th Street in Harlem, where the stories and myths and frustrations of black urban America resonate with every step, a new economy is coming.
But Calvin T. Copeland will not be there to greet it. Mr. Copeland, whose restaurant on 145th Street, Copeland's, has been a Harlem institution since 1970, expanded onto 125th Street two years ago, aiming to catch the street's long-promised boom. But the new restaurant failed, driven out after only a year by rents that Mr. Copeland said had climbed beyond what his business could support. 
 His 125th Street storefront, for which he was paying $22,000 a month, is now being renovated for a Metropolitan Life Insurance office.
"I would never go back," Mr. Copeland said of the street celebrated as Harlem's Park Avenue, Broadway and Main Street rolled into one. "It hurt me and messed me up so bad, I wouldn't want to be part of it -- I'd rather go someplace else, anyplace else."
Harlem's street of dreams is breaking a lot of hearts these days. Even as projects like Harlem USA, a mall that will include the area's first Gap and Disney stores, prepare to begin construction this spring, older businesses say they are struggling.
"It's not for us; it's no longer for us," said Isis, the owner of Isis & Associates, a retailer of African-American books, greeting cards and gifts, who said that sales at her 12-year-old business had dropped 90 percent in the last two years. "We've held the fort, we created the market, and now other people are going to come in and reap the benefits."
At the moment, 125th Street stands poised between depression and boom -- signs of both are everywhere. New food, clothing and music stores have opened, and the magical name of Disney, in particular, is encouraging other retailers and entertainment companies to announce ambitious plans.
But unlike Times Square -- another long-neglected corner of New York that is being redeveloped -- 125th Street is also the center of a community where divisive issues of race and history swirl alongside the new opportunities. And the thousands of tourists who are expected to arrive in buses for shopping stops in Harlem are not here yet.
Established businesses say they are being driven out by rising rents and by a sharp drop in pedestrian traffic that followed the city's removal of hundreds of street vendors two and a half years ago. The arrival of chain stores like Duane Reade and Rite Aid has also cut into the sales of smaller shops.
In a place where politics and economics are deeply intertwined, these changes are fueling debate about 125th Street's future, the nature of capitalism and the role of government.
Some business owners say, for example, that they believe that the clearing out of small minority-owned businesses is not incidental but deliberate. The 125th Street that was both an economic and cultural icon for blacks is being transformed, they say, into a center of mainstream youth-culture merchandising: music, clothes and entertainment set in a kind of hipper Times Square in which black culture will be only part of the marketing package.
To these critics, the changes spark deep ambivalence -- echoing the renaissance of the 1920's, when white-owned clubs exploited the Harlem mystique for their white audiences.
"In the first renaissance we were allowed to be entertainers and we were allowed to be in the service industry," said Lloyd Williams, the president of the Greater Harlem Chamber of Commerce. "In the second renaissance we are allowed to be entertainers and in the service industry and consumers, but I don't see us being allowed to own, being allowed to determine which direction we want to go in and being a part of the plan."
Economic development officials in Harlem, led by the 125th Street Business Improvement District and the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, an 18-month-old Federal business-loan program, admit that the new Harlem will take its toll.
But rather than seeing a conspiracy, they attribute such failures to the chaotic energy of capitalism, from which they say Harlem has been shielded by poverty and by government support programs.
The large numbers of vacant properties, the officials say, are similarly a holdover from the decades in which mostly absentee landlords let properties sit unattended. One building on the street suffered a disastrous fire more than two years ago, for example, and the owner has yet to respond, either to fix the building or sell it to one of the many potential buyers who have called the Business Improvement District to inquire.
The president and chief executive of the empowerment zone, Deborah C. Wright, said that some of the concerns about the evolving economy of 125th Street are perhaps justified in the eyes of the community.
But the fact is, she said, capitalism has no plan, except to go where money can be made. It is up to the businesses here, she said, to figure out how to join that new competitive era and exploit it for themselves. The empowerment zone gives loans, not grants, and requires a business plan and a repayment schedule.
"It's scary, frankly, because, as you know, one of the basic tenets of capitalism is that you can't control it," Ms. Wright said. "Nor do I think we want to. We want to prepare people to compete in a market-based economy because that is the only thing thus far that has been shown to be sustainable."
The executive director of the 125th Street Business Improvement District, Barbara Askins, preaches a similar sort of tough love.
"You've been asking for something to happen -- it's here, but that means you now have to compete," she said, referring to the local merchants. "If you can prepare yourself, if you can get that customer that Disney can draw to come into your store, then you can survive."
Some businesses are clearly making that leap, and some -- already displaced, and struggling -- are not. Between them, they make up a portrait of 125th Street's transition.
At Manna's Restaurant, for example, a lunch-hour passer-by can now order chitlins -- a soul food staple made of fried pork intestines -- with a side order of tofu and sushi. The restaurant, using an $80,000 loan from the empowerment zone, closed for two months last fall and re-emerged with new lighting and signs and an expanded menu and a salad bar that the owner, Betty Park, said reflect the evolving taste and broader mix of her customers.
At Executive Fashions, a high-end men's clothing store that opened in December using only private capital, the co-owner, Thomas Garrett, said he honed the idea -- personalized service, using computer profiles of every customer's tastes, purchases and measurements -- on the Upper East Side. Harlem, where Mr. Garrett grew up, was not ready for something like this in the past, but now, he said, it is, and business has been good.
But there are many other instances of despair and anger. At 125 Mart, an indoor shopping center, some merchants said they felt left behind. The stalls in the mart are rented month to month -- not on longer-term business leases -- and most banks will not consider a loan to a business without a lease that anchors it to a location.
And the conditions for the former street vendors, who were removed from 125th Street in 1995 and relocated to an open market on 116th Street, are perhaps even more dire. The market, which Mr. Williams at the Chamber of Commerce likened to a "shantytown," was mostly empty of customers on a recent rainy afternoon. The shop owners, many of them West African immigrants, sat smoking cigarettes under their dripping tarps.
Mohamed Dillo, a 45-year-old immigrant from Sierra Leone who sells mostly jeans and shirts, said he pays $57 a week for his stall and recently went a whole week without a single sale. But he cannot quit, he said, because he does not have a work permit that companies require in hiring.
"Last six or seven months -- no business," Mr. Dillo said.
But the constantly repeated business message here -- a new kind of capitalism for a new Harlem -- has also been picked up by some retailers who see it as a social message.
Dorothy Pitman Hughes, the owner of Harlem Office Supply, said she had to mortgage her house last year to save her 15-year-old business. Then she realized that saving the company could also send a message to the community. She took the store public and started selling shares right there from the store, for $1 each, with the goal of having the community own 29 percent of the business. She holds seminars every week, teaching children and adults about the stock market.
"We cannot allow the 21st century to come in here without people owning something," Ms. Hughes said. "We now have several thousand shareholders who might go to a Gap or a Blockbuster on the first day they open and say, 'I want to purchase, but I don't want your trinkets today. I want shares in your company.' "
Ms. Hughes said that the response from residents who want to be involved in saving the store and participating in the stock market has convinced her that she is onto something -- that people want to be a part of what happens here. Schools have taken entire classes of children to the store, each with his or her own dollar. And other customers have been thinking ahead to the next generation.
"Fifty-two unborn Harlem black babies own shares in this company," she said. "They will know who Dow and Jones is."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An advertisement for the Gap dominates a section of 125th Street in Harlem, where construction is planned but many small shops are failing. (Rob Schoenbaum for The New York Times); Isis, whose store sells African-American books, greeting cards and gifts, said that sales have dropped 90 percent in the last two years. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (55%); SIC5947 GIFT, NOVELTY, & SOUVENIR SHOPS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HARLEM USA; GAP INC; DISNEY, WALT, CO METLIFE INC (56%); DISNEY STORE INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARLEM USA; GAP INC; DISNEY, WALT, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); TIMES SQUARE AND 42D STREET (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SHOPPING CENTERS; VENDORS, STREET; BLACKS; RENTING AND LEASING RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); TRENDS (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); LIFE INSURANCE (69%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (64%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



39 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 8; Page 5; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
Dierker Decided He Could Manage, and the Astros Proved Him Very Right

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

DATELINE: KISSIMMEE, Fla.

 BODY:
As Larry Dierker waited to take his turn on a series of managers' conference calls with reporters in December, he asked the public relations person, "Are you going to cue me?"
Listeners to the start of that interview might have suspected that Dierker was still playing the baseball broadcaster instead of the manager he had become. 
 But by leading the Houston Astros, who had not won a title since 1986, to the National League Central championship, Dierker showed the skeptics that he could indeed manage despite an absence of experience even as a coach.
Dierker, a former pitcher, said he became convinced of that around the middle of last season.
"I think somewhere around halfway through I realized I could do what was necessary," Dierker said. "I'm not presumptuous enough to think I can just walk out there and I'm better than somebody else and we'll win all the time because I'm the manager. I know it's mostly the talent you have."
But, he added, "I also have a theory that you can screw up a good team if you're a bad manager. So about halfway through, I began to be satisfied that I wasn't going to screw the team up and in some ways I might be able to help them."
Since the Astros had last appeared in a post-season series, Hal Lanier (two seasons), Art Howe (five) and Terry Collins (three) had failed to get them back there. Then came Dierker, the neophyte of neophytes.
The Astros were in first place for all but three weeks of the season, but the remarkable Pittsburgh Pirates didn't allow Dierker to breathe easily as he guided the team to its first-place finish. Early in September, the Astros led the Pirates by only a game and a half.
"I very keenly felt the pressure of September," he said. "That's the thing I remember most about it. I felt I was able to keep my cool and make reasonable judgments throughout the whole process even when things got tough. It was very satisfying."
Not so satisfying was the playoff series against the Atlanta Braves, but Dierker said the pressure then was not as great as during the heat of the September chase.
"One of the things that increased the pressure of September," he said, "was the fact that the Pirates with their 10 or 12 million-dollar payroll were the ones we were trying to hold off. If it had been the Cardinals or the Reds, a team that had some bona fide star type players, you might not have felt so much pressure because it wouldn't have been an embarrassment to lose."
Dierker added that he did not mean to demean the Pirates, but :"I think there was a sense that we can't blow this. It would be embarrassing. If it had been some other team, it might not have been that way."
He recalled a football game burned into the memories of Houston fans, the playoff game in which the Oilers squandered a 35-3 lead and lost to Buffalo. "I certainly didn't want to have something in Astros' history comparable to that and I think it would have been," he said.
But the Astros held off the Pirates and won the right to lose to the Braves in the divisional series.
That series, Dierker said, was different because "it's never embarrassing to lose to the Braves, so there wasn't that sense that we had to win that series or otherwise we'd be abject failures."
But, he added: "I was tremendously disappointed in the way we played. They just brushed us off like we were nothing. It took me a couple of weeks to get over that. I wasn't very happy when the season was over."
Dierker related one other experience from his rookie season that stood out. He was curious to see how he would fare against Tony La Russa of St. Louis and Jim Leyland of Florida because of their reputations as two of the "smartest strategic managers" in the game.
"I found against the Cardinals last year practically every matchup I wanted to avoid I was able to avoid and practically every matchup I wanted to get I was able to get," Dierker said.
Against the Marlins, however, "it seemed like I couldn't avoid getting trapped into something I didn't want to do," he said. "The way the game played out, I couldn't get it the way I wanted it. I don't think that means that Jimmy Leyland is smarter than Tony La Russa or I'm smarter or dumber than anyone else. I just think the way the game plays out is going to dictate, and it's mostly the players and the execution."
Nevertheless, Dierker did feel it was important to gain the respect of his more experienced peers.
"I wasn't going to go up to the batting cage and start rubbing shoulders with these guys and act like I was a member of the club because of the unusual circumstances under which I got this job," he said. "I felt I had to perform first and talk later. I didn't talk to too many of them. But when I did they seemed fine."
Dierker said he was especially pleased to receive congratulatory notes from LaRussa and Jim Riggleman of the Chicago Cubs.
"I was touched by those things," he said. "It indicated they thought I was worthy. I think that would mean something to anybody."
 
International Thinking
Major League Baseball keeps talking about expanding its international horizons, so a group of internationally minded baseball people has proposed an interesting idea: instead of having the annual general managers meetings in Florida or Arizona, conduct them in the Dominican Republic.
The idea was proposed recently in a letter to Paul Beeston, baseball's chief operating officer. The letter was signed by Juan Marichal, the Hall of Fame pitcher, who is the Dominican Republic's sports minister, and assorted officials and scouts, including Omar Minaya, the Mets' assistant general manager, and Ralph Avila, a Los Angeles Dodgers vice president.
Noting that baseball's player population is more than 30 percent foreign, the writers said a meeting in an international setting such as the Dominican Republic would "go hand in hand with the growth and evolution" of baseball on an international level. Furthermore, they wrote, the meeting would provide executives an opportunity to see some of their players in their own country.
The letter did not mention golf courses, but the site proposed was Casa de Campo in La Romana. It has two courses, Teeth of the Dog (par 72) and The Links (par 71).
 
The Knoblauch Sweepstakes
At one point during the winter, the Yankees, the Atlanta Braves and the Cleveland Indians were competing for Chuck Knoblauch, the Minnesota Twins' outstanding all-round second baseman who had asked to be traded. At the end only the Yankees were standing; the Braves and the Indians had lost interest.
"We had serious talks at the beginning," John Schuerholz, the Braves' general manager, said. "But we re-evaluated our feeling on it and decided of our own choice not to stay involved. We wanted to keep the lineup we had." Knoblauch would have been a good leadoff hitter, Schuerholz said, but the Braves were not comfortable with the way the trade would have affected the club, "so we decided to stay with what we have."
The Twins initially wanted a starting pitcher in return, but their desire in later talks for Ryan Klesko led the Braves to bow out.
John Hart, the Indians' general manager, said the Twins "came after us hard." Among others, the Twins wanted some of the Indians' best young players, just as they were asking from the Yankees. But Knoblauch's $6 million-a-year salary finally sent the Indians in retreat.
"As we evaluated the trade," Hart said, "the asking price was pricey, but it wasn't just the players. We had to really look at the economics. Between payroll we were going to add and the luxury tax, it would have put us in a deficit-spending situation, so you walk away from the deal."
Without the Indians and the Braves, the Yankees benefited because the Twins had no choice but to settle for less.
 
Paying for Spring Training
Holding spring training at the handsome new Disney baseball complex, the Atlanta Braves are believed to have become the first team whose workouts before the exhibition schedule began were not free. Anyone wanting to watch pitchers' fielding practice and catchers' popup-catching drills had to pay $8.
Disney officials explained that the price was general admission for the entire sports complex, which includes other attractions. But if a fan wanted to go only to the Braves' workout, he or she still had to pay $8.
When a budding 3 1/2-year-old fan was told the Braves were practicing at the Disney complex, he said, "Well, where are they when they really know how to play?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: In one year, Astro Manager Larry Dierker, a former major league pitcher and baseball broadcaster, guided Houston back into the playoffs. (F. Carter Smith for The New York Times); Second baseman Chuck Knoblauch, obtained from the Twins, batting for the first time as a Yankee during the team's game on Friday. (Jon Adams for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (59%); GEORGIA, USA (51%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: HOUSTON ASTROS HOUSTON ASTROS (94%); HOUSTON ASTROS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON ASTROS HOUSTON ASTROS (94%); HOUSTON ASTROS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); TEXAS, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (59%); GEORGIA, USA (51%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; COACHES AND MANAGERS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%); SPORTS (76%); CONFERENCE CALLS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; DIERKER, LARRY MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



40 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-13
 
Indians Vote, and Wait For a Momentous Decision
After a seven-week campaign, India's elections came to a tense end. Results start to emerge on Tuesday, as the nation chooses between Sonia Gandhi's vision of a secular India and a rival vision of a Government dominated by Hindu culture. 10 

Spy Charges in Balkans Likely
The British Government is expected to charge a British major, Milos Stankovic, with providing classified NATO information to the Bosnian Serb leadership during the war, senior diplomats say. He is said to have kept the Bosnian Serb military commander abreast of top-secret NATO plans and procedures. 3
 
A Knotty Suit in Israel
An Arab who lives in Israel and holds Israeli citizenship is suing to be able to buy land, posing a wrenching legal question at the heart of the conflict in Israel's claim to be both a democracy and a Jewish state. The issue arises repeatedly in many disputes but has never been fully tested in the area of the right to land. 1
 
Rebuilding Beijing, in a Rush
Long delayed by China's isolation and poverty, urban renewal is unfolding fast, as real estate developers are remaking the face of the ancient city in just a few years. 1
 
Iraqi Oil Output Blocked
The United Nations has cleared the way for Iraq to export more oil. But the nation is unable to take full advantage of the opportunity, because its equipment is so worn. 12
 
Central Europe Dam to Proceed
Hungary and Slovakia have confirmed plans to build a large hydroelectric dam on the Danube, thus setting off new protests in Budapest. 12
 
NATIONAL 16-26
 
Environmentalists Sue For Cleaner Water
Lawsuits brought by environmentalists in about half of the states are demanding that state and Federal authorities to enforce a dormant provision of the Clean Water Act, move from controlling individual points of pollution -- like factories or waste-water treatment plants -- to improving larger watersheds. 1
 
Nicotine Report Revealed
After a top Philip Morris executive testified before Congress in 1994 that the cigarette maker did not "manipulate or independently control" nicotine in its products, company scientists reported that they could produce "enhanced" nicotine effects on a smoker's nervous system, an internal company document shows. 25
 
California Marijuana Club
At least one marijuana club remains open, despite a California Supreme Court ruling barring the sale of the drug by clubs. The state Attorney General says the 20 clubs, including the Cannabis Cultivators Club in San Francisco, must close. 18
 
Race Initiative's Impact
A free 30-second commercial during the Super Bowl, in which President Clinton urged racial harmony, is just one of the ways -- some large, many small -- that Mr. Clinton's much-touted and often-criticized race relations initiative has begun to permeate the Administration's thinking.17
 
 
 
Valujet Safety Inquiry

Valujet has broken numerous safety rules but there is "no evidence of systematic safety problems," the Federal Aviation Administration said. But the agency said its inspectors had had an unusual internal disagreement about the airline. 26
 
NEW YORK/REGION 27-33
 
CUNY Plans Remedial Classes
The City University of New York is proposing a sweeping overhaul of the way it handles applicants who are not ready for college-level work. Under the plan, underprepared students would have to attend intensive remedial summer classes before being allowed to enter the university's 17 undergraduate colleges. 1
 
The Future of 125th Street
Harlem's street of dreams, 125th Street, is breaking a lot of hearts these days. Even as new projects like Harlem USA, a mall that will bring the area's first Disney Store and Gap, prepare to begin construction this spring, older businesses say they are struggling to compete. 1
 
Water Quality Questioned
A former scientist at the Brooklyn National Laboratory has charged that the lab has jeopardized local drinking water by draining millions of gallons of waste water into basins near an old but still potent radioactive "hot spot." 27

Raising Funds for Pataki
In the past year, New York's Republican Party raised campaign money at an unprecedented rate and gave most of it to Gov. George E. Pataki's re-election fund, allowing his campaign to circumvent laws that limit contributions from wealthy supporters, campaign documents show. 27
 
OBITUARIES 34-35
 
Dr. Rachmiel Levine
The doctor whose experiments on how insulin increases the body's use of blood sugars set new courses for diabetes research, was 87. 34
 
Harvey C. Russell Jr.
The retired Pepsico executive who was the first black man to become a vice president at a major American corporation, was 79. 34
 
Cong. Vote 32
 
Weather 33
 
TV Update 34

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS311920 COFFEE AND TEA MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (52%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); HUNGARY (92%); IRAQ (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CHINA (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%); 

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS USA (52%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); HUNGARY (92%); IRAQ (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CHINA (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ELECTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); CANNABIS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); ESPIONAGE (71%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (69%); SMOKING (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (68%); TOBACCO MFG (67%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (66%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (64%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (64%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (64%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (62%); WATER QUALITY (61%); SCIENCE NEWS (50%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: SONIA GANDHI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



41 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: World News Briefs;
Southeast Asia Officials Call for Market Access

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Feb. 28

 BODY:
Southeast Asian finance ministers meeting today urged the United States, Europe and Japan to help the region's battered economies by opening their markets more to Asian imports.
During the one-day meeting, members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations agreed that wealthier countries should do more to help their economies. "Hey, buy more from us -- open up your trade more to Asian countries," said Finance Minister Salvador Enriquez Jr. of the Philippines. 
 The Indonesian Finance Minister, Mar'ie Muhammad, called on the United States to encourage more investment in the region and urge banks to open more lines of credit.
South Korea, Thailand and Indonesia are receiving multibillion-dollar bailout packages from the International Monetary Fund that require sometimes painful economic reforms. Skepticism is growing in the West about whether Indonesia is taking seriously the fund's reforms. The country's progress is lagging behind that of its neighbors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ASIA (99%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (97%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS SOUTHEAST ASIAN PACKAGING & CANNING CO LTD (91%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAKARTA (INDONESIA); EUROPE; JAPAN; ASIA (99%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (97%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); THAILAND (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); TRENDS (70%); 

PERSON: MAR'IE MUHAMMAD (55%); SALVADOR ENRIQUEZ JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



42 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
It's The Economy, Genius

BYLINE: By DAVID ROSENBAUM 

 BODY:
THE American economy is a behemoth, driven by forces so vast and unpredictable that they are difficult to track and impossible to control. In the short term, economists agree, Presidents have almost no influence over the ups and downs of the business cycle. What effect their economic policies do have is often felt long after they have left office.
 But largely because Presidents take so much credit when the economy is strong and bear so much blame from their political opponents when it is weak, the public's opinion of a President rises and falls, polls show, depending on how well people think he is dealing with the economy. 
 There may be other reasons why Bill Clinton remains popular. One, no doubt, is that he has opponents, such as Speaker Newt Gingrich and Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel, who are unpopular. But the public's favorable view of how Mr. Clinton is dealing with the economy seems, more than anything else, to be the main basis for his popularity.
 In the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll, 75 percent of those surveyed said they approved of the President's handling the economy, significantly higher than any other President had scored on this question since The Times and CBS News began posing it regularly in 1977. At the same time, 68 percent said they approved of his handling of his job overall, the highest of his Presidency.
 Times are unusually good. The economy has been growing at a steady pace ever since Mr. Clinton took office. The unemployment rate, 4.7 percent in January, was the lowest since 1973. No inflation is on the horizon. Mortgage rates are as low as they have been since the 1960's. And stock prices, as measured by the Dow Jones industrial average, cracked still another barrier last week.
 The public's opinion of Mr. Clinton's performance on the economy has often exceeded his overall job-approval. This has not been the case for any other President in the last two decades except for Ronald Reagan during one month in 1983.
 Over the years, other factors have occasionally figured into a President's popularity. The highest score, for example, was George Bush's 88 percent in March 1991, right after the fighting stopped in the Persian Gulf War. The economy was then in a recession. The recession ended, and a tepid recovery began. But Mr. Bush's popularity fell steadily as soon as the war was out of the news. By the time of the 1992 election, his job-approval rating was down to 37 percent, and only 18 percent liked his handling of the economy. DAVID ROSENBAUM

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "How People Rated the Last Four Presidents . . ."
 
CARTER
 Jimmy Carter's flagging fortunes are temporarily turned around by the hostage crisis in Iran, but fall back with the failure of a rescue mission and OPEC's doubling of oil prices which causes inflation to soar.
 
REAGAN
 Ronald Reagan enters office with a high approval rating due to the release of the hostages in Iran, but slides in face of slow economic growth, high inflation and high unemploy-ment.
 Approval of Reagan climbs steadily as the economic recovery takes hold.
 
BUSH
 George Bush's ratings soar as Operation Desert Storm drives Iraq out of Kuwait .
 . . . But Bush crashes on slow economic growth and high unemployment. . .
 
CLINTON
 . . . Solid economic growth, lower inflation and low unemployment give Bill Clinton high ratings -- the highest for his handling of the economy -- despite well-publicized investigations into his private life.
 
The New York Times/CBS NEWS Poll splits the presidents popularity into two different categories, handling his job and handling the economy from 1977-1998.
 
Graph tracks the percentage of people who approve of the way the President is handling his job and of those who approve of the way he is handling the economy. Graph runs since 1977.

". . . And How the Economy Fared"
 
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Graph tracks the percent change in the gross domestic product, by quarter, since 1977.
 
INFLATION
Graph tracks the percent change in the index of gross domestic purchases, by quarter, since 1977.
 
UNEMPLOYMENT
Graph tracks unemployment, by month, since 1977. (Sources: The New York Times/CBS News polls; Commerce Department; Bureau of Labor Statistics; The New York Times 1998 Almanac.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (65%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL DOW JONES & CO INC (53%); DOW JONES & CO INC (53%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (65%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PUBLIC OPINION POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (64%); INTEREST RATES (64%); DESERT STORM (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JIMMY CARTER (72%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



43 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2847 words

HEADLINE: For the Small Landlord, All Problems Are Big

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
THE walls seemed to move the first time Jeff Dunayer, a fledgling landlord, stepped into his first tenant's apartment that afternoon back in 1983.
The tenant -- "I'm not going to use his whole name, just say Vinnie," Mr. Dunayer insisted -- was a hard-working family man. "Wife, three kids," Mr. Dunayer said. 
 Vinnie would be up and out of the house -- a two-family, wood-frame building on Atlantic Avenue in Richmond Hill, Queens -- in the predawn dark, on his way to another long day at the Hunts Point produce market in the Bronx. And, dutifully, every evening, he'd arrive home bearing a box of fruit -- along with lots of little fellow travelers.
"Roaches," Mr. Dunayer said. "Thousands of roaches. You had to see this! Up the walls. On the furniture, and they're all moving."
And then there was the tenant who went out for a pack of cigarettes and never came back. "I think somebody was after him," Mr. Dunayer said. "He left a cigarette in the ash tray" -- and an apartment full of furniture.
"To which my lawyer said, 'If you're standing up, sit down, 'cause you can't get rid of any of that stuff.' "
Mr. Dunayer could either leave the elusive tenant's possessions in the apartment or, if he wanted to rent the unit, place them in storage, his lawyer said, until such time as the storage fees equaled the estimated value of the furnishings, at which time he could dispose of them. Storage fees to be borne by -- guess who?
Vinnie was eventually evicted. The other tenant, of course, required no such legal urging. And these were faithful rent-payers, Mr. Dunayer pointed out, not like the family that didn't pay for several months and then, under cover of darkness, slipped away.
Jeff Dunayer is no Donald Trump. Nor is he Simon Legree. Like thousands of other small landlords -- perhaps best described as those owning 10 units or less -- he is just trying to make a living, selling a commodity and dealing with customers, almost all of whom pay promptly. But a few don't, sometimes because they can't, or, in other cases, won't, because they know all the intricate ways to get away with it. And, unlike one troublesome tenant out of a hundred living in a large apartment complex, the lone bad tenant in a 10-unit building might represent 10 percent of that landlord's income, not to mention a whole lot of headaches.
For New York City's small landlords, many of whom tiptoe near the financial edge, survival constantly hangs on the imbalance inherent in what is called economy of scale -- for them, nothing comes cheap.
Because no great volume can be purchased, there is no discount on the fuel bill. Because there is no plumber or electrician on staff, the skilled tradesman called in for the emergency gets top dollar. Because the commission would be small, tax lawyers will not take the small landlord's assessment appeal.
"The biggest single cost factor in running a building is taxes," said Dan Margulies, executive director of the Community Housing Improvement Program, a trade association of 2,500 building owners. "About 20 cents of every rent dollar goes to the city for water, sewer and real estate taxes. But in smaller buildings, it's often 30 cents, because they don't know to protest their taxes or they can't get an attorney to do it. There's not enough to save in these buildings to be worth an attorney's time, even though it's significant for the owner."
It is a theme that runs through the small landlord's life. Many are too small to hire workers, so they or their spouses do the sweeping, the painting, the bulb changing, the garbage hauling -- often in a building where they, too, live.
"There are the little guys and there are the 800-pound gorillas of the industry -- the Trumps, the LeFraks," said Vince Castellano. "But we all get lumped together."
Mr. Castellano owns two buildings with five apartments and six commercial units in Rockaway Beach, Queens. He also produces and hosts "Real Estate Nightmares," an hourlong venting of landlord lament and spleen at 7 P.M. Wednesdays on radio station WEVD (1050 AM).
Many people, Mr. Castellano said, consider even the small owner "a land baron -- greedy, uncaring, with money to burn -- when the reality is he's just another Joe Schmoe or an Abdul trying to make a living.
"Lots of immigrants, lots of plumbers -- though not the master-license plumbers, because they make too much money -- blue-collar types trying to climb the economic ladder," Mr. Castellano said.
There are, of course, villainous -- even vicious -- landlords.
There are incidents of illegal eviction, of harassment and outright intimidation of tenants -- "of hiring goons to come in the middle of the night," said Andrew Scherer, director of the legal support unit of Legal Services of New York, "or renting to drug dealers to chase people out."
There are cases of illegal service cutoffs: no heat, no hot water, no gas, mounds of garbage left to rot. Anne Pasmanick, director of the Community Training and Resource Center, a nonprofit organization that educates tenants about their rights and responsibilities, recalled working with people in a building where the owner, "in an effort to drive people out, boarded up all of the windows in the building, blocked off all the light."
There are overcrowded hovels. "I worked with tenants in a building on the north side of Williamsburg," Ms. Pasmanick said, "where the landlord had 18 men in a one-bedroom apartment; they slept in shifts."
Even Mr. Castellano, the radio landlord, readily admits that "there are some property owners who belong in jail."
And Mr. Margulies of the Community Housing Improvement Program -- commonly called CHIP -- said: "Of course, there are bad owners. And there's probably a handful of just crazy people who shouldn't own property; I really think that the worst cases are people who have a screw loose."
But most small landlords are honest people struggling to maintain a profit margin in less than affluent neighborhoods where the rents that the market will bear hover just above, and sometimes dip below, operating costs.
"It puts tremendous pressure on them," said Michael Schill, director of the Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at the New York University School of Law. "Even the most well-meaning owner is not going to be able to maintain his or or her building when faced with declining tenant rent-paying ability and increasing costs."
ONE cost of particular current concern to small landlords is the city's shift from water taxes based on building frontage to water meters.
"You're likely to find the small landlord owning older buildings, frequently in areas with lower incomes, where doubling up is more likely," Professor Schill pointed out. "More people per apartment leads to higher water consumption, and old, broken-down plumbing creates leaks that waste water. If a landlord has trouble making ends meet, he may have no choice but to cut back on maintenance or become delinquent in paying property taxes."
According to the 1996 New York City Housing and Vacancy Survey, 61.7 percent of the rental buildings in the city have fewer than 50 apartments. The survey does not provide data on how many buildings have fewer than 10 units.
But according to computations by Samantha Friedman, a research fellow at the N.Y.U Law School's real estate center, using data from the housing survey, there are 1,597,390 renter households in the city -- not including those living in public housing, those in city-owned (or in rem) buildings, or those who are subletting co-ops or condominiums. Of those, 22.6 percent -- or 360,779 -- live in buildings with three to nine units. The median income for those households is $25,400, and the median rent is $600 -- meaning that they pay 28.3 percent of their income for housing.
Particularly in poorer neighborhoods, said Ms. Pasmanick, the tenant advocate, "Many of these landlords are in over their heads." Ms. Pasmanick's organization currently runs a program, in coordination with the city's Housing Court, that trains small owners who are first offenders to avoid subsequent heating-code violations.
"You come out of these classes a little stunned sometimes," she said, "because some people go into a business they really shouldn't be in, and some of these owners are only marginally better off than their tenants."
Of the approximately 125 landlords who have -- as an alternative to legal penalties -- attended the nine-hour program on how to maintain their heating systems and communicate with tenants 74 percent are foreign-born.
"Most of them had no prior experience owning and managing property," Ms. Pasmanick said, "and no training in either how to operate the systems of a building or in what their requirements are as owners: providing a lease, what they are entitled to as a rent increase, what they're obligated to provide in repairs and services."
Then there is the paperwork.
"For a lot of small owners, particularly the immigrants, it's very confusing," Mr. Margulies said. "Running a building in New York City requires a lot of record-keeping and a fair amount of legal help. If you don't have a certain scale of operations, a seemingly minor paperwork error can cost you thousands of dollars in fines."
There are 26 governmental agencies that regulate one or another phase of rental housing in New York City -- including, among others, the Buildings Department, the Fire Department, the Sanitation Department, the Rent Guidelines Board, the Landmarks Preservation Commission, the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance and the Bureau of Electric Control.
And while the LeFraks and the Rudins have their retinue of lawyers and clerical help to deal with the forms, Ron Hason had Ron Hason -- at least in those early years after he first bought, gutted and renovated a ramshackle nine-unit building in the East Village.
"There's four different inspectors who go into my boiler room yearly," Mr. Hason said, "the boiler division of the Department of Buildings, Air Resources from the city's environmental department, the Fire Department and the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. You would think they could nominate one of them to do one comprehensive inspection, charge one fee and give you one certificate.
"If you posted all the signs in your building that are required by law, you could wallpaper the lobby," Mr. Hason said. "Some inspector shows up and says he can't see your sticker from the outside. Well, where does it say that you're supposed to see it from the doorway? It says posted in the lobby. And you get a violation; $270 down the drain."
Mr. Hason is a little guy who got bigger; he now owns nine buildings with about 150 apartments, scattered about Manhattan. "When I was little it hurt a lot," he said. "You get numb; I got big enough that I don't feel the pain as much."
After a decade-long odyssey through the bureaucracy, Pari Dulac is still feeling the pain -- even though she won.
Ms. Dulac owns a four-story, eight-unit brownstone at 24 Minetta Lane in the West Village -- a building that had been converted from cold-water flats to fully appointed apartments by a previous owner.
Ms. Dulac, who bought the building with her former husband in 1984, decided in 1998 that she no longer wanted to rent, but to bring her two grown sons and their families to live with her in the building. Exercising that legal option, she informed her tenants that she would not be renewing their leases.
ONE tenant refused to leave. "I take him to court," Ms. Dulac said, "but he filed with D.H.C.R." -- the state's Division of Housing and Community Renewal -- "that I am overcharging him. He said his rent should be $30 a month because this apartment is rent controlled." At the time, the tenant, who has lived in the apartment since 1966, was paying $427 for a three-bedroom apartment.
The judge in Housing Court declared that he could not rule on Ms. Dulac's petition to evict the tenant until the D.H.C.R. decided whether the apartment was rent controlled or rent stabilized. And it took 10 years of hearings, appeals and six back-and-forth rulings by the D.H.C.R. until, last December, the state agency ruled in Ms. Dulac's favor.
For all but two of those 10 years, the tenant did not pay rent -- and relations between the parties were, to understate it, strained. "It is like you are a battered wife," Ms. Dulac said. "But you can leave your husband; I cannot leave him." On advice of counsel, the tenant, who plans to appeal, declined to comment. According to the D.H.C.R. ruling, he owes $59,500 in back rent.
Tenants can be difficult.
Mr. Hason recalled his squeeze between the wishes of tenants and the mandates of bureaucracy. "They wanted me to lock the back door for security reasons," he said. "The Fire Department prohibits me from locking the back door because of fire egress. Now, what do I do? A tenant locks the back door and I get the violation."
Mr. Dunayer, who had to fumigate after his fruit-fancying first tenant finally left, said: "Day to day, usually, there's not many problems, even though you're on call, on the beeper, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, forever. The horrors usually begin when the people stop paying rent."
One tenant, he said, "would shut off the boiler, give the heat complaint bureau a call, and then, right before the inspector showed up, flip the boiler back on again."
That way, the apartment would be cold, even though the boiler was on, "and it seems that I'm not giving enough heat," Mr. Dunayer said. "That's to divert attention from the fact that they are not paying the rent."
Another tenant "removed a new hung ceiling in the bathroom and reported it to the city," Mr. Dunayer said, "which violated me for not having a ceiling in the bathroom -- again, to divert attention because they were not paying the rent."
In the rent-regulation battles of last year, said Mr. Margulies of CHIP, landlords in poor communities (where market and regulated rents are often on par) were less concerned with elimination of the entire system than with enactment of a rent-deposit law for Housing Court -- a goal they achieved. "The horror stories are not so much about the tenants as about the courts, which are a tremendous burden on the small owner," Mr. Margulies said, citing what he called long and costly delays.
The new law requires tenants sued for nonpayment of rent to deposit the contested amount in an escrow account if they ask for a second adjournment of the case, or if the case has been in court for more than 30 days. It also requires the tenant to deposit the full amount of a judgment against them if they come to court asking for a postponement of eviction more than five days after the ruling.
But, in a case called Lang v. Pataki, the Legal Aid Society has filed suit contesting the constitutionality of the law. And although the judge in the case, Justice Edward H. Lehner of State Supreme Court in Manhattan has issued no injunction against enforcement of the deposit law, it has, at most, been sparingly imposed as building owners and housing court judges await a ruling.
Obviously, small landlords are hopeful. "In a nonpayment case," Mr. Margulies said, "you could spend six months in court and win, but still lose six months rent because the tenant then skips. So, it's a pretty hollow victory.
"And if you're dealing with a low-rent building in Brooklyn or the Bronx where the average rent might be $600 a month, and you get the apartment vacant, you're still only going to get about $600 a month for that apartment, because that's what the market will bear."
MR. SCHERER of Legal Services (an organization that only handles civil cases and is distinct from Legal Aid) counters: "The reality for low-income people is that there is no affordable housing. They don't just withhold rent and skip, because there aren't apartments that are available, even at $600 a month.
"And another reality that he's ignoring: there are still about a million people in New York City receiving public assistance. The shelter part of the welfare benefits is nowhere near $600 a month." The shelter allowance for a family of four on public assistance is $312 a month.
Mr. Dunayer, for one, has found a solution to many of the small owner's problems -- he rents to homeless people.
"I got involved in the Emergency Assistance Re-Housing Program," Mr. Dunayer said.
Under the program, run by the Department of Homeless Services, rents ranging from $650 for a one-bedroom apartment to $1,100 for a four-bedroom are paid directly to the landlord. The landlord also gets a one-time bonus payment of $600 per person.
And one other significant bonus for the troubled landlord is that both the city and the owner screen prospective tenants. "You pick your own people," Mr. Dunayer said. "The clients I've had have all been very good. Many of them just needed a chance.
"And if there's a problem with the tenant -- like damage or they play music too loud -- you call the city and, usually, they rectify it."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 8, 1998, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the problems of small landlords misstated the year in which Pari Dulac, a building owner, decided against renewing the leases of her tenants. It was 1988, not 1998.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeff Dunayer at one of two multi-unit houses he owns in Richmond Hill, Queens. He has coped with vanishing tenants and a roach infestation. Ron Hason at his first building, 167 Avenue B. He found a solution for problems of operating at a small scale: He now owns nine buildings. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Pari Dulac at her building at 24 Minetta Lane. She also owns ground-floor La Boheme restaurant. Vince Castellano has a "Real Estate Nightmares" radio show. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LANDLORDS; RENTING AND LEASING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); EVICTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); LAWYERS (70%); DEREGULATION (69%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (67%); 

PERSON: HASON, RON; DULAC, PARI; DUNAYER, JEFF; CASTELLANO, VINCE; HEVESI, DENNIS DONALD TRUMP (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



44 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Russian Immigrants At Home on East End

BYLINE: By MERYL SPIEGEL 

 BODY:
IN the summer of 1991, Leonid and Larissa Mouzykine and their two daughters packed their bags in their apartment in Russia for a trip to eastern Long Island. While they were excited about experiencing the American way of life, they did not realize that they were leaving Russia for good.
At the time, the family owned a two-bedroom apartment in St. Petersburg, a new car and a small dacha in the country. "Things were not so bad," Mrs. Mouzykine, a middle-aged woman said in broken English in an interview partially translated by her 17-year-old daughter, Nadia. 
 In the former Soviet Union, the couple earned a good living. A pentathlete with a master's degree in sports, Mr. Mouzykine was the director of swimming at St. Petersburg University and managed a large swimming pool, while Mrs. Mouzykine worked as an electrical engineer, a career she had pursued for 23 years.
However, while visiting Polish friends on the North Fork, the political situation deteriorated as the Communists fought to regain power after Boris Yeltsin had been elected president of the new republic of Russia.
In August, when the Communists staged a coup and a state of emergency was declared, the Mouzykines decided to stay on Long Island temporarily. Today, seven years later, the family remains on the North Fork, she working long hours as a house cleaner and he as a winery worker. They live in a modest rental home in Mattituck.
The Mouzykines are typical of a small but growing number of Russian immigrants who have settled in and around Riverhead and on the North Fork amidst the rolling farmland and vineyards in pursuit of a peaceful, healthy new life.
In many cases, they have discovered the bucolic region through a network of Polish friends from Eastern Europe who have connections to the large Polish community centered in the Suffolk County seat and extending to Orient.
Typically, these immigrants are highly educated or skilled workers who have reluctantly left their homeland and traded their careers and middle-class life for manual work, hoping to build better lives first for their children and secondly for themselves.
Donna Fry, former administrator of Literacy Volunteers of America's East End office, who taught tutors to teach English as a second language, said she had noticed more and more Russian newcomers attending classes in recent years.
Although she is not aware of huge numbers, and could not provide exact figures, she said that there were pockets throughout the East End, especially in Riverhead, Mattituck and Southold.
"They start out in service areas in the tourism industry working behind the scenes in hotels and restaurants," she said . "They also find work in agriculture, on the farms and at vineyards. Usually, they have Polish friends. It is rare that they arrive without some support network in place."
She added: "They are not uneducated and are coming over with university degrees. Some are teachers and there are a lot of engineers. Everyone is an engineer in Russia.
"It's very different from the Hispanics, where we are dealing with illiteracy in their native language."
There has been a large influx of Hispanic immigrants on the East End in the 1990's.
When the Mouzykine family first settled on the North Fork, Nadia said, they seemed to be one of the only Russian families in the area; but recently, the community of immigrants from the new republics seem to be growing. "Probably because it's so easy to leave now," she added.
Although her grandparents remain in Russia, saying they are too old to start over, Nadia's uncle has also emigrated to Mattituck and the family knows a handful of people with similar backgrounds who attend their small Russian Orthodox Church in Shirley on the South Shore.
Mother and daughter also said that sometimes when they shopped in Riverhead they often overhear Ukrainian conversations and do not recognize the people speaking. To them, that is a sign that their community is growing.
In Riverhead, a Polish-Russian restaurant called Polonez opened a year ago on Main Street. Offering an array of Slavic delicacies, the restaurant is owned by Elizabeth Sorokal, a Polish-American, and Alla Kovznetsova, a Russian newcomer.
Talking over coffee in the cafe about why she left her country five years ago and relocated to Flanders, near Riverhead, with her husband, Alex, and daughter, Natalie, who was 12 at the time, the Russian-born woman said there were political problems, no work, and her husband suffered from asthma.
In St. Petersburg, air pollution is a serious health problem, said both families. Since moving to the East End, Mr. Kovnetsov feels much better, he said in a later interview at his home.
"After living in the big city, I like the country. This place is the best," said Ms. Kovznetsova.
A computer programmer for 12 years who was also trained as a nurse, the restaurateur said she could not continue her profession in the United States because "my level is too low for this country and I have to study English." Because she is a perfectionist, she said, she did not want to be a bad programmer.
Therefore, when she first arrived, Ms. Kovznetsova started a cleaning service while Alex, a railroad engineer, became a contractor doing small construction jobs. Then, in 1995, she met Ms. Sorokal at a New Year's Eve party at Polish Hall. Because she had attended a professional cooking school in St. Petersburg and had always enjoyed cooking, she decided to open her own restaurant with her Polish partner last year.
During the spring and summer, the cafe attracted tourists from Manhattan and Nassau County, where there is a large enclave of Russian-Americans in Glen Cove.
Although several families interviewed for this article appear fond of the United States, where work can be found and people are optimistic, smiling and friendly, the choice to leave the land they love and their familiar surroundings has been heart wrenching.
"When the turmoil began, it triggered my parents to wait and see how it goes, at least until the next summer," Nadia explained. At that point, the family hoped things would stabilize over the winter and they could return within a year.
"There is no future for my children in Russia," Mrs. Mouzykine said. In other words, the new economic system has wiped out the large middle class and spawned a society of haves and have nots. A small percentage of the people, about 5 percent, are very rich, she said, while the remaining 95 percent are growing poorer and poorer.
In the Russian newspapers, there are many advertisements for jobs, she went on. But the new entrepreneurs, who opened small businesses 10 years ago under Mikhail Gorbachev's perestroika, are looking for young people only, those under 35, and they must speak English, she said.
Indeed, English proficiency appears to be the key to success for Russians in America as well. When Nadia entered the country at the age of 11, she was just learning the language. Seven years later, she speaks seamless English without a trace of an accent, is second in her class at Mattituck High School, has won state vocal competitions, and hopes to attend Georgetown University and eventually work for the United Nations.
Learning English has been harder for her mother, who relies on the young woman to translate and be "the secretary of the house" regarding all important matters. Moreover, Ms. Mouzykine explained that she had been unable to find a job in electrical engineering on Long Island because she is not fluent. And, employment in the field in America requires computer skills that she does not possess.
Two years ago, Ivan and Maja Brativnyk, arrived, leaving their two sons, aged 12 and 13, behind until they could afford to bring them here. An architect and landscape designer in their country, they now work as a painter and house cleaner.
In an interview translated by Alla Kovznetsova in her four-bedroom rental home, the Bratinvnyks said that they now made more money at their current menial jobs in the Riverhead area than they did in their professions in the Ukraine.
"Simple workers make more money than people with higher educations," Mr. Kovznetsov explained. For example, he said that driving a train, he earned five times the salary that his wife made as a computer programmer.
However, the Ukrainian couple said the transition had not been easy. They are homesick and miss their children, whom they have not seen since emigrating.
One of the hardest things, said Evan, 37, has been the lack of conversation. "We don't know the language, can't read the newspaper, and can't talk to anyone in the street," he said in his native tongue.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 1998, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 1 about Russian immigrants settling on the East End misspelled the names of several new residents. They are Alla Kouznetsova, Alex Kouznetsov, Ivan Brativnyk and Maja Brativnyk.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leonid and Larissa Mouzykine and their two daughters, extreme top, have been on the North Fork since 1991. Alla Kousnetsov with Tom Krigier, a chef, at her restaurant in Riverhead. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: LITERACY VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); RUSSIA; LONG ISLAND (NY); ; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; RUSSIAN-AMERICANS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS IMMIGRATION (90%); LODGING (78%); FAMILY (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MULTILINGUALISM (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (73%); COUNTIES (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); TRENDS (69%); TRACK & FIELD (69%); POLITICS (67%); COUPS (67%); REFUGEES (65%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (61%); RESTAURANTS (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: MOUZYKINE, LARISSA; MOUZYKINE, LEONID; KOUSNETSOV, ALLA; SPIEGEL, MERYL BORIS YELTSIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



45 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Lonely At The Top

BYLINE: By Ronald Steel; Ronald Steel, a professor of international relations at the University of Southern California, is the author of "Temptations of a Superpower."

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
Let us be clear about what happened in the recent confrontation with Saddam Hussein. It was not the use of force that brought about the agreement brokered by the United Nations; it was the threat of force. The difference is crucial, and therein lies an important lesson.
For a nation with the virtually unchallenged power of the United States today, the use of force is a constant temptation. Sometimes it is unavoidable. But it is not always appropriate, and there are times when it is self-defeating. 
 The hardest part of statecraft is knowing the difference. The use of force is, in a real sense, an admission of defeat. It means that a nation has found it impossible to achieve its objectives by other means. And other means are generally better, because force has consequences that cannot be controlled or fully foreseen.
In the case of Iraq, the United States could easily have bombed Baghdad to punish Mr. Hussein for his intransigence. But even advocates of that course admit it would not have prevented him from building more chemical and biological weapons, nor induced him to cooperate with United Nations inspectors, nor weakened his dictatorial hold over his country.
It would, on the other hand, have killed many civilians, inflamed Arabs against the United States, weakened friendly regimes in the region and caused dissension here at home as television reports showed the victims of American bombing. There are times -- and this was one of them -- when the threat of force brings greater success than its application.
But there is another lesson here as well: that the United States, as the world's most powerful nation, faces greater constraints on its freedom to use force than does any other country. This may seem paradoxical, for the United States dominates the world in every realm: in military power, in economic strength, in cultural influence. We are truly, all of us, living in an American Century.
But the very scope of that power raises apprehension and stimulates resistance. The more the United States, because it is so powerful, arrogates the right to act alone without regard to the wishes of other nations, or even in defiance of them, the more it loses the legitimacy to act in their name. And what has the United States been doing these past weeks with regard to Iraq other than acting as self-appointed sheriff of the world community?
Washington officials have repeatedly asserted that they were seeking to punish Iraq not for American purposes, but for the world's good. Yet unlike in 1991, when the United States organized a coalition to liberate Kuwait from Iraq, this time America stood virtually alone.
This is America's late-century dilemma. Instead of being praised for its selfless defense of international justice and morality, it runs the risk of being accused, even by its allies, of acting like an international bully -- especially when it prepares to attack small nations, however criminal their behavior.
In truth, no great power is without self-serving ambition. But if American officials seek to wrap themselves in the mantle of morality, proclaiming themselves to be the world's conscience and enforcer, they invite others to hold them to a higher standard than is applied to the normal run of devious statesmen.
This is where the trouble begins. For if the power is really being exercised for mankind's sake, mankind demands some say in its use. But neither the Constitution, the Congress nor television's Sunday pundits would allow that. And the other nations of the world have not assigned Washington the right to decide when, where and how their interests should be served.
Thus the United States is in a conundrum of its own making. The more that Washington speaks in the world's name and demands the world's endorsement of its actions, the less freedom of action it enjoys.
Nobody, except its own citizens, loves a superpower. To behave like one is to invite criticism and breed resentment.
During the cold war it was different. Washington's use of force was, for the most part, treated more tolerantly by allies and neutrals because it was applied in the context of the containment of a greater evil. But with the disappearance of the Soviet Union, Washington's assertion of an international police power has been treated less tolerantly. The resigned shrug has given way, even among allies, to accusations of arrogance.
There is nothing inherently wrong with being an arrogant superpower. That is, after all, the usual definition of a hegemon. But hegemons, because they throw their weight around and assume that mankind's interests correspond to their own, foster envy and resentment.
Challengers arise to put them in their place. Coalitions form to contain them. Success breeds rebellion. The only way that a No. 1 can avoid this fate is to restrain itself and behave as though it has less power than it actually does.
 A superpower like the United States, in other words, can remain a global hegemon -- what Madeleine Albright calls the "indispensable nation" -- only if it refrains from acting like one. That is what the fracas with Saddam Hussein has taught us. And that is why being No. 1, a Gulliver tied down by a thousand resentful Lilliputians, is not as satisfying as it is supposed to be.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Ron Barrett)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (67%); SHERIFFS (50%); 

PERSON: STEEL, RONALD (PROF) SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1998



46 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: San Francisco Tries to Retain Its 'Multimedia Gulch'

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN 

 BODY:
On any given sunny afternoon, scores of workers pour out onto an oval stretch of scrappy grass known in San Francisco as South Park. The surrounding neighborhood, once home to immigrant families, printing plants and an occasional flophouse, now features a few high-end restaurants, coffeehouses and a lot of workers in the interactive media industry who come out for lunch from the renovated lofts surrounding the park.
Welcome to the cultural hub of San Francisco's trendy interactive media district, otherwise known as Multimedia Gulch. In the half-decade since software companies began migrating north from sprawling Silicon Valley into converted warehouse space in this condensed 10-square-block area, San Francisco has overtaken its southern suburban neighbor as the more popular home of interactive media, a catchall label that has come to mean everything from Internet service companies and Web site developers to interactive game makers and CD-ROM publishers. 
 But Silicon Valley to the south and Silicon Alley in New York City have interactive media communities of their own, and the rivalry between the jurisdictions is palpable. And San Francisco officials want to make sure these easily portable businesses stay near the Golden Gate.
Last year, interactive media companies based in San Francisco numbered roughly 380 and employed nearly 35,000 workers, an almost 70 increase over 1995. Revenues of those companies skyrocketed 150 percent.
But despite the many amenities of having a headquarters in the city, executives of interactive media start-ups are beginning to grumble about increasingly high rents, a lack of parking and a city bureaucracy that can make it tough for any company to expand. Roughly half of those companies responding to a recent survey said they would consider moving or expanding to another place within the San Francisco Bay Area, or out of the area all together.
This grumbling has not been lost upon Mayor Willie L. Brown, who last week met with several hundred industry executives, city officials and analysts to figure out how to keep the city attractive for start-ups.
San Francisco, the Mayor said, is "almost certainly at risk" of losing whatever lead it may have, given what he called the "portable" nature of the interactive media business. "You've got an industry that's like a motor home, and you have to be careful to make sure your motor home park is in order," he said.
Although San Francisco's interactive media companies typically are small, with average revenue of only about $5.8 million, taken as a whole, the interactive media industry has become an important one: The same study by Coopers & Lybrand, shows that last year such businesses had an overall impact on the San Francisco economy of $4.2 billion.
And with New York and Los Angeles throwing considerable resources into attracting new interactive media businesses, Mayor Brown knows San Francisco has to move fast. In fact, by some accounts, New York has already jumped ahead of San Francisco, particularly in incentives it offers to interactive media start-ups. Those include a special venture capital fund and a program called Plug 'n' Go, which provides discounted rental opportunities. And last week, Mayor Richard J. Riordan of Los Angeles announced that his city would henceforth be known as Digital Coast, in hopes of becoming "the new-media capital of the world."
But while New York has the publishing industry as an anchor for its burgeoning new-media business and Los Angeles the film industry, executives from San Francisco's interactive media companies like to point out that they have the huge talent pool of Silicon Valley to draw from, not to mention the computer science majors coming out of Stanford University, the University of California and other nearby colleges.
Already, San Francisco has responded to complaints: for one, it is speeding up the permit process for new-media companies wanting to expand. It used to take five to seven weeks to get a permit, but it now takes only five to seven days, said Mara Brazer, the director of the San Francisco Partnership, a nonprofit organization working to keep businesses in the city. The city is also looking for a site for a multimedia center, like the Information Technology Center in New York, where start-ups can find reduced rent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Willie L. Brown is a fan of multimedia companies. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541219 OTHER ACCOUNTING SERVICES (60%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (60%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (60%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COOPERS & LYBRAND (60%); COOPERS & LYBRAND (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (87%); SUBURBS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); RELOCATIONS (73%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (57%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (55%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (53%); 

PERSON: FLYNN, LAURIE J; BROWN, WILLIE L JR (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1998



47 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Motorola, once a darling among technology stocks, has made some missteps in recent years.

BYLINE: By Barnaby J. Feder 

 BODY:
AS the wireless communications industry transforms itself from analog to digital technology, Motorola Inc., whose reputation for innovation, high-quality products and smart strategic thinking flourished in the early 1990's, has looked surprisingly clumsy at times.
The latest embarrassment stemmed from reports last week of a falling out with Primeco Personal Communications L.P., which has a $500 million contract with Motorola to help build a nationwide digital wireless phone system. Primeco has apparently become so annoyed with disruptions in service that it is planning to cancel the contract and perhaps take the drastic step of ripping out equipment already purchased. 
 Analysts say the direct impact of ending the Primeco relationship would be minimal; Motorola had nearly $30 billion in annual sales last year. But the news certainly does not help a corporate image tarnished by several missteps in new markets in recent years, missteps that make analysts worry that other customers may become more hesitant to sign major new contracts with Motorola.
Making matters worse, Motorola is also confronted with some challenges beyond its control. The biggest is the economic crisis in Asia, where it got 26 percent of its revenue last year. No wonder Motorola, the Schaumburg, Ill.-based semiconductor and telecommunications giant, has Wall Street anxiously wondering how the company will regain the momentum that made it so popular among investors in the early 1990's.
"The range of earnings projections for Motorola this year and next is wider than usual," said Charles Hill, director of research at the First Call Corporation, which monitors reports from 29 analysts at brokerage firms that follow the company. Nine of those analysts have strong "buy" recommendations on the stock, but one has an outright "sell" recommendation -- rare for Wall Street -- and 12 others list Motorola as a "hold," which is about as negative as most analysts will get.
For many, the biggest uncertainty comes from the same questions hanging over much of American industry: how deep will Asia's financial woes get and how long will they persist? Asia affects Motorola in two ways. Demand for semiconductors and other key products has weakened during the months of financial turmoil in East Asia. Telephone companies in struggling nations like Indonesia have put big-ticket contracts for new cellular telephone network equipment on hold.
And Asian manufacturers selling products like cellular phones are likely to be tougher competitors, if they are based in countries like South Korea where the local currency has plummeted in value, giving them a sizable cost advantage.
But Wall Street has also been worried -- and far more frustrated -- by the ways Motorola has been hurting itself. As the Primeco episode highlights, the biggest such problems at the moment are in wireless communications products, especially the cellular telephone business.
Much of the luster investors attached to the Motorola name -- the stock is still rivaled only by Intel as a favorite technology holding of investment clubs -- was gained when demand for its pagers skyrocketed and its analog cellular technology dominated the market along with that of L. M. Ericsson of Sweden.
But over the last three years, Motorola ranked 97th of the 100 largest publicly traded companies in the total return it offered its investors.
Industrywide downturns in the huge semiconductor business hurt. So did the failure of the Power PC microchip Motorola developed with I.B.M. to grab significant market share in the personal computer business. And cable modems, which allow consumers to connect to the Internet over cable television lines, failed to take off as anticipated.
The last thing the company needed was another blow to its image as a technology pioneer. But that came last Monday when Crain's Chicago Business reported that Primeco wanted to cancel its contract and remove already-installed Motorola equipment. On Tuesday, after The Wall Street Journal published additional details, Motorola's shares fell nearly 5 percent, to $57.625. They closed on Friday at $55.625, down $1.625. In July, it reached its 52-week high of $89.9375.
Neither company was willing to discuss the reports in detail.
Analysts fret that the problem with Primeco will scare away some potential customers. The Primeco problem drew attention to unrelated trends, like the sharp decline for prospects of semiconductor growth in Asia. It also reminded Wall Street of the other problems Motorola has had getting competitive products to market quickly and keeping customers happy. For instance, Motorola's models of special digital telephones are just reaching the consumer market, far behind nimble competitors like Nokia of Finland. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (66%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (94%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA INC MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (94%); PRIMECO PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS LP (72%); FIRST CALL CORP (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOTOROLA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (94%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); SALES & SELLING (74%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); SEMICONDUCTORS (66%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1998



48 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Treasury's Schedule of Auctions Offers Only Bills for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week is confined to today's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills. By the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 5.17 percent and a six-month bill was 5.10 percent.
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week: 

TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Fred Meyer Inc., $1.5 billion of 7- and 10-year senior notes in two parts, Ba2/BB+/---. Salomon Smith Barney and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Fannie Mae, $3 billion to $5 billion of benchmark notes due in 2001. Lehman Brothers and Salomon Smith Barney.
YPF S.A., $200 million of notes due in 2003, ---/BBB- /---. Credit Suisse First Boston, Chase Securities and J. P. Morgan Securities.
Source: MCM Corporatewatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
Chattanooga, Tenn., $64.8 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Cumberland County, N.C., $53.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Los Angeles, $219.4 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Nassau County, N.Y., $95.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
State of New York, $241.3 million of debt securities. Competitive.
 
WEDNESDAY
Birmingham School District, Mich., $77 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Nevada Municipal Bond Bank, $276.3 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
West Virginia, $68 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
University of California Regents, $89.4 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 
THURSDAY
Clark County School District, Nev., $138 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Chicago, $425 million of general obligation project and refunding bonds. First Chicago Capital Markets.
El Paso, $74 million of debt securities. J. P. Morgan Securities Inc.
Colorado Housing Finance Authority, $60 million of debt securities. George K. Baum & Co.
Connecticut Housing Finance Authority, $50 million of debt securities. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
District of Columbia, $90 million of debt securities for Howard University. Lehman Brothers.
Fresno County, Calif., $185 million of taxable pension obligation bonds. Paine Webber Inc.
Illinois Health Facilities Authority, $85 million of debt securities for Northwestern Medical Facilities Foundation. Salomon Smith Barney.
Jefferson County School District, Colo., $195 million of general obligation bonds. Dain Rauscher Inc.
Kansas Department of Transportation, $180 million of highway revenue refunding bonds. Salomon Smith Barney.
Massachusetts Independent Finance Agency, $100 million of debt securities for Tufts University. Lehman Brothers.
Michigan State Hospital Authority, $260 million of debt securities for Genesis Health System. Bear, Stearns & Co.
New York State Dormitory Agency, $170 million of debt securities. Paine Webber Inc.
New York State Thruway Authority, $240 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Oakland State Building Authority, $156.7 million of lease revenue bonds. Siebert, Brandford, Shank & Co.
Ohio Water Development Authority, $145 million of debt securities for Bayshore power project. Lehman Brothers.
Santa Clara, Calif., $90 million of electric revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Stanford University, Calif., $90 million of refunding bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Sunrise, Fla., $165 million of utility revenue bonds. Salomon Smith Barney.
Utah State Building Authority, $116 million of lease revenue bonds. Salomon Smith Barney.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); YPF (NYSE) (69%); JPM (NYSE) (69%); JPM (LSE) (69%); 8634 (TSE) (69%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (71%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (71%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (70%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (70%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (69%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (69%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); SIC5541 GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS (69%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (61%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (54%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (54%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); FRED MEYER INC (71%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (70%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (69%); YPF SA (69%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (69%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); GEORGE K BAUM & CO (63%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (61%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%); FIRST CHICAGO CAPITAL MARKETS INC (53%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (50%); GENESIS HEALTH SYSTEM INC (50%); NEW YORK STATE DORMITORY AGENCY (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE DORMITORY AGENCY (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (54%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (54%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BONDS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); STUDENT HOUSING (69%); SCHOOL BONDS (69%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (69%); HEALTH CARE (66%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (63%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (63%); HOSPITALS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1998



49 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: Spyglass, a Pioneer, Learns Hard Lessons About Microsoft

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

DATELINE: NAPERVILLE, Ill., Feb. 27

 BODY:
Few people are more familiar with the real-world nature of Microsoft's market power than Douglas P. Colbeth, the 42-year-old chief executive of Spyglass Inc. His Internet software company has been a supplier to Microsoft, providing the software engine for its Internet Explorer browser. Spyglass has also been a Microsoft competitor, briefly, in the browser market.
Both roles proved to be sobering for Spyglass. So much so that the company's current strategy is mainly to stay out of Microsoft's path, finding specialized markets for Internet software and services that the software giant ignores. 
 Spyglass's course corrections offer a lesson in the complexities of software competition and software innovation, and what it means to compete with the Microsoft Corporation, whose chairman, William H. Gates, is to testify at a Senate hearing Tuesday in the midst of a persistent industry debate on the company's practices.
Microsoft's supporters view it as a high-technology national treasure, whose success deserves unqualified praise. The company's critics assail it as a new-era monopolist, whose control of the personal computer software market thwarts competition and stifles innovation.
Mr. Gates, who will testify along with a couple of industry allies and a couple of rivals, comes to Capitol Hill as the Justice Department is pursuing a highly visible antitrust case against Microsoft.
The Senate hearing, said Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, is intended only as a forum to educate Congress and the public. "We want to hear firsthand industry testimony on the real-world nature of market power in the software business," he said.
These days Spyglass, which operates in the world that Senator Hatch wants to understand, even chooses its customers with Microsoft in mind. "When we look at potential customers," Mr. Colbeth explained, "we look for companies with defensible different businesses from Microsoft or companies that are in an entirely different business."
But while the Spyglass story to date -- a rise, fall and a recent effort to reinvent itself -- helps show why there are concerns about the extent of Microsoft's market power, it also indicates why Government intervention would be so tricky, risking a remedy from Washington that might well be worse than any perceived flaw in the working of fast-moving high-technology markets.
Mr. Colbeth approaches Microsoft from the vantage of a battle-tested pragmatist, not as a lawyer or economist. Microsoft, he says admiringly, is filled with brilliant, tireless workers. "It's a great company," he said. "I have tremendous admiration for Bill Gates as a businessman."
But Microsoft shapes the environment, Mr. Colbeth says; others must adapt. "Does Microsoft squeeze suppliers? You bet it does," he said in his office in the Chicago suburb of Naperville. "But that is just the reality in any industry where one company has an 85 percent share, as Microsoft does in the operating-system market. That gives it enormous leverage in the market, and it uses it.
"And do you lose innovation in the software business because companies figure it's crazy to compete with Microsoft? Yes, I think you do," Mr. Colbeth said. "But I also think the effect is to drive innovation into other parts of the information technology business. You can't compete head on against Microsoft, so you are forced to innovate in other areas."
Spyglass is known, if at all, as the "other browser company," besides Microsoft and the Netscape Communications Corporation. The software for browsing the Internet's World Wide Web traces its origins back to work done at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications at the University of Illinois.
The key technical people at Spyglass were research students at the university, as was Marc Andreessen, Netscape's co-founder. In May 1994, Spyglass was chosen by the University of Illinois as the licensee to develop and market a commercial version of Mosaic, the original Web browser.
Mosaic was a second chance for Spyglass, which Mr. Colbeth joined as chief executive in 1991, a year after it was founded. The company's early years were spent marketing three-dimensional software tools used by scientists in medical, geological and meteorological research. It was pioneering software, by all accounts, but the company struggled in a fragmented niche market that was dependent on declining government research funds.
By then Mr. Colbeth, whose money had been put into Spyglass, had three mortgages on his house and no net worth. The older of his two children was nearing college. "Hey, trying to start a business is risky," he recalled.
Yet the Internet was on its way to becoming a household word, and all the major technology companies feared being left behind. As a company, Microsoft was a bit late in noticing the rise of the Internet, but by late summer 1994 it was negotiating with Spyglass to license Mosaic.
Its original offer in August 1994, Mr. Colbeth said, was $100,000. That would have more than doubled the cash Spyglass had in the bank at the time, but the amount seemed extremely low for an important technology that Microsoft would put into millions of PC's. "It was our experience and it is the accepted belief within the industry that the first offer from Microsoft on licensing deals is always $100,000," Mr. Colbeth said.
Microsoft's argument for why Spyglass should accept the offer, Mr. Colbeth said, was twofold: the endorsement value of having Microsoft license Spyglass technology would help it enormously in marketing and if Spyglass refused to license its technology on Microsoft's terms, Microsoft would develop it in-house.
But that would take six months or a year, and Netscape, backed by Microsoft rivals, was getting ready to begin selling its browser. Microsoft talked to Netscape about licensing its browser, then struck a deal with Spyglass in December 1994 for $2 million, for use with its Windows 95 operating system.
Later licensing deals to use Spyglass technology on other operating systems, including Apple's Macintosh and Windows 3.1, and a final payment for all future use brought the total that Microsoft paid to Spyglass to $13.1 million.
By the end of 1995, Spyglass had also licensed Mosaic to 82 other companies, including I.B.M. and Digital Equipment, for use in their software products. The revenue stream from the licensing deals was around $20 million a year.
But in December 1995, when Mr. Gates announced that Microsoft was shifting its product development to "embrace and extend" the Internet, he also said Microsoft would be giving its browser away. A byproduct was that the Spyglass browser licensing revenue quickly disappeared, as smaller Internet software companies went out of business and many big customers shifted to Microsoft's free browser.
"Twenty million in revenues went away -- poof -- in a year," Mr. Colbeth said.
So, once again, Spyglass overhauled its strategy. No longer in the market for Internet software for the PC market, it is focusing on software that enables non-PC devices to tap into the Internet. This market, just beginning to emerge, is expected to range from cellular phones and television set-top boxes to fax machines and even to gasoline pumps (screen-equipped for downloading local road maps). By 2001, it is estimated there will be 48 million non-PC devices worldwide.
Spyglass is not only selling specialized software to companies in the device market, but also doing consulting work for companies like Xerox, RCA, Nokia and I.B.M. Still, Spyglass has a long way to go. In its most recent fiscal year ending last September, it reported revenue of $21 million and a loss of $9.7 million. It is expected to again lose money this year, but hopes to return to profitability in 1999.
Microsoft, Mr. Colbeth predicts, will be in the device software market, getting perhaps 30 or 40 percent. But the market for small-scale software used in devices, he believes, is more diverse and fragmented than the PC market. "And 30 or 40 percent is a world apart from 80 percent," he said. "The balance of power will be very different."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Douglas P. Colbeth at the Spyglass headquarters, contemplating the Microsoft wars. (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: SPYGLASS INC; MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (92%); SPYGLASS INC (91%); SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SPYGLASS INC; MICROSOFT CORP SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE COMPUTER SOFTWARE (93%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); INTERNET BROWSERS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LAWYERS (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; COLBETH, DOUGLAS P BILL GATES (78%); ORRIN HATCH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1998



50 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Taking In the Sites;
Corporate Intelligence: A Cloakhold On the Web

BYLINE: By SREENATH SREENIVASAN 

 BODY:
Competitive intelligence, known variously as CI and business intelligence, is more than just a buzzword thrown about by management consultants. Gathering information on rivals can be one key to success in the cutthroat corporate world. But some of the cloak-and-dagger may be giving way to the mouse and keyboard as an increasing number of resources become available on the World Wide Web.
"Many people don't realize just how much you can learn about your rivals by accessing the Internet," said Leonard M. Fuld, founder of Fuld & Company in Cambridge, Mass., which specializes in competitive-intelligence issues. "From prospective clients to product specs, it's out there. And we are not talking about some secret Web site that you need to access." He is talking about the seemingly innocuous company home page. 
 Mr. Fuld and other experts say that organization charts, customer lists and executive biographies can all be plumbed to learn about the state of a company. Corporate plans, mergers and strategic alliances can also be discovered if the documents are properly analyzed. "Of course, the Internet is a tool and not an answer machine," Mr. Fuld said, "so you need to be really patient and able to dig deep."
Digging deep can lead to strategies for research and development and information about new products. Another area to pay close attention to is the news-release archive. Because the great majority of such releases are never printed in newspapers or other publications, the archives can hold hints of future opportunities and challenges.
Human resources departments, in their quest to attract candidates, provide extensive job postings that can signal areas that a corporation is focusing on.
"The problem is compounded by the fact that many sites are created by divisions within a company or by outside design firms that are not as cautious about content as headquarters is," said Robert D. Aaron, president of Aaron/Smith Associates, an Atlanta consulting firm on competitive intelligence.
Small businesses as well as large ones are using the Web to gather information about rivals. For example, an independent stationery store can benefit from studying the on-line catalogues of chains to identify trends and offer competitive pricing.
This abundance of information, much of it given out unwittingly, is a result of companies' trying to maintain active and extensive Web sites without thinking about some of the consequences. The easy access and in-depth nature of a site that makes it so different from, say, an annual report is also a disadvantage. Not only are potential customers looking at the site, but competitors are too. It seems likely that in the years ahead, corporations will reduce or curb the kinds of features that are open to the public.
A good place to start a Web tour of competitive-intelligence sites is the Fuld Internet Intelligence Index, which has links to more than 300 sites related to intelligence gathering, arranged by industry and interest area. The site features a "strategic intelligence organizer," a useful guide that suggests questions to ask when trying to gather information about topics like information technology, employee defections and deregulation.
There is also an interactive questionnaire that says it can determine how intelligence-savvy a company is.
The sites of other consulting firms vary greatly in quality and presentation. Some are nothing more than bare brochures, while others are quite handy. The site of the Montague Institute of Montague, Mass., offers a Web journal that tackles topics like "Using the Internet for Competitive Intelligence."
The site of the Society of Competitive Intelligence Professionals, though designed for members, is helpful to others, as well. Among the resources: a data base of 350 competitive-intelligence experts available to discuss their areas of specialization, and various research reports. It also answers questions like: "Is CI espionage?" Answer: "No. Espionage is the use of illegal means to gather information. In fact, economic espionage represents a failure of CI."
Naturally, corporate espionage remains an area of much concern, and the Web reflects that. The School of Criminal Justice at Michigan State University has teamed up with the society to produce a site dedicated to intelligence and espionage laws worldwide.
Also worth visiting is the World Intellectual Property Organization in Geneva, with its arbitration and mediation center and texts of various agreements, including the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property of 1883.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "WHERE TO GO"
 
FULD & COMPANY
http://www.fuld.com
 
MONTAGUE INSTITUTE
http://www.montague.com
 
SOCIETY OF COMPETITIVE INTELLIGENCE PROFESSIONALS
http://www.scip.org
 
M.S.U. SCHOOL OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE ON INTELLIGENCE/ESPIONAGE
http://www.ssc.msu.edu/cj/scip.html
 
WORLD INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ORGANIZATION
http://www.wipo.org
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AARON/SMITH ASSOCIATES INC (53%); WORLD INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ORGANIZATION (84%); SOCIETY OF COMPETITIVE INTELLIGENCE PROFESSIONALS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ORGANIZATION (84%); SOCIETY OF COMPETITIVE INTELLIGENCE PROFESSIONALS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPETITIVE INTELLIGENCE (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); TRENDS (76%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (53%); 

PERSON: SREENIVASAN, SREENATH ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1998



51 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Suharto Is Still Weighing a Drastic Economic Move

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, March 1

 BODY:
President Suharto said today that the austerity measures demanded by the International Monetary Fund to overcome Indonesia's economic crisis have not yet borne fruit and that the country must find its own formula for recovery, something he said might be called "I.M.F.-plus."
In a major address today, he thanked the international community for its assistance and said Indonesia would continue to work with the I.M.F., which he called an "authoritative and highly effective international institution." 
 But he said he was still considering pegging the exchange rate of the rupiah to the dollar, a drastic measure that is strongly opposed by the I.M.F. and the United States.
"In the end, our fate rests in our own hands," he said.
His remarks came in a state-of-the-nation address on the first day of a Parliamentary session that is set to hand him a seventh Presidential term next week. Mr. Suharto, 76, has led the country for 32 years.
The well-orchestrated session demonstrated his continued political dominance despite Indonesia's economic turmoil, which has been marked during the last two months by rapidly rising inflation, unemployment and an outbreak of riots over rising prices.
But in a signal that political orchestration is not enough, the speech also came on the eve of the arrival here Monday of former Vice President Walter F. Mondale, who is bringing a message of concern from President Clinton over Mr. Suharto's handling of the crisis. Officials in Washington said Mr. Mondale's visit was intended to convey a sense of urgency over the carrying out of austerity measures Mr. Suharto agreed to last month in return for a $40 billion economic rescue package organized by the fund.
Mr. Suharto insisted today that he was moving ahead with the austerity measures, but that the key to recovery was to find a way to strengthen the Indonesian currency, the rupiah, which has fallen by more than 70 percent in value since last summer.
"Unless this is achieved, I don't see any possible improvement in the near future," the President said.
One way to do this, he said, would be to set up what is known as a currency board, which would fix an artificially strong value for the rupiah, backed by Indonesia's foreign-currency reserves. Most economists say that Indonesia's economy is too fragile to withstand the fiscal pressures of such a step.
"I must remain careful in cautiously contemplating the possible introduction of the currency board," Mr. Suharto said, adding, "Whatever measures we take, we need the support of the I.M.F."
A fund delegation is currently reviewing his compliance with an economic restructuring plan that he signed under international pressure on Jan. 15. The agency will decide in mid-March whether his level of compliance warrants continued release of support financing.
Officials in Washington say Mr. Mondale's visit is in part due to what they called Mr. Suharto's foot-dragging in carrying out these measures.
In his speech, Mr. Suharto said, "We have carried out parts of the program, while other parts will follow later."
So far, he said, Indonesia has toughened its annual budget, as required, has moved to ease investment procedures, withdrawn state financing for expensive and money-losing projects, and has begun to restructure its banking system.
In spite of these steps, he said: "The exchange rate of the rupiah continues to be weak. It strengthens for a while, then sinks again."
Unemployment is growing, he said, and prices are rising for imported and locally produced goods, including medicines.
"People's lives are becoming more difficult," he said, adding that he shared the distress of housewives struggling to feed their families.
The President said the region's economic difficulties, which began a year ago in Thailand, had struck Indonesia much sooner and harder than had been expected, threatening his economic achievements of the last three decades.
Since taking power, Mr. Suharto has presided over spectacular economic growth, which in the last decade has averaged more than 7 percent a year. Now, he said, "It seems that everything we have built, with great difficulty, sometimes with pain and sacrifices, has suddenly been undermined."
Mr. Suharto's speech was marked by an unusual level of self-criticism and candor. In addition to external monetary forces, he said, Indonesia's hardships are the result of "our own internal weaknesses," though he did not elaborate.
In what appeared to be a reference to recent riots in which the shops of ethnic Chinese merchants have been looted and burned, he said Indonesians should unite to solve the country's difficulties.
"We do not have to look for a scapegoat," he said. "It is useless to look for a scapegoat."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Suharto addressed legislators who are expected to give him a seventh term in office. He paused after speaking yesterday in Jakarta. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); INFLATION (78%); TRENDS (76%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); 

PERSON: SUHARTO (PRES); MYDANS, SETH BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1998



52 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Longwood Journal;
In Mobile Homes, Sitting Vulnerable to Tornadoes

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: LONGWOOD, Fla., March 1

 BODY:
At 91 years old, Martha Carney lives on a street of manicured lawns, decorative windmills and pink flamingos. It is the kind of neighborhood where people can mingle at their own private clubhouse and a stranger's car would be quickly noticed and even reported to the manager's office.
But small communities like the Spring Hammock mobile home park here were ground zero for the tornadoes that ravaged parts of central Florida last week, as winds of more than 200 miles an hour hurled homes and occupants into the air with such force that searches for the missing extended hundreds of feet, into creeks and over highways. Of the 40 people who died, state officials said, at least 24 were in mobile homes. 
 Spring Hammock in Seminole County, where 11 of the 12 people killed were in mobile homes, was spared any damage. But Irene Shriver, Mrs. Carney's 72-year-old daughter who is visiting from West Virginia, said she now worries more about her mother. Any talk of moving, however, has been pointedly rejected.
"West Virginia is for the birds," said Mrs. Carney, who has lived alone since her husband of 67 years, a retired Morse code operator, died six years ago. "As long as you can take care of yourself, you're better off where you are."
There are more than half a million mobile homes in Florida and nearly 200,000 recreational vehicles, which are usually traveling motor homes but include camping trailers. The occupants include migrant agricultural workers and winter visitors, in one of the largest concentrations of such homes in the country.
For the elderly, mobile homes are an economical alternative for retirement or a second home where the weather is warm or, as in the case of Mrs. Carney, who pays $230 a month for the lot where her mobile home sits, the only way to hold on to independence. Families and younger people can gain the advantages of a house at a lower cost than either a house or an apartment -- backyards, room for pets and children, safe streets for play -- and others use them as transitional shelter while they build up their savings.
They can be a young couple's dream first home in well-kept parks where the manufactured homes feature carports, screened porches and even decks by a lake, or can be a reminder of an unbroken cycle of poverty in rundown lots where many of the homes seem to be falling apart.
"Of course no one wants to live in a trailer," said Cindy Mitchell, 27, a cashier at a fast-food restaurant who grew up in a two-bedroom mobile home with her parents and five siblings. She now shares another one, a rental for $375 a month, with her 7-year-old son, boyfriend and a dog in the city of South Daytona. "It basically comes down to money," she said. South Daytona is in Volusia County, which took the brunt of the recent tornadoes.
"Having a child, we wanted to have a yard and a safe area for him to ride his bike," she said. "Living in an apartment is too confined. My son wouldn't have a normal life. He would be locked up.
"It's not exactly the most beautiful place to live but we do what we can do."
A neighbor on the same low-income street, Glenn Boyer, 32, who makes race-car engine parts for a Daytona Beach company, said that moving into his first mobile home with his German shepherd three years ago was a calculated choice.
"I want to get bedroom sets and electronic equipment before I move into a house," he said.
But there are trade-offs, like thin walls that make summers hotter and winters colder, or easy deterioration. "Anywhere there's water they rot," Ms. Mitchell said.
Last week, many of the homes became death traps. The National Weather Service says that preliminary findings show that at least six tornadoes touched down the night of Feb. 22 and early Feb. 23 across several counties between Tampa and Daytona Beach, four of them with winds of 158 m.p.h. to 260 m.p.h. Federal Government standards for mobile homes require them to be strapped down and able to withstand winds of 100 m.p.h. to 110 m.p.h., Florida state regulators said.
Now Florida officials are looking into new systems to alert residents to tornado warnings -- last week's tornadoes caught many people asleep -- with special attention to mobile home and recreational vehicle parks. They say that in order to drum up more business, some parks now include permanent buildings that could be used as shelters for hurricanes and tornadoes.
Frank Williams, executive director of the Florida Manufactured Housing Association, a group that represents manufacturers and retailers, said the homes could be made more sturdy but they would become too expensive.
"Nobody could afford them nor would anybody want them," he said. "It's a public policy question: Do you force people to pay twice as much for a home for a freak of nature like this?"
But for Lucille and Jack Lawley, both 75, the freakish is beginning to appear normal. During Tropical Storm Gordon in November 1994, their four-bedroom, 60-by-40-foot mobile home in Big Tree Shores in South Daytona filled with a foot and a half of water. They replaced the floors, the carpet and a refrigerator.
This time, the tornadoes tore off their roof. Mr. Lawley said he looked out the window and saw the wind-folded roof fly by and thought it was a flying saucer. Today, 13 buckets and 2 plastic garbage cans collected water from leaks in the aluminum roof underneath the one torn away, covered by a blue tarp.
"It seems like all I've done since I've retired has been work on this house," said Mr. Lawley, a former manager for the AT&T Corporation. "I work and work."
But while Mr. Lawley favors selling both the mobile home and the couple's house in Washington to buy a house in Florida, his wife insists they keep their winter home of 15 years. They had paid $65,000 for the home and lot.
"It'll never happen again and if it does, it does," Mrs. Lawley said of the powerful tornadoes. "I guess I'm a fatalist."
Some mobile home dwellers say the tornadoes have scared them into thinking about moving. Kelly Dunham, 26, a student at Daytona Beach Community College who lives in a rented mobile home with her boyfriend and two children, ages 7 and 4, said she wants to move as soon as possible to a permanent home with a solid foundation. "It's definitely not my idea of fun to live your life worrying about a tornado sucking you up," she said. "We rocked and swayed."
Next time, she said, "I'll go to Winn-Dixie. It's open 24 hours. They can't kick you out." Others said they would be more mindful of tornado watches but planned to stay put. They noted that last week's twisters were unusually strong for Florida, which mostly gets tornadoes that have winds of less than 112 m.p.h., are short-lived and less life-threatening than those in the Midwest. Houses and other permanent structures were also leveled in the tornadoes, they said.
Mrs. Carney, who weathered the tornadoes by taking one of what she calls her "nerve pills" and huddling in the bathroom with a candle, said next time she will have her son or grandson who live in nearby Winter Springs pick her up, when she hears of a tornado watch. But in the aftermath of Florida's deadliest tornadoes, she said she was not worried.
"So what?" she said. "I'm past 90 years old. I've had a good life."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Safety concerns have been raised about mobile homes after last week's deadly tornadoes, which killed 24 people in them. Adam Dunham, 7, left, played ball in the yard of his family's mobile home in South Daytona, Fla., joined by Billy Ray Mathis, 5, and Michael Mitchell. Many people see trade-offs in living in mobile homes: they are relatively inexpensive but are often less sturdy than traditional housing. (Photographs by Phillippe Diederich for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: TORNADOES; MOBILE HOMES MOBILE HOMES (93%); TORNADOES (90%); TRAILER PARKS (78%); FAMILY (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); CHILDREN (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); PETS (71%); FARM LABOR (66%); RESTAURANTS (60%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (50%); AGRICULTURE (50%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1998



53 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Unions Unite In a Campaign For Child Care

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Hoping to make New York the first state to provide child-care benefits as generous as those in Europe, 10 New York City labor unions have begun lobbying state lawmakers to spend $200 million more on child care and pressing employers to create a multi-union child-care fund.
Vowing to make child care an overriding priority, these unions, representing almost a million workers, want Albany to subsidize 50,000 more child-care slots, to build more day-care centers and to train child-care workers better. 
 The 10-union coalition, which includes the teachers and communications workers, asserts that the scarcity and expense of good child care leaves thousands of children ill-prepared to start school and many workers so distracted by child-care problems that their productivity is hurt.
Deborah King, an official in the hospital workers' union who heads the newly formed child-care coalition, said: "We've had a dramatic change in the past 25 years -- there are many two-parent families where both parents work, and there are many single-parent families where the parent works. But our workplaces have not changed to reflect that reality. We don't have adequate child care."
Some union officials acknowledge that it will be an uphill battle to persuade Gov. George E. Pataki and the State Legislature, especially the Republican-controlled Senate, to approve the whole $200 million. But they say they expect the Legislature to approve more than the $21 million in increased child-care spending proposed by Mr. Pataki.
Brian McLaughlin, president of the New York City Central Labor Council, said, "The state's surplus and a windfall of Federal funds make expansion of child care feasible at this time."
New York and other states are increasing the number of subsidized child-care slots to help welfare mothers make the transition to work, but union officials say that those plans still leave millions of moderate-income workers unable to afford child care. France, among other European countries, has elaborate, heavily subsidized child-care programs that serve millions of families and often work on a sliding scale, with wealthier parents paying more.
Labor leaders say they have seized on this issue because their members have voiced so much concern about inadequate child care. Indeed, union officials say they hope to bring about improved child care the way the labor movement once led the way to some fundamental innovations that Americans now take for granted: the 40-hour workweek, Social Security, unemployment insurance and minimum wage laws.
The A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, John J. Sweeney, went to a Brooklyn day-care center last Thursday to join the city's labor leaders when they announced their new child-care push. At that meeting, bus drivers, garment workers and municipal employees said they often faced a two-year wait to get their children into day-care programs, and some workers complained that they had spent more than one-third of their income on child care.
The unions have also begun a campaign to press New York State to imitate many European countries and begin paying for six months of maternity or paternity leave.
Ms. King said that no state in the country pays for maternity or paternity leave. "Considering New York's history of leadership, we think it should be the first state to start such a program."
Such a program is expected to cost at least $50 million a year. Union officials in New Jersey are also pushing for legislation to create paid parental leave, arguing that mothers and fathers of newborns should receive money under the state disability law.
Asked last night about the union's proposals on child care and maternity leave, Charles Deister, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, said, "As for the specifics of the proposals and the cost involved, we'll have to take a look at it."
Mr. Deister added, "Over the Governor's term, he has increased day-care slots by 64 percent, which is one of the largest increases in state history, and he's proposed a $21 million increase this year."
Labor leaders have praised the Governor for proposing to increase the number of subsidized child-care slots by 49,000 over the next two years, to 125,000. But they say Mr. Pataki's plan does not go far enough -- they want financing for 50,000 subsidized slots this year, and tens of thousands more in future years.
Union officials estimate that in New York State more than one million children of low-income and moderate-income families need subsidized care.
Mr. Pataki has called for spending $21 million more on child care, but union officials say this amount is inadequate. Asserting that the Governor plans to increase the number of slots far more sharply than the amount of money, they calculate that under his plan the subsidy per child would fall to $2,450 from $4,225. A lower subsidy, they argue, would make it harder for many low-income and moderate-income parents to afford child care, which usually costs $4,000 to $10,000 per child per year.
The unions' child-care coalition includes the United Federation of Teachers; the Union of Needletrade, Industrial and Textile Employees; District Council 37, which represents 120,000 municipal workers; the Communications Workers of America; and 1199, the National Health and Human Service Employees Union. The effort, known as the Child Care That Works Campaign, has the backing of two dozen other groups, including the League of Women Voters, the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies and the United Jewish Appeal.
The unions' new strategy calls for demanding that public and private employers contribute to what would be the nation's first multi-union child-care fund. For instance, in its next contract talks, the teachers' union might ask New York City to contribute several million dollars a year to the fund.
Each union participating in the fund could use some of the money to send its members' children to day-care programs, after-school programs or summer camps. In addition, union leaders said, some of the money might be used to build A.F.L.-C.I.O. child-care centers -- an idea that would seek not just to provide more and better facilities, but also to integrate unions more into the lives of workers.
Not surprisingly, one aim of the plan is to pay child-care workers and have more of them join unions. Deborah McWilliams, a worker at the Crown Heights center that Mr. Sweeney visited, said: "We've been perceived as baby sitters. We're educators. We're nurses. We're social workers. We have to see things the parents don't see. We need a decent wage."
Ms. McWilliams receives $20,000 a year for her full-time work, which she noted is less than half of what many teachers are paid.
The labor unions are supporting a pilot program, in conjunction with the City University of New York, to provide home-based day care to 400 low-income children. The day-care workers would be supervised by neighborhood child-care centers in a plan intended to improve training of home-based day-care workers.
The teachers' union is one of the most enthusiastic supporters of the new initiative, partly because so many teachers have young children. "People worry that their children are not being taken care of very well," said Randi Weingarten, the new president of the United Federation of Teachers. "How can they concentrate on their work when they don't have quality day care?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY CENTRAL LABOR COUNCIL (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY CENTRAL LABOR COUNCIL (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (91%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; CHILD CARE; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; DAY CARE CENTERS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CHILD CARE (95%); LOBBYING (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY (89%); APPROVALS (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); WORK WEEK (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (72%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (67%); CIVIL SERVICES (63%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (54%); EDDIE GEORGE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1998



54 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: To Social Security Critics, The Argument Is Simple

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 1

 BODY:
As the nation begins debating how to shore up Social Security for the aging baby-boom generation, advocates of fundamentally changing the system are honing their argument to a single theme: that as an investment Social Security is a bad deal.
Conservative groups, Wall Street executives, members of both parties in Congress and other proponents of turning Social Security into a vehicle for investing in stocks and bonds are attacking the current system with research showing that many people will receive little more in retirement benefits than they contribute through payroll taxes. 
 Younger people, especially, will get a bad deal relative to people born longer ago, the critics said. And some demographic groups, including black men, who have lower life expectancy than the general population, will lose money on Social Security, the advocates add.
The results, they said, are particularly striking when the system's payoff is compared with the much higher rates of return available in the stock and bond markets. Allowing part of Social Security taxes to be invested in such areas would allow even low-income workers to accumulate significant wealth in their working lives, the critics contend.
"The only way to save Social Security for the long term, meaning 50 years from now, is to transform the program so that it can become a source of wealth," said Senator Bob Kerrey, the Nebraska Democrat who favors using part of the payroll tax to finance personal retirement accounts for every worker.
President Clinton has called for Congress and the White House to find a bipartisan solution next year to the looming financial problems of Social Security. The possible solutions include raising taxes, cutting benefits, increasing the retirement age, dedicating Federal budget surpluses to the problem and turning Social Security into a more investment-based program.
Social Security has long been viewed as one of the most successful and popular Government programs, a guaranteed intergenerational insurance program for the elderly, the disabled and survivors of people who die during their working lives. Relatively few Democrats have publicly endorsed any shift toward a more investment-oriented approach, and many liberals oppose the idea, as do politically powerful advocacy groups for the elderly. Mr. Clinton has not announced a position.
But the idea is winning widespread support among Republicans. Some like Representatives Mark Sanford of South Carolina and Nick Smith of Michigan are sponsoring plans that would gradually replace the longtime system with private accounts. Others like Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire advocate using part of payroll taxes to finance private investment accounts while maintaining a reduced but guaranteed Social Security benefit as a safety net.
"We've got to give incentives for saving and allow individuals to handle more of their resources for retirement," said Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa. "That would include some aspect of individualization. But I don't have my mind set on the extent."
Proponents of a more market-oriented approach received fresh ammunition this year from a study by the Heritage Foundation, a conservative group that favors changing the system. The study said, "The Social Security system's rate of return for most Americans will be vastly inferior to what they could expect from placing their payroll taxes in even the most conservative private investments."
Although supporting measured steps to improve financial performance, defenders of the system said that much of the new research on rates of return was flawed or misleading and that it glossed over the possibility of major declines in stock prices. Moreover, studies about rates of return generally fail to look at disability and survivors' benefits, which are distinct from retirement benefits and account for nearly a third of the program payments.
Requiring individuals to invest on their own would mostly be a windfall for Wall Street, the defenders said, allowing investment companies to charge fees to nearly every working American.
More fundamentally, the defenders added, Social Security should not be seen as a giant 401(k) program in which economic security depends on individual financial acumen.
Research like the Heritage study constitutes an effort to shatter a consensus on Social Security by pitting the generations, the races and other groups against one another in a grab for money, the defenders said.
"The Social Security system cannot be compared to investment in the private market," said Roger Hickey, co-director of the Institute for America's Future, a group that advocates maintaining the system. "Everyone involved in Social Security knows their benefit will be there until they die. They know their parents will be taken care of. There are many returns that cannot be as easily quantified as stock-market returns."
Social Security has more than enough money to pay today's retirees and other beneficiaries. But it will become pressed as the 76 million people born in the 20 years after World War II begin retiring around 2010. Unless changes are made, the system, experts say, will become insolvent around 2029, able to pay 75 percent of promised benefits.
One middle-ground approach under consideration calls for the system, rather than individuals, to invest directly in the markets, much as pension funds do. That approach is favored, within limits, by the American Association of Retired Persons, the lobbying group for the elderly.
Social Security's financial reserves are now held in special Treasury bonds, which are virtually lossproof but offer low yields compared with the stock market.
"You can improve the investment performance of the savings portfolio within Social Security," said John Rother, the legislative director of the A.A.R.P. "The whole experience with the stock market is pushing us toward some component of greater investment in the market than ever before. It can be good as long as it's done prudently."
The Heritage study illustrates the central argument of those who are calling for a more market-oriented system. A couple with children in which both partners are 30 and both earn $26,000 a year would pay, along with their employers, $320,000 in Social Security taxes by the time they retire and would receive $450,000 in retirement benefits before dying, an inflation-adjusted annual return of 1.23 percent, the study said.
By contrast, the stock market generated average annual returns of 7.56 percent from 1926 to 1996, after accounting for inflation, according to Ibbotson Associates, a research concern. Allowing the couple to invest its Social Security taxes in a mutual fund with a 5 percent rate of return would more than double, to $975,000, the money available for their retirement, the study said.
The study found that rates of return were becoming steadily lower for each succeeding generation, primarily because of increases in payroll taxes over the years. A single man with an average income born in 1950 could expect an annual return from Social Security retirement benefits of 1.34 percent, the study said, compared with a return of 0.47 percent for a single man born in 1970.
Lower-income workers do better with the system than higher-income workers, in keeping with the original goal to fight poverty. But black workers tend to receive much lower rates of return on their payroll taxes than white counterparts, the study said.
A single black man, 30, who earns $12,800 a year, half the average wage, would pay $82,000 in taxes in his working life, including his employer's share. He would receive $72,000 in benefits in retirement, a loss equal to a negative annual rate of return of 0.55 percent.
Critics of the study said it was misleading on many counts.
Steve Goss, the deputy chief actuary at the Social Security Administration, said other studies using different assumptions and techniques had found substantially higher rates of return. The 0.47 percent return for single men born in 1970, for example, was found to be 1.28 percent in a report released last year by an advisory council on Social Security.
The Heritage study particularly skewed the findings for returns to black people, Mr. Goss said in another study this month, calling the Heritage conclusions greatly exaggerated, in part because they failed to take full account of the lower life expectancies for black men compared to the general population.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: How Good an Investment?"
Here are examples of rates of return on Social Security taxes, incorporating factors like average life expectancy. The average annual return on stocks from 1926-96 has been 7.56 percent. Other groups have calculated different rates of return for Social Security. Defenders of the current system say that such calculations are misleading because, among other things, they do not
account for survivor benefits.
 
WAGE: Minimum ($10,700)
Single men, born in 1955 -- 2.45%
Single women, born in 1955 -- 2.94%
Married couples, both born in 1955 and working -- 3.11%
 
WAGE: Average ($28,000)
Single men, born in 1955 -- 1.43%
Single women, born in 1955 -- 1.98%
Married couples, both born in 1955 and working -- 2.06%
 
WAGE: Maximum ($68,400 or higher)
Single men, born in 1955 -- 0.08%
Single women, born in 1955 -- 0.73%
Married couples, both born in 1955 and working -- 1.40%
 
(Sources: Ibbotson Associates; Social Security Administration; Advisory Commission on Social Security)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LINCOLN, NE, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); LINCOLN, NE, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); STOCKS AND BONDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; BLACKS SOCIAL SECURITY (93%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BONDS (90%); AGING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); LIBERALISM (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TAX INCREASES (75%); BUDGETS (75%); RETIREMENT AGE (75%); BOND MARKETS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (69%); MARK SANFORD (57%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (56%); JUDD GREGG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1998



55 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: After the Oxford Debacle

 BODY:
Oxford Health Plans made the remarkable admission last week that its losses during the last months of last year exceeded the total of all its previous profits. Oxford's performance is more embarrassing than even its stunning losses indicate. Its management did not have a clue how much money it was paying out to doctors or collecting from members. In fact, Oxford has been losing money for some time, but no one knew. Late last year, its bookkeepers caught up to a sorry reality.
Now Oxford is off to a new start, with an infusion of $350 million from an outside investor and a new chief executive, Norman Payson, who replaces the company's visionary but managerially challenged founder, Stephen Wiggins. The new Oxford starts out with a strong customer base and a large roster of high-quality doctors and hospitals. It also inherits an inchoate reform that Mr. Wiggins designed for the future but which makes even more sense now that his old business strategy has come unglued. If managed well, Oxford can prosper. 
 Even so, Oxford's two million members are facing rougher times. Mr. Wiggins built up business by offering middle-class families affordable premiums and a physician roster that often included their existing doctors. But vast networks make it difficult to control costs or quality. Oxford thrived, largely because Mr. Wiggins's strategy rapidly drew in new customers. Last year's financial collapse proves, however, that soaring premium revenues were masking an underlying rot.
The new Oxford will probably need to raise premiums and limit the choice of doctors. But these changes would have taken place anyway. Mr. Wiggins had already begun to transform Oxford into an umbrella organization within which teams of specialists compete against one another for Oxford's members. This strategy mirrors that of managed care plans in California, traditionally the bellwether for health care across the country. Closer to home, Michael Stocker of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield has adopted a strategy by which Empire will offer its members competing medical groups, including one centered around the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
Increasingly, then, the important medical decision families will make is not whether they join Oxford or Empire or some other large insurance plan but which medical group they choose within a plan. Even an employer that offers its workers only one plan will indirectly be offering them a potentially wide choice of medical groups. What C.E.O.'s like Mr. Stocker and Mr. Wiggins have been figuring out is that they need small networks to tightly monitor health care costs and quality. They hope to offer customers what they want, a choice of medical groups, but keep those groups small enough that the insurance plan can maintain tight supervision.
Mr. Wiggins did not know how to manage a far-flung insurance company. But he did know how to size up powerful market forces. He may no longer sit atop Oxford. But his vision still might.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD HEALTH PLANS EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: OXFORD HEALTH PLANS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EDITORIALS; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CANCER (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: PAYSON, NORMAN C (DR) STEPHEN F WIGGINS (92%); NORMAN C PAYSON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1998



56 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Freedom in Math Class May Outweigh Tests

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER 

 BODY:
When the results of a major international mathematics and science test were made public last week, showing American 12th graders near the bottom of the industrialized world, leaders reacted with well-rehearsed alarm. They warned that Americans would not be able "to continue to be global competitors in the new knowledge economy," as Education Secretary Richard W. Riley put it.
Fingers were pointed, hands were wrung. Officials lamented that the country continued to be, as the title of an influential 1983 education report had it, "A Nation at Risk." 
 But with the United States standing today as the world's unchallenged technological powerhouse, the trendsetter for a global computer and information economy that Asian and European countries are struggling to match, the scripted furor has drowned out a quiet, embarrassed debate. Top scientists and educators are wondering whether the country is succeeding despite loose educational practices or at least in part because of them.
"Like America, science is a fundamentally optimistic endeavor, a kind of child's play, where little attention is paid to getting it right immediately and there is little stress on canons," said Dudley Herschbach, a chemistry professor at Harvard University and a 1986 Nobel laureate. "I have noticed that graduate students who get straight A's are often lost when it comes to research. Maybe we have let kids wander all over hell in high school, but that preserves some energy for later when it is better spent."
But Professor Herschbach acknowledged that his opinion was based on little more than anecdote and hunch, and that he might only be rationalizing the dismal results. But he was not alone to voice such educational sacrilege.
Larry Cuban, a professor of education at Stanford University, said, "American ingenuity and innovation seem to be so nimble in responding to difficult problems that one could speculate that the progressivism that so many critics claim has seized American schools is the very fountainhead for that creativity and innovation."
Nearly all educators agreed that American schooling required improvement, that teachers were poorly paid and trained and that students were underserved and insufficiently challenged. But the educators said the links between those problems and economic performance were apparently far less direct than had been supposed.
Many expressed alarm and puzzlement over the results, released on Tuesday, of the Third International Mathematics and Science Study, widely seen as the most comprehensive and rigorous comparison of quantitative skills across nations.
American 12th graders were outperformed in mathematics and science literacy by their counterparts in 12 countries out of 20 and did better than students in just 2, Cyprus and South Africa. In advanced mathematics and physics, no country performed more poorly.
In the same study, American fourth graders scored above the international average and eighth graders about average. So some educators took the opportunity to argue that recent attention to standards and better schools had begun to pay off but had not reached the upper levels of schooling.
The trouble is that this pattern has been consistent for as long as comparative tests have been given. American students start out equal with or ahead in basic skills and steadily decline the longer they stay in school, compared with the students of the country's main trading partners.
When in the late 1950's the Soviet Union put a rocket in space ahead of the United States and in the 70's and 80's, Japanese cars and computers were leaving American products behind, the gaps in students' mathematics and science scores were used as damning evidence of an imminent national decline and a reason for spending money to improve schools.
But today Asian and European educators are coming for visits to see what they might learn from the American system.
"I remember," said Gerald W. Bracey, a researcher and writer on education, "when the Education Minister of Singapore came here, and people said: 'What are you looking here for? Your kids consistently score on top of all international tests.' And he said something like, 'All that our kids can do is take tests.' He understood that we are nurturing more creativity here than the Asians."
Howard Gardner, a professor of education at Harvard University, said the United States was "a country of infinite second chances."
"There are a thousand ways to bounce back," Professor Gardner said. "What harms you in other countries is the straight and narrow path you have to follow. If you fall off, it is very hard to get back on. Here it is a more chaotic system. But the world economy is more chaotic. So that's good."
With technology changing so rapidly, American corporations are investing billions in on-the-job training at hundreds of so-called corporate universities. Such training focuses the mind on specific tasks in ways that some analysts say can be more effective than traditional schooling.
"Adults can be very good at practical math yet do poorly in pencil-and-paper tests," said Robert J. Sternberg, a professor of psychology and education at Yale University who conducts research on intelligence. "People can also do well on managerial or sales or military skills and not do particularly well on those tests. If we are talking about success in life, these tests are incomplete measures."
Of course, despite all the talk of creative genius, a number of less radical explanations for the poor 12th-grade results and simultaneously booming economy are also being offered.
Most experts argue that American universities, widely seen as the best in the world, most likely make up for many failings of high schools. The experts add that it takes only a small number of top technicians to design computer chips and related products.
John H. Bishop, an economist who is chairman of the human resource studies department at Cornell University's School of Industrial Relations, said an unusual feature of American higher education was its close connection to industry. Professor Bishop added that American economic strength was a result of decisions made 40 years ago when the G.I. Bill of Rights offered college educations to thousands of returning veterans, making up in quantity what it lacked in quality.
He and others also say a steady stream of foreigners is filling the graduate and professional programs in mathematics and science.
Data from the National Science Foundation lend support to that point. One-fourth to one-third of doctorates in science and engineering awarded in the United States over the last 10 years have gone to foreigners, and many of those trained foreigners have stayed and made their careers here.
American science has always benefited from the attractiveness to foreigners and the need of many to flee oppressive regimes: witness Albert Einstein and Enrico Fermi. What is happening today may be seen as a continuation of that movement.
Professor Herschbach of Harvard said that was no coincidence, because good science depends on freedom -- freedom of inquiry, freedom of communication and freedom of spirit -- all at the core of the American ideal.
He added that what is missing in school may be made up for in informal science fairs and similar events. The Intel Science Fair, with which he is associated, brings together 1,200 youngsters selected from nearly 1 million participants in hundreds of feeder fairs involving thousands of adult volunteers.
"These are not eggheads, but a cross section of America," he said. "When a kid does a project, he or she really takes ownership of a piece of knowledge." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; CYPRUS; UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MATHEMATICS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PHYSICS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH NEW ECONOMY (90%); MATHEMATICS (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); PHYSICS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (71%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); NOBEL PRIZES (66%); 

PERSON: BRONNER, ETHAN

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1998



57 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 2, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Theodore Schultz, 95, Winner Of a Key Prize in Economics

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
Theodore W. Schultz, an economist at the University of Chicago whose research on agriculture and education was honored with a Nobel Memorial Prize in 1979, died Thursday at a nursing home in Evanston, Ill.
The cause of death was an infection that did not respond to treatment, his family said. Mr. Schultz was 95. 
 The eldest of eight children born on a farm near Arlington, S.D., Mr. Schultz never went to high school. Despite the opposition of his parents, he did attend South Dakota State College, earning bachelor's and master's degrees in agricultural economics in 1926. He went on to graduate school at the University of Wisconsin and, armed with a Ph.D., joined the faculty of Iowa State College in 1930.
 At Iowa State, then a land grant college with little tradition of scholarship, he organized what came to be one of the best economics departments in the country. Among the faculty he recruited was a young man with a freshly minted Ph.D. from the University of California named John Kenneth Galbraith.
Mr. Schultz left Iowa State in 1943 after a bitter battle over academic freedom. One of his colleagues had written an essay comparing margarine favorably with butter as a way of economizing on resources for the war effort. Dairy interests protested -- the vegetable oil-based spread was viewed as a commercial threat -- and the college administration tried to prevent publication. While Mr. Schultz successfully led the charge against censorship, he left for the University of Chicago.
"That incident provoked some serious soul-searching," recalled D. Gale Johnson, a fellow agricultural economist, pushing land grant schools to broaden their mission to include truly independent research.
At the University of Chicago, Mr. Schultz again showed his talent for organization. "When he arrived," said James Heckman, an economist at the university, "the economics department was a mess of bickering." By the early 1960's, under Mr. Schultz's leadership, it had emerged as a center of innovative economic thinking.
But the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science is not handed out for exceptional management skills. Mr. Schultz is widely credited for bringing agricultural economics into the mainstream, focusing on how education, technology and financial incentives have significantly raised productivity. "He's a transitional figure who bridged the gap between the old-style study of institutions and modern economics" that relies on theory and statistical analysis, Mr. Heckman said.
Mr. Schultz's focus on education as a key to raising productivity led to the modern emphasis on "human capital" as a factor in production. Indeed, his work paved the way for the Nobelist Gary Becker's more celebrated analyses of human skills as a source of productivity growth.
Perhaps Mr. Schultz's most important insight was that farmers could play a key role in economic development, provided they were given the right incentives. That may seem obvious today. Agricultural change was critical to American development in the 19th century. And development specialists now look to free-market agriculture to jump-start the badly lagging economies of Africa. But in the 1950's and 1960's, development planners had a Soviet model in mind -- one in which agriculture's only role was to feed the industrial labor force.
Mr. Schultz formally retired in 1970 but remained an active researcher and colleague until he fractured his hip in 1990 and became bedridden. He is survived by two daughters, Elaine Glickman of Winnetka, Ill., and Margaret Schultz of Chicago, and a son, T. Paul Schultz of Madison, Conn.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 12, 1998, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on March 2 about Theodore W. Schultz, an economist whose research on agriculture and education was honored with a Nobel Memorial Prize, referred incorrectly to his efforts, while on the faculty of Iowa State, to hire the economist John Kenneth Galbraith. Though he recruited Mr. Galbraith, Mr. Galbraith chose to go to Harvard.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Theodore W. Schultz (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times, 1979) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IOWA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); ECONOMICS; NOBEL PRIZES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); AWARDS & PRIZES (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (84%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); 

PERSON: SCHULTZ, THEODORE W (PROF); PASSELL, PETER THEODORE WILLIAM SCHULTZ (94%); JOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1998



58 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 4; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1666 words

HEADLINE: Wary Astronomers Ponder An Accelerating Universe

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

 BODY:
AT their telescopes in the last few years, astronomers have been searching the heavens for evidence that the expansion of the universe is slowing down. The mutual gravitational attraction of all matter in stars, planets and everything else known or hypothesized should be putting a gradual brake on the outward rush of space since the explosive moment of cosmic creation in the theorized Big Bang.
The preliminary results of the search are now in, and they are stunning. The expansion of the universe appears to be accelerating, instead of decelerating. 
 "Our observations show that the universe is expanding faster today than yesterday," Dr. Adam Riess, a young astronomer at the University of California at Berkeley, said in an interview last week. An analysis by him and an international team of scientists indicated that the cosmic expansion rate is about 15 percent greater now than when the universe was half its current age, about seven billion years ago.
The group including Dr. Riess and another one, led by Dr. Saul Perlmutter of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, used similar techniques of measuring the cosmic expansion rates over time by studying distant exploding stars, called supernovas. At first, the astronomers were not sure they could believe what they were seeing. But as they examined more supernovas and explored sources of possible error or alternative explanations, they have grown bold in describing the implications of their research at recent meetings.
"Try as we might, we have not found any errors," Dr. Alexei V. Filippenko, a University of California astronomer who has worked on both teams, told colleagues 10 days ago at a meeting in Marina del Rey, Calif. "We get a nonzero cosmological constant."
Translated, that means the astronomers are increasingly confident that they have detected the first strong evidence that the universe is permeated by a repulsive force, the opposite of gravity. The simplest explanation, other astrophysicists agree, is that the force is something called the cosmological constant. As conceived by theorists, this force is a property of the vacuum of space itself, an energy that acts on a large scale to stretch space and thus counteract gravity's restraining power.
If the observations are correct, this is one more case of astronomers handing cosmologists a new piece to a jigsaw puzzle, which is always maddeningly incomplete, and asking them to find a way to fit it into a satisfying theoretical whole. Knowledge of an accelerating expansion could lead to a revised recipe of just what the universe is made of. It could resolve a paradox raised by previous controversial suggestions that the universe appears to be younger than its oldest stars. It could also change thinking about cosmic evolution and the ultimate fate of the universe.
Reflecting the cautious excitement and fervid conjecture touched off by the new findings, Dr. Michael S. Turner, an astrophysicist at the University of Chicago and Fermi National Laboratory, said: "If it's true, this is a remarkable discovery. It means that most of the universe is influenced by an abundance of some weird form of energy whose force is repulsive."
If he were alive, no one would be more bemused by this turn of events than Albert Einstein. Soon after he invented his general theory of relativity in 1915, Einstein was unsettled to find it demanded that the universe either expanded or contracted over time. But like nearly all scientists at the time, he assumed the universe was static, neither expanding nor contracting. What to do?
To compensate for what he considered a flaw in his theory, Einstein introduced the idea of the cosmological constant, symbolized in equations by the Greek letter lambda. The repulsive energy force would presumably counteract gravity and make the universe in his theory stand still. Soon after Edwin P. Hubble discovered the expanding universe in 1929, Einstein renounced the cosmological constant as the greatest blunder of his career.
For years, scientists agreed, dismissing lambda as "that fudge factor." In the last decade, however, they reluctantly dusted it off as a means of balancing the books on the matter and other forces that are required to support the favored interpretation of Big Bang theory.
In this model, called the inflationary Big Bang, the universe should contain a critical density of matter, just enough to slow expansion to a halt, given infinite time. Scientists express this condition of critical density as omega equals one. Too little mass -- if omega equals less than one -- and the universe would expand forever, growing ever more tenuous. If omega equals more than one, then the universe would collapse of its own weight, contracting in what is called the Big Crunch.
So far, astronomical observations and other research have established that the mass density of the universe amounts to no more than 30 percent of the preferred critical value. That includes the mass from ordinary matter in galaxies and a large component of mysterious exotic particles, invisible and still hypothetical. Despite this matter deficit, cosmologists clung to inflation theory because it had passed many tests and provided a satisfying explanation for early conditions in the universe.
In 1990, reviewing all the data, Dr. Turner proposed a formula for a "best-fit universe" that accorded with inflation theory. By his calculations, the universe contained 5 percent ordinary matter and 25 percent mass in the form of cold dark matter, invisible and exotic. The cosmological constant, the energy of empty space, would account for the balance of 70 percent, bringing the universe up to critical density.
The new findings appear to make a prophet of Dr. Turner and others who were beginning to share his views. In January, both teams studying supernovas, measuring how fast these stars were rushing outward when they exploded, reported that the cosmic expansion rate had slowed little or not at all over billions of years. The universe's mass, in ordinary and exotic matter, added up to no more than 20 to 30 percent of critical density. The universe, therefore, seemed destined to expand forever.
After more analysis of the observations, the teams realized they were probably seeing the direct evidence for the mysterious background energy known as the cosmological constant. Not only was the universe's expansion not slowing down, it was speeding up.
Dr. Perlmutter's group, the Supernova Cosmology Project, has studied 40 distant supernovas in detail. Describing their results in January, Dr. Perlmutter acknowledged that the evidence strongly suggested a cosmological constant, but went no further. "We were trying to be very conservative until we had more observations," he said last week.
The other group, called the High-Z Supernova Search Team, has examined only 14 supernovas but was less restrained in its more recent report. Dr. Brian Schmidt of the Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatory in Australia, said in an interview reported in the current issue of the journal Science that his team concluded with a statistical confidence of between 98.7 and 99.9 percent that cosmic expansion is receiving an antigravity boost, presumably from energy of the cosmological constant.
"My own reaction is somewhere between amazement and horror," said Dr. Schmidt, the team leader. "Amazement, because I just did not expect this result, and horror in knowing that it will likely be disbelieved by a majority of astronomers -- who, like myself, are extremely skeptical of the unexpected."
Dr. Riess, whose research led to the conclusion of an accelerating expansion, said: "We are trying not to rush to judgment on the cosmological constant. There could be some other sneaky little effect we have overlooked, something that makes the supernovas dimmer and appear to be farther away than they really are or some variations in the behavior of more distant supernovas that are deceiving us."
But nothing has emerged to make the astronomers doubt their findings, he said. The accelerating expansion indicates that the repulsive force could account for at least 65 percent of the critical density, thus closing the gap between known mass and the much-admired model in which the universe is characterized as omega equaling one. And if the universe was once expanding more slowly than it is now, this would make it older -- about 14 billion years old, or a billion years or more than new estimates for the age of the earliest known stars.
Dr. Perlmutter saw a need to observe more nearby supernovas for comparison with ones being observed at distances of seven billion light-years. This should produce a more refined measure of differences in the expansion rate over time and perhaps reveal any distorting variations in supernovas then and now.
Still, many astrophysicists and cosmologists are beginning to think that Einstein was on to something, though for the wrong reason. The cosmological constant as a repulsive energy force may exist, after all. Physicists can think of no known principle to forbid it. Indeed, theories of quantum mechanics suggest that the energy of the cosmological constant could come from "virtual particles," which may be winking in and out of existence in empty space.
"Actually, the cosmological constant is the least interesting explanation, and that's pretty interesting in itself," Dr. Turner said.
Astrophysicists conceive of other possible sources of repulsive energy in forms that go by such names as X-matter and quintessence. These are speculative concepts in which mysterious textures in the early universe that created conditions for a cosmic background energy and might even help explain the formation of galaxies. Scientists are likely to venture other ideas if evidence for an accelerating universe continues to mount.
"It gives us confidence that two groups that are very competitive and very good are getting the same results," Dr. Turner said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ASTRONOMY & SPACE (92%); ASTROPHYSICS (89%); PHYSICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); EVOLUTION THEORY (73%); 

PERSON: ALBERT EINSTEIN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



59 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 4; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1920 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Are Turning to Trees to Repair the Greenhouse

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.

 BODY:
ON 80 acres of the wettest land in Catahoula Parish in Louisiana, an experimental crop of hardwood saplings is seizing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and locking it up in wooden cells.
The foot-high seedlings of ash, oak, and pecan are barely two years old. Still overshadowed by annual weeds, they are struggling to establish roots under the perennial floods of the bayou. But on each acre, the trees probably take in as much carbon dioxide each year as a typical automobile puts out, according to the scientists at Louisiana Tech University who manage the project. 
 So while there are skeptics, this experiment in what scientists call the sequestration of carbon, if it can be replicated on a large scale, could represent a significant weapon against the risk of global warming caused by manmade carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases.
To stop carbon dioxide from reaching dangerous concentrations in the atmosphere may require people to shift away from fossil fuels, according to most of the experts advising the nations who have signed the international treaty to combat the problem. In the meantime, the world's forests represent an enormous reservoir for carbon dioxide, which is naturally removed from the air when trees and other photosynthetic organisms grow and multiply.
The role of trees in mitigating carbon dioxide emissions can be expanded further if they can be used as renewable fuels, offsetting the use of fossil fuels, if wood products substitute for energy-intensive products like steel, and if shade trees are planted in cities and neighborhoods, reducing the demand for air conditioning.
"The carbon problem is very huge," said Neil Sampson, a forestry consultant who has extensively studied the role of wood in fighting global warming. "It looks to us like trees and forestry can handle perhaps 30 percent of it. That is a significant role, if you don't expect it to be the only role."
Pilot studies suggest that it will cost just a few dollars per ton of carbon -- estimates range from less than $1 to more than $30, depending on the circumstances -- to increase the sequestration of carbon dioxide in trees by expanding the planet's total forested area.
That is considerably cheaper than the costs some economists have projected for controlling industrial emissions of carbon dioxide. And if the new protocol to the climate change treaty that was negotiated in Kyoto in December goes into force, and the United States sets up a market-based system for encouraging the least costly steps to reduce net emissions of carbon, growing trees could be one profitable path to the goal.
The prospect, though, has stirred up a powerful debate over how to measure the complex cycle in which trees take carbon from the atmosphere and slowly release it after they die, how to verify that reductions are actually achieved, and how to encourage foresters to capture the largest possible benefits.
Doubters say that allowing emissions in one place to be offset by trees grown somewhere else is unfair and unreliable. Even its advocates say that forestry can only handle a fraction of the greenhouse gas problem.
And adding to an already heated debate, some United States lawmakers who have not previously supported action on global warming, but who favor expanded logging on public lands, have been arguing that it makes the most environmental sense to cut down mature forests, which are no longer growing quickly, and replace them with vigorous saplings, which bulk up more quickly.
"Science has proven to us that carbon dioxide, the leading greenhouse gas, can be taken out of the atmosphere by properly managing our forests," said Representative Don Young, Republican of Alaska, the chairman of the House Resources Committee. "Carbon dioxide is kept out of the atmosphere by harvesting the forest before it begins to decompose or burn, thus storing the carbon in wood products that are environmentally friendly, as well as providing an economic benefit to society."
Other experts said that Mr. Young has oversimplified the situation. And indeed, the question of how best to use the world's forests to fight global warming has only begun to be addressed in detail.
At the Kyoto talks, where the world's industrial nations pledged to reduce net emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases by an average of 5 percent below 1990's levels over the next 10 to 15 years, they agreed to count additions and subtractions of carbon dioxide caused by "direct human-induced land use change and forestry activities, limited to afforestation," or turning land into forest, "reforestation, and deforestation since 1990."
But they left to a specialized committee the task of setting up accounting rules, and there is likely to be scientific and political debate before important questions are settled.
"If sequestration is done correctly, it can produce many benefits," said Michael Oppenheimer, a climate scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund, an advocacy group based in New York. "It can enhance ecosystems and remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. But done poorly, it can make the greenhouse problem worse and do a lot of damage to the ecosystem."
Dan Becker, the head of climate programs at the Sierra Club, is more dismissive.
"In order to offset U.S. industrial emissions, you would need to plant a new forest on an area the size of Australia," he said. "You are taking carbon that is safely sequestered underground, as coal or oil, and bringing it up, and adding it to the atmosphere. And then you are temporarily storing it in a closet made of trees. I am all for preserving forests, and I am against cutting down forests. But is it a good thing to pollute more because you have done that? No."
Mr. Becker and other skeptics said that it would be almost impossible to verify the amount of carbon being set aside in forests, especially if the projects are widespread and if international conservation programs are used to offset domestic emissions in the United States, as is already being ventured.
But Steven P. Hamburg, who teaches environmental studies at Brown University and has been closely involved in the United Nations research into forestry's role in global warming, said that the difficulties of estimating the amount of sequestration are exaggerated.
"The bottom line is that we have been assessing the growth of forests for a century, and we have very well-established methods for doing it," he said. "We can measure with confidence the carbon in trees with an uncertainty of plus or minus 10 percent, without any difficulty." In carefully controlled studies of forests in Russia, he said, the standard formulas used by American scientists predicted actual carbon content of trees within an accuracy of 3 percent.
Perfecting the estimates is one objective of the small experiment in Louisiana. But other goals include figuring out what methods work best in turning abandoned bean fields back into bottom land hardwood wetlands. For the past few decades this type of wetland has been disappearing fast, but with changing farm policies there are opportunities to restore trees to vast areas of the Mississippi River Valley.
Like other forestry projects across the country and around the world, this plot of land, managed by scientists at the School of Forestry at Louisiana Tech in Ruston, is being paid for by companies that usually produce watts, not woods. Electric utilities, which voluntarily promised the Energy Department that they would reduce their emissions of carbon dioxide by 2000, are using tree projects as one way to meet that commitment.
Utilitree Carbon Company, a consortium of utilities, has projected that the $176,000 project in Louisiana will remove tens of thousands of tons of carbon dioxide from the air over the next several decades: just seven tons an acre per year, but hundreds of tons per acre by the end of the 70-year growing cycle.
There are other benefits to growing trees in wetlands.
The Louisiana tract is part of a 7,000-acre area trees can be grown next to a state wildlife refuge, and quite aside from its role in offsetting the emissions of greenhouse gases far away, putting it into trees will provide important wildlife habitat and other environmental benefits.
And there is a lot of similar land available for forestry projects. Over four million acres of bottom land hardwood forests were cleared in the Mississippi River Valley in the 1970's for agriculture, even though the land was poorly suited for that purpose.
Mr. Sampson, who edited a two-volume collection of research for American Forests, a conservation organization, has estimated that the forests offer ways to reduce net carbon emissions in the United States by 314 million tons to 695 million tons per year, or between 21 and 46 percent of estimated annual emissions of 1.5 billion tons. He bases his estimate on a diverse package of forestry-related programs: planting trees on marginal land, altering forest management practices to speed growth of existing timber, increasing the use of renewable wood fuel, and planting trees in cities and near houses, where they can reduce energy consumption for air conditioning.
In Congress, pro-logging lawmakers have suggested that the best way to maximize sequestration might be to cut down mature forests and replace them with fast-growing plantations of trees, keeping the carbon locked up in the wood for decades after it is harvested, in the form of homes, telephone poles, books and the like.
In October, the House passed a nonbinding resolution calling on the United States "to manage its forests to maximize the reduction of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, among many other objectives."
That wording was a compromise to mollify environmentalists and their supporters in the House. But the resolution was pressed by Mr. Young, Representative Helen Chenoweth, Republican of Idaho, chairwoman of the forestry subcommittee, and other pro-logging lawmakers.
They draw their argument from researchers like John Perez-Garcia, an associate professor of forestry at the University of Washington, who has argued that some forest conservation efforts have perversely added carbon dioxide to the atmosphere by depressing logging. That, he argues, leads to the use of steel and other substitute materials, while allowing forests to get overgrown to the point that they burn.
Indeed, there have been estimates that managing a Douglas fir forest in the Pacific Northwest as a monoculture plantation, and harvesting all the trees every 60 years, could sequester more carbon in the wood and in wood products while the tree farm's growth is at its peak than could be accomplished through other approaches. The alternatives studied included leaving the forest alone, or harvesting parts of the forest year to year while leaving its complex ecosystem more or less intact.
But this kind of calculation ignores important facts about the carbon cycle and the overall health of forests. For example, when a forest is clear-cut, the carbon in its soil begins to dissipate almost right away, a source of carbon dioxide emissions that lasts for decades. And the other benefits of a forest, such as watershed protection, rich habitat, and recreational use, are destroyed.
"In general, I don't think that is good management," said Dr. Hamburg of Brown. "I don't think you could come up with any data to suggest that you could intensively manage those forests and increase carbon sequestration."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Diagram: "Reducing Carbon"
Trees lower the levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and could be used as a weapon against the risk of global warming.
 
HOW THE FORESTS ABSORB CARBON
Carbon is absorbed by growing trees when carbon dioxide is used in photo-synthesis. Carbon dioxide from the air (1) and water from the soil (2) are used to produce glucose, the energy source of plants (3). Diagram illustrates the process
 
OFFSETTING THE GREENHOUSE EFFECT
Several proposed forestry-related programs would reduce carbon dioxide levels. Chart shows the range of current estimates for several initiatives. (Sources: Neil R. Sampson; Energy Information Administration; The Visual Dictionary of Plants.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY (57%); LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY (57%); LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CLIMATOLOGY (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); BIOFUELS (67%); 

PERSON: DON YOUNG (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



60 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC REVIEW;
The Vienna Mirrors Yet Reshapes The Past

BYLINE: By BERNARD HOLLAND

 BODY:
In three concerts with the Vienna Philharmonic last weekend, Riccardo Muti created original experiences from an old tradition. The only hint of current events was on Sunday, in Hindemith's E Flat Symphony from 1940. Mozart, Mahler, Brahms and Beethoven made up the rest.
Making the past seem new is not easy. We can resuscitate forgotten composers, but most forgotten composers have been forgotten for good reason. Almost every worthwhile example of the Classical-Romantic tradition has been explored, and what unsung masterpieces still exist remain mute mainly because their formats do not fit current concert life. (See Schubert's music for piano-four hands.) 
 Conducting programs on Friday, Saturday and Sunday at Carnegie Hall, Mr. Muti divided his energies equally, giving us relaxing amounts of what we already knew, then making us sit up at attention and feel real surprise. Given the Vienna Philharmonic, the familiar music took on a special aura. Mozart's warm, clarinet-driven E Flat Symphony (No. 39) on Friday was an exercise in hedonism: plushness without confusion, energy expressed with ease and confidence.
The Mahler Fourth on Saturday was a mirror for the orchestra playing it. It was certainly written with the Vienna Philharmonic's properties in mind, and there is little reason to believe that the orchestra sounds much different today than it did at the turn of the century. (Mahler was to adjust the orchestration for a decade more, presenting his final version in 1911 with the New York Philharmonic.)
Do we have to describe again the Vienna's qualities: a warmth and glow that seem to rise from the floorboards, the distinctive horns, the elegant separation of colors, the clarity between parts despite the suffusing blanket of sound? Mr. Muti handled the difficult transitions of tempo very well and knew when to let this orchestra go its own way. Were it not for Ruth Ziesak's virtually inaudible soprano solos in the finale, this would have been a Mahler Fourth for the ages.
The other comfort was the Brahms Second Symphony on Sunday afternoon; its familiar elements poured out seemingly in one unbroken, liquid wave. The surprises came even at Friday's all-Mozart affair. Framed by the early Divertimento in D and the E Flat Symphony, five ballet movements for the opera "Idomeneo" offered a color, character and format strikingly different from their surroundings. The overtures do bring a little of the theater to concert life but mainly as brief synopses, previews of coming attractions. The ballet music, on the other hand, is fully driven by what Mozart saw; gone is symphonic architecture as a model and constraint. It is not often that the concert Mozart and the stage Mozart are set so closely side by side. One almost felt the presence of two different composers.
Saturday's provocation came in the form of Beethoven's F Minor Quartet (Op. 95) bulked up by Mahler into a version for full string orchestra. Arrangements are benign distortions and come in two kinds. There are first the keyboard and chamber music reductions of grand symphonies, creating a kind of X-ray vision free of flesh and fat; then there are the inflations from smaller formats to full orchestral size.
Neither way offers truth, but both can instruct. The Vienna players worked admirably to sort out the four voices, but private arguments raised to parliamentary debate lose their original character; Beethoven would never have written an orchestra piece with this kind of contrapuntal texture. And if a mighty string quartet is really a small piece dreaming of becoming a big one, turning the implication of bigness into fact is dangerous business. Beware of getting what you wish for.
The Hindemith alternates between loud martial fanfare and sober, dignified reflection. Knowing its time of composition makes it easier to attach to the outer movements another adjective: warlike. There is a drunken waltz to brighten the third movement, that is if German humor is to your taste. But the Vienna strings played too beautifully. This is tough, relentlessly busy music, a harsh cityscape in the manner of Leger. Hindemith celebrates the work ethic, rejects the merely pleasurable.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Riccardo Muti led the Vienna Philharmonic on Sunday at Carnegie Hall. (Chris Lee for The New York Times)(pg. E8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (92%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSIC (91%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); MUSIC REVIEWS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); OPERA (77%); 

PERSON: RICCARDO MUTI (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



61 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Patterns

BYLINE: By Constance C. R. White

DATELINE: MILAN, Italy

 BODY:

American Designers Abroad
There are more American accents in the voices and clothes at the Italian women's shows here this week than in past seasons. Victor Alfaro and John Bartlett are scheduled to present their collections, dealing a blow to New York's show roster. 
 Mr. Bartlett, in a year-old deal with Genny, based in Ancona, Italy, has chosen Milan instead of New York because of the advantages in catching the retailers before their ordering dollars are depleted later in the season. Mr. Alfaro's defection is more of a surprise and comes courtesy of Gilmar, which had $200 million in sales last year and has led the trend for partnering with American designers, signing deals five years ago with Marc Jacobs and Anna Sui. The deal with Mr. Jacobs ended when he was hired away last year by Louis Vuitton.
The arrangement with Mr. Jacobs has since dissolved, and the Gerani family, which owns Gilmar, is rebuilding. It has formed a joint venture with Mr. Alfaro and has signed Inacio Ribeiro to consult on the Iceberg line. He designs Clements Ribeiro with Suzanne Clements, his wife. "We had always hoped to get the right consultancy," Mr. Ribeiro said. "Iceberg is a strong name, but it is not exploited."
The arrangement with Mr. Alfaro is a joint venture called Victor Alfaro L.L.C., with the designer owning 60 percent of the business and Gilmar the remainder. And Gilmar, in turn, is licensing the Alfaro name from Victor Alfaro L.L.C. The first collection is to be sold exclusively in New York, where Mr. Alfaro's vintage chic is a favorite of Mariah Carey and several young socialites.
Expansion abroad and into men's wear, cosmetics and a secondary collection are part of Paolo Gerani's dream for the label. "Since 1993 when we signed Marc and Anna, I've been interested in American designers," said Mr. Gerani, a vice president and the creative director of Gilmar. "But with Marc, thanks to Vuitton, we couldn't keep going."
 
Additional Shows
About the last thing that journalists and retailers attending the presentations here need is more shows on their schedule. But that is what they have in Milan, where there are 16 additional shows this season, which is something like the National Basketball Association adding 16 teams to its roster all of a sudden.
At least half of these designers could take a note from a book by the British designer Mark Whittaker. Last week, during the London collections, instead of receiving an invitation to his show, insiders got a video showing his clothes and a note urging them to make use of the accompanying eye pack, lip balm and massage oil while watching the video and avoiding another runway show.
At least one reason for the explosion of shows can be traced to the number of foreigners who showed successfully in Italy during the fall men's season in January, said Beppe Modenese, a vice president of Camera Nazionale della Moda Italiana, the organizing body for the Milan shows. But most of the new names are Italian and not well known. Even with the Asian economic crisis, they are seeking global expansion more aggressively. "A lot of them are young people," Mr. Modenese said. "I'm surprised it's happening so fast, but it's not unexpected."
Massimo Rebecchi staged his first show in Milan on Sunday, a response, he said, to interest from Asia and in anticipation of his opening a store in New York soon. His sleek, refined sportswear does well in Asia, and his company, which is 10 years old, has 12 stores in Italy, including in Milan. "We're professionally ready to do this for expansion," he said.
One thing that has not changed in Italy is the jousting over which of the Milanese fashion titans will close the season. While designers like Mr. Rebecchi contented themselves with any slot, final word on the schedule was held up as the Versace and Armani camps debated over who would show last, Mr. Modenese said. The result: Versace will show on Friday and Armani on Saturday. The clothes will look the same as they would if the order were reversed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MC (PAR) (69%); LVMH (BIT) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (69%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ITALY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ITALY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (51%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); COSMETICS (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); JOINT VENTURES (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); BASKETBALL (60%); WRITERS (60%); MEN'S CLOTHING (50%); 

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (79%); MARIAH CAREY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



62 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 2; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: ARTS ABROAD;
Finding Cultural Roots in the Rhythms of Carnival

BYLINE: By Peter Watrous

DATELINE: FORT-DE-FRANCE, Martinique, Feb. 25

 BODY:
Martinique is celebrating the 150th anniversary of the abolition of slavery, and the subject, quietly, pervasively rippled through the four days of carnival this week. It was everywhere, in the women's gold necklaces that symbolized the chains of bondage to the rhythm of the drum choirs that rustle in the distance like a soft wind, then sweep through the streets furiously.
The reaction to slavery manifested itself in the burlesque that informs the Martinican carnival, the endless streams of the largest potbellied men ever to wear blond wigs and women's underwear, and on the minds of the island's intellectuals. It was in the transgressional rebellion of the carnival songs that puncture this normally restrained society with extraordinarily graphic and joyously vulgar lyrics. 
 Martinican society -- the West Indian island is a department of France -- enjoys a largely middle-class existence, and 30 percent unemployment hardly dents the island's standard of living and spirit of fun. Carnival, the four-day frenzy of partying and music that ends with Lent, starts early, and ends late, on Ash Wednesday, a day after everybody else's.
And in Martinique, the music of carnival, which is everywhere, gives a good representation of how the culture functions, with its tensions between Europe and Africa, the past and the future.
At a pre-carnival party at the Marouba Hotel on the beach a little north of the island's capital, Fort-de-France, the band of the moment, Taxikreol, is making the dance floor churn.
The hit of carnival this year was "En la Casa de Tu Mama," a song in Spanish and Creole that suggests that the singer had fun with the mother, and maybe the daughter too. The band breaks into parodies of French pop songs, with, for example, the woman in the band, Danielle Rene-Corail, singing about unrequited love to a gay man. Around 3 A.M., the Plastic System band comes charging into the audience, with its 20 or so drummers and a pile of horns, its rocking, percussive music driving the audience wild.
The music is somewhere between the carnival rave-ups of New Orleans, Rio de Janeiro and Cuba. The marching-band tradition dates back only to the late 1970's, when there was a struggle to define Martinican culture anew. The effort was completely self-conscious.
Like so many Creole societies, Martinique's people are constantly reassessing their antecedents, African and European, which creates a relationship fraught with pressure because France still runs the place. For example, a decision was made to rid the streets of floats that were based on the carnival traditions of Nice, the seaside resort in France, and to find a Martinican alternative.
"People on the left were looking to end the policy of assimilation supported by the right," said the sociologist Serge Domi, who is also the head of the department of culture of Le Lamentin, a nearby town.
The alternative came in the form of marching bands. The musicians studied Brazilian samba schools, and the Cuban comparsas, and put together an inventory of portable percussion. Carnival today has some 40 bands; 20 years ago there were 3. Twenty years ago, the stigma against drumming was powerful enough to have made it an oddity.
Things have changed, if just a bit.
"Carnival brings out the Creole in us," said Patrick Chamoiseau, the Martinican author of the novel "Texaco" and a leader of the Creolite movement among Martinican intellectuals. "For four days we become more African; it restores us to being the sum of all our parts. We become Martinican."
"The rest of the year," he said, "our Creoleness is crushed."
Mr. Domi, the sociologist, explained it this way: "Anytime a dominant culture holds power, the dominated take their vengeance. In the period of slavery, black people waited all year to show what they felt. That's the power in today's carnival. Resentment exists, and there's a sense here that things are not well, even if people have everything they want. What we don't have is a feeling of a collective future."
That could be because Martinique is profoundly international; the French identity jostles with the Caribbean and the Creole. Cable television brings in a Spanish-language music channel, a French Antilles music channel, pop videos from around the world. Martinican radio mixes Cuban salsa with Haitian music, along with reggae and hip-hop.
"Especially in music, we're an international culture," said Mr. Chamoiseau. "But there's so much pressure to accept the monoculture of France and the United States that music sometimes seems like the only holdout against the worst of internationalism. We're a divided culture. It's hard to get people to appreciate themselves here. People are ashamed of their past as slaves."
Eric Andrieux, the director of Declic Records, which records some of the best Martinican and Guadeloupean bands, said: "We have something individual here, and we have to figure out how to make the traditional music modern, without losing its quality."
At the post-carnival parties that make the surrounding hills ring, the younger generation goes to dance, partying instead of worrying about issues of a Creole identity. One party charges admission and takes credit cards. Disk jockeys played their specialties, one working with soca, calypso and reggae, another with carnival music, a third with salsa.
And the rich variety of music isn't just on the airwaves or coming from disk jockeys' sound systems. Cuban bands play the hotel circuit, and virtually every major hotel has some sort of dance. Music is everywhere. On Sunday, at the La Fontane restaurant, a group of older musicians, Les Compagnons de la Chanson, played courtly beguines, waltzes and mazurkas to an house full of couples in their 60's and 70's, light-skinned Creoles reliving the days when they too danced all night to the island's indigenous music.
While younger generations are dancing in the streets and at parties to the sound of the drum, the older, more refined tradition is quietly vanishing.
"It's tragic that this older culture is losing its popularity," said Jacques Bajal, who works in the Martinican tourist bureau and plays in a traditional drum group. The men and the women dance carefully controlled steps to light music led by a clarinet. The dance is deeply elegant, and the women, wearing Creole gold jewelry and madras headdresses, float across the floor in a beautiful last gasp of a fading culture.
By the end of carnival, after the ritual burning of the carnival god, Valval, on the beach in Fort-de-France, two bands were still playing to the faithful on the outskirts of Le Lamentin. To the music of Matjilpa, a marching band, young women were dancing competitively, challenging each other, or soloed as the roaring waves of drums powered them. The women danced together, and out in the fields, with a warm, moist night to bid it goodbye, carnival slipped slowly away.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bands and dancing are part of the revelry during carnival in Martinique. (Marcelo J. Duek for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MARTINIQUE (96%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTINIQUE (96%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); EUROPE (56%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SLAVERY (90%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); EASTER SEASON (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (77%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); POP & ROCK (74%); RESORTS (71%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); LIVING STANDARDS (68%); BEACHES (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



63 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Index Shows A Faster Pace For Growth At U.S. Plants

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The manufacturing sector of the economy grew at a faster clip than expected last month without suggesting rekindled inflation, a monthly survey showed, as production and new orders increased.
The National Association of Purchasing Management said yesterday that its index of business activity, compiled from interviews with corporate purchasing executives nationwide, rose to 53.3 in February from 52.4 in January. 
The increase reversed three consecutive months of declining growth and was a surprise to economists, who had expected the figure to be unchanged from its January level. Prices paid by manufacturers fell in February, but at a slower pace than in previous months, the report said.
The data were consistent with the trend of steady growth with tame inflation -- the combination behind Wall Street's continuing success. The stock market displayed little reaction to the report, but in the bond market, the yield on the long bond rose to 6 percent.
The purchasing report is widely followed by economists because it is usually the first indicator of how the economy fared in the previous month. Any reading over 50 is a sign that manufacturing is growing.
"The manufacturing part of the economy is humming," said Raymond Worseck, chief economist at A. G. Edwards & Sons Inc. in St. Louis. "Across the board, it's good news."
The gap between exports and imports shrank last month, the report said. Import growth slowed, but the decline in exports also slowed.
The results suggest that Asia's economic troubles will hurt American exports but not devastate them, said Robert Brusca, chief economist at the Nikko Securities International Company. "There is a negative Pacific Rim impact," he said.
Purchasing executives are optimistic about future growth in manufacturing, but their outlook is tempered somewhat by Asia's problems, the study said.
Separately, the Commerce Department reported yesterday that Americans' personal income increased a strong six-tenths of a percent in January, bolstered by cost-of-living increases for Social Security recipients and raises for Federal employees.
Without those and other special factors, incomes would have increased a still-healthy five-tenths of a percent. Incomes had increased four-tenths of a percent in December and seven-tenths of a percent in November.
Consumer spending, meanwhile, rose a moderate four-tenths of a percent in January, the same as in December and November.
President Clinton, in a speech to the Mortgage Bankers Association of America, hailed the income increase as "fresh new evidence the economy continues to grow."
"Since 1993, family incomes are up about $2,200," he said.
In a separate report, the department said construction spending rose seven-tenths of a percent in January, the second consecutive increase and the largest in three months. Increases in housing and commercial construction more than offset a drop in government projects.
Most categories of income increased in January, including the most important -- wages and salaries, up seven-tenths of a percent. Also higher were transfer payments, such as Social Security and welfare, and business owners' income and interest and dividend income.
After adjustments for taxes, disposable, or after-tax, incomes jumped eight-tenths of a percent, the largest increase in 19 months, and the savings rate rose to 4.2 percent of disposable income, the most in seven months and up from 3.9 percent in December.
Construction spending was led by 1 percent gains for both residential and commercial construction. Gains were recorded for single-family homes, apartments, industrial buildings, offices, hotels and motels and stores and malls.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Construction Spending" tracks total construction spending, in billions of dollars, at seasonally adjusted annual rate, from August 1996 through January 1998. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AGE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (68%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); NEW ORDERS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TRENDS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); STATISTICS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (77%); BOND MARKETS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); SOCIAL SECURITY (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (62%); CIVIL SERVICES (61%); MORTGAGE BANKING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



64 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Corning to Sell Most of Its Cookware Unit

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Corning Inc. said yesterday that it had agreed to sell most of its Corning cookware business to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, the New York investment firm, for $583 million.
The accord comes after an agreement to sell the business to AEA Investors Inc. for $825 million fell through. Kohlberg Kravis will pay $583 million in cash and assume $10 million of Corning debt, for which it will get 92 percent of the unit, which makes Corning Ware, Revere Ware and Pyrex cookware. It may pay as much as $15 million more depending on how profitable the business is. 
 The sale allows Corning to focus on its optical fiber, related telecommunications equipment and other technology businesses, while it gives Kohlberg Kravis some of the best-known brands in cookware at a price that analysts called a bargain.
"The price is really more in line with what people originally expected," compared with the possible earlier deal, said Lissa Bogaty, an analyst at Prudential Securities who rates Corning a "buy."
Corning will retain an 8 percent equity interest in the cookware business, which will be managed by Borden Inc., which Kohlberg Kravis also owns.
Corning said the sale would result in a "modest" after-tax gain when the transaction closed, which is expected within 30 days.
While Corning's brand names are widely known and the unit's earnings have improved, largely because of moves to make the manufacturing more efficient, Corning lags behind its competitors in profitability.
Corning's operating profit, as a percentage of sales, is about 8 percent, compared with 18 percent at the Newell Company, one of the nation's largest consumer goods companies.
AEA Investors, an investment fund founded by some of the wealthiest families in the United States, dropped its offer to buy the division early in December because of concerns that economic turmoil in Asia would hurt the unit's sales next year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLW (NYSE) (96%); KKR (NYSE) (93%); NWL (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335921 FIBER OPTIC CABLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (96%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (84%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (55%); NAICS339940 OFFICE SUPPLIES (EXCEPT PAPER) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS337920 BLIND & SHADE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3951 PENS, MECHANICAL PENCILS, & PARTS (54%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (54%); SIC2591 DRAPERY HARDWARE & WINDOW BLINDS & SHADES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (64%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CORNING INC (96%); KKR & CO LP (93%); AEA INVESTORS LP (84%); BORDEN INC (55%); NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (64%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); FIBER OPTICS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



65 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
DOLLAR FALLS. The dollar retreated for the third day against the yen on further signals that Tokyo might use public funds to stimulate the economy. The dollar settled at 125.35 yen, down from 126.10 yen Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since September 1996. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US DOLLAR (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



66 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Shrewd Politics, Sound Policy

BYLINE: By Alan S. Blinder; Alan S. Blinder, an economics professor at Princeton, was vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and a member of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers.

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J.

 BODY:
Since President Clinton introduced his budget for the 1999 fiscal year, there has been much praise for -- and some grumbling about -- the political acuity of his pledge to "reserve" the looming budget surpluses until Social Security has been reformed. Yes, it looks like shrewd politics. But the more important question is, Is it also sound policy? I believe it is. Here's why.
Our nation faces three distinct problems, all related to Social Security. First, the Social Security program is not actuarially sound in the long run. As the baby boomers start to retire, the current Social Security surpluses will dwindle, then disappear, then turn into sizable deficits. 
 But so what? Skeptics will point out, correctly, that the Social Security trust fund is not a trust fund in the usual sense. Money is not being stashed away for the future. Rather, the fund is a mere bookkeeping device -- and bookkeeping can be changed.
With appropriate adjustments in the law, Social Security's books could be balanced with a stroke of the pen. For example, we could simply assign some income tax revenue to the trust fund. Current proposals to invest Social Security money in the stock market would have a similar effect, by infusing revenue into the system. That, however, would come at the expense of the rest of the budget, since the Treasury, deprived of its best customer -- the trust funds -- would have to sell more bonds to the public, and thus pay more in interest.
The second problem is more fundamental: our aging population will create great demands on the Federal Government as more benefits are paid out to retirees and more people go on the Medicare rolls. Whatever budget position we take into the year 2010 -- when the baby boomers begin to retire -- the budget will inexorably move toward deficit thereafter. A farsighted Government would start preparing for that rainy day now.
But even the overall budget surplus or deficit is not the heart of the matter. If Americans were squirreling away enough savings for retirement, economists would not be greatly concerned about the fiscal balance. After all, what the Government does is a minor part of the overall saving and investment equation. To prepare for our grayer future, what the United States really needs is more investment, which builds capital, which in turn generates the earnings required to pay our public and private bills. In short, the third and deepest problem is that America is not saving enough.
Far from being a mere political ploy, the President's plan -- though admittedly vague and certainly short of a full solution -- would ease all three problems. Let's work backward.
Running Federal budget surpluses rather than spending them clearly boosts national saving by adding new Government saving (the annual surpluses) to our paltry private saving. This is precisely the argument economists used for years in urging the Government to reduce the deficit.
Second, the President's proposal would probably put the Federal Government in a better overall fiscal position in 2010. Maintaining modest annual surpluses, instead of spending the money or giving it away as tax cuts, would leave us with a cushion and a smaller national debt when things start to deteriorate.
I do not mean to rule out worthwhile Government expenditures, especially on programs that provide for the future. But each should be weighed against the virtues of having a surplus when the boomers start retiring. Both the deficit and the debt will surely balloon after, say, 2015. Temporary moderation is prudent preparation for our more profligate future.
Finally, let's go back to those so-called accounting fictions, the trust funds for Social Security and Medicare. Economists may call them fictions, but they are facts -- because they have standing in law. Social Security benefits may be paid from only two sources: current payroll tax receipts and the accumulated balance in the trust fund. If the fund runs dry and receipts no longer cover promised benefits, taxes must be raised or benefits trimmed. And changing the rules governing Social Security is politically delicate, to say the least.
The President has called for a yearlong dialogue on the Social Security issue. I cannot predict how that debate will turn out, except for this: It seems almost inevitable that any comprehensive repair will involve both infusing revenue into the system and paring the benefit structure somewhat.
If there is any revenue component at all, the nation will look back on Mr. Clinton's proposal to "reserve" the surplus and think, "That sure was smart."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Wesley Bedrosian)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SOCIAL SECURITY (92%); BUDGETS (91%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); AGING (77%); BABY BOOMERS (75%); AGING TRENDS (72%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (70%); INCOME TAX (66%); MEDICARE (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



67 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Hate Groups in U.S. Are Growing, Report Says

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

DATELINE: ATLANTA, March 2

 BODY:
With a boost from the Internet, white power rock-and-roll music and even the approach of the millennium, the number of organized hate groups in the United States has continued to increase, a research group has concluded in a new report. The increase comes despite a robust economy, which experts contend typically discourages the proliferation of such organizations.
The report, to be issued on Tuesday by the Intelligence Project of the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala., says 474 hate groups and their chapters were involved in racist behavior last year. 
 The law center, which tracks and monitors hate groups and paramilitary groups, used a new method this year in its annual count of hate groups. That makes it impossible to compare last year's number with the tally from previous years. But if the center's old methodology had been used, the number of hate groups in 1997 would have represented a 20 percent increase from the year before, according to a new edition of the group's quarterly Intelligence Report.
The increase comes mostly from growth in the number of chapters of pre-existing groups like the Ku Klux Klan and in the number of churches belonging to the Christian Identity movement, which cites biblical foundations for white supremacy and anti-Semitism.
On one level, the findings are surprising because sociologists and experts on hate groups typically argue that such groups are nourished by economic hardship.
"It really is remarkable growth for a year in which the economy is steaming right along," said Mark Potok, the editor of the report.
But Mr. Potok said the proliferation of hate-group Internet sites and of racist rock music seemed to be fueling the increase. Those developments are particularly alarming, he said, because they provide new ways to recruit young people.
"The hate movement in the United States has done very poorly in recruiting young people, by and large, and it may be turning the corner," Mr. Potok said.
Less than three years after a Klan member named Don Black created the first neo-Nazi site on the World Wide Web, there are now 163 Web sites advocating racial hatred, according to the report. Mr. Potok also estimated that hate-oriented music labels each year were selling 50,000 copies of recordings by groups like No Remorse and Bound for Glory that use incendiary lyrics to advocate violence against minorities.
A third factor, Mr. Potok said, is the approach of the millennium.
"Many of these groups really do see the year 2000, if not literally as Armageddon, then as the coming of the end times, and they feel that they must go to war," he said.
In 1996, 8,759 bias-motivated crimes were reported to the Federal Bureau of Investigation by state and local law-enforcement agencies, compared with 7,947 in 1995. But because many police departments are just starting to quantify hate crimes as a distinct category, the F.B.I. cannot determine whether the increase is real or a matter of improved reporting, said Debbie J. Weierman, a spokeswoman for the agency.
James Cavanaugh, the special agent in charge of the Birmingham, Ala., office of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, which is investigating the Jan. 29 bombing of an abortion clinic in that city, said he also thought that the splintering of organizations was responsible for some of the increase in hate groups. But he agreed that the Internet was also generating new interest.
"Just as it has helped Wall Street and the media industry, it has also helped hate groups," Mr. Cavanaugh said. "Before they were more isolated. Now it's easier for them to see like-minded bigots. The country has shrunk." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (83%); SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (90%); SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (90%); SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNET & WWW (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); POP & ROCK (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); HATE CRIME (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); RELIGION (71%); POLICE FORCES (62%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (61%); 

PERSON: MARK POTOK (89%); JAMES CAVANAUGH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



68 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1803 words

HEADLINE: Sticking to the Formula;
DuPont Insists Mundane and Exotic Products Mix Well

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del.

 BODY:
Charles O. Holliday Jr. knows that a lot of investors think he should break up DuPont, the $45 billion chemical industry giant where he was put in charge this year. He knows they think that mundane products like polyester and petroleum are a distraction from hot items like genetically altered corn or fancy new drugs.
He knows -- he just does not agree. When Chad Holliday talks to DuPont's divisional people, he does not hear a cacophony. He hears an orchestra tuning up, one that once it gets its research, marketing and production instruments to augment their solos with ensemble play, will sound just fine. 
 "I am absolutely convinced that all our technologies are better off working with each other," Mr. Holliday said.
But can he convince investors that he is right? That E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, based here, is better off pushing products ranging from oil to pesticides to bulletproof vests, instead of homing in on drugs, enhanced crops and other nutrition and health-oriented life sciences businesses?
Competitors do not seem to think so. "Chemicals and life sciences are entirely separate businesses, requiring different management and attracting different investors," said A. Nicholas Filippello, a vice president of the Monsanto Company, which spun off its chemical operations in September.
So far, DuPont's investors are hanging in -- the company's stock trades at a respectable 16 times estimated 1998 earnings. It closed Monday at $62.5625, up $1.25. That's enough to satisfy most members of the DuPont family, who hold about 15 percent of the stock. "I like being in a spectrum of promising businesses," Edward B. DuPont, a director, said. "And most of my assets are in this company."
But nonfamily investors are getting restless. They have seen the stocks of rival chemical companies soar when they shed older products -- Monsanto's shares trade at more than 40 times the 1998 earnings that analysts project -- and they want some of the same action.
Specifically, they want DuPont to sell Conoco, the oil company it bought in 1981; to spin off the chemical operations to shareholders, and to concentrate on life sciences.
"There aren't any advantages to being so complicated," said Roger E. Ford, managing director at Prudential Investments, which sold all its DuPont stock last summer. "DuPont should be three companies: life sciences, chemicals and oil."
This is a dangerous time for DuPont to trust in the status quo. Mr. Holliday, a 28-year DuPont employee who became chief executive in January, has promised that earnings will grow at least 10 percent a year through 2003. But the rich prices DuPont paid for several agricultural and basic chemical acquisitions in 1997 will dilute earnings for at least a year. The strong dollar, Asia's weak economy and dropping oil prices all mitigate against a terrific 1998.
"Meeting that 10 percent goal, without life sciences being a bigger part of the mix, is going to be a real challenge," said James F. Stanley, a portfolio manager at the Delaware Management Company.
DuPont is certainly not ignoring life sciences. Last year it spent more than $3 billion to buy Ralston Purina's Protein Technologies International, a soya products company, and 20 percent of Pioneer Hi-Bred International, a seed corn company. It is building a new biotechnology research center in Wilmington now.
Mr. Holliday has told investors that he wants life sciences to contribute at least 30 percent of earnings soon, up from about 18 percent now. Some of the life sciences executives are even more gung-ho. "We see plant genetics as tomorrow's Silicon Valley," said William F. Kirk, senior vice president of DuPont Agricultural Enterprise, a newly created division that expects about $3.5 billion in sales this year.
But what rankles some outside investors is that DuPont is spending just as heavily on businesses that they want it to shed. The company spent more than $3 billion to buy Imperial Chemical Industries' industrial whiteners and polyester film operations. About half of its $1.1 billion research budget is devoted to chemicals. And it bought vast oil reserves in Texas and Venezuela to beef up Conoco -- a move that even fans of its chemical conglomerate structure cannot abide.
"DuPont has enough money to fund its global chemical business along with life sciences," said Leslie C. Ravitz, an analyst with Morgan Stanley. "But I don't understand why they are holding onto Conoco."
Mr. Holliday insists that the question is not one of "either-or," but one of "and."
"If we'd seen another $6 billion of life sciences acquisitions, we would have made them," he said. "But we aren't missing any opportunities by investing in chemicals or Conoco."
In fact, he is out to prove that he is gaining a lot. Mr. Holliday is plumbing every DuPont business and function, seeking ways they can piggyback on one another's efforts.
Life sciences researchers are trying to "grow" chemicals -- say, by incorporating genes from spiders into a plant that could make a fiber with the strength of a spider's web, or substituting fermented plant glucose for petroleum-based chemicals. Chemists, meanwhile, are classifying chemicals for possible use in pharmaceuticals and pesticides.
"Why not use molecular biology and genetics to make plastics and fibers?" asked Joseph A. Miller Jr., DuPont's chief technology officer.
DuPont's product chiefs are collaborating more these days, too. The group that makes Lycra -- DuPont's brand name for spandex -- has found a way, for example, to use it in women's dress shoes. Now they are working with the Kevlar group to see if Kevlar, known best for bulletproof fabrics, would work for shoe heels. "We're looking for economy of scope, not just economy of scale," said Steven R. McCracken, vice president of DuPont Lycra.
In a sense, it is easy to understand Mr. Holliday's continued affection for chemicals and oil. Both businesses earn more than the cost of capital. Joint ventures with Asahi, Dow Chemical and others have given DuPont relatively inexpensive access to new markets and technologies. The Imperial Chemical businesses, meanwhile, have given DuPont a formidable presence in Europe.
"Chad said loud and clear, 'See how you can grow this business,' " said Ellen J. Kullman, the vice president responsible for industrial whiteners. "He did not say, 'Turn your business into a cash cow.' "
Ms. Kullman and other executives in basic chemicals have been wringing costs from or adding attributes to products widely viewed as generics. DuPont has squeezed 40 percent out of the cost of polyester resins for bottles. It has a catalyst in the works that can give inexpensive chemicals like polyethylene, used to make plastic wrap and other basic goods, some of the strength and flexibility of chemicals that sell for much more. It has fine-tuned its Dacron fibers so that they make more pliable pillows and more flexible clothing.
Such tinkering does not pack the punch of earlier DuPont innovations like Teflon, Dacron and nylon. But it can add years of life to aging products. "We may not have home runs anymore," William Ghitis, Dacron's managing director, said, "but we sure can score singles."
Score them, yes -- but selling them is another matter. Just ask Kurt M. Landgraf, Mr. Holliday's second in command. At Mr. Holliday's behest, Mr. Landgraf recently assessed DuPont's marketing practices; he was horrified at the vacuum that pervaded not just industrial chemicals, but consumer brands.
DuPont's fluoroproducts division, which makes nonstick coatings like Teflon and Silverstone, had a finance man running marketing because "it was a good development tool for him," Mr. Landgraf recalled, his voice still registering disbelief. "When it comes to marketing, DuPont has missed the boat big time."
Now, the businesses are swimming fast to catch up. Mr. Landgraf is showing them how to market directly to end users -- to farmers, say, for pesticides; to athletes for Lycra-based clothing -- with the idea that if consumers request DuPont brands, dealers will stock them. And he is trying to persuade the businesses to stress service.
"Offer just-in-time delivery or global support or input into new product research, and you could set a piece of wood apart from the pack," Mr. Landgraf insisted.
That kind of thinking is a sea change for DuPont, which has never put much marketing muscle behind industrial products. But then, Mr. Landgraf and Mr. Holliday represent a sea change themselves.
Mr. Landgraf, 51, is the former chief executive of DuPont Merck, and is the first DuPonter to rise to the No. 2 spot through the pharmaceutical and marketing ranks. Mr. Holliday, at 49, is the company's youngest leader in 50 years. An industrial engineer who spent many years running various DuPont fibers businesses, he is the first chief to have done a stint in Asia.
He faces different problems from his predecessors. Edgar S. Woolard Jr., DuPont's chief executive from 1989 through 1995, spent much of his tenure cutting bloated costs and increasing sluggish productivity. He also arranged the company's 82 product lines into 16 profit centers, each responsible for its own technology, marketing and bottom line.
John A. Krol, who took over in 1995, reshaped the product portfolio. He shed ancillary businesses like printing and medical products, and he negotiated last year's acquisitions. Thus, when Mr. Krol, who is 61, opted for early retirement -- a decision that the board insists, and analysts believe, was his own -- Mr. Holliday inherited a company with solid earnings and cash flow, manageable debt and low costs. Mr. Holliday has promised to cut costs even more, but most DuPont watchers expect him to focus on proving that the company can move as nimbly as specialized competitors.
"He's not just reducing costs, he's eliminating structural empires and bureaucracy," said J. Jeffrey Cianci, an analyst with Bear, Stearns.
Now Mr. Holliday must give DuPont's business units the skills to handle autonomy. Mr. Landgraf's marketing push is part of that. So is an in-house financial college that Gary M. Pfeiffer, the chief financial officer, has spearheaded to teach the businesses how to manage cash.
"I want the businesses to have their own lawyers, their own finance people, everything that will speed up their decisions," Mr. Holliday said. "I want to see charts tracking customer satisfaction in every office."
Sounds nice -- but investors would prefer charts of a soaring stock price. Thus, DuPont's biggest marketing job may yet be convincing investors that its life sciences baby needs its older chemical siblings.
"We're like this school of little fish," Mr. Pfeiffer said. "If they swim together, they can cast an enormous shark-like shadow."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles O. Holliday Jr., DuPont's chief, among the soybean plants at a company greenhouse near Willimington, Del. (Carol T. Power for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "The Sum Of Its Parts"
Analysts and some big investors contend that DuPont would be more valuable split into three more-focused companies. They cite the examples of some of its competitors and other big companies, like AT&T, that have done so recently. But management says that the company's different operations benefit from being together. Here are the sales and after-tax operating incomes for the parts of the company that some shareholders would like to see be independent. Graph tracks figures for DuPont's chemical, oil, and life sciences operations, from 1987 through 1997. (Source: The company) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (95%); DD (NYSE) (95%); MON (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (95%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (95%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (95%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (67%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (95%); MONSANTO CO (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (67%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHEMICALS (92%); CHEMICALS MFG (91%); PESTICIDE MFG (90%); CHEMICALS TRADE (90%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); US DOLLAR (60%); NUTRITION (52%); 

PERSON: CHARLES O HOLLIDAY JR (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



69 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Rumors of Gingrich in Presidential Race Lead to Jostling Over a Successor

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 2

 BODY:
For months the rumor ricocheted from office to office on Capitol Hill, but it never quite sank in. The buzz was that Representative Newt Gingrich, the first Republican Speaker of the House in 40 years, would step down early to run for President.
Mr. Gingrich, whose approval ratings are slowly inching up, says officially that he still plans on being the Speaker through Jan. 3, 2003, when he is obliged to step down under term limits adopted in 1995. 
 But even though guessing Mr. Gingrich's course remains speculation, in the frenzied world of House Republicans it has led to real elbowing and jostling.
For a few days last week, Representative Bill Paxon, the Buffalo Republican who was once a favorite of the leadership until he joined in a coup against it last summer, gripped his hat brim, ready to throw it into the ring. Then he reversed himself and announced that he would leave Congress altogether.
That decision might have had something to do with the emergence of another front-running contender for the job: Robert L. Livingston, the popular Louisiana Congressman who heads the powerful Appropriations Committee.
Several other committee chairmen are also likely to consider a run for Speaker, sensing a wide-open field if Mr. Gingrich voluntarily leaves, observers say.
There is at least one person who does not see any need for a competition. He is Representative Dick Armey of Texas, who as the majority leader ranks second to Mr. Gingrich of Georgia in the Republican hierarchy. Majority leaders, after all, have traditionally had a claim to the Speaker's chair, at least when House Democrats wrote the script.
But there is no clamor for Mr. Armey, and the scuffling of last week was a plain indication, many members agreed, that Mr. Armey, the folksy, conservative Texas ideologue, was not ready for the job.
"There is widespread concern with the question, 'Is Dick promotable?' " said Representative Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican who is among Mr. Armey's most fervent critics, recounting the round of discussions in the past two weeks. "If he wants to get promoted, he needs to honestly assess where he is with members."
The turn of events last week also signaled that Republicans would not necessarily subscribe to the Democratic tradition of succession.
"The question of who is going to lead this party, post-Newt Gingrich, is a wide open question," said W. J. (Billy) Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican who was once a Democrat. "Nobody better assume they have some clear track in that position because of where they sit or have sat. This party is not bound by the old rules of the majority. I don't think the lines of succession are going to mean as much."
The events leading up to Mr. Paxon's decision to retire from Congress have served as a communal wake-up call for House members; many of them had been lulled into thinking that Mr. Gingrich, whose in-house popularity has shot up since a record low last summer, would wield the gavel for another four years.
Then, in recent weeks, the talk about Mr. Gingrich's Presidential ambition became intense. Last week, Mr. Paxon, citing conversations with Mr. Gingrich's advisers, called it an "absolute certainty" that the Speaker would run for President. And two weeks ago, Mr. Livingston, who was contemplating retirement, changed his mind after a private conversation with Mr. Gingrich. Then, all of a sudden, he said that he would be interested in running for Speaker if the position came open in 2000.
"I can only tell you when a rumor reaches this level you take it seriously," Mr. Tauzin said. "It's the reason all of this got started. There would not have been all this turmoil but for the strong belief that Newt might run for President."
No one appeared more alarmed by the turn of events than Mr. Armey, who had seen his standing among some colleagues sink in the past year as Mr. Gingrich's had risen.
The idea of a Paxon challenge made Mr. Armey plainly nervous, members say. Two weeks ago, he began canvassing members for votes. It also unnerved Mr. Gingrich, who swiftly backed Mr. Armey and made it known that he wanted no division in the Republican ranks, especially in an election year.
By midweek, when Mr. Paxon announced that he planned to retire, it seemed evident that Mr. Armey would have weathered the race. But the short-lived challenge, as well the mutterings about Mr. Livingston's qualifications for Speaker, disquieted Mr. Armey and prompted deeper soul-searching.
"The leader came away from this that much stronger than he was before," said Representative Jim Nussle, the Iowa Republican who was enlisted by Mr. Armey to count votes. "And in this instance, he learned from it. He learned and will make changes."
For Mr. Armey, the tide began to shift last summer.
A staunch flat-tax advocate, abortion opponent and free-market cheerleader, Mr. Armey had become a role model of sorts for the conservatives in the 74-member class elected in 1994. They were so confident in his fealty to the cause, and dubious of Mr. Gingrich's, they requested that Mr. Armey be the one to safeguard their interests in the balanced budget negotiations with the White House.
Then, last July, a small group of rebel conservatives, disillusioned with Mr. Gingrich's hands-off style and willingness to compromise, began talking about ousting the Speaker. Mr. Armey, the rebels say, attended those conversations with several other leaders.
Mr. Armey has said he took no part in the scheme. But several conservatives maintain that Mr. Armey's decision to tell Mr. Gingrich of the plot, and then distance himself from it, severely hurt his credibility and lost him an important chunk of his most dependable supporters.
But some say Mr. Armey's problems run deeper than concern over the attempted coup last July. Keen on anecdotes about his fishing trips and his passion for conservative causes, Mr. Armey, a former economics professor, has faced a wave of criticism in the past year. Members say he is often politically clumsy, coming across as unpolished, a man too enamored of his cowboy boots. He lacks star power, they say.
Some members simply want Mr. Armey to behave more like a leader. Many say he is ill-suited to the world of glad-handing and sound bites, and unenthusiastic about the one-on-one chats that he must hold with the rank-and-file.
"He is not nearly as articulate as Gingrich and he does not come across as effectively as Gingrich on television," said Representative Howard Coble, Republican of North Carolina, who has been a member of the House since 1985. "If you can give that 30-second sound bite effectively, you are ahead of the game."
Listening, they say, has not been Mr. Armey's strong suit.
Clearly, it is something he recognizes. Last month when Republicans went on a retreat, members were asked to state the one thing they had learned in the past year. Mr. Armey stood up and said the importance of two-way communication.
But members also acknowledge that playing No. 2 to Mr. Gingrich is an unglamorous job, one which Mr. Armey performs capably and quietly. One Republican consultant wondered whether Mr. Gingrich does not in fact relish Mr. Armey's role as the perfect foil.
"Armey is to Newt what Dan Quayle was to George Bush," one Republican strategist said. "He's a loyal soldier, and if he's a bit of a bumbler, that's even better."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Speaker Newt Gingrich speaking yesterday on Capitol Hill. (Amy Toensing for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (72%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (92%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



70 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Attacks G.O.P. Tax Overhaul Plan

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 2

 BODY:
President Clinton took aim today at a Republican proposal to abolish the current Federal tax code by the end of 2001, calling it an irresponsible gimmick that could endanger the nation's prosperity.
Setting up a political clash over a fast-developing issue that the Republican leadership in Congress has put high on its agenda this year, Mr. Clinton said the proposal would create so much uncertainty for businesses and individuals that the economy could come grinding to a halt. 
 The proposal, which Congress could vote on within the next few months, would require that the current tax law be scrapped by Dec. 31, 2001, allowing three years for a national debate on what kind of new system to adopt. The proposal would not specify what should take its place but calls for Congress to decide on a new tax code by the middle of 2001.
The Senate version of the bill has 25 Republicans sponsors and is supported by Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader. The House version has 137 sponsors and the support of Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia. White House officials said they took seriously the possibility that the legislation could pass this year, though its chances of overcoming Democratic opposition in the Senate appear slim.
But in a speech today Mr. Clinton all but promised to veto the measure if it ever reached his desk.
"Under the guise of reform, they have proposed what, to me, is an irresponsible scheme to eliminate our tax laws without any system to replace them," Mr. Clinton said.
Without knowing what the tax code would be, Mr. Clinton said, companies would be unable to make investment decisions and families would face considerable uncertainty in planning for buying homes, saving for college and retirement and other economic decisions. In the vacuum, he said, growth could stall, and job creation and the nation's newfound fiscal stability could be put at risk.
"Scrapping the home mortgage deduction, scrapping the other middle-class tax cuts without presenting a clear alternative is simply reckless for the economy, reckless for businesses, reckless for families' budgets," Mr. Clinton said. "And I will not permit it, if I can stop it, but it shouldn't pass in the first place."
Clearly concerned about being portrayed by Republicans as a defender of the current tax system, with all its complexities and abuses, Mr. Clinton repeatedly said he was not opposed to an overhaul of the tax code.
But he left no doubt that neither of the leading Republican ideas -- a single-rate flat tax and a national sales tax -- would meet his requirement that the tax burden not be shifted from the wealthy onto middle- and low-income people. And while he said the Administration would continue to look for ways to simplify the income tax system and make it more fair, he offered no sweeping overhaul proposals of his own.
Senator Tim Hutchinson, the Arkansas Republican who is a sponsor of the Senate bill, said, "I will leave it to the President to defend today's cumbersome tax code, but I will continue to call for a fairer, simpler tax system that benefits taxpayers of all income levels."
"I trust the American people will be able to decide which is more 'irresponsible' -- our current incomprehensible tax code or a better system rebuilt from the ground up," Mr. Hutchinson said.
While many Republicans believe that creating a new tax code is both good economic policy and good politics, they have been unable to agree among themselves on which of the main alternatives to support.
Many Democrats are happy to see the topic become an issue in this year's midterm elections, believing that any new tax system will become difficult for Republicans to defend, once they have to address such specific changes as the elimination of the deductions for home mortgage interest and charitable contributions, as most versions of the flat tax and the national sales tax would require.
Republicans who support setting a drop-dead date for the current system believe that is the best way to force a decision on an issue that will put members of Congress in the line of fire from nearly every special interest group.
"If we don't create a deadline, it will be much harder to make tax reform happen," Mr. Lott said. "Clearly, this President needs to be forced to consider fundamental tax reform, just like he needed to be forced to fix the I.R.S."
As part of a strategy to make taxes a central issue both in this year's midterm Congressional elections and in the 2000 Presidential race, Republicans led high-profile hearings last year into the complexities of the tax code and abuses of taxpayers by the Internal Revenue Service.
After initially opposing legislation intended to rein in the tax-collection agency, the Administration reversed itself and backed an I.R.S. overhaul bill passed overwhelmingly by the House. The Senate will soon take up its version.
But while the Republicans have kept the White House on the defensive over the I.R.S., they have yet to show that they can make creating a new tax system a winning political issue for the party.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton criticized as "irresponsible" yesterday a plan by Republicans that includes a deadline for ending the current tax code. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: ARKANSAS REPUBLICAN (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAX REFORM (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VETO (79%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); SALES TAX (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); JOB CREATION (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); TRENT LOTT (59%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



71 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: School Spending Debate Returns to Court

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON

DATELINE: TRENTON, March 2

 BODY:
The State Attorney General and lawyers representing students in urban districts argued before the New Jersey Supreme Court today about whether the state should spend more money for new education programs and improvements to school buildings to help students overcome the disadvantages of poverty.
The arguments represented the latest chapter in the state's long-running legal battle over inequities in spending between the state's poorest and wealthiest school districts. But what was different today was that the court for the first time was considering whether to order the state to provide specific social services and early childhood education programs. 
 The Attorney General, Peter Verniero, contended that the state's highest court should back away from the debate and leave decisions about educational policy to the Whitman administration and the State Legislature.
But lawyers representing schoolchildren in the state's 28 urban school districts urged the court not to abandon the activist role it has played for almost three decades. They asked the court to require New Jersey to pay for supplemental programs that range from psychological counseling for high school students to preschool for children as young as age 3. They also asked the court to demand that the state cover the cost of repairing and renovating deteriorating school buildings.
Almost a year ago, in its latest ruling in the case, the court ordered the state to spend more on its poor school districts. The state responded by increasing aid to the urban districts by $248 million to bring per-pupil spending in those districts up to the same level as the state's wealthiest school districts. The poor districts were already receiving $2.3 billion in state funds, a little less than half of what the state spends annually on public education.
The court also instructed state officials last year to identify additional academic programs and services to help schoolchildren in the financially needy districts to succeed. In addition, the court ordered the state to determine how many school buildings in those districts needed to be replaced, expanded or repaired.
In response, the Whitman administration proposed new programs that Mr. Verniero said today could be paid for within existing school budgets. He requested that the court leave it up to the state to determine what those programs should be and how they should be financed. He said that they include a new reading program for elementary school students that has worked well in other states. He said the schools could also put students in touch with community-based organizations that could provide whatever social services they needed. Administration officials have previously said that the courts should not determine how school repairs and renovations are handled.
He said that ending the spending disparity between rich and poor districts was no longer the "core" issue. "This case is now about programs," he said.
Mr. Verniero said that the court should defer to the State Education Commissioner's judgment and allow the administration and the Legislature to implement educational policy. "It's the question of which branch of government shall determine, control and ultimately implement the educational policies of New Jersey."
David Sciarra, executive director of the Education Law Center, the organization that has led the fight on behalf of poor schoolchildren for almost three decades, argued that the administration's plan does not go far enough to assist economically disadvantaged students, as the court requested last year. He urged the court to direct what specific programs the state should offer and how much it should spend.
Bolstering Mr. Sciarra's argument is the finding by Judge Michael Patrick King of the Appellate Division of Superior Court, who was asked by the Supreme Court to make a recommendation on what programs and services should be supplied.
In January, Judge King recommended a host of supplemental programs that would cost the state about $312 million more a year, including all-day preschool for 3- and 4-year-olds. He also recommended the state spend $2.8 billion on a long-term program to repair and replace deteriorating school buildings in the state's cities.
After Judge King's recommendations, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman and Republican legislative leaders began to publicly question whether the courts should be further dictating how state education dollars should be spent.
In her budget address last month, Mrs. Whitman cited all that the state had done to assist economically disadvantaged children in the 28 urban districts. "The Legislature and this Governor know what our jobs are and we know how to do them," she said.
Last week, Assembly Speaker Jack Collins and Senate President Donald T. DiFrancesco wrote a strongly worded letter to the Supreme Court's seven justices that said that lawmakers "do not have a blank check when it comes to funding education."
It is unclear what the court might do based upon the questions posed by the justices during today's session, which lasted more than three hours.
Chief Justice Deborah Poritz, who had recused herself from the school financing issue last year because she had served as attorney general in the Whitman administration, was among those justices asking questions today. She decided last month to join her colleagues on the bench for these arguments, saying that she no longer saw a conflict of interest.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Trachtenberg, left, and David Sciarra of the Education Law Center, after yesterday's session of the New Jersey Supreme Court. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (91%); NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (91%); NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SCHOOL DISTRICTS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); LAWYERS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (73%); BUDGETS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (72%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (54%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (52%); 

PERSON: CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (75%); PETER VERNIERO (66%); MICHAEL PATRICK KING (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



72 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1625 words

HEADLINE: Jesse Jackson Jr. Is His Father's Son, But He Reaches Beyond the Rainbow

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: FLOSSMOOR, Ill.

 BODY:
Tudor architecture and pricey boutiques line the broad sidewalks of Sterling Avenue in this elegant Chicago suburb, where a Land Rover slips into a parking lot near a micro-brewery.
Out of the vehicle steps a young man in a crisp white shirt and blue tie, the collar of his overcoat stylishly upturned. 
 The man on the move is Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., a rising political star at 32. He has spent the day striding across his turf, stretching from the South Side of Chicago deep into suburbia: the broken-glass-strewn neighborhoods of Ford Heights, median-income and racially mixed Matteson, well-to-do Flossmoor.
"My colleagues in Washington tend to see me as simply 'the guy from the South Side, the guy from the neighborhood,' " Mr. Jackson says, his voice a mix of amusement and annoyance at the stereotypical soul brother image. "And during campaigns, I'm usually asked to run the 'black circuit.' They usually don't tell the press I'm in town, because they don't want to scare the white voters. But I tell them, the white voters in my district love me."
After just over two years in Congress, Mr. Jackson has become a force in Illinois politics in a way that eluded his father, the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson. Courted by politicians in both parties, the young Democratic Congressman has become best known here as a champion of south suburban interests, pursuing a meat-and-potatoes agenda of jobs and economic development and joining forces with a conservative Republican powerhouse, Representative Henry J. Hyde, in pressing for building a new airport in the cornfields 40 miles south of downtown Chicago.
If his father came to embody one moment in history, Representative Jackson may come to reflect another: the suburbanization of black political power. His district is 65 percent black and 35 percent white; it is also one-third suburban, a percentage that is growing fast as middle-class blacks leave the South Side.
"Jesse Jackson Jr.'s persona is very different from his father's," said David Bositis, a political analyst for the Joint Center for Political Studies, a research group focused on black concerns. "He represents the new black politics, the new black middle class."
When Mr. Jackson entered Congress in 1995, filling a vacancy left by the resignation of Mel Reynolds after his criminal conviction for having sex with a teen-age girl, there was plenty of skepticism about this young man's easy path to elective office -- his first. He was regarded, even by many who voted for him, as a child of privilege with a famous name who would take predictable stands on the issues and make fiery speeches denouncing the evils of racism in America. Before he became a Congressman, he was a field director for the Rainbow Coalition, the organization founded by his father.
But Mr. Jackson quickly won over many skeptics. He ran virtually unopposed in 1996, and is expected to coast to re-election this fall.
Since the 1970's, blacks have been leaving American cities for the suburbs at the same rate as whites. In Chicago, blacks have largely moved to the mostly white south suburbs, where housing is more affordable than on the woodsy, wealthy North Shore. This changing racial mix has met with some fears among whites, many of whom left the city a generation ago as neighborhoods changed from white to black, sometimes in what seemed an instant, and property values collapsed.
Despite the anxieties among whites -- and some blacks, who fear resegregation -- the experience of racial change in the suburbs has not brought a decline in property values. Middle-class blacks who are moving to places like Homewood, not to mention those buying $400,000 houses in Olympia Fields and Flossmoor, tend to share economic perspectives with their white suburban neighbors.
This changing mix has complicated district politics and blurred some traditional divisions between blacks and whites, suburbanites and city dwellers. When Mr. Jackson talks about attracting people to the south suburbs "who share our values," he is speaking for blacks and whites.
In Congress, Mr. Jackson's voting record is reliably liberal. But he defies easy categories. A man who likes to hunt and enjoy a fine cigar, young Mr. Jackson is not uncomfortable in the company of Republicans. He has not ruled out endorsing a Republican in the race for governor if the Democratic nominee opposes the airport.
On race relations, Mr. Jackson has emerged as an uncommon Chicago politician who can speak a language that seems to be understood by blacks and whites alike. He talks of the difficulties of a black man hailing a cab on Capitol Hill. And he talks with empathy about whites anxious about racial changes in the suburbs.
"White people in the far south suburbs drive down Dixie Highway every day, and this is what they see," Mr. Jackson said, lifting his hand from the gear shift of his Land Rover and pointing toward the shuttered factories and stores of Harvey, once a vibrant working-class steel town, a community that has been withering since its smokestacks vanished a decade ago. "They see an increasing African-American population. They see problems. And they say, 'I don't want that coming my way.' "
In the view of Mr. Jackson, the color that matters most is green. It is the collapse of the industrial economy, not the influx of blacks, that has brought down towns like Harvey.
"Ninety percent of the racial debate is really about economics," he said. "If we frame the discussion in terms of growth, jobs, the economy, we can move beyond the racial battleground."
Toward that end, Mr. Jackson has been single-minded in his drive to build an airport in the south suburbs, a $2.7 billion project that would shower the region with jobs. It would also transform suburbs like Ford Heights, so poor it cannot afford a police department, into property that is suddenly quite valuable.
It is not altogether surprising when Mr. Jackson drives through black neighborhoods, and people respond with honking horns and clenched fists, as if to honor a hero. But it is astonishing in suburban Chicago to see so many whites fawn over a black liberal, some of them the same people who scorned his father.
At a breakfast shop in Chicago Heights, a working-class town with a history of racial tension, blue-collar white men crowded around Mr. Jackson as if he were an old pal.
Mr. Hyde, who has made joint appearances with Mr. Jackson at rallies to promote the new airport, said Mr. Jackson had earned the respect of his colleagues by working hard and acknowledging that, as a freshman, he had a lot to learn.
In the view of political experts in Illinois, Mr. Jackson's appeal among whites and suburbanites, as well as urban blacks, makes him a political figure of enormous potential.
"The upside for this guy is the moon -- I mean it's unlimited," said Paul Green, a professor of political science at Governor's State University in the south suburbs. Mr. Green said Mr. Jackson was in a special position to reach across racial boundaries, given the reservoir of good will many blacks have for the son of a famous civil rights fighter.
"With his name, there is very little he can do to alienate black voters," Mr. Green said. "He's like Daley with the Irish: there's always going to be that cushion of support."
As a result, Mr. Green said, Mr. Jackson can take some chances that other black politicians cannot, like forging alliances with conservative Republicans and playing down racial politics. In fact, Mr. Green said that some black leaders privately complained that Congressman Jackson was too moderate but that they did not dare criticize him publicly.
Some liberals in Chicago say they hope he will run for mayor, a move Mr. Jackson dismisses. But most political experts seriously doubt that Mr. Jackson would make such a run, especially against an incumbent mayor as popular as Richard M. Daley. Most analysts say it is more likely that Mr. Jackson would someday try for the Senate.
But first, he must build a record. So far, he has been careful to tend to business at home, building roads and working on Federal grants for jobs. In more than two years in Congress, he has not missed a vote. And he has held only four news conferences.
It was the rap on the elder Mr. Jackson that he was always looking for the TV cameras, never staying to finish a job. "Jesse Jetstream," the Chicago press long ago nicknamed the father, a man always flying off to the next news conference.
The upbringing of the younger Mr. Jackson, of course, differs starkly with the childhood of his father, a product of poverty and the segregated South. The younger Mr. Jackson attended the prestigious St. Albans preparatory school in Washington, a bastion of the well connected, the alma mater of Vice President Al Gore. He has a law degree from the University of Illinois and lists fencing among his hobbies.
As a child, Mr. Jackson said, he was shaped more by his mother, Jacqueline, than by his father, who was often on the road. Time spent with his father, he recalled, "was often a 15-minute ride from the airport to another meeting."
But the father has taught him some important lessons, he said.
Representative Jackson recalled a time, more than a decade ago, flying with his father over Iowa. His father called him to the window and told him to look down. The son saw great expanses of cultivated corn and bean fields. But it was impossible to see the sweat of the farmers, or their struggles, below.
"Son, if you're flying high, you miss a lot of the details," the Congressman said his father told him. "It was his way of saying, 'Don't get too heady.'
"He was also telling me, 'You've been given a lot. A lot is expected of you.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Ninety percent of the racial debate is really about economics," said Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., whose district includes Harvey, a once-thriving Chicago suburb where now there is an abandoned steelworks. (Cynthia Howe for The New York Times)

Chart: "AT A GLANCE -- South Side and Suburbia"
 
THE DISTRICT
AREA: 124 square miles
Includes much of Chicago's old South Side industrial area plus many suburbs to the south.
 
DEMOGRAPHICS (1990)
POPULATION: 572,188
 
RACE AND ETHNICITY
BLACK -- 68.5%
WHITE -- 27.1%
ASIAN -- 0.6%
HISPANIC -- 6.6% (CAN BE OF ANY RACE)
 
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $30,217
 
FAMILIES IN POVERTY: 15.1%
 
ADULTS 25 AND OVER WITH COLLEGE DEGREE: 13.1%
 
1996 ELECTIONS
 
Presidential
CLINTON: 85%
PEROT: 3%
DOLE: 11%
 
Congressional
STRATMAN (Lib) -- 6%
JACKSON (D) -- 94%
 
Map of the South Side of Chicago shows the area of the Second Congressional District.
 
(Sources: Congressional Quarterly's Congres-sional Districts in the 1990's; The Almanac of American Politics 1998)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); RACE & RACISM (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (60%); AIRPORTS (50%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: JESSE L JACKSON JR (90%); JESSE JACKSON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



73 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Senate Agrees To Give States More Money For Highways

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 2

 BODY:
Taking advantage of a booming economy and a balanced budget, Senate negotiators reached an agreement today on the broad outlines of a six-year, $173 billion transportation bill that would significantly increase spending on roads and bridges in every state.
Though details of the agreement must still be worked out, the legislation is expected to call for shifting a larger portion of Federal highway funds to Southern states, which have long complained that they do not receive their rightful share of revenues from a Federal gas tax that finances transportation projects. 
 At the same time, the agreement does not provide any new money for mass transit, dealing a sharp blow to the New York metropolitan region, which traditionally has received one of every five Federal dollars spent on buses and subways.
Mass transit advocates said they are now pinning their hopes of getting more money on either floor amendments in the Senate or negotiations with the House, where support for mass transit is stronger. But the advocates were not optimistic about their chances.
Senator Trent Lott, the majority leader, said he expected the Senate to pass the bill in the next week or two. The House, which is considering a version of the measure that spends significantly more than the Senate agreement does, has not yet taken up its bill.
The Senate transportation agreement calls for increasing spending on roads and bridges by nearly $5 billion a year over current levels, a total of $28 billion over six years.
Under the Senate agreement, money for the new transportation spending would come from a 4.3-cent-a-gallon Federal tax on gasoline sales at the pump. Until last year, those revenues had been put into the so-called highway trust fund and largely used for reducing the Federal deficit. But with the budget now balanced, Congress has decided to use most of those revenues for their original purpose: highway construction and repair. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (91%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); GASOLINE (75%); FUEL TAX (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



74 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Moynihan and D'Amato Back Rail Tunnel

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

 BODY:
A proposal to build a rail freight tunnel under New York Harbor received the crucial endorsements of Senators Daniel P. Moynihan and Alfonse M. D'Amato yesterday as the city moved forward with a study of what could eventually become its biggest building project in decades.
The ambitious plan, which seeks to link the city with the rest of the country by rail and transform the Brooklyn waterfront, is still years away from any groundbreaking. But the public nod by the two Senators gave momentum and the necessary step in securing Federal money for a project that is expected to cost billions and is sure to encounter the economic and political difficulties that have felled other big city projects, like Westway and the Second Avenue subway. 
 "New York City is going to resume its place as a city where great public works occur," Mr. Moynihan predicted at a joint appearance at City Hall with Mr. D'Amato and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
At the news conference, Mr. Giuliani announced that the city had selected a company, Edwards & Kelcey Engineers, to begin the two-year study, which will look at engineering, economic and environmental considerations and is expected to cost $4 million to $4.5 million.
"This is critical to going forward with this project," Mr. Giuliani said. "A study like this has to be done under the law, which essentially looks at all alternatives. We're very hopeful the end result will be a freight rail tunnel."
And with the city counting on the Federal Government to pay for 80 percent of the study, the Senators' support is important. What is more, the Senators' role in getting Federal money in the future for the $900 million tunnel will be crucial. The Senate is now taking up one of the largest public works bills in the nation's history, and senators from various regions are expected to fight over its contents.
"The fact that D'Amato and Moynihan are supporting the tunnel means that New York is united behind the project," said Representative Jerrold L. Nadler, a Manhattan Democrat who has fought for a tunnel since 1979. "In terms of getting the Federal funding, it's important to find the support for the tunnel, and to make this project credible, it's important to have the support of our two Senators."
Indeed, overcoming considerable opposition in Congress, Mr. Moynihan was able to secure millions of dollars in Federal funds for the renovation of Pennsylvania Station earlier in the 1990's.
The Mayor first brought up his support of the tunnel in his State of the City address last year. He said that the tunnel and revival of the Brooklyn waterfront, which is projected to cost billions of dollars, would create 53,000 jobs. And he argued that the most recent generation of deep-hulled ships, which cannot navigate the shallow channels leading to the New Jersey harbor, would gravitate to New York City's deep, natural harbor if it were modernized.
New York is the only big American city that receives its goods almost exclusively by truck. So a freight tunnel linking Brooklyn with New Jersey was proposed as far back as 1920, and was actually the basis for the creation of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey in 1921.
But the project went nowhere for decades, and the city's reliance on trucks for its shipments is believed to have led to untold costs in wear and tear on its roads and bridges, as well as in more pollution.
"It will take close to a million tractor-trailers off of the highways," Mr. D'Amato said, adding that that fact would improve the city's air quality.
The city is considering a tunnel that would run from a rail yard at 65th Street in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, to either Staten Island or New Jersey. The tunnel would connect existing rail lines. Either route would require the cooperation of New Jersey, which would have to upgrade its public works, said Charles Millard, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation.
After the current study is done, the project would have to go through an environmental impact study, which might take another few years, and public hearings. "You're talking five years out at best," said H. Claude Shostal, president of the Regional Plan Association, a private group that examines economic and environmental issues affecting the metropolitan area. "It's not a sexy issue. You can't immediately say it will benefit Company X. Therefore, it's difficult to develop a political constituency. There will be lawsuits, the normal painful process."
Mr. Shostal supports the tunnel. But other groups have raised doubts about its cost, and whether cheaper alternatives could accomplish the same goals. Bill Yates, project coordinator for the Tristate Transportation Campaign, a coalition of private environmental groups, said the city could expand the use of an existing barge that can carry freight cars between Brooklyn and New Jersey.

GRAPHIC: Map of New York shows existing rail freight lines and proposed tunnel routes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: EDWARDS & KELCEY ENGINEERS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ENGINEERING (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); RAIL FREIGHT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITIES (77%); MARINE VESSELS (73%); HISTORY (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); JOB CREATION (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (78%); JERROLD NADLER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



75 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1839 words

HEADLINE: Henry Steele Commager, History Scholar and Defender of the Constitution, Is Dead at 95

BYLINE: By HOLCOMB B. NOBLE

 BODY:
Henry Steele Commager, one of the nation's most distinguished historians and teachers, a prolific author, editor and essayist, and an eloquent defender of the Constitution, died yesterday at his home in Amherst, Mass. He was 95.
For decades, the name Henry Steele Commager was synonymous with American history. Starting in the 1930's, he published a torrent of histories, biographies, textbooks, anthologies and inquiries into the nature of democracy and the American mind. His essays in newspapers, journals and magazines were an important part of any dialogue on the issues of his day. 
 He also taught history and American studies for 65 years, 36 of them at Amherst College, 18 at Columbia University and 12 at New York University. He was still teaching into his 80's and he said he could not imagine not doing so. "What every college must do," he said, "is hold up before the young the spectacle of greatness" in history, literature and life.
He accomplished all this while plagued by poor eyesight that deteriorated to near blindness, relying on a phenomenal memory and extraordinary energy.
Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., the historian, called him "a great teacher and one of the century's notable historians." Mr. Schlesinger said Mr. Commager brought to his profession an "analytical keenness, grace and lucidity of expression, and a disciplined passion for the integrity and hope of the democratic experience."
He also was remembered for his early stand against McCarthyism. Alfred Kazin, the author and critic, said the historian showed "extraordinary bravery and openness amid the broiling hysteria."
David Oshensky, a Rutgers University historian, added that Mr. Commager waged "one of the great battles of his era -- when it was very dangerous to do so and other intellectuals were cowed."
Among his important books were:
*"The Growth of the American Republic" (1930), of which he was co-author, and which became a standard college textbook for more than four decades.
*"The American Mind" (1951), regarded by many historians and critics as his best work, which explored the cultural and philosophical forces that shaped the nation's outlook.
* "The Empire of Reason: How Europe Imagined and America Realized the Enlightenment" (1977), was described in The New York Times as "his most brilliant work." In it he rejected what he termed the "sterile" economic determinism inspired by the historian Charles A. Beard and held that Americans of the late 18th and early 19th centuries had the courage and audacity to put into practice and law the principles of the Age of Enlightenment only envisioned by great European philosophers.
*"Documents of American History" (1934) and "The Blue and the Gray: The Story of the Civil War as Told by Participants" (1950), two anthologies invaluable to American historians, which were part of the work that prompted Albert Fried, a historian at the State University of New York at Purchase, to call Mr. Commager "the greatest anthologist America ever produced."
In 1966 Mr. Commager warned against American involvement in Indochina, appealing to Congress on constitutional grounds to reassert its authority over the waging of war, and appealing to the public on moral grounds.
His opposition to the war in Vietnam was not confined to his writing. He galvanized an anti-war rally on the Amherst campus in 1970 with the fluency and force of his contentions. "Having the United States in Vietnam is like having the Chinese invade the shores of Long Island!" thundered this jaunty little man with the thatch of white hair.
 
The Learned Man Behind the Textbooks
 Henry Steele Commager was born in Pittsburgh on Oct. 25, 1902, the son of James W. and Anna Elizabeth Commager. He was orphaned in childhood and raised by his maternal grandfather of Danish origin, a founder of American Lutheranism.
He grew up in Toledo, Ohio, and Chicago, where he graduated from high school and enrolled at the University of Chicago, working as a harvest hand in the summers and tending furnace at night in winters. He earned his bachelor's degree at Chicago in 1923, his master's the next year, and his doctorate in history four years after that. He spent a year at the University of Copenhagen studying Danish naval history. While he was earning his degrees, he taught at Chicago, in Europe and at N.Y.U.
By the time he was 28, Mr. Commager had been been appointed to the N.Y.U. faculty and completed two books, "The Reform Movement in Denmark," for which he received the American Historical Association's award for the best first book by an American historian, and "The Literature of the Pioneer West."
His reputation then soared with the publication of "The Growth of the American Republic," written with Samuel Eliot Morison of Harvard. (William E. Leuchtenburg joined the collaboration in 1969 for subsequent editions.) It was principally through this work, a readable and detailed narrative, that thousands of college students obtained their basic knowledge of their country's history.
Like all of Mr. Commager's work, the book is suffused with his Jeffersonian belief in the American Constitution and his trust in reason: People can learn, he insisted. Issues can be explored, explained and debated, and the people of the new American democracy, armed with knowledge and freedom to dissent, argue and choose, will make the right decisions for their common welfare.
Such a vision had its detractors. Garry Wills, in his 1990 book "Under God: Religion and America," maintained that historians like Mr. Commager and Mr. Schlesinger discounted the importance of religion in shaping the United States and its politics.
"Commager and Schlesinger are to American history what Michael Dukakis was, in 1988, to American politics," Mr. Wills wrote. "Much of American (indeed, of human) experience is off their mental maps. They have a serene provincialism, dismissive of the ordinary torments of people less optimistic, irreverent, and pragmatic than they."
In later years, his work also would come under criticism for what some historians believed was insufficient attention to Native Americans and African-Americans.
Mr. Commager left N.Y.U. in 1938 to accept a history professorship at Columbia, but his life there was soon interrupted by World War II. He worked as a consultant with the Office of War Information and was a member of the State Department's committee on the history of the war.
He also published several books. "America: The Story of a Free People" (1942), written with Allan Nevins, became a best seller. "The Pocket History of the United States" and "Majority Rule and Minority Rights" both appeared in 1943, and "The Story of the Second World War" was published in 1945.
"Majority Rule," his first book applying constitutional history to current issues, defended Franklin Delano Roosevelt's attempt to enlarge the U.S. Supreme Court after it ruled against several New Deal programs.
 
Exploring the Forces That Shaped a Nation
 Back at Columbia, he produced in 1950 his magisterial work, "The American Mind," subtitled, "An Interpretation of American Thought and Character Since the 1880's." With the exceptions of slavery and the Civil War, he described the nation's first century as marked by triumphant progress. He said 19th-century Americans were extraordinarily pleased with themselves and incurably optimistic: "Nothing in all history had ever succeeded like America, and every American knew it."
But he voiced pessimism about developments after 1890. He found 20th-century America "urban but not yet urbane," hurried, less happy, less confident. Confronted by two major crises, the Depression and World War II, the American people "showed themselves resourceful, mature and magnanimous." But after those trials, he wrote, citizens exhibited a moral and intellectual softening.
Events had begun unfolding as he worked on "The American Mind" that struck him as darker in some ways than any the nation had faced. In 1947 he wrote an article in Harper's magazine attacking loyalty oaths as an abuse of power that violated the Constitution and illegally resulted in the loss of livelihood to those Americans who refused to sign them. In Senator Joseph McCarthy and his followers, Mr. Commager saw an internal threat to the principles of the Constitution that was as serious as the threat of a foreign invader.
In 1956, Mr. Commager accepted a teaching post at Amherst and remained on its faculty until 1972. He then was named Simpson Lecturer, the college's most prestigious faculty appointment, and held the position until he was 92. Among his predecessors were Robert Frost and Archibald MacLeish.
"Commager on Tocqueville," his last book, published at the age of 91, was described by Herbert Mitgang in The New York Times Book Review as a "brilliant new interpretation of Alexis de Tocqueville's 'Democracy in America.' "
 
A Serious Scholar With a Wry Humor
 Though deadly serious on social and political issues, especially those involving the Constitution, he was remembered as something of a campus character. Despite an extraordinary memory for historical data, he had difficulty remembering the names of his students and so called most of them Mr. or Miss McGillicuddy.
Mr. Commager's nickname was Felix, after the Latin word for happy, and he was happiest working. He seemed to be writing nonstop -- on buses, planes, cars, even when on vacation. Friends and relatives said he not only read everything there was to read but also heard all the music there was to hear. He could quote pages verbatim from the stories of P. G. Wodehouse, whether those around him wanted to hear them or not, and he could whistle Beethoven, Schubert and Mozart compositions in their entirety.
He was also remembered for his self-assuredness. What colleagues called "Commager's No. 1 Rule" -- "I'm right" -- was an important factor in his success, in their view, because it lent a clarity and authority to his writing and gave him the boldness to take unpopular or risky positions.
Mr. Commager was a member of the National Academy of Arts and Letters and was awarded its Gold Medal for History in 1972. He was the recipient of scores of other scholarly awards, honorary degrees and tributes. Among them was the 1967 publication of a collection by Harper & Row titled, "Freedom and Reform: Essays in Honor of Henry Steele Commager."
Mr. Commager was married to the former Evan Carroll, an author of children's books, from 1928 until her death in 1968. He is survived by his second wife, Mary Powlesland Commager; two daughters from his first marriage, Nell Lasch of South Newfane, Vt., and Lisa Demlinger of New York; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren. His son Steele Commager, a classics professor at Columbia, died in 1985.
"History is a story," Mr. Commager once wrote, and "if history forgets or neglects to tell a story, it will inevitably forfeit much of its appeal and much of its authority as well."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry Steele Commager. (United Press International, 1972) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (71%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (71%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); HISTORY (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); PHILOSOPHY (78%); LITERARY CRITICISM (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); BLINDNESS (67%); 

PERSON: HENRY STEELE COMMAGER (96%); ALFRED KAZIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



76 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2090 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Asia's Interest In U.S. Market Suddenly Cools

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 2

 BODY:
When Korea's Hyundai Electronics Industries acquired Symbios Inc. from the AT&T Corporation for more than $300 million in 1994, it marked the beginning of a spurt of investment by South Korea's ambitious companies in the American market.
Now Symbios, a Colorado semiconductor company, might represent the beginning of a wave of divestitures in the wake of Asia's financial crisis. Anxious for cash, Hyundai just sold Symbios to Adaptec Inc., a Silicon Valley company it had beaten in the bidding in 1994. The deal, announced Thursday, took less than three weeks to complete at a price, $775 million, considered by analysts to be low. 
 "There's nothing like having an I'm-going-to-sell-this seller and a willing buyer," F. Grant Saviers, president of Adaptec, said.
The Asian financial crisis has dealt a body blow to the United States operations of South Korean and other Asian companies. Subsidiaries and real estate are being sold, branch offices closed, people laid off or brought home, and once-ambitious investment plans are being scaled back or put on hold. The impact has been felt most in New York and Los Angeles, where Asian investments and businesses are concentrated.
"Most of the companies in Korea are cutting back," said Young M. Kim, president of the Korean Chamber of Commerce and Industry in the United States. "Every subsidiary in the United States should follow suit." Mr. Kim said the situation was so dire that he expected the chamber to forgo the collection of dues from its 700 members this year.
The conundrum is that with their own economies ailing, Asian companies need their overseas sales more than ever. At the same time, the sharp weakening of their currencies has made their products more competitive overseas, although most companies have been unable or chose not to make dramatic cuts in their United States prices.
But the devaluation of currencies also makes it more expensive for Asian companies to pay the expenses of their operations in the United States. Their American subsidiaries are having trouble raising cash because American banks are reluctant to lend to them -- except at prohibitive interest rates -- and neither the parent companies nor Asian banks have the money. South Korea's Finance Ministry, worried that money-losing overseas business operations will drain it of scarce foreign reserves, is asking to see financial statements of overseas subsidiaries and pressing for closing those that are not consistently profitable, executives said.
"They really need these offices running on full cylinder right now, and it's very painful to do so," said Stewart M. Kim, managing partner of Pacific Gemini Partners, a Los Angeles investment management firm that is half-owned by South Korea's Ssangyong Investment and Securities Company.
The American operations, for instance, have been a lifeline for the Kia Motors Corporation, a South Korean auto maker that fell into bankruptcy last year. The American subsidiary was asked to accept shipments of extra cars, said Greg Warner, executive vice president of Kia Motors America. United States sales were up 65 percent last year and in January were nearly triple the level of a year earlier, because of the devaluation of the won and because new dealers have opened. But dealers are having trouble getting financing, Mr. Warner said.
Hyundai Motor America has not lowered car prices because it does not want to cheapen the image of its cars. But it is offering hefty rebates on some models. The company has had two rounds of layoffs since December, one of them at its financing subsidiary, which has had trouble raising funds and ended its leasing program.
The cutbacks and other changes are not limited to Korean companies. Indonesian, Thai and other Southeast Asian companies are affected but have a smaller presence in the United States. Hong Kong and Taiwan companies, many of which are big investors in this country, have not been hit as hard by the Asian crisis.
The biggest impact, however, could come from Japanese companies, whose ownership of United States businesses, factories and real estate dwarfs that of all other Asian nations combined.
Japan's financial problems are not as sudden or as acute as those of South Korea, Thailand and Indonesia, so the reaction of Japanese companies has been more gradual. Japanese investors, who ran headlong into waves of xenophobia in this country when they purchased trophy hotels, office buildings and golf courses in the late 1980's, have been selling $3 billion to $5 billion of United States real estate annually in the last few years, according to Jack Rodman, head of Pacific Rim activities for E & Y Kenneth Leventhal Real Estate Group, which tracks Japanese property investment in the United States.
Still, some analysts think the selloff of Japanese-owned businesses and real estate will accelerate because Japan's Government is getting more serious about cleansing bad debts from the banking system and because United States real estate prices have been rising. Sumitomo Bank announced it was looking to sell Sumitomo Bank of California. The Inter-Continental Hotel chain, which includes United States properties like San Francisco's Mark Hopkins Hotel, is being sold by Saison Group to Bass P.L.C. of Britain. Taisei, a construction company, is said to be selling the Sheraton Grande Torrey Pines in San Diego and a big office building in Chicago.
According to Commerce Department figures for 1995, the latest available, there were 109 nonbank affiliates of South Korean companies operating in the United States, with sales of $23.8 billion and 22,900 employees. Few Korean companies have set up United States factories in the way that Japanese companies like Honda and Sony have. So many of the most recent cutbacks since then have been in sales and administrative personnel and have tended to be small.
Samsung Group, one of South Korea's largest companies, closed its American headquarters in Ridgefield, N.J., and dispersed its 30 employees to other subsidiaries. Asiana Airlines, Korea's second-largest carrier, stopped flying to Honolulu in January and closed its 15-employee office there. SK Group, the fifth-largest conglomerate, is in the process of laying off a quarter of its 200 employees in the New York area.
South Korean banks are closing their American branches and selling loan portfolios. Korean banks collectively had 26 branches and 7 subsidiaries in the United States with total assets of $21.2 billion at the end of 1996, according to the Bank of Korea.
The branches generally do not take deposits and instead raise funds by borrowing from other institutions, a strategy that has now become untenable. "Our funding cost has shot up to a level where we are no longer competitive at all," said a manager at Korea First Bank, which is closing its three United States branches.
The sale of Symbios has heightened speculation that Korean companies might sell their interests in such well-known companies as AST Research Inc., the Zenith Electronics Corporation and the Maxtor Corporation that were acquired over the last few years to gain technology, brand names or new businesses.
Cheil Jedang, a food company, has had second thoughts about the $300 million it committed for an 11 percent state in Dreamworks SKG, the Hollywood studio started by Steven Spielberg and other luminaries. But despite Dreamworks' slow start, a Cheil official said the company intended to stick with the studio.
The Samsung Electronics Company, a company that is under financial pressure because of the sharp drop in the prices of computer memory chips, completed its acquisition of AST, a personal computer maker in Irvine, Calif., only last spring. Now it has delayed the planned expansion of its chip factory in Austin, Tex., and is reportedly seeking a hefty capital infusion from the Intel Corporation.
Tom Scott, senior vice president of AST, said the company's brand name and presence outside South Korea made it more valuable than ever for Samsung, which, he said, has no intent to sell.
Likewise, LG Group, which owns a controlling stake in Zenith, "has no thought of selling it and we're in it for the long run," said Peter McDermott, executive vice president of LG of the Americas. But the credit ratings of the Glenview, Ill., television maker were recently lowered out of concern that the Asian crisis would make it more difficult for LG to support Zenith, which it has not been able to make profitable.
As for Maxtor, a disk drive maker, it is owned by Hyundai Electronics Industries, the same company that unloaded Symbios and that is trying to complete a billion-dollar chip factory in Oregon.
Some smaller, lesser-known investments have already been sold off. The Ssangyong Group, struggling to avoid bankruptcy, sold the Riverside Cement Company to Texas Industries for $120 million and two Marriott Residence Inns, in Sacramento and San Diego, to Sunstone Hotel Investors for $30.5 million. Sunstone also bought two hotels in the Los Angeles area from the bankrupt Halla Group for $16.5 million.
Besides the need to raise cash quickly, other factors could be motivating Asian owners to sell American real estate. Prices in Asia have dropped so far and American prices have risen so high that it might be time to take profits here and invest them back home. The weakness of the Asian currencies adds to this effect.
Richard Rosenberg, the director of North American real estate for Octagon Group in Pasadena, Calif., which is part of an Indonesian conglomerate, said his company bought American real estate when the exchange rate was about 2,200 Indonesian rupiah to the dollar. "If you can sell those assets at 10,000 rupiah, it's an absolute windfall," he said.
But Richard Alter, the managing director of the Financial Capital Investment Company in Los Angeles, which pools money from ethnic Chinese investors in Hong Kong, Taiwan and other countries to purchase United States properties, said his clients were continuing to invest in this country because it offers stability. "What all this crisis does is make more instability" in Asia, he said, "which is why our investors are coming here."
Some South Korean companies say their American subsidiaries have barely been affected by the crisis. While their countrymen back home were bracing for austerity, LG executives were in Florida recently sponsoring the LG Championship golf tournament, awarding $1.2 million in prizes.
Two South Korean companies said they planned to go ahead at least with the first phase of construction on polyester-product plants expected to cost about $300 million each.
"When you're doing this size of a project, it's not for today or tomorrow," said Eugene Chin Yu, president of Hankook Synthetics/America, part of the Ehwa Group. "We're looking for the long run." He said the company had arranged 80 percent of the financing for its plant locally, with 20 percent coming from Korea.
A manager at SKC Inc., the SK Group subsidiary building the other plant, said half the financing had been arranged but that the rest was becoming harder to obtain. "Anyone who has a Korean tie has a difficult time financially," he said.
Even as companies soldier on here, expatriate managers, who generally receive housing allowances that have become more expensive in terms of Asian currencies, are being called back home. That could open up more opportunities for Americans, who are often shut out of upper-level jobs at Asian companies.
"The number of Koreans stationed in the U.S. has been drastically cut, and they will be replaced by local hires," said Sung Ho Lee, cargo marketing manager for Korean Air Lines in Los Angeles. His department, he said, now has one manager from Korea, down from three a couple of years ago.
Although the South Korean won has lost nearly half its value against the dollar since the crisis began, prices of Korean products here have dropped only a little. That is because the costs of imported raw materials and energy needed to make the products have gone up in terms of won. Higher interest rates also add to costs.
"The big impact that everyone sort of hoped for has not really materialized," said Bob Jones, executive vice president of the American sales arm of the Samick Musical Instrument Company, a large South Korean piano and guitar manufacturer. Still, he said, his company has cut its United States prices by 6 to 8 percent, helping it better compete against Chinese manufacturers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hyundai recently sold this Symbios wafer plant in Colorado to a Silicon Valley company. (Symbios)(pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); HY9H (FRA) (91%); 000660 (KSE) (91%); LSI (NASDAQ) (91%); APT (FRA) (83%); 000270 (KSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); SK HYNIX INC (91%); LSI CORP (91%); STEEL EXCEL INC (83%); KIA MOTORS CORP (60%); GOOD MORNING SHINHAN SECURITIES CO LTD (60%); CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (54%); CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (54%); CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ELECTRONICS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); DEVALUATION (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); SEMICONDUCTORS (72%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (63%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



77 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Doubts About Slowdown Push Yields to 1998 High
Investor skepticism about a widely expected weakening in the economy rattled the bond market, depressing prices and elevating the 30-year Treasury yield to 6 percent for the first time since mid-December.
Analysts attributed the change to new evidence that the economy was not slowing, as well as fear of inflation expressed last week by Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve. The reversal suggested many investors fear Asia's economic crisis will not repress inflation as much as hoped. Page D9. 

Manufacturing grew at a faster clip than expected last month, a survey by the National Association of Purchasing Management showed. Reports on personal income, consumer spending and construction spending also showed strength. D4.
 
Stocks finished mixed. The Dow Jones industrial average edged up 4.73 points to close at 8,550.45, another record high. But broader market indicators fell. D9.
 
Bidding Brawl for Insurer
American International Group, one of the nation's largest insurers, raised its friendly bid for American Bankers Insurance Group by 23 percent, to $58 a share, or $2.7 billion, matching a hostile bid by the Cendant Corporation, a discount shopping and franchising company. D2.
 
Corning to Sell Cookware Business
Corning agreed to sell 92 percent of its Corning cookware business to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, the New York investment firm, for $583 million. An earlier agreement to sell the business to AEA Investors for $825 million fell through. D6.
 
Shares of BTR P.L.C. rose 16 percent after Britain's biggest industrial holding company agreed to sell its glass and packaging businesses to Owens-Illinois for 2.2 billion in cash, or $3.6 billion. D4.
 
Wang Buys Olivetti Unit
Wang Laboratories reached an agreement to buy Olivetti's computer services subsidiary for more than $395 million in cash and securities. The agreement marks another step in Olivetti's transformation into a telecommunications company and will greatly expand the global reach of Wang. D4.
 
New U.S. Pressure on Indonesia
Former Vice President Walter F. Mondale arrived in Indonesia with a sobering message from Washington for President Suharto to proceed with economic austerity measures. Mr. Mondale is the second personal envoy sent by President Clinton to pressure Indonesia in less than two months. A3.
 
Philip Morris Chairman on Stand
Geoffrey C. Bible, chairman of Philip Morris, swore under oath that he does not know if cigarettes can kill. But Mr. Bible, the first top executive of a major cigarette company to testify in a tobacco trial, said he believed smoking was a "very significant risk factor" for cancer. That was as close to an admission as lawyers for the State of Minnesota could get from Mr. Bible, a pack-a-day smoker of Marlboro menthols. A16.
 
Prudential Insurance Profits Off
Prudential Insurance reported a 43.4 percent drop in 1997 profits to $610 million. D2.

GRAPHIC: Photo.
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,550.45, up 4.73
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.00%, up 0.08
The Dollar -- 125.35 yen, down 0.75
 
Graphs: "TODAY"
 
Leading Indicators
 January figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.1%
 
New-Home Sales
 January figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +5.4%
 
Another graph tracks the 30-year bond yield, since September 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); CAR (NASDAQ) (68%); KKR (NYSE) (67%); ISYS (LSE) (66%); OI (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (68%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (68%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (68%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (68%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (67%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (67%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (66%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (66%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS326160 PLASTICS BOTTLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS326111 PLASTICS BAG & POUCH MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (93%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (68%); KKR & CO LP (67%); INVENSYS PLC (66%); OWENS-ILLINOIS INC (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (93%); ASIA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); GLASS MFG (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (84%); SMOKING (83%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); WITNESSES (77%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LAWYERS (73%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); FRANCHISING (69%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BILL CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



78 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: In Praise of Smaller Farms

 BODY:
Suburban sprawl looks like a natural product of American growth until one realizes that it was largely shaped by state and Federal policies affecting highway construction, lending and zoning. The same is true of farm country. The concentration of land in fewer and fewer hands, the steady demise of small farms, the vertical integration of food production -- all this looks like the inevitable result of economic forces. Actually it has been largely caused by a prolonged bias toward industrial farming in the Agriculture Department and the agricultural establishment that has led to the depopulation of farm towns, the loss of soil, the pollution of land and water, and the demoralization of America's small farmers.
A special commission appointed last year by the Secretary of Agriculture, Dan Glickman, has now published an important study titled "A Time to Act," which reiterates what is almost forgotten knowledge. Even by raw economic standards, small farms -- farms having less than $250,000 in gross receipts, with labor and management provided by the owners -- are no less efficient than megafarms. 
 By any more meaningful standard of efficiency, one that takes into account the social, economic and environmental health of rural America, small farms are a vital resource. They foster biological and social diversity. They keep alive and develop anew a wealth of cropping practices. Their size prevents the concentration of animal wastes, inevitable in factory farming, that turns valuable manure into a pollutant.
The agriculture envisioned by the commission is practical and available. Federal policy needs to be changed to reflect and support the value of small farms. "A Time to Act" recognizes the fact that every good farm is a laboratory and that every farmer is a student of his land. It imagines an agriculture in which vertically integrated companies can be owned, as one farmer told the commission, "by the folks at the bottom, and not just the folks at the top." Its recommendations are financially modest but far-reaching. They deserve to be put into action.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FACTORY FARMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (90%); SUBURBS (79%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); AGRONOMY (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (72%); POPULATION DECLINE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



79 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2246 words

HEADLINE: For Urban Wastelands, Tomatoes and Other Life

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
On an industrial strip in Buffalo, where just over a year ago the remains of a steel mill sagged on an oil-soaked lot, bumblebees now dance among the yellow blossoms of 170,000 tomato plants growing in artificial soil in a computer-controlled greenhouse. This month, 125 workers will start picking what the greenhouse company says will be at least seven million pounds of vine-ripened tomatoes each year.
In Trenton, a supermarket, office complex and 70 new apartments for the elderly now occupy a jumble of long-dormant factory buildings where workers once wove cables for suspension bridges -- and left traces of toxic metals and industrial chemicals. 
 And on a patchwork of decontaminated factory sites and empty lots near the waterfront in Bridgeport, Conn., fresh sod was laid last month on the infield of a $14 million minor-league ball park. The Bridgeport Bluefish are to toss their first pitch in May.
The economic boom, new commitments from local, state and Federal Government agencies, and technical advances have opened the way to aggressive redevelopment of contaminated patches of inner cities, long shunned as environmentally hazardous and financially risky.
The land is desirable for the reasons businesses once favored inner city locations -- proximity to transportation and easy access for suppliers and customers. And the reclamation of sites known as "brownfields" is taking root across the urban Northeast, Midwest and almost everywhere else that fenced tracts of tainted soil, rusting iron and falling brick pay tribute to the decline of many manufacturing centers. None of the sites, though, have been deemed hazardous enough to qualify for cleanup money under Federal or state Superfund programs.
With new streams of government money aimed at these projects and demand for urban real estate rising, an entire industry of financial consultants and environmental scientists has grown to attend to them.
In New York, the picture is mixed. New York State has committed $200 million to clean brownfields in the 1996 bond act, but has so far spent only $8.4 million. The state also lacks a law protecting prospective developers from unforeseen cleanup costs, prompting many developers to shop elsewhere.
New York City has identified more than 6,500 such tracts, most of them in old industrial areas of Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens. The city has put together some successful pilot cleanups and has several more in the works. Among the most notable successes is the cleanup of the 96-acre Harlem River Rail Yard, which is also slated to include an industrial and commercial complex.
But some environmental experts in the private sector say the city is taking too long to compile and market a list of usable sites.
"These neighborhoods can't wait," said Walter Hang, president of Toxics Targeting, who participated in a New York City task force on brownfields. "Every day, every year you delay, structures are falling apart, the work force is leaving, the community is dying."
Randy Mastro, the First Deputy Mayor, defended New York City's record, saying that a wide array of sites, from the Bronx to Staten Island, were being returned to productive use after decades of neglect. "It's in our interest to do so," Mr. Mastro said. "It's both environmentally sound and good planning for the city."
Elsewhere, redevelopment of polluted sites is becoming a thriving business. Mr. Hang, whose company is based in Ithaca, N.Y., said that more than a third of his work involved sifting data bases of environmental agencies for records of spills before a real estate sale took place.
Sensing a new business in the making, several insurance companies, including American Insurance Group and Kemper Insurance, have created divisions offering policies that protect developers of polluted real estate against unforeseen cleanup costs or lawsuits.
Coopers & Lybrand, the accounting firm, has sharply expanded a division focused on evaluating cleanup costs for brownfields, creating five regional divisions last year to handle the work load, Jennifer Johnson, a manager in the division, said.
"There's a lot of capital out there looking for the highest rate of return, and brownfields are a source of that," Ms. Johnson said. "More and more people are finding their way through the muck."
 
Laws, Technology And Attitudes Evolve
Laws and regulations governing cleanup have been changed recently in more than three dozen states. Many of the changes limit the potential liability of new buyers to known cleanup costs -- freeing them from the specter of some surprise discovery years down the road.
Some cleanups are being financed through loans by the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development and pilot grants from the Federal Environmental Protection Agency. The E.P.A. has awarded more than 120 grants to municipalities to identify and fix sites, with $85 million in this year's budget for more grants.
In addition, a Federal law enacted last year allows developers of brownfields to write off their cleanup costs in the year they are incurred, instead of stretching the tax break over several decades. The tax breaks are expected to amount to $2 billion over the next three years.
Adding momentum to the shift, many private environmental groups that once aggressively fought to have all contaminated parcels cleaned to a single high standard now are supporting state and Federal efforts to set different standards of cleanliness depending on the eventual use of each site. In other words, dirt under a new parking lot need not be as clean as dirt in a new playground.
The technology of cleaning spills and other contamination has also improved, lowering costs.
"There was a time when many people saw a leaking underground tank as a half-million-dollar issue," said Randy Muller, vice president of environmental services at the Bank of America, in Chicago. "We see that as a $35,000 issue."
The condition of abandoned industrial sites still varies tremendously from state to state and city to city. Some spots with severe liabilities will never find a market. And even in places where sites are being restored, mainly the most valuable ones -- "the low-hanging fruit," in the words of one Federal environmental official -- have been rehabilitated so far.
 
A Legacy of Pollution Across the Nation
Since the early 1980's, when Love Canal and other toxic discoveries spawned strict Federal and state cleanup laws, almost any urban property -- whether severely or lightly polluted -- has had the potential to become a tangle of costly, time-consuming cleanups and lawsuits.
As a result, an enormous inventory of unused parcels has built up around the United States. As many as 450,000 such tracts have been tallied in various government and private studies.
The properties, now unused, range from 100-acre railyards and even larger steel mills to dry cleaning shops and corner gas stations, but they all share a common legacy: suspected or low-level contamination with harmful metals, chemicals, or petroleum.
Many sites may not be polluted at all. But they remain padlocked and silent, with no investors willing to gamble on cleaning them. In many cases, owners -- to avoid taxes and cleanup costs -- have gone bankrupt and sometimes literally dropped off the keys at City Hall.
That was how New York City acquired its dubious portfolio of more than 1,300 acres of pollution-stained empty lots or industrial buildings, 40 percent of the total of 3,300 acres of tainted sites in the city.
The stigma surrounding such sites is one factor that helped push industry into the suburbs, according to many urban planners and environmental experts, creating new environmental problems and eating up increasingly rare open space.
Even though there are other costs in building on farmland or woodlands -- laying sewers and power lines and the like -- they are at least measurable and predictable, developers say, unlike a city lot with a questionable past.
So the urban properties were shunned, weighing down surrounding -- mostly poor -- neighborhoods that have been trying for decades to revive.
 
As Risks Recede, Revival Gains Ground
Now, though, signs of life abound. So far, most of the successes in turning around these sites have come where communities have made a concerted effort to build a package of tax breaks and liability protections big enough to outweigh the risks of a cleanup. Federal environmental officials point to Chicago, Buffalo and Trenton as some of the cities most aggressively pursuing cleanup deals.
New Jersey enacted its brownfields law in January, offering tax breaks and protecting buyers of tainted industrial sites from future cleanup costs once they have followed a state-approved plan to restore a site.
Developers who avoided the state last year, including Ronald B. Bruder, the chairman of Dames & Moore/Brookhill, are already conducting helicopter surveys of possible purchases there.
Progress in New York State is still halting, partly because the $200 million from the 1996 bond act can only be spent if sites are cleaned to a standard as stringent as that for Federal Superfund sites. This condition was insisted upon by some private environmental lobbying groups in return for their endorsement of the bond legislation.
Many mayors have said it simply is not worth applying for such restrictive aid, because cleanups could take years.
But other communities are cashing in. Yesterday, Gov. George E. Pataki handed a check for $2.9 million to the Hudson River village of Irvington to transform two industrial sites into a park.
Mr. Pataki has also proposed brownfields legislation similar to New Jersey's, but he and the Democratic-controlled State Assembly have never agreed on the details of such a law.
Meanwhile, Mr. Pataki used administrative changes to create a "voluntary cleanup program" that protects developers who correctly follow cleanup plans approved by the state.
That program has helped clean some brownfields. But private developers say they still prefer to look for land outside the state, where the protections are firmer and clearer.
Connecticut offers developers the chance to put money into a pool -- equal to 3 percent of the value of a property once it is cleaned -- that is then used to cover unanticipated cleanup costs.
Like Massachusetts and Ohio, Connecticut also has a new licensing system for private environmental specialists who monitor and certify industrial cleanups. Their work can be audited and there are substantial penalties for cheating, said Michael Freimuth, the director of planning and economic development in Bridgeport.
The biggest benefit of the new state programs, Mr. Freimuth said, is that companies seeking to build in long-suffering downtowns can finally undertake what has always been a given in real estate -- a straightforward weighing of risks and rewards.
"Risk is the foundation of investment," Mr. Freimuth said. "We've finally been able to put some risk analysis back into the mathematics of brownfields. Without that, we were in a perpetual Never Neverland."
 
Careful Planning And Creativity Sought
No one involved in rehabilitating old urban sites expects all the scars of a century of heavy industry to be erased. And market forces alone cannot do the job, said Alan Mallach, the director of housing and development for Trenton.
The shape of a city will still best be determined through careful planning and creative problem solving, he said. He cited a recent challenge faced in Trenton, which in 1995 lost its biggest employer, Hill Refrigeration, when the company moved to Virginia and sold its 24-acre plant site.
In a negotiated deal with the owners of the property, Trenton received $200,000 toward a cleanup, subdivided the land and found seven new tenants, including a Canadian company that builds refrigeration equipment.
"They came here specifically because we had this great trained work force," Mr. Mallach said.
In Buffalo, city officials decided to pay part of the costs of digging out the oil-soaked dirt at the old steel mill site, clearing the way for workers to erect the glass panels of the high-technology greenhouse last fall. The tomatoes are isolated from any possible remaining contamination, with their roots growing in bricks of synthetic, wool-like fibers, not in the dirt.
The benefits of that investment quickly became apparent, said Alan H. DeLisle, the president of the Buffalo Enterprise Development Corporation, which owns the land and leases it to the vegetable growers.
"The first day of job interviews, they had 700 people lined up for 175 jobs," Mr. DeLisle said.
Inside the sprawling greenhouse, shielded from the cold rain of a blustery late winter day, workers in shorts and T-shirts tended the fast-growing vines.
Richard Hughes, a 55-year-old security guard at the 18-acre complex, Village Farms of Buffalo, said he had spent 17 years working just up the road at the Shenango Steel mill, which closed in 1982. As he surveyed the still-vacant lots around the greenhouse, he marveled at his new work place, with its drip-irrigated plants and polished panels of greenish glass.
"I grew up a little kid over there on Oak Street," he said, pointing toward downtown, past the windswept spaces where steel furnaces once roared and glowed. "Never thought I'd see a greenhouse in Buffalo. But here it is. It's new blood for an old man."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mike Kellar tends to some of the more than 100,000 tomato plants at the Village Farm Greenhouse in Buffalo. The greenhouse, left, was built on abandoned industrial land. At right, another site proposed for industry. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. A1); A number of decontaminated empty lots and factory sites near the waterfront in Bridgeport, Conn., are being replaced by a $14 million minor-league baseball park for the Bridgeport Bluefish. The first pitch is set for May. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (89%); BROWNFIELD SITES (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); SUPERFUND (74%); BASEBALL (73%); CHEMICALS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (71%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (70%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



80 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 3, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: SOCCER: NOTEBOOK -- PROJECT 40;
Boys to Men: Boost For U.S.?

BYLINE: By ALEX YANNIS

 BODY:
Project 40, a joint venture between the United States Soccer Federation and Major League Soccer to develop young American players, took a major step last week toward putting the youngsters in a professional environment almost year round.
In order to provide more than 40 competitive games, the federation and M.L.S. have arranged for a Project 40 select team to compete in the Pacific Division of the A-League, which is the main breeding ground for the 12 teams in M.L.S., a breeding ground for the World Cup team. 
 Sunil Gulati, the vice president of the federation and the deputy commissioner of M.L.S., named Tim Hankinson as the coach and Jan Osborne as the general manager of Project 40. Hankinson has been the director of player development for the league, and Osborne has been a consultant.
"One of the major goals of the program is to create leaders on the field," Hankinson said. "These players will have an impact in the United States on both the international and professional level."
The select team will play 27 regular-season games in the A-League, all on the road because there is no home base.
"We'll make adjustments to the roster as the season progresses," Osborne said. "This will raise the performance of our teams in the next Olympics and the World Cup, along with developing future players for M.L.S."
 
METROSTARS
The MetroStars had their first practice yesterday in Italy. They will play at AC Milan in an exhibition game on Thursday. The MetroStars also have exhibitions scheduled in Rome and Palermo before returning to the United States on March 19.
The MetroStars will open their Major League Soccer season March 28, at Los Angeles.
 
WORLD CUP
Sepp Blatter, the general secretary of FIFA, the sport's governing body, said that extra tickets should be available to fans outside France for the World Cup finals this summer.
"We have asked France for the remaining tickets that were reserved for the retail market in France to be returned to FIFA," Blatter told German television on Sunday. "That will allow the federations of the countries in the finals to get more tickets." Blatter did not say how many extra tickets the sport's governing body was expecting to get.
The European union, UEFA, had warned the French organizing committee that it was monopolizing most of the tickets, making it difficult to buy them outside France. But the French committee and FIFA have said that they were following guidelines agreed to by UEFA two years ago.
 
EUROPEAN LEAGUES
Manchester United closed in on its third consecutive championship in England with a 1-0 triumph over Chelsea on defender Phil Neville's first goal for the team. United is 9 points ahead of the Blackburn Rovers, who were 5-3 victors over Leicester City behind a hat trick by Chris Sutton, who was rejected by the national team.
Brad Friedel of the United States made his long-awaited debut with Liverpool in England's Premier League on Saturday and lost by 2-1 to Aston Villa. Friedel's start in goal broke a streak of 212 games for David James, Liverpool's premier goalkeeper.
Celtic opened a 2-point lead at the top of Scotland's Premier League with a 1-0 victory over Hibernian on Marc Riper's 25th-minute goal. Its closest rivals, Rangers and Hearts, played to a 2-2 tie when Rangers got the tying goal in the game's final minutes.
Juventus retained its 4-point lead over Inter Milan in Italy with a 1-0 victory over Bari on an own-goal by Bari's Rachid Neqrouz, and third-place Lazio was held to a scoreless deadlock at Atalanta of Bergamo. Inter kept the pressure on Juventus with a 2-0 victory over Napoli, with Ivan Zamorano and Ronaldo getting the goals.
Bayern Munich, one of the challengers for the German title, suffered a shocking 2-0 defeat at home to Cologne, which is 13th in the Bundesliga standing. The result left Bayern 6 points behind Kaiserslautern
Porto retained its 8-point lead in Portugal after a 1-0 victory over Vitoria Setubal, with the Yugoslav LjubiNko Drulovic scoring the goal.
Ajax appears on its way to its 27th title in the Netherlands after beating NEC Nijmegen by 3-0.
 
DYNASTY CUP
Japan scored two minutes from the end of a match on Sunday to beat South Korea by 2-1 in the first game at Yokohama's International Stadium, the most likely site for the 2002 World Cup final. Striker Shoji Jo scored the game-winner with an accurate header before a sellout crowd.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (50%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); ITALY (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (50%); UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (84%); UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (84%); UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); ITALY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SOCCER (93%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); OLYMPICS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%); 

PERSON: SEPP BLATTER (64%); JAN OSBORNE (64%); TIM HANKINSON (64%); BRAD FRIEDEL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998



81 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
Who's Biased Now?

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
Remember the biased "mainstream media" that would stop at nothing to protect the Clinton White House? Funny how you don't hear about that anymore. If there's one certain casualty of Monicagate so far, it's the notion that the likes of Newsweek, The Washington Post, The New York Times and the big three networks will suppress news out of loyalty to a supposed liberal comrade.
This was always a canard. To take just one example, it was Jeff Gerth of The Times who broke the Whitewater story six years ago this week. And it's conservative media that more often do bidding for their ideological own. The most unabashedly partisan figure among media magnates is hardly Katharine Graham or Michael Eisner -- it's our naturalized Citizen Rupert Murdoch. 
 Citizen Murdoch not only uses his empire to promote his allies and punish his enemies (from Bill Clinton to Ted Turner); he goes so far as to put politicians on the payroll. That brilliant author Newt Gingrich was offered a $4.5 million payday from Mr. Murdoch's publishing house, HarperCollins, just as telecommunications matters financially crucial to the mogul's Fox properties were in play on Capitol Hill. Last week it was revealed by the London newspaper The Daily Telegraph that Mr. Murdoch had again misused HarperCollins, this time in a manner that even his political allies might find offensive. Yet there has been mostly silence from conservative journalists about this scandal -- even in American media properties that Mr. Murdoch doesn't own.
What Mr. Murdoch did was to see to it that HarperCollins canceled its scheduled fall publication in Britain of a memoir by Chris Patten, the last British Governor of Hong Kong. Despite a HarperCollins cover story, The Telegraph uncovered a smoking in-house memo that revealed the truth: Mr. Patten's sin had been to criticize the Government of China, whose favor Mr. Murdoch needs if he is to expand his already burgeoning TV and movie deals in the vast market it controls.
This is at least the fourth time that Mr. Murdoch has sold out the principles of an independent press to curry favor with China. He removed BBC World News from his satellite TV broadcasts to China after the Chinese complained of its coverage of dissidents; he had HarperCollins publish a propagandistic biography of Deng Xiaoping by Deng's daughter while Deng was still in power; he invested millions in a joint venture with The People's Daily, China's Communist Party paper.
Mr. Murdoch's latest outrage should horrify anyone who believes in human rights, particularly American conservatives who've spoken out about religious persecution in China. They'd cheer Mr. Patten's book. In pages I've seen from the manuscript-in-progress -- to be published in the U.S. this fall by Random House's Times Books imprint -- he eloquently rebukes unnamed Westerners who pursue the "crude and cynical strategy" of "tempering criticism of China's behavior at home or abroad in return for market access."
Mr. Patten further argues that the "sensible management of a developing economy" should have nothing to do with "torturing people, censoring what they can read or write, locking them up without due legal process, hunting opponents into silence or exile, dispersing crowds with bullets. . . ." What does it tell us about Rupert Murdoch's journalistic priorities that he would kill Mr. Patten's book at the same moment his Fox News Channel (slogan: "News without bias") hires the cybergossip Matt Drudge?
In England, the journalist and historian Timothy Garton Ash has in protest dumped HarperCollins as his publisher; the novelist Doris Lessing, another HarperCollins author, has declared Mr. Murdoch's editorial intervention "so shocking I can't find words for it." In America, let's see how much of this scandal even makes it into Murdoch publications like The New York Post and The Weekly Standard, let alone if any prominent conservatives, whether HarperCollins authors like Robert Bork and Peggy Noonan or not, speak up in protest. Will those who've accused the "mainstream media" of being in cahoots with a Democratic Administration remain silent while their own media patron toadies to the most powerful totalitarian Government in the world?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); HONG KONG (74%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); HONG KONG (74%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); WRITERS (89%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (89%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (79%); PUBLISHING (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); BOOK PUBLISHING (71%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



82 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Leading Indicators Index Unchanged for a 2d Month

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3

 BODY:
The index of leading economic indicators, a measure of forthcoming trends in the economy, was unchanged in January for the second consecutive month to show a moderating pace of economic growth, the Conference Board said today.
The index last rose in November, by one-tenth of a percent. 
 "The leading indicators point to moderation of the expansion and low risk of a recession in 1998," a statement from the private business research group, based in New York, said.
In a survey, Wall Street economists had forecast the leading indicators index would rise by a tenth of a percent.
In a separate report issued today, the Commerce Department said that sales of new homes surged 10.3 percent in January to an unexpectedly strong seasonally adjusted annual rate of 877,000 units. The supply of unsold homes fell to a record low.
"The strength reflects an extremely favorable financing environment, consumers that are extremely confident and extremely unusual weather," Richard Berner, chief economist at the Mellon Bank Corporation, said.
The increase reversed a 9.4 percent drop in home sales in December, when the annual sales rate was 795,000 units.
But analysts said January's sales pace could not be sustained for long, in part because the financial crisis in Asia might slow growth in the United States.
"The outlook is good, but we are anticipating some slippage," probably beginning in the second quarter, David Seiders, chief economist at the National Association of Home Builders, said.
Five of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index rose in January, with the most significant increases in the money supply, manufacturers' new orders of nonmilitary capital goods and consumer expectations.
The biggest negative factors in the leading index were manufacturers' new orders of consumer goods and materials, the interest rate spread and vendor performance.
The report also said the index of coincident indicators, a gauge of present economic conditions, rose by three-tenths of a percent after a rise of four-tenths of a percent in December that was previously reported as a three-tenths of a percent rise.
January's 877,000 units matched November's rate, and was the highest since March 1986, when the rate was a record 880,000, the Commerce Department said.
Sales jumped 19 percent in the West and 13.1 percent in the South. Sales dipped 1.4 percent in the Northeast and 1.2 percent in the Midwest, the department said.
The median price of a new home in January was $148,000, up from $143,000 in December.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Leading Indicators" tracks index of 10 indicators designed to "lead," or predict overall economic activity. Graph runs from August 1996 through January 1998. (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (74%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; HOUSING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



83 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Chief Invites Iraqi to a Talk About Oil

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, March 3

 BODY:
Secretary General Kofi Annan today invited the Iraqi Foreign Minister to New York to talk about problems with the program that allows Iraq to sell limited quantities of oil to buy food and medicine.
Discussions on the "oil for food" program have normally been conducted in Baghdad by lower-level officials. 
 The Foreign Minister, Mohammed Said al-Sahaf, could arrive as early as next week, shortly before the United Nations sends a team of experts to Iraq to assess the country's ability to pump and export more oil.
The Security Council last month agreed to allow Iraq to sell $5.2 billion every six months; Iraq says it can produce only $4 billion and wants money to repair its equipment.
Iraq has also complained that the United Nations is meddling with Iraqi prerogatives in plans it has drawn up for an enlarged oil-for-food plan, including a proposal to increase supply of electricity to Kurdish-held areas of the country. All United Nations-supervised imports and improvements in the country are intended to relieve the suffering of Iraqis who have lived under sanctions for more than seven years.
Mr. Annan's willingness to hear out Iraq's many grievances about United Nations programs is a departure from earlier practice, when the Security Council -- under urging of the United States -- sought to isolated Iraq, demanding that Baghdad abide by the rules and not try to change them.
The Secretary General, taking a different line, has spoken of the need to not humiliate Iraq but to draw it back into the community of nations. His comments here and in Baghdad about understanding and respecting the Iraqis are at considerable variance with the more punishing language often used in Washington.
Iraq has been under a comprehensive economic embargo since its 1990 invasion of Kuwait and must be certified free of all weapons of mass destruction before those sanctions can be lifted. Even then, it will be subject to extensive monitoring.
In the last year, however, Iraq has experimented with a variety of tactics for evading the arms inspection system that is closing in on some of President Saddam Hussein's most sensitive properties, where arms inspectors believe that documents and possibly weapons or their components may be hidden.
After threatening in recent months to end cooperation with the inspectors of the Special Commission, Iraq scored a diplomatic point when Mr. Annan went to Baghdad last month to broker an agreement that averted American military action. Some members of the Council, in particular Britain and the United States, would have preferred that the Iraqis did not get the opportunity to deal directly with the Secretary General.
On Monday, British and American diplomats hailed the Security Council resolution endorsing Mr. Annan's agreement because it returned the initiative to the Council's control even though the document did not authorize the use of force against Iraqi violations.
Today Mr. Annan was completing plans for a new kind of inspection system to be used at eight Iraqi "presidential sites," a departure Baghdad demanded. The Secretary General met with Richard Butler, executive chairman of the Special Commission; Hans Corell, the United Nations legal counsel, and Jayantha Dhanapala, Under Secretary General for Disarmament Affairs and leader of the group of diplomats and inspectors who, working under the commission, will visit the sites together. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); QUALITY CONTROL (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (62%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); SAHAF, MOHAMMED SAID AL- (MIN) SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



84 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Budget Surplus Nears, And Plans for It Appear

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3

 BODY:
Just hours after the Congressional Budget Office predicted that the first Government surplus would appear this year, the chairman of the House Budget Committee said today that Congress should consider using part of the surplus to create Individual Retirement Accounts for workers paying into the Social Security system.
The chairman, Representative John R. Kasich, Republican of Ohio, made the suggestion flanked by the House Republican leadership, which had gathered to take political credit for the budget office's forecast of a surplus of $8 billion for the 1998 fiscal year ending Sept. 30. 
 The office also projected a $9 billion surplus next year, and a $67 billion surplus by 2002.
Injecting a new idea into the debate over the 1999 budget, Mr. Kasich suggested that some of the surplus could be devoted to tax cuts and some to the creation of I.R.A.'s.
"Why not let every single taxpayer who's currently paying into Social Security get an individual retirement account established that will be filled with money that comes from the surplus?" he asked.
With surpluses emerging for the first time in three decades, this year's budget debate is expected to be dominated by the question of how to use the influx of new revenue.
President Clinton, in an effort to keep Republicans from seeking to use the surplus for tax cuts, has already called for the surpluses that are projected for the next five years to be preserved to shore up the Social Security system for the retirement of the baby boom generation. Senate Republicans are looking to use the surplus to start paying down the more than $5 trillion national debt.
Speaker Newt Gingrich also called today for surpluses to be used to "protect Social Security for our parents" and "to begin the transition so that our children have the opportunity to have a personal retirement account with an interest buildup."
But he did not specifically endorse Mr. Kasich's idea, which would throw into an election year the politically sensitive question of whether to reshape Social Security.
Mr. Kasich did not say what portion of the surplus he would devote to I.R.A.'s or who would be given the authority to manage the investments, calling the idea preliminary.
"The bigger the surplus we end up with the more can be put into an Individual Retirement Account," he said.
With Republicans fractured over issues of tax cutting and spending, the House is not expected to unveil its own budget proposal until late April. While the Senate budget committee is considering $30 billion in tax cuts over five years -- somewhat more than proposed by President Clinton -- House Republicans are pushing for higher tax cuts.
Social Security is currently financed out of payroll taxes levied on workers and their employers, and benefits are paid out of those taxes. A shift toward I.R.A.'s would change it so that rather than drawing on payroll tax receipts to pay benefits, retirees would draw on money saved and invested in the stock and bond markets in the years leading up to retirement.
Any transition from the first system to the second would be difficult because if individual accounts were financed out of today's payroll taxes, the Government would then be short of money to pay current retirees. Using the surplus could help make the transition.
But while Wall Street and conservatives favor such a move, it would be enormously controversial. Individual accounts are strongly opposed by powerful groups that lobby for the elderly and relatively few Democrats have publicly endorsed any shift toward an investment-oriented approach. Liberal Democrats have long run for office as the protectors of the Social Security system.
Mr. Clinton has called for a national debate this year over how to preserve the solvency of the system when 76 million members of the baby boom generation begin retiring in 2010. He has proposed a White House conference on the issue for December -- after the election.
The election was also very much on the minds today of the Republican leaders who wanted to showcase the surplus as an accomplishment of the Republican-controlled Congress and steal some of the credit from the President.
"Everyone was projecting deficits for the rest of our lives," Mr. Gingrich said.
The deficit has dropped to $22.6 billion for the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 from a high of $290 billion in 1992. The Congressional Budget Office's surplus projections remain lower than that of many private sector economists who say the surplus could reach as high as $50 billion this year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) BUDGETS (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); CHILDREN (69%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; KASICH, JOHN R (REPR); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) JOHN KASICH (89%); BILL CLINTON (88%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



85 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: LIFE BY DESIGN;
Fertility For Sale

 BODY:
As reproductive technology has advanced, the law of supply and demand has inevitably clicked in. Some clinics have had trouble finding women to donate their eggs for implantation in infertile women. That has led to a medical and ethical debate over whether donors should charge for their eggs and, if so, how much. The St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J., recently accelerated that debate by offering $5,000 for donors, double the rate of many clinics. A variety of experts were asked whether women should be permitted to sell their eggs on the open market:

Robert Wright is the author of "The Moral Animal: Evolutionary Psychology and Everyday Life." 
 Is a woman who gets several thousand dollars for a few eggs being exploited? The claim is not on its face ridiculous; a donor undergoes an unpleasant and risky procedure that is invasive both physically and in a less tangible sense. What is ridiculous is the idea that the woman is more exploited if she gets $5,000 than if she gets $2,000. Yet that is the implicit logic of some who argue for limiting fees lest we degrade women by turning their eggs into commodities.
Critics of high fees say it's all right to compensate donors, just not to entice them. But that distinction faded years ago, when infertile women began paying more than a few hundred dollars for eggs. They found that if they didn't pay real money, they'd get no eggs. This is the market at work: a willing buyer, a willing seller. Is there any reason to get between them?
Sometimes society plausibly says yes, as with drug sales and prostitution. Personally, I don't see a comparably strong argument in this case. If there is one, maybe we should take eggs off the market. But what's the point of pretending they aren't already there?
 
Cynthia Gorney is the author of "Articles of Faith: A Frontline History of the Abortion Wars."
A precedent for limiting compensation for egg donation was set 15 years ago, when the most heated argument in infertility circles was about surrogate mothers -- women who volunteered to undergo artificial insemination and carry a baby to term for infertile couples. The ethical consensus then was that if a woman offers to lend out her own reproductive system because she wants to help someone else, we suppose we can't stop her, but she shouldn't be tempted to do it because she wants or needs money: a surrogate should be paid for medical expenses and lost time at work, and perhaps offered some modest extra cash to offset the physical discomfort of pregnancy. But the money should not be generous enough to make surrogacy an attractive line of work.
And as a rule, surrogate mothers still don't collect much money, nor should they. To be sure, this is partly because they deliver up fully developed human beings, which by law and venerable tradition may not be bought and sold. But it is also because surrogate mothers deliver up their own bodily organs -- their eggs and the use of their wombs -- and we have equally venerable tradition forbidding people to sell their body parts for profit.
Galloping technology and the escalating hopes of infertile couples are working together to push us much too far, too fast. There has got to be a point at which society declares to the infertile couple: We are sorry for your situation, but you cannot buy everything you want. We will not let you offer that young woman $10,000 for some of her eggs, just as we will not let you offer her brother $10,000 for one of his kidneys. The potential cost to both of them -- and to all the rest of us -- is too high.
 
Lee M. Silver, a biology professor at Princeton, is the author of "Remaking Eden: Cloning and Beyond in a Brave New World."
Why are physicians and bioethicists -- who are mostly male -- trying to limit monetary compensation to women who donate their eggs? In no other part of the economy do we limit the amount of money that can be paid to people who participate in risky or demeaning activities. Indeed, college students have long been enticed by high fees into participating in risky medical experiments.
But society expects women to be altruistic, not venal. And it insists that women be protected from themselves, on the assumption that they are unable to make rational decisions about their own bodies. And perhaps men feel threatened by the idea that women now also have a way to spread their seed upon the earth.
 
Robert Coles, a physician, is a professor of social ethics at Harvard and the author, most recently, of "The Youngest Parents: Teen-Age Pregnancy as It Shapes Lives."
We really don't know the long-term medical consequences for women who donate their eggs. There have been a few reports of serious side effects, like renal failure. But have researchers studied carefully enough what exposure to these fertility drugs does to women? If poor women become repeat donors because the process keeps getting more lucrative, will they increase their risk down the line for ovarian cancer? These are unanswered questions.
Most important, the widening divide between the rich and the poor poses an ethical dilemma: can we condone the "harvesting" of eggs from poor women, who may be putting their health at risk, for the benefit of the affluent?
 
Elizabeth Bartholet, a professor at Harvard Law School, is the author of "Family Bonds: Adoption and the Politics of Parenting."
The selling of human eggs puts at risk the donors' health and sacrifices their human dignity. It also encourages women to bear children who are not genetically related to them, so that their mates can have genetic offspring. This practice produces children who have lost one genetic parent -- in a world that already has an abundance of orphans who need homes.
We need to call a halt to further commercialization of reproduction to give policy makers a chance to consider the ethical issues involved in reproductive technology like egg selling, cloning and sex selection. We should follow the lead of other countries and establish a national commission to resolve these issues rather than leave them to the market.
 
Lori Arnold is a doctor at the Fertility and I.V.F. Center of Miami.
Most women who donate their eggs at our clinic do so because they want to help provide the gift of life. Many have children of their own; they want to help others experience the joys of motherhood.
The motive is altruistic, but that should not blind anyone to the practical difficulties. Donors are required to undergo treatment with fertility drugs, counseling, screening, ultrasound monitoring, blood work and numerous office visits. It takes weeks. And retrieving the eggs from their ovaries is a surgical procedure.
Also worth factoring in is that the donors are giving a couple the chance to have a family, with a child who has the father's genetic makeup. The donor also gives the recipient a chance to experience pregnancy, delivery and breast-feeding, thereby facilitating mother-baby bonding.
Thus compensation given to an egg donor is well deserved. Of course, there comes a point when a fee becomes self-defeating, since the cost is paid by the recipient -- few couples can afford to pay an unlimited amount. But donors deserve something more than a token. Ours receive $1,500 to $2,000; no one should begrudge them that.

GRAPHIC: Photos. (Lisa Billard)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ETHICS (89%); SURROGATE MOTHERHOOD (89%); MEDICAL ETHICS (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); ABORTION (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



86 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Prices Fall for 2d Day as Home Sales Surge

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were hammered again yesterday after the Government reported the pace of new-home sales surged 10.3 percent in January, casting more doubt about whether the economy could slow enough to keep inflation benign.
The 30-year bond price dropped 26/32, to 100 25/32, to yield 6.07 percent, up from 6 percent on Monday and the highest since mid-December. 
 The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, may have added volatility to the trading session. In testimony to the Senate Appropriations Committee, in support of funds for the International Monetary Fund to help the Asian economies, he said: "Many argue that the current crisis should be allowed to run its course without support from the International Monetary Fund or the bilateral financial backing of other nations. They assert that allowing this crisis to play out, while doubtless having additional negative effects on growth in Asia, and engendering greater spill-overs onto the rest of the world, is not likely to have a large or lasting impact on the United States and the world economy." Some traders may have taken that to mean that the American economy would not slow enough to hold down inflation.
But Mr. Greenspan added that while people who took that stand might well be correct, there was a small but not negligible possibility that the Asian events could have unexpectedly large negative effects in the United States. And while the odds are small, he said, it should not be left to chance.
Reaction to yesterday's strong housing data was predictable, analysts said. Traders sold, as they had on Monday, when the National Association of Purchasing Management index was stronger than expected.
The pace of new-home sales climbed to 877,000 units in January, up 10.3 percent relative to the 795,000 unit pace of sales during December. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INTEREST RATES (59%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



87 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Heated Debate Is Expected Over Rate for Student Loans

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN 

 BODY:
Congress has delayed a vote scheduled for today on reauthorizing the $40 billion Higher Education Act, the most important piece of Federal assistance to students, colleges and universities, so that Congress may air intensely conflicting views on interest rates for federally guaranteed student loans.
Unlike the rates on home mortgages and car loans, which are set competitively by banks, the interest rate on these college loans is fixed by Congress. And that makes for controversy. So while a House subcommittee hearing on the act will be held today, the debate on the interest rate has been reserved for tomorrow. 
 For the 33 years that the Government has been in the business of guaranteeing student loans, student organizations (frequently allied with Democrats) have lobbied for lower rates, while lenders (often joined by Republicans) have urged Congress to raise the rate so they can earn what they consider to be a fair profit.
Unless Congress acts, the interest rate will drop on July 1 -- to about 7.1 percent from 8.25 percent -- because of a change in the calculation of the formula. Banks oppose the drop and say they will have to curtail lending if that happens.
But Terry Hartle, a spokesman for the American Council on Education, a research and lobbying organization in Washington, said, "The question to be asked is: If I can get a mortgage for 6.75 percent, why do the banks need 8.2 percent to make a federally guaranteed student loan?"
The conflict is unusually heated this year partly because there are more than five million beneficiaries of Federal student-loan programs, more than the number of beneficiaries of any other social program except Medicare and Social Security.
A relatively small change in the interest rate can have a large impact. An undergraduate who borrows $20,000 at a rate of 7.45 percent, and repays it in 10 years, will pay a total of $28,426 -- of which $8,426 will be interest. If the rate was 8.25 percent, the student would pay nearly $30,000, of which $9,436 would be interest.
A student who borrows $80,000 to go to medical school, at a rate of 7.45 percent, and who pays it back in 25 years, will pay $176,580, of which $96,580 will be interest. If the interest rate was 8.25, the student would pay $189,228, $109,228 of it in interest.
Students and the Clinton Administration are delighted with the prospect of the continued low rates.
"We want to make the cost of education lower," said Vice President Al Gore last week, when he announced an Administration compromise plan that would set the rate at 7.3 percent, to pre-empt a larger increase.
But lobbyists for the lending institutions and their allies in Congress warn that the if rates are too low, many lenders, convinced that such loans would be unprofitable, would not make them. They warn that this could play havoc with students, colleges and universities nationwide.
In past years, the lending institutions have issued similar warnings without result. Yet, observers say, the lenders seem more serious now. Mark Brenner, a spokesman for the Education Finance Council, which represents institutions that buy student loans from banks, said yesterday, "It comes to this: Do you want to play chicken with July 1, 1998?"
The conflict is rooted in the question of what constitutes a reasonable profit for the lending institutions. The 1993 budget act requires that banks lend to students at the 91-day Treasury bill interest rate plus 3.1 percent, which currently comes to 8.25 percent, a figure that banks consider to be fair.
But the act also specifies that after July 1, the formula will change to one based closely on a Government bond rate, to be determined by the Secretary of Education. This is expected to produce a student loan rate of about 7.1 percent. Lenders say they cannot make a profit with such a low rate.
In reauthorizing the Higher Education Act, Congress has several options: It could let the lower rate stand; accept the Administration's compromise, or as lenders and their Congressional allies hope, substantially raise the rate.
Jean Frohlicher, executive vice president of the National Council of Higher Education Loan Programs, an umbrella organization of student loan providers, said, "Student loans are very difficult to manage. The lender is forbidden by law from making a credit investigation, which is what he normally would do, and then the student can keep on deferring payment of a loan.
"After he graduates from college, he may decide he's the world's greatest heart surgeon and go to medical school," Ms. Frohlicher continued, "and then when he gets his medical degree, he may join the Peace Corps or get some other low-paying job. And so the lender has his money hanging out there for 20 or more years."
While past debates have tended to follow party lines, the coming debate is not likely to, observers said.
Barmak Nassirian, a policy analyst for the American Association of State Colleges and Universities, which advocates for students, said, "The Congressional leadership, especially Buck McKeon, deserves credit for their commitment to fairness to the students."
Representative Howard (Buck) McKeon, Republican of California is the chairman of the House subcommittee on postsecondary education, training and lifelong learning and will preside at the hearing tomorrow. ,
"I'm not in love with the bankers," Mr. McKeon said. "I'm trying to do what's right for everybody."
In 1995 he unsuccessfully backed a bill that would have obliged students to start paying interest on their loans before graduation.
Still, Congress is faced with a Solomon-like decision. As Mr. Hartle put it, "Ultimately, the best Congress can do is come up with a bill that will make everybody a little unhappy, but not too unhappy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: ACT (59%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (55%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ACT (59%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (55%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; STUDENT LOANS; HIGHER EDUCATION ACT OF 1965 COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STUDENT LOANS (91%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); MEDICARE (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: HONAN, WILLIAM H AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



88 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
A Dream of Glory. Penn Station's, That Is

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

 BODY:
PHILIP K. HOWARD grew up as a minister's son in the hills of Kentucky, which he says was a lot like living in the Bible. There were floods, there was typhoid, and in 1958, when he was bitten by a rabid cat, the vaccine had to be flown in by the state police. So he can still recall his wonder when he arrived at Pennsylvania Station, the glorious colossus then under destruction. It was 1963, and he was 14.
"I was dragging a trunk, and I remember the chaos of being in a building that was obviously grand, and that for some reason was being torn down all around me," he said. "I knew that something bad was happening." 
 Three and a half decades later, it surprises no one who knows him that the well-connected Mr. Howard -- lawyer, author and polished promoter -- has brought forth 11th-hour plans from the Municipal Art Society to turn virtually the entire General Post Office that stretches from Eighth Avenue to Ninth Avenue into a new Penn Station that recalls the original. Mr. Howard says the present Penn Station is a "slop sink" that makes arriving in New York "feel like coming through the service entrance."
Never mind that a bouillabaisse of city, state and Federal agencies has its own plans for the post office and Penn Station. Never mind that Mr. Howard, the new chairman of the Municipal Art Society, does not have a seat at the negotiating table. Never mind that Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who began pushing the idea six years ago, favors a more modest plan.
And never mind that the United States Postal Service has so far said it would give up only one-fifth of its neo-classical building, designed, like the original Penn Station, by McKim, Mead & White.
"It's not easy to go into some place and say, 'Get out, we want it all,' " said Charles A. Gargano, the chairman of the Pennsylvania Station Redevelopment Corporation, the three-year-old state agency charged with overseeing the project.
But Mr. Howard, who wrote a 1995 best-selling book, "The Death of Common Sense," about the evils of bureaucracy, insists he understands his enemy better than anyone, and that he will eventually win.
"Bureaucrats are not risk takers; they're not initiators," he said in an interview last week. "They are people who respond to the pressures and projects before them in a logical fashion." Bureaucrats, he added, "never come up with vision and hope and a sense of greatness."
Mr. Howard sees his part in the Penn Station drama as a creator of public opinion -- a traditional role for the Municipal Art Society, which led the fight for the Landmark Preservation Law after the original Penn Station was torn down. Mr. Howard argues that building a great train station would be "like giving millions of people the grandest home in the world."
MR. HOWARD spoke in a conference room at his law firm, Howard, Darby & Levin, which has floor-to-ceiling second-floor windows that give him an excellent view of life on the Avenue of the Americas. "There's Herb Wachtel," he said, as the Wachtel, Lipton lawyer passed by. Sometimes people wave up to Mr. Howard from the street. Once John Gutfreund, whom Mr. Howard was representing in Mr. Gutfreund's dispute with his old firm, Salomon Brothers, made what Mr. Howard describes as in impolite gesture from the corner.
"He's a very funny guy," said Mr. Howard, who by this time was giving a tour of another conference room decorated with photographs of Amelia Earhart and a wooden propeller from an airplane that won a 1913 race across the English Channel.
"Artifacts of human accomplishment," Mr. Howard said.
He continued his tour into the men's room, to show off William Eggleston photographs of the Old South. "We're leaving," said a cheerful Mr. Howard when a startled colleague walked in.
The law firm offices were designed by Richard Nash Gould, the same architect who drew up the Municipal Art Society plans for Penn Station. Under these designs, the new Penn Station would have a ticketing hall and a seating concourse each the size of Grand Central Terminal's main hall, as well as an auditorium and a conference center. Other proposals are far more modest -- and realistic, officials there say.
Postal officials are in fact meeting this week, and could approve a scaled-down compromise -- bad news for Mr. Howard. Mr. Howard, who two weeks ago took his plans to a lawyer in the office of Erskine Bowles, President Clinton's chief of staff, says he will continue to take his plans to the public, the Congress and the White House.
"No way are we going to accede just because they reach a compromise," he said.
Mr. Howard, 49, first came to the northeast as a scholarship student at the Taft School in Watertown, Conn. He went on to Yale, majoring in economics and city planning, toiled very briefly as a photographer for Glamour magazine, went to the University of Virginia Law School, and worked at the law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell. In 1983 he started his own firm. He has four children, and lives in a 1908 building in Gramercy Park. His wife, Alexandra Cushing Howard, is an architectural historian.
In the early 1980's, Mr. Howard joined the board of the art society, which a decade earlier had helped save Grand Central. He became chairman of the society last year.
"A great train station," Mr. Howard said, "makes the meanest of us feel rich and powerful."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Philip K. Howard, who was saddened by the destruction of Pennsylvania Station in 1963, hopes its glory can be re-created. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (53%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (53%); MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PENNSYLVANIA STATION (NYC); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION INTERVIEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); VACCINES (73%); WRITERS (73%); POSTAL SERVICE (72%); BITES & STINGS (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); BESTSELLERS (68%); HISTORIC SITES (60%); 

PERSON: BUMILLER, ELISABETH; HOWARD, PHILIP K MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



89 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Saying He's No Isolationist, Gephardt Backs New Aid to I.M.F.

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

 BODY:
Declaring that he had been "misunderstood and misrepresented" as a protectionist and isolationist last year, the Democratic leader of the House, Richard A. Gephardt, yesterday threw his support behind the Clinton Administration's efforts to win $18 billion in new financing for the International Monetary Fund.
Mr. Gephardt successfully led the drive last year to kill new authority for President Clinton to negotiate trade agreements, after a long fight over whether to require that America's trading partners adhere to minimal standards for treating workers and curbing environmental pollution. Unable to win over enough members of his own party, Mr. Clinton withdrew the legislation, after charging that Mr. Gephardt's ardor for protecting American workers had harmed the country's ability to use trade accords as a tool of foreign policy. Administration officials have indicated they see no chance for a new accord on what is called fast-track authority now, as mid-term elections approach. 
 For the White House, last year's trade defeat made Mr. Gephardt's support for financing the I.M.F. essential, especially at a time when the markets are looking for signs of whether Congress will continue to support the fund's effort to stabilize the reeling economies of Asia.
For Mr. Gephardt, of Missouri, his speech yesterday was also tinged with Presidential politics. He is widely expected to challenge Vice President Al Gore for the Democratic nomination for President, and his appearance in New York seemed part of his effort to repair ruptured relations with foreign policy specialists and major players -- and donors -- on Wall Street, whom he met over a private lunch.
Mr. Gephardt's last public appearance on Wall Street was during a street demonstration last fall on the trade legislation, pitting him directly against America's largest multinational corporations, which had campaigned unsuccessfully for the new trading authority.
Mr. Gephardt's speech to the Council on Foreign Relations yesterday offered a detailed explanation of his position on fast-track legislation and his support for trying to help put America's fiercest economic competitors back on their feet. Though he has not demanded that the I.M.F. insist on labor standards or environmental protection as a condition of bailouts, Mr. Gephardt opposes any trade accords that fail to contain such requirements.
"There is no contradiction," Mr. Gephardt said after his speech.
"We have patients in the emergency room," he said of the Asian countries receiving the fund's aid. "You try to bring them back to life before you talk to them about their diet." The fund, however, has insisted that the patients agree to other tough conditions, like requiring South Korea and Indonesia to open their protected industries to foreign competition, and to break up politically connected monopolies.
Mr. Gephardt, who described himself as "a progressive internationalist," said that Washington had to demonstrate that it "has the ability to repair minor damage to the foundation" of the international economy, "or allow it to widen into a chasm which swallows the entire structure."
As Mr. Gephardt spoke, the Administration gained other allies in its effort to win passage of the financing for the I.M.F. The second-ranking Democrat in the House, David E. Bonior of Michigan, suggested that he is reconsidering his opposition to providing the $18 billion. His spokeswoman, Gretchen Kline, said that he might vote for the financing if the Administration pressed for an overhaul of the I.M.F.'s programs. The White House has said that it supports reforms, but notes that it controls only 18 percent of the vote within the fund's governing board.
Conservative Republicans, however, have insisted that they will vote against the bill unless it includes a provision barring American foreign aid to institutions that counsel or perform abortions. President Clinton appears likely to veto any bill that includes the abortion language; the same dispute scuttled an effort to win financing for the I.M.F. in the last Congressional session. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (59%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (59%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FOREIGN AID; ELECTION ISSUES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



90 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: An 'Icon of Technology' Encounters Some Rude Political Realities

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3

 BODY:
William H. Gates walked into the Senate hearing room today flanked by his two home state Senators, Slade Gorton and Patty Murray of Washington, like a couple of bodyguards ready to ward off the blows.
Mr. Gates arrived in town Monday to lay the groundwork, shake hands, answer questions and play the political game he had been accused of ignoring for way too long. But in a few short hours before the Senate Judiciary Committee, Mr. Gates saw his spruced-up image sputter all over again. 
 The word monopolist bounced around the room so many times it felt like an echo chamber. His company, the Microsoft behemoth, was likened to a giant hair ball that consumes everything in its path and an 800-pound gorilla with one too many calluses. It was suggested he was disingenuous and greedy and naive.
The Senators of the Judiciary Committee, who had gathered to hear Mr. Gates state his case, took a kind of giddy delight in making the wealthiest man in America squirm in his seat. And if Republicans felt any skittishness about their trustbusting line of questioning it did not show.
"At the end of the day, what really counts is building good software," a shellshocked Mr. Gates said just before the hearing concluded, summing up his corporate philosophy.
"But not if there is predatory pricing and monopolistic practices," said Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, a state with a fair computer industry of its own. Mr. Hatch, who heads the committee and invited Mr. Gates to testify, said, "It isn't just the business of selling software, but selling it fairly."
It was clear everyone was really there to see and hear Mr. Gates, whose net worth ticked up from $46 billion with every passing minute. Not even Trent Lott, the Senate majority leader from Mississippi, could resist making a morning cameo appearance.
The line for a seat in the hearing room started before dawn and by 10 A.M. it snaked around corners, up ramps and down hallways.
Two State Department interns took the day off to watch history unfold, they said. "It's the first time in our generation that we have been able to witness something like this," said Eric Reed, as he waited for a seat, a dog-eared copy of "Cannery Row" in his hand. "He's the icon of technology. You can always see a Senator or a Congressman, but not Gates."
To his credit, Mr. Gates never lost his composure. With his loose-fitting suit and his raspy voice, cracking like an adolescent's, he talked shop with the Senators. Painting himself as a kind of plucky Horatio Alger, he talked about his philanthropy and the vigor of the high-technology industry. Look at all the jobs, he said, and the money that is being pumped into the economy.
But his competitors would have none of it. "They have done everything they can think of to put us out of business," said Jim Barksdale, the president and chief executive of Netscape Communications, Microsoft's chief critic and its largest competitor on the Internet landscape.
"How many of you use PC's," Mr. Barksdale said, asking the spectators to raise their hands. About three-quarters of the room did. "Now how many of you have a computer with Internet Explorer?" he asked, referring to Microsoft's product. Almost the same number of hands flew up again.
"That is a monopoly," he said, happily.
In another exchange, several Senators said they had conducted their own expeditions. They had their staffs call up sales representatives for Dell Computer. In each case, representatives gave the clear impression they could not offer Netscape.
"I'm not quite sure," Senator Mike DeWine of Ohio quoted one representative as saying, "it has something to do with Microsoft."
Senator Herb Kohl, the Wisconsin Democrat, asked why Microsoft's percentage of sales to profits was so much higher than those of businesses in other industries. His not so subtle suggestion was that Mr. Gates was a monopolist looking to safeguard his treasure chest.
"That's an extraordinary profit level in America," Mr. Kohl said. "If your industry would be a lot more competitive, your prices would be a lot lower, your profits would be lower, the value of the shares would go down, and the value of your shares would go down. That's just the way it works."
But it was Senator Hatch, whose state is home to another Microsoft competitor, Novell, who demanded a yes or no from Mr. Gates on whether his company interferes with Netscape's ability to promote or market itself.
"You are not giving me an answer," Senator Hatch said bluntly.
In the end, Mr. Gates delivered a nuanced answer that did not fully satisfy the Senator.
Clearly relieved, Mr. Gates walked up to a cluster of microphones and delivered a few final words to reporters, no more questions allowed. "I enjoyed this opportunity," he said. Then he left, walking into a crowd of cheering high school students who spied him on his way out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (57%); SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); WITNESSES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); MONOPOLIZATION (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); 

PERSON: ALVAREZ, LIZETTE; GATES, BILL BILL GATES (92%); PATTY MURRAY (73%); TRENT LOTT (58%); ORRIN HATCH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



91 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Linking Aid to Jakarta To Its Reforms

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3

 BODY:
Hours after President Suharto of Indonesia met a special American envoy, top Administration officials told Congress today that the White House could not support additional emergency aid to Indonesia from the International Monetary Fund unless Mr. Suharto makes "adequate progress" toward economic reforms he agreed to in January.
The statement by the Deputy Treasury Secretary, Lawrence H. Summers, came hours after the envoy sent by President Clinton, former Vice President Walter F. Mondale, emerged from a 90-minute meeting with Mr. Suharto without a commitment that he would end Indonesia's resistance to the mandates for change that were part of a $43 billion I.M.F. bailout. 
 Under questioning today by members of a subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Mr. Summers said that "appropriate policies would be a prerequisite for support" for the United States to back the disbursement of an additional $3 billion to Indonesia, perhaps as early as March 15.
The United States holds 18 percent of the votes in the I.M.F., a multinational organization that is assisting several Asian countries, but it exercises a virtual veto over its actions.
In an interview after his testimony, Mr. Summers emphasized that he was not threatening Indonesia, but merely restating "the standard U.S. position," when it comes to judging whether nations have complied with the conditions set by the I.M.F.
Nonetheless, senior American officials said the Administration was trying to send a signal that Indonesia's population, its strategic importance in Asia and the possibility of heightened violence would not result in a special dispensation for Mr. Suharto to ignore the conditions contained in the aid package he signed in mid-January.
It is clear, however, that some officials in the Administration are loath to cut off Indonesia's aid, even temporarily. Treasury officials are worried that a retreat by the I.M.F. could lead to further economic deterioration as remaining investors flee, fearful that the bailout of the country is collapsing.
At the State and Defense Departments, and among participants in the daily White House meeting on the Indonesia emergency, there are fears of further outbreaks of ethnic violence against Chinese in Indonesia, who own many of the country's businesses. New violence, one official said recently, "would be blamed on the Fund, and on us."
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, alluded to these concerns today in responding to questions from the Foreign Operations Subcommittee in the Senate.
"The I.M.F. faces a very difficult issue," he said, adding that "on the one hand, it seems to me that you do have to have compliance with their conditions if they're going to release," the next $3 billion in aid.
"On the other hand, I don't think any of us should have illusions about the seriousness of this decision because Indonesia is in a very difficult situation, and there are all sorts of very serious consequences that can come from that," he said.
This is, he said, "a very grave moment" in Indonesia.
In Jakarta today, a spokesman for Mr. Suharto repeated the President's insistence that he would put together his own economic policies, which he has called "I.M.F.-plus."
"President Suharto explained the importance of I.M.F. support because of its high reputation, but the President also explained that there had been no convincing signs that the rupiah will recover in the short term," said the spokesman, Murdiono, referring to the plunge in the value of the Indonesian currency.
"The President stated that he will implement the program led by the I.M.F.," said Mr. Murdiono, who like many Indonesians uses only one name. "However, the 'plus' in 'I.M.F.-plus' is to find ways to stabilize the rupiah at a fair level."
Mr. Mondale's meeting with Mr. Suharto was described by American officials today as inconclusive. The Indonesian leader, who emerged as Indonesia's ruler in the aftermath of a coup in 1965, apparently hinted at some imminent actions that might give the I.M.F. a justification for releasing the next installment of funds.
But the decisions all belong to Mr. Suharto, who in recent weeks has often overruled his economic advisers. Mr. Mondale's trip was motivated in part by rumors that Mr. Suharto is preparing to dismiss most of his economic team and replace them with close friends who are assumed to be more hostile to the terms laid out by the I.M.F.
Mr. Suharto is also expected to bring aboard a new Vice President, B. J. Habibie, whose expensive Government project to build a national airplane was attacked by the Fund as a waste of Government resources.
Emerging from the meeting this morning, Mr. Mondale said the two men had discussed Mr. Suharto's controversial idea of artificially pegging the rupiah to the dollar, a risky step that could send interest rates soaring and lead to a rash of bank failures. Faced with strong opposition from the United States, Japan and Europe, Mr. Suharto has recently said the currency plan would be delayed but not scrapped. His threat to proceed with the plan, some analysts in Jakarta and Washington say, is proving to be both a useful bargaining chip and a symbol of his autonomy.
"I think he is trying to show that he does not want to be dependent on the I.M.F.," an Indonesian economist said. "He doesn't want Indonesia being told what to do by the I.M.F."
Today, Mr. Mondale was cautious in describing his meeting, telling reporters: "The way to deal with the severe currency problems faced by Indonesia is to deal with the underlying problems. There are no quick fixes that provide an alternative."
Mr. Mondale made no references to any discussion of Mr. Suharto's vice presidential choice or other political issues, though Administration officials said such talk was one reason that a former Vice President, rather than an economic official, was sent to Jakarta. It is a delicate issue, touching on who will be in a position to succeed Mr. Suharto who is 76.
Signs of an anti-American backlash have emerged here in statements ranging from newspaper columns to Government officials to ordinary citizens.
"We are now in a very humiliating position: some foreigners are coming to dictate to us," said Adi Sasono, who manages a policy institute headed by Mr. Habibie, the next vice president.
On Monday, as Mr. Mondale arrived in Jakarta, one member of that assembly, Amir Santoso, had a tart word of welcome.
"Walter Mondale may give advice, but he must not dictate to us because we are a sovereign nation," Mr. Amir said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (92%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND LAWRENCE H STEIN (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; UNITED STATES (98%); INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDONESIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); VETO (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); ETHNIC GROUPS (72%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (64%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; MONDALE, WALTER F; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SUHARTO (PRES); SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H (DEPUTY SEC) LAWRENCE SUMMERS (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



92 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: KEY SENATE PANEL PASSES RESOLUTION TO EXPAND NATO

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3

 BODY:
The Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted overwhelmingly today to reshape the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, founded in 1949 to stop the spread of Communism in Europe, by adding three former foes, Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
The committee's 16 to 2 vote, reflecting only modest misgivings on the right and the left, sent a resolution to approve NATO expansion to the full Senate, which is expected to pass it later this month by the necessary two-thirds majority. 
 The committee chairman, Senator Jesse Helms, the North Carolina Republican, said it appeared that the NATO resolution would pass the full Senate "on a substantial positive vote." He called the vote today "an obvious vote of confidence in the democracies of Eastern Europe."
Senator Joseph R. Biden of Delaware, the senior Democrat, said that "NATO enlargement is an historic opportunity for the United States, and voting to enlarge NATO now sets a positive course, expanding the zone of stability eastward." He called the measure "truly a bipartisan document, and one that will serve the interests of our country well."
Senator Richard Lugar, Republican of Indiana, said that "NATO expansion will set the foundation for decades of European peace and prosperity." And he warned, "If we fail, historians may look back at the early post-cold-war period as a tragic loss of opportunities."
The opponents to the measure represented the ideological poles on the commmittee. On the right, Senator John Ashcroft of Missouri voted no because he was worried about what NATO's role might become. On the left, Senator Paul D. Wellstone of Minnesota argued that expansion to include former Soviet-bloc countries would dim the prospects for Russian democracy, economic reform and commitment to arms control.
And Senator Robert C. Smith, a New Hampshire Republican, began to circulate a letter, signed this evening by about a dozen Senators, his staff members said, that asks the Senate leadership to postpone the vote by the full Senate until after June 1.
The letter asks for the delay to allow for clarification on the questions raised about expansion, including its cost and whether or not new NATO members should first be admitted to the European Union.
While the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi, said he was not inclined to postpone the vote more than a week or two, senior Administration officials were more cautious. "We think we will win this vote, but this adds a little last-minute, last-ditch drama," one official said. "When the Senate votes is up to the Senate."
Senator Wellstone, a Democrat, said that he had agonized over voting no, that the Czech President, Vaclav Havel, "is a hero to me," and that "of all the decisions I've made as a Senator, this is the most difficult one."
But he added: "I'm very worried -- I've got a prickling in my finger tips -- about a redivision of Europe." Such an event, he said, would cause "a poisoning of relations with Russia and ultranationalists coming into power."
Senator Wellstone said that his father was born in pre-Soviet Ukraine and had fled before the 1917 revolution, and that his father's family was believed to have been murdered in the Stalin-era purges.
"He was the wisest man I've ever known," the Senator said, "but I think he'd be in agreement with George Kennan," the American diplomat and historian who said a year ago that "expanding NATO would be the most fateful error of American policy in the entire post-cold-war era."
Senator Ashcroft, a Republican who is considering a Presidential race, questioned in today's hearing "what the role of NATO is" now that the collapse of the Soviet Union has removed any threat to the alliance.
He said he worried that NATO was moving "from a defense of territory to a defense of the interests of member countries" anywhere in the world. "I have real reservations about what the role of NATO is, and should it be expanded not just to include new countries but redesigned as an instrument of international policy around the world."
"We need limits and safeguards," Mr. Ashcroft added. "Maybe we need a new organization, like a United Nations, with a standing army."
Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said she had begun nearly a year's worth of hearings on NATO expansion "with an anti-NATO bent, and I've changed my mind." Citing the benefits of NATO forces in Bosnia, she said that a larger NATO would improve "a solidification of the European community" and a closer binding of the United States to Europe.
Her theme -- that this first round of expansion is fine, but let's be careful about a second round -- was echoed by other liberal and centrist Senators today. Senator John F. Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, said he would vote for this first round but added, "I share a lot of the concerns expressed about NATO."
Senator Kerry also expressed skepticism about the stated costs of NATO expansion, saying, "I've been very suspicious of cost analyses that keep getting reduced as the vote approaches."
Senator John Warner, Republican of Virginia, has introduced an amendment to delay any second round of NATO expansion for three years after the current round is approved. The Clinton Administration has sharply opposed any binding time delay.
His co-sponsor is Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, who today introduced his own amendment, co-sponsored by Senator Warner, that would bar Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic from joining NATO until they are first admitted to the European Union.
In an interview today, Senator Moynihan cited the words of Mr. Kennan and said he was most concerned about the impact of expansion on Russia. "It's time to say, 'Hey, let's talk this one out, my heavens,' " the Senator said.
Administration officials said they took the worries over expansion seriously, but noted that the number of Senators expressing the most concern had been hovering at 20 or so since the summer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); HUNGARY (93%); POLAND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; POLAND; HUNGARY; CZECH REPUBLIC; UNITED STATES; EUROPE (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); HUNGARY (93%); POLAND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); HISTORY (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; HELMS, JESSE (SEN); BIDEN, JOSEPH R JR (SEN); LUGAR, RICHARD G (SEN); SMITH, ROBERT C (SEN) DICK LUGAR (78%); JOE BIDEN (73%); TRENT LOTT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



93 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2212 words

HEADLINE: As Life Ebbs, So Does Time To Elect Comforts of Hospice

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

 BODY:
After eight years of working in a nursing home, Alaine Dougherty was no stranger to death. When terminal cancer of the esophagus was diagnosed in her mother last April, she knew precisely what she wanted -- or, rather, did not want: "I didn't want my mom to suffer, and I didn't want all the craziness."
Despite Mrs. Dougherty's wishes for her mother, Marilyn Snyder's final months were filled with confusion and pain. She was shuttled from one specialist to another: a surgeon, an oncologist, a radiologist, a cardiologist, a gastroenterologist. She was frightened and weak, and when she stopped eating, six weeks before she died in July, her son and daughter knew the end was near. 
 But nobody else, it seemed to Mrs. Snyder's children, would admit that their mother was dying, least of all her doctors. None suggested hospice care, the program rooted in the philosophy that by focusing on the comfort and spiritual needs of the terminally ill, death can be made less difficult for patients and families.
By the time hospice nurses were sent to Mrs. Snyder's bedside, at her daughter's insistence, it was too late to do her much good. She died within the week, before even the hospice chaplain had a chance to visit.
"She died this horrible, chaotic death," Mrs. Dougherty said, still tearful and angry nine months later. "People say to me, 'You're angry that your mother died.' What I'm angry about is the treatment from her doctors in not letting her die a peaceful death."
Mrs. Snyder's difficulty in obtaining hospice care is troubling, experts say, but not uncommon. As medical professionals campaign to improve care of the dying, experts agree that hospices offer what many call a "good death." But they say people often enter hospice care too late to take full advantage of it, sometimes just days, even hours, before death.
"This is not hospice care," complained Carolyn Cassin, the president of Hospice of Michigan, one of the largest hospice agencies in the nation. "This is brink-of-death care."
The reasons are partly economic. Medicare, the Government-financed insurance program for older Americans, covers hospice care for only the last six months of life, and most private insurers, if they cover hospices at all, have followed suit. But most people spend years deteriorating from chronic illnesses, like heart disease, and their doctors have difficulty predicting when they have less than six months to live.
Even cancer and AIDS patients, who follow a predictable trajectory toward death, often enter hospice programs late. That is because Medicare, which covers 80 percent of hospice patients, requires patients to give up aggressive treatment, or curative care, in favor of palliative care, therapy that is intensive but designed only to comfort.
That can be a difficult decision. Doctors equate hospice with giving up on their patients, and patients equate it with giving up on themselves.
Dr. Nicholas Christakis, an expert in end-of-life care at the University of Chicago, explained, "Patients will say, 'Doctor, I want to go to hospice,' and the doctor will say, 'No, no, you're not that sick yet.' "
Less than 20 percent of the dying people in this country use hospice care. The National Hospice Organization, which represents the nation's 3,000 hospices, estimates that 450,000 people used the service in 1996.
Patients' stays are growing shorter. In 1993, a study by Dr. Christakis found, the median time spent in hospice care was 36 days, and three-quarters of all hospice patients died within three months of admission. In 1995, the most recent year for which the national hospice group has figures, the median stay was 29 days, five months shorter than what most insurance allows.
Many people envision hospices as homey places where people go to die; that is the norm in England, where hospice programs got their start. But in the United States hospice agencies typically send nurses and social workers to visit dying people at home. Their services run the gamut, from providing special mattresses to alleviate bedsores to encouraging families to come to terms with death.
According to Dr. Christakis, studies show "incredibly high satisfaction with hospice care on the part of patients and their families." According to the Institute of Medicine, researchers have found that hospice patients are more likely than others to die in a manner consistent with their wishes, at home and free from pain. Mrs. Snyder's children credit hospice nurses with finally making their mother comfortable, if only for a few days. "They should have been there from the very beginning," Mrs. Dougherty said.
In centuries past, hospices were way stations for religious pilgrims; contemporary hospice programs also have a spiritual bent. Dr. Ira Byock, author of "Dying Well" (Riverhead Books, 1997), described the hospice philosophy this way in an interview: "Death is more than a set of medical problems to be dealt with. It is fundamentally a personal experience."
Patients like Mrs. Snyder, however, largely miss that personal experience. An examination of her dying months, pieced together from a review of hospice records and interviews with her daughter, Mrs. Dougherty, her son, John Snyder, two of her doctors and the hospice nurse who cared for her, reveals how high-tech medicine can inadvertently deprive dying patients of what most say they want: a death free from burdensome procedures and machines.
 
The Patient
Outlook Is Bleak, Given the Cancer
Marilyn Jean Snyder had always been a robust, independent woman. A graduate of the University of Iowa, she struck out on her own after a difficult marriage and pursued a career in library sciences. Her passion was the Civil War; at the time of her death, she was writing a book based on the letters of her great-great-uncle, a lieutenant colonel in the Union Army.
Last Easter, Mrs. Snyder, 66, who lived alone in a condominium in Annandale, Va., called her daughter at home in Bethlehem, Pa., to say she felt a spasm in her throat. Within two weeks, Mrs. Snyder's doctors at the Kaiser Permanente health maintenance organization had found a cancerous tumor the size of a fist engulfing her esophagus.
"Most of these cancers are not cured," said Dr. Mutombo Kankonde, 40, the oncologist who treated Mrs. Snyder. The median survival for patients like her, Dr. Kankonde said, is six to nine months. Still, he hoped to be able to treat her, to slow the progression of her disease.
Mrs. Snyder's first decision was whether to have surgery to remove the diseased section of the esophagus. The operation took place on April 14. It did not go well; Mrs. Snyder's cancer had spread into the lymph nodes around her stomach.
The plan was to begin chemotherapy and radiation as soon as Mrs. Snyder was well enough to withstand it. But her recovery was fraught with complications: chest pains, high blood pressure, pneumonia. Suddenly, her 39-year-old son, a computer expert, and 42-year-old daughter, a housekeeping supervisor at a nursing home, found themselves going to work, taking care of children and nursing a sick parent, all at once.
They spent May trying to get their mother settled, moving her from the hospital to her apartment to a nursing home and back home again. With her condition deteriorating, her treatment was put on hold. Then, in June, Mrs. Snyder, who relished a good meal so much that it was a family joke even at her memorial service, did something that her children found difficult to comprehend. She stopped eating.
This was a sign, experts say, that Mrs. Snyder was dying. "People who are in the late phase of dying are not hungry," said Dr. Diane E. Meier, an expert in end-of-life care at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City.
June 19 was Mrs. Snyder's 67th birthday. Her daughter had come from Pennsylvania to visit, bringing presents that were never opened. Instead, the family spent the day at the hospital. Mrs. Dougherty was terrified that her mother was starving to death; she said an oncology nurse suggested that her mother be hooked up to an intravenous feeding system.
The system requires doctors to implant a surgical shunt just under the collarbone, so that an intravenous line can pump a nutrient-rich formula directly into the bloodstream. This aggressive treatment would fight the dying process, although Mrs. Snyder's children said they did not realize it at the time.
On June 27, Mrs. Snyder got a new primary care physician, Dr. Charles Brennt, a 35-year-old internist. "Prognosis is grim," Dr. Brennt wrote in his notes after examining her, he said. But he added that he was reluctant to suggest hospice care, primarily because his colleague, Dr. Kankonde, was still hoping to offer life-prolonging chemotherapy.
"You certainly don't want to do something that would conflict with the oncologist," Dr. Brennt said.
 
The Hospice
Doctor Decides To Delay Referral
It was not until July 7 that Mrs. Dougherty, eager to get additional nursing care for her mother, called the Hospice of Northern Virginia. Founded 20 years ago in a church basement in Arlington, the agency had grown rapidly; when the file was opened on Marilyn Snyder, she became its 18,078th patient.
Hospice records show that when a representative called Dr. Kankonde, the oncologist, he declined to refer Mrs. Snyder. In an interview, he noted that hospice rules permit patients to receive chemotherapy -- so long as the treatment is palliative, and not designed to prolong life. He also said he liked to get his patients into hospice as early as possible "because it is a critical support for the patient," but that he would have to look at Mrs. Snyder's chart to see why he declined in her case.
But even though Mrs. Snyder's children gave Kaiser Permanente permission to release her records, officials at the health maintenance organization declined to do so and instructed Dr. Kankonde not to comment further.
In any event, outside experts said, his decision was not unusual. "There are very positive impulses motivating physicians," Dr. Meier, of Mount Sinai, said. It is very painful to say to someone, 'It's time to stop chemo and radiation.' "
Some argue that the health care system itself needs to be changed. Dr. Joanne Lynn, who directs the Center for Care of the Dying at George Washington University, has proposed a new system, which she calls "medicaring," that would enable patients to receive the kind of comfort hospice provides without giving up their right to curative treatment. The Health Care Financing Administration, which runs the Medicare program, is considering the idea, and Dr. Lynn is planning some pilot projects to prove it might pay for itself.
A good end-of-life care system, Dr. Lynn said, would allow families to look back on a death "and realize that it was a meaningful time, that it wasn't just being battered from pillar to post."
Battered, however, is precisely how John Snyder and Alaine Dougherty felt; they were desperate for nursing help. "At some point," Mr. Snyder said, "you need to give up and get those services. The doctors have to say, 'Look, it's not going good.' "
That finally happened in mid-July, when Mrs. Snyder's cancer spread to her lungs. She was admitted to a nursing home; Dr. Brennt referred her to the hospice, whose nurses would visit her at the home. He recalled his words to the oncologist: "The writing is on the wall. It's time to work on the care and comfort."
 
The Final Days
Sharing Laughs, Planning a Service
Karen Lucas was the hospice nurse who cared for Mrs. Snyder. She derives her passion for hospice from personal experience: trauma her mother suffered in caring for her dying father. She finds the work exhausting and emotional, all the more so when a patient enters hospice care as close to death as Mrs. Snyder was.
"I never really had a chance to have a conversation with Marilyn," Mrs. Lucas said. "Each time I saw her, she was in crisis and too tired to talk."
Mrs. Lucas found her new patient uncomfortable, nauseated and gagging. The problem, she suspected, was the intravenous nutrition. Two thousand calories a day were being pumped into Mrs. Snyder's body, more than she could possibly absorb.
The nurse ordered a sedative, and she cut back and then eliminated the nutrition. Meanwhile, a hospice social worker encouraged Mrs. Dougherty and her brother to ask their mother about burial plans while she could still talk. Mrs. Snyder, it turned out, wanted to be cremated, and she wanted a memorial service at the historic Civil War battlefield in Manassas, Va., where the great-great-uncle whose letters she had been transcribing had fought.
"It was just like they told us," Mrs. Dougherty said. "You have to have everything straightened out to die."
On Friday, July 18, Mrs. Snyder had her first good day in months. She took a wheelchair ride to the nursing home beauty salon to get her hair done. She chatted about her book. Even sedated, she made her children laugh. "She said, 'I'm not going to make it to my memorial service,' " Mrs. Dougherty remembered. "I said, 'Why, Mom?' She said, 'It's just going to be too emotional.' "
Five days later, with a good friend, a fellow Civil War buff, by her side, she died in her sleep.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I didn't want my mom to suffer," said Alaine Dougherty, left. But Marilyn Snyder, in framed photograph, lived her final months in confusion and pain. Paul Baldridge, 82, right, is in hospice care in Washington. His wife, Mary, looked on as Karen Lucas, a hospice nurse, attended him. (Photographs by Scott Robinson for The New York Times)(pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATH AND DYING; HOSPICE CARE; MEDICARE HOSPICE (93%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); CANCER (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); DEATH & DYING (89%); GASTROINTESTINAL CANCER (89%); NURSING HOMES (89%); MEDICARE (87%); CHRONIC DISEASES (78%); GASTROENTEROLOGY (78%); PALLIATIVE CARE (78%); FAMILY (78%); ONCOLOGY (78%); HEART DISEASE (75%); CARDIOLOGY (75%); AIDS & HIV (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); INSURANCE (65%); 

PERSON: STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



94 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: New York Is Tough Market for Magic Johnson's Quest for a Multiplex Site

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
During a 13-year career as a star point guard with the Los Angeles Lakers, Earvin (Magic) Johnson demonstrated time and again his ability to break down the opposing team's defense and score from anywhere on the basketball floor.
But over the last two years, Mr. Johnson has had a far tougher time penetrating New York City with a chain of movie theaters he is developing in partnership with the Sony Corporation's retail entertainment group. The company, Magic Johnson Theaters, had deals fall through at two different sites in Harlem. Then, after negotiating for almost a year and a half for a site in Jamaica, Queens, the company walked away, only to have the site's owner sign a deal with another movie chain just a month later. 
 Now Magic Johnson Theaters has landed in Brooklyn, where it is considering building a multiplex in a battered and long dormant 1929 movie palace, Loew's Kings Theater on Flatbush Avenue. The city appears to favor the deal, although the high cost of renovating the 69-year-old building could scuttle this project, too.
"It's a tough market to make things work," said Kenneth Lombard, president of Magic Johnson Theaters. "When you come to New York, you have to throw out most of the typical real estate criteria."
Magic Johnson's efforts in New York City come amid a boom in movie theater attendance nationally and fierce competition among the chains to build new screens in the most densely populated urban area in the country.
Several years ago, developers might have begged Magic Johnson Theaters to be part of their projects. But while Magic Johnson cautiously evaluated potential sites, other chains grabbed up some of the best locations.
The fledgling chain's biggest problem, developers, theater executives and public officials said, is that it has had trouble grappling with the relatively high cost of real estate in New York, where it can cost as much as $200 a square foot to build a theater, or twice that of the suburbs. In Atlanta, where the company has already built a theater, costs are half as much. Local officials there flew to Los Angeles to woo Mr. Johnson and then waived the development fees for the company's new theater in predominantly black southwest Atlanta. That kind of treatment is not happening in New York.
"There's no red carpet for anybody in New York City," said Deborah Wright, president of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, in Harlem, which oversees $250 million in city, state and Federal investment funds. "New York is a tough, competitive marketplace."
There is a lot at stake here. While Hollywood is the movie-making capital, New York is the movie-watching capital. Annual revenues at movie theaters in New York generally run at twice the national average, because there are fewer screens per capita in New York than in other major cities, ticket prices are higher and New Yorkers go to the movies more often than do residents of other urban areas.
Sony Lincoln Square, the 12-screen complex in Manhattan, the top grossing theater in the country, took in more than $13 million in 1997, according to Loews Theaters, Sony's movie chain. "Fifteen of the top 50 highest grossing theaters in the nation are in greater New York City," said Tom Boyrs, chief operating officer of AC Nielsen EDI, which tracks movie industry data.
Yet, if there are 150 movie screens for every one million people in the Chicago area, there are only 50 screens per million residents in New York City. So the theater chains are looking to close New York's cinema gap in a hurry.
The fierce competition to provide more screens is best expressed in Times Square, where American Multi-Cinema is building a multiplex with 25 screens on 42d Street, near Eighth Avenue. Across the street, Sony's Loews is building a theater with 13 screens, in addition to its four screens in the nearby Bertelsmann Building on Broadway. United Artists is planning to expand its Criterion Theater in Times Square to 12 screens, with the Barcalounger-like stadium seating that has become de rigueur at the newest theaters.
The battle also rages in black and Hispanic communities and the boroughs once ignored by theaters and national retailers alike. National Amusements, the parent company of Viacom Inc., is building a 14-screen theater on Linden Boulevard in the East New York neighborhood of Brooklyn. And in January, after Magic Johnson's negotiations foundered in Jamaica, Queens, National Amusements swept in to sign a deal to build what Shari E. Redstone, an executive vice president, said will be a 17-screen theater with stadium seating that should open in 1999.
"I didn't know how to convince Magic Johnson to do this deal," said Joseph M. Mattone Sr., chairman of the Mattone Group, the developer at the project in Jamaica. "We failed after 17 months of trying. Then, we signed with National Amusements in four weeks."
Mr. Lombard, the president of Magic Johnson Theaters, said that the two sides never agreed on the economic terms of the deal. Mr. Lombard said he offered to pay an annual rent of $1.9 million, $400,000 less than the developer was demanding, based on an estimated 1.1 million customers per year. In contrast, Mr. Mattone said that the predominantly black, middle-class neighborhood would provide 1.5 million patrons.
"We're not in the business of picking locations that are not profitable," Mr. Lombard said. "Until we find the location that meets our economic criteria, we won't do a deal."
Part of the problem is that the urban neighborhoods targeted by Magic Johnson and others are an untested market. Since there are often few existing theaters or major retailers, it is hard to predict the business volume. Ms. Wright, who hopes that Magic Johnson will eventually find a Harlem site, said she pointed out to retailers that 580,000 people live north of 110th Street in Harlem, Washington Heights and Inwood and that there is little competition for consumer dollars.
"It takes a couple of years for retail chains that aren't based here to get used to the rent structure," said Drew Greenwald, president of Grid Properties, a co-developer of Harlem USA, a retail project on 125th Street. "It's all based on volume. They can't comprehend that theater occupancy rates in New York are higher here than anywhere else."
Magic Johnson Theaters was formed nearly four years ago as a joint venture between the Johnson Development Corporation and Sony retail entertainment to build theaters in black neighborhoods.
So far, the company has opened three successful theaters, in Los Angeles, Atlanta and Houston. This year, Mr. Johnson announced separate deals with T.G.I. Friday restaurants and Starbucks to develop stores in inner-city neighborhoods.
The company's efforts in New York began in 1996, when Mr. Lombard opened talks at the urging of state officials with Robert W. Seavey, a developer who had planned to build a retail complex along 125th Street between Second and Third Avenues. The two sides were still far apart on rent when another, ultimately fatal problem emerged. Mr. Seavey's proposed site included some city-owned land and, despite the state's involvement, the Giuliani administration was unwilling to deal exclusively with Mr. Seavey.
Mr. Lombard then took a look at Harlem Center, a proposed 350,000- square-foot retail and office project on 125th Street and Lenox Avenue, but nothing came of it. In the meantime, the Cineplex Odeon Corporation had signed a deal to build a nine-screen theater at the nearby Harlem USA project. Sony's Loews theater chain, Mr. Lombard's partner, subsequently signed a tentative merger agreement with Cineplex Odeon, and, real estate executives say, became reluctant to back another theater deal in Harlem that might compete with Harlem USA.
Mr. Lombard is now focusing on Loew's Kings in Brooklyn and working with its own developer, Plaza Construction. City and state officials are considering whether to provide about $5 million in loans and grants for a project they hope will revive the neighborhood and be a magnet for other retailers.
But the old theater presents a potentially costly challenge. It has been closed for 20 years and suffered some weather damage. The key to Magic Johnson's proposal, officials say, may be whether Mr. Lombard is able to persuade Gordon Stewart, the owner of Air Jamaica and Sandals Resorts, to join the development team.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ornate detailing on facade of Loew's Kings Theater. Magic Johnson may renovate the 69-year-old film palace into a modern movie theater. Magic Johnson's theater company is considering building a multiplex in the old Loew's Kings Theater on Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SON (LSE) (72%); SNE (NYSE) (72%); 6758 (TSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (72%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MAGIC JOHNSON THEATERS; SONY CORP SONY CORP (72%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (84%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAGIC JOHNSON THEATERS; SONY CORP LOS ANGELES LAKERS (84%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES REAL ESTATE (90%); MOVIE THEATERS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); FILM (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; JOHNSON, EARVIN (MAGIC) EARVIN 'MAGIC' JOHNSON (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



95 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: As Russia Seethes, NATO Prepares to Grow;
Shared Values

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Tinkering Perilously With Europe" (editorial, March 1): Historically, geographically and culturally, Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic have for centuries shared the heritage of Western civilization. While their interest in joining the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European Union may be motivated by security and economic prosperity, more important is the desire to be accepted by the community whose values they share. 
 American military commanders will bear witness that the forces of these three countries exceeded themselves in NATO's Bosnian enterprise. The military support base in Hungary has also been made available for aircraft operations in the projected campaign against Iraq should this become necessary. It is to be hoped that this fact will be considered in the Senate debate.
 
JULIAN THOMKA-GAZDIK
Geneva, March 1, 1998

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Elvis Swift)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); HUNGARY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); POLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (94%); HUNGARY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); POLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (66%); 

PERSON: THOMKA-GAZDIK, JULIAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



96 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: As Russia Seethes, NATO Prepares to Grow;
Decades of Oppression

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Delaying NATO enlargement, as you prefer (editorial, March 1) would send a signal to 60 million Poles, Czechs and Hungarians that their successful efforts to rid themselves of 45 years of Soviet oppression count for less than our concerns over the future of the power that oppressed them. 
 The candidates have proved their fidelity to NATO's precepts. They each enjoy parliamentary democracy, almost totally privatized economies and a desire to join the essential European-Atlantic security organization. And they have already demonstrated their capacity to contribute to, not simply consume, security.
Contrary to your suggestion, enlargement has been thoroughly debated. The United States learned in 1914, 1940 and more recently in Bosnia that its leadership is essential to prevent conflict and insure security. Only a revitalized NATO can achieve those goals.
 
DONALD BLINKEN
New York, March 2, 1998
 
The writer was United States Ambassador to Hungary, 1994-97.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Elvis Swift)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); HUNGARY (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CZECH REPUBLIC (88%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (92%); HUNGARY (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CZECH REPUBLIC (88%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); 

PERSON: BLINKEN, DONALD

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



97 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Climate Pact Unlikely to Hurt U.S., Panel Finds

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3

 BODY:
An international treaty to fight global warming and reduce heat-trapping fossil fuel emissions would have little effect on United States employment and a fairly modest effect on energy prices, according to a new White House analysis.
The United States would spend just a tenth of 1 percent of its projected gross domestic product in 2010 to reduce fossil fuel emissions under the treaty, said the analysis obtained today by Reuters. 
 Janet Yellen, the chairwoman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, is to explain the analysis in testimony on Wednesday before the House Commerce, Energy and Power Subcommittee.
The treaty would raise household energy prices by 3 percent to 5 percent from 2008 to 2012, and would raise the average household's energy bill by $70 to $110 annually within 10 years, the analysis said.
Gasoline prices would increase by 3 percent to 4 percent, or 4 to 6 cents per gallon, and electricity prices by the same amount. Fuel oil prices would increase 5 percent to 9 percent, and natural gas prices by 3 percent to 5 percent, the analysis said.
But Ms. Yellen said the price increases "may not be observable because they would be small relative to typical energy price changes and nearly fully offset by electricity price declines from Federal electricity restructuring."
 The analysis assumes that there will be a system to trade emissions credits, gains from carbon-absorbing "sinks," like forests, and broad restructuring of the electric power industry to increase competition.
Yellen said the agreement was also based on the the participation of developing countries and she said the Administration will not ask the Senate to ratify the treaty unless developing countries agree to join.
How developing countries would be involved and other key issues were not resolved by the deal struck in Kyoto, Japan, in December under which industrialized countries agreed to meet targeted cuts of heat-trapping emissions by about 2010.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (50%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (50%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; TREATIES; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; AIR POLLUTION; LABOR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ENERGY AND POWER; LABOR TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); UTILITY RATES (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (67%); 

PERSON: YELLEN, JANET L JANET YELLEN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



98 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE PRESIDENT;
Working Very Hard at Business as Usual

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3

 BODY:
For President Clinton, today was a fever ishly even an abnormally -- normal day.
The President invoked both Ronald Reagan and Franklin Roosevelt, surrounded himself with both police officers and children, murmured compassion for one family's aching loss and stated seriousness of purpose about containing Iraq's threat to the world. He met with his advisers about education, about the Middle East and about the economy. 
 With Vernon E. Jordan Jr., his confidant and adviser, appearing before a Federal grand jury to face questions about Monica S. Lewinksy, the former White House intern, this was no day for the President to go golfing -- as he did on Monday with a brace of Congressmen, and as he used to do so often with Mr. Jordan.
"He's got no golf partner today," joked one Administration official. But that official, like others, insisted that the President's schedule was not affected by Mr. Jordan's trip to the grand jury.
Another official said early today: "It's both true, and we'll try to portray it as such, that it's business as usual." That is the approach that Mr. Clinton has used to weather each of his crises, seeking to remind the public why it twice elected him.
Mr. Jordan, who has known the Clintons for more than 20 years, was a guide for Mr. Clinton to Washington's ways, helping him manage his transition to power in 1992. Mr. Clinton came to count on Mr. Jordan as an ally who could share advice and what Mr. Jordan has called "locker-room talk."
But now, the Lewinsky matter has forced Mr. Clinton to be circumspect and even lawyerly with his friend. The President has complained to aides that he cannot talk to Mr. Jordan as he once did. "He misses him," said Michael D. McCurry, the White House press secretary.
About 10 days ago, when the Washington Wizards played the Chicago Bulls here, Mr. Jordan stopped by to visit with Mr. Clinton in the owner's box. They spoke, White House officials say, but the conversation was more breezy than intimate.
Mr. Clinton's aides said that the President was preoccupied with public policy matters today; he did not mention Mr. Jordan in public. He did feel relaxed enough to trade book recommendations with one of his senior advisers, Rahm Emanuel. Mr. Clinton praised "Pillar of Fire," a new book on the civil rights movement by an old friend, Taylor Branch, and also praised a biography of Teddy Roosevelt, "T.R.: The Last Romantic," by H. W. Brands.
Mr. Clinton was also focused enough, his aides said, to spend much of the day preparing the speech he gave tonight in New York City commemorating Time magazine's 75th anniversary. After pushing all day for changes in the speech draft, Mr. Clinton spent an hour this afternoon strengthening its central theme, that the expansion of freedom, a legacy of Franklin D. Roosevelt, made this the American Century.
"In the face of the 20th century's greatest crisis, decisively and irrevocably, President Roosevelt committed America to lead the world toward freedom," Mr. Clinton said at the event at Radio City Music Hall. He sat between the author Toni Morrison and Barbara Levin, who is married to Gerald M. Levin, the chairman of Time-Warner.
Another of the guests was William S. Ginsburg, the lawyer for Ms. Lewinsky, who gave back-to-back interviews before the event began, alongside Raquel Welch and Dr. Jack Kevorkian.
The President also saluted Kofi Annan, the Secretary General of the United Nations, for the agreement with Iraq on weapons inspections. "Iraq must match its words and its deeds -- its commitment with compliance," Mr. Clinton urged.
Mr. Clinton's only other public appearance was in the East Room of the White House, where he called for setting a national standard for the proportion of alcohol in drivers' bloodstreams. Recalling Mr. Reagan's efforts to create a national drinking age of 21, Mr. Clinton endorsed legislation to set a national standard of 0.08 percent, below most states' limit of 0.10 percent.
At the campaign-style ceremony, seven police officers in uniform lined the back of the podium, and a group of schoolchildren watched from the front row. But the event proved more moving than White House aides had anticipated, as Brenda Frazier, of Westminster, Md., described watching helplessly from 20 feet away as a driver who had been drinking killed her 9-year-old daughter, Ashley, as she waited for her school bus.
Mrs. Frazier said in a shaking voice that she would never forget the sound of the car hitting her child. His face red and set, Mr. Clinton then stepped to the lectern, before turning his back to the audience to lead applause for Mrs. Frazier.
Mr. Clinton had intended to make a statement about Iraq at the beginning of his remarks, but instead saved that for the end and dwelled on the need to combat drunken driving.
"Every parent in this country, every single one, who has ever put his or her child in a car with someone else to go off to some destination, has felt that sense of loss of control, that fear that something might happen."
At recent East Room events, Mr. Clinton has strode quickly from the room with the audience's applause still ringing, drowning out questions. He made an abrupt departure today as well, but he did not need to. Perhaps because of the presence of Mrs. Frazier and the schoolchildren, lingering questions about Ms. Lewinsky and Mr. Jordan went unasked.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A somber President Clinton left a White House event yesterday after endorsing a national limit for blood-alcohol content in drivers and after hearing a mother describe seeing a drunken driver kill her daughter. (Amy Toensing for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); JORDAN (91%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: JORDAN AS (67%); WHITE HOUSE (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); JORDAN (91%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); GOLF (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BENNET, JAMES; JORDAN, VERNON E JR; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (93%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); JIM JORDAN (79%); RAHM EMANUEL (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



99 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Man Accused of Keeping 2 Men Captive

BYLINE: By KIT R. ROANE 

 BODY:
A Harlem man was arrested yesterday on charges that he held two mentally retarded men in virtual captivity for several years, stole their government benefit checks and beat them into submission, the police said.
The suspect, Jeffrey Bennett, 35, was taken into custody yesterday afternoon at the apartment at 55 La Salle Street, in the Grant Houses project, after a neighbor saw him hit one of the two men with a baseball bat, said Deputy Inspector Michael Collins, a Police Department spokesman. 
 The police did not identify the men, but said they are retarded. The men identified themselves in their apartment last night as James McKnight, 25, and John Jamerson, 37. The methods of abuse ranged from brutality, to intimidation, to being tied to a chair when Mr. Bennett left the apartment, they said.
The way they explained it, they have moved from group homes to the streets to the iron hold of Mr. Bennett. No social workers knew about them and none came to visit. After being questioned by the police last night, the men were released and allowed to return to their apartment, said Detective Robert Samuel, a police spokesman.
Mr. McKnight said he moved into the apartment four or five years ago after living on the streets. He lived with a friend named Ralph, who later died of AIDS, neighbors said.
At first, Mr. Bennett did not live in the apartment. But when both Mr. Bennett and Mr. Jamerson moved in a year after Mr. McKnight, they said the beatings began.
Since then, the police said, Mr. Bennett coerced them into turning over thousands of dollars in disability checks. Each man received $500 a month.
Barbara Thompson, a spokeswoman for the Manhattan District Attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, said that Mr. Bennett threatened the younger man with bodily harm to make him walk to a nearby check-cashing business and then hand over the money.
"He used to take our money, and he would never do the right thing," Mr. Jamerson said, showing a scar on his neck he said was the result of an argument with Mr. Bennett. "I was scared," Mr. McKnight said. "He punished us like we were kids. We could go out when he told us."
When asked why they did not leave, Mr. McKnight said simply, "We had no place to go."
A neighbor called the police yesterday after she saw Mr. Bennett strike one of the men on the head with a baseball bat during an argument outside the housing project. Jennifer Cheeks, the neighbor who called the police, said she also heard one of the men screaming early yesterday morning. "I heard him yelling, 'I didn't take your money.' "
When the officers arrived, they found all three men in Mr. Bennett's apartment.
Mr. Jamerson later said he had a bump on his head the size of a walnut from being struck by the bat. "I didn't want to give him my money," Mr. Jamerson said.
Although the freezer in the apartment contained chicken and ice cream last night, and the cupboards fully stocked, the men said they rarely got to eat -- usually just rice and beans.
Ms. Thompson said that both men said that Mr. Bennett had hit them on several occasions and that he seldom let them go outdoors alone.
Law enforcement officials said it was unclear what type of disability checks the men received, but they added that Mr. Bennett was not a registered care provider and appeared to be unemployed.
The police said that Mr. Bennett had been arrested and convicted more than 15 times since 1982, mostly for fare beating but also for attempted burglary, assault, criminal impersonation, resisting arrest, menacing, aggravated harassment, grand larceny, possession of stolen property and robbery. The longest sentence he ever served in jail was one year, after a 1987 conviction for robbery, assault and criminal possession of stolen property.
There was also an order of protection against Mr. Bennett, although the police said they did not know the circumstances.
In this case, Mr. Bennett has been charged with assault, robbery, unlawful imprisonment and coercion. The robbery and assault charges carry up to seven-year prison terms, the District Attorney's office said.
Deputy Inspector Collins said that additional counts might follow."This is a complex allegation that we are continuing to investigate," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey Bennett was charged with holding two men captive and forcing them to hand over the proceeds of their monthly benefit checks. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; MENTAL RETARDATION ROBBERY (90%); ARRESTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); MENTAL RETARDATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (78%); DISABLED PERSONS (78%); AIDS & HIV (53%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: ROANE, KIT R; BENNETT, JEFFREY JEFFREY BENNETT (96%); JOHN JAMERSON (76%); JAMES MCKNIGHT (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



100 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Job Growth Last Year Was Highest Since '84

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
The State Department of Labor yesterday reported that, under revised 1997 employment figures, job gains for the year were the highest since 1984. A net of 87,500 new jobs were created, with the highest gains in the service sector, said Josh Rosenblum, a department spokesman. Revisions also brought the 1997 unemployment rate down to 5.1 percent from 5.4 percent, making it the lowest since 1990. 
 This year, January's unemployment rate was 4.9 percent, with a gain of 6,100 new jobs, bringing the state to a new high of 3,772,600 jobs, Mr. Rosenblum said. Average hourly wages of factory workers for the month fell 13 cents from December, to an estimated $14.41, but were 26 cents, or 1.8 percent, higher than the year before, Mr. Rosenblum said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (89%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (89%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (89%); NEW JERSEY, USA (89%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); JOB CREATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (52%); 

PERSON: JOSH ROSENBLUM (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



101 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: Taiwanese Group Prepares to Meet God -- in Texas

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: GARLAND, Tex.

 BODY:
The members of God's Salvation Church started moving in last summer. They have bought at least 30 houses, all with cash and all within a two-and-a-half-mile radius. At least 150 followers have arrived from Taiwan, with more on their way.
They dress almost completely in white, including white sneakers and white straw cowboy hats. Their leader, Heng-ming Chen, whom they call Teacher Chen, says he talks to God through his hand and discerns godly wisdom from golden balls that he sees floating in the sky.
But what has really attracted the neighbors' attention here is the bold pronouncement in Teacher Chen's long guide to his religion, entitled "God's Descending in Clouds (Flying Saucers) on Earth to Save People." On page 176, he promises: "At 10 A.M. on March 31, 1998, God shall make His appearance in the Holy Land of the Kingdom of God: 3513 Ridgedale Dr., Garland, TX. 75041 U.S.A." He concludes: "I guarantee this on my life."
The modest, split-level, beige-brick home at 3513 Ridgedale Drive is the home of Teacher Chen, a 42-year-old former social-science professor who says he fathered Christ nearly 2,000 years ago and whose group includes two boys, Chi-Jen Lo and Che-Yu Chiang, whom he describes as the reincarnations of Jesus and Buddha.
Here in Garland, a working-class city of about 200,000 people just northeast of Dallas, the arrival of this religious group has been greeted with some wariness, but mostly bemusement.
"They told me that Garland is God's land, and I thought, 'Well, O.K., to each his own,' " said Bonnie Nichols, who lives three doors down from Mr. Chen. Her husband, Carl, said: "They all seem nice enough. They're quiet. They keep their yards up and everything."
But back in Taiwan, where Mr. Chen's followers generally sold everything they owned before coming here, the group's gathering in Texas has been major news. It has set off a wave of concern from distraught relatives who describe Mr. Chen as a cult leader who has both swindled and brainwashed the members into paying him their life savings for the privilege of taking a ride on a flying saucer to heaven.
Even more alarmingly, there have been recurring rumors that the group plans to commit mass suicide if God does not arrive on schedule here on March 31.
Teacher Chen, in an interview in front of his home, denied that his group, which includes several former professors and engineers, has any suicidal tendencies.
"That is absolutely impossible," he said through his interpreter, Richard Liu, as the boy whom Mr. Chen describes as the reincarnation of Jesus, 10-year-old Chi-Jen Lo, stood a few steps away, drinking Mountain Dew soda and nibbling on raisins. "Our principle is respect for all life, including human life, and no one has the right to take a life."
At the same time, though, Mr. Chen says he will surrender his fate to his followers if his prophecies prove untrue. "He is willing to be executed, stoned to death, put on a cross," Mr. Liu said. "It doesn't matter."
In Taiwan, the group is known as the most controversial outgrowth of a booming national interest in unidentified flying objects. Numerous associations and quasi-religious organizations that track sightings or predict arrivals of U.F.O.'s have cropped up around the island.
Mr. Chen's group, whose Chinese characters are best translated as "God Saves the Earth Flying Saucer Association," started its first American chapter in San Dimas, Calif., in 1995. It moved to Texas in 1997 after the leader said he received a prophecy from God instructing him to move to the suburbs of Dallas. If you say it fast, Mr. Chen tells curious visitors, "Garland sounds just like 'God's Land.' "
In most cases, intact families have joined the group, although in late 1997 sheriff's deputies in Los Angeles County retrieved a 16-year-old girl, Nan-Hua Chiang, after her mother in California expressed fears that she was joining a dangerous pilgrimage with the group to Texas.
No one knows whether Mr. Chen's group may be an Asian version of Heaven's Gate, the group that committed mass suicide last March in a suburban house near San Diego in an effort to rendezvous with the Hale-Bopp Comet, or whether members simply subscribe to an unusual set of beliefs and will simply accept the development if God does not appear here on March 31.
Taiwanese officials in Texas, who say they are monitoring the group, play down its prospects for self-harm, noting that most group members have temporary United States visas and bought round-trip tickets to come here.
"They're just average people, just following their leader," said Chi-Chia Chen, assistant to the director general of Taiwan's Economic and Cultural Office in Houston, the equivalent of a consulate. "Their leader claims God will show on March 31 and will send a flying saucer to pick them up. If God doesn't show, then he says his followers can pack and go back to normal life in Taiwan."
Perhaps, but if interviews with Teacher Chen and several followers here are a reliable guide to their deepest beliefs, none would seem to have any intention of returning to Taiwan or any place else in Asia, even though many of their visas for stays in this country are scheduled to expire this spring.
Pointing to the ground in front of Teacher Chen's house, Ching-Hung Chiang, a follower, said: "This is where God is going to come. This is where God is going to be."
Mr. Chiang and many other followers were friendly and seemed open about sharing their views with a reporter.
Asia is headed for nuclear annihilation in 1999, Mr. Chen predicts, and recent events there -- the economic crisis, enormous fires in Indonesia -- are but a small prelude to the apocalyptic disaster (he calls it the Great Tribulation) in store for the whole continent.
According to his timetable, on March 25, God will make an announcement of His arrival, which can be seen by tuning into Channel 18 on any television set in the world. Then, on March 31, God will suddenly appear at the suburban house here, taking the human form of Mr. Chen.
At that time, there will appear to be two Mr. Chens, but the one who is God will be instantly recognizable because He will be able to walk through walls, converse in any language and clone Himself to simultaneously shake hands with everyone who comes to 3513 Ridgedale Drive.
Then, in exactly one year, from a primary rendezvous point on the shores of Lake Michigan in Gary, Ind., the select few will travel on flying saucers, possibly first to Mars, and eventually to heaven.
Mr. Chen and his followers caused a stir in January when they traveled to Gary and, in the shadow of the huge USX steel plant there, conducted a "purification ceremony" in the 37-degree waters of the lake with rice, fruit and ceramic dragons.
The group spent a few weeks last summer in British Columbia searching for a man whom Mr. Chen describes as the "Jesus of the West" (the boy Chi-Jen Lo is the Jesus of the East). The group could not find the man who, according to the prophecies Mr. Chen says he has received, is 28 years old, about 6 feet tall and looks like Abraham Lincoln.
The group here does not lack for money, and its members spend most of their time in rituals and study; none seemed to hold jobs.
Walt Hsu, marketing manager for a local bank here and a board director of the Garland Chamber of Commerce, said that many members had sold homes for more than $500,000 in Taiwan, bought houses here for an average of about $70,000, and deposited the rest in local bank accounts.
Just how much control Mr. Chen has over all the money is unclear. But in Taipei, City Councilor Hui-chu Chin said in December that she had received 16 letters from family members of Mr. Chen's followers, seeking assistance in getting the members back to Taiwan and in recovering their assets, according to the Central News Agency of Taiwan.
For now, the group continues to travel periodically to Gary and other places it considers holy.
In the main, the group simply awaits the coming of God, an event for which nonplused Garland officials are also preparing. "Our job, come March 31 at 10 A.M., will be crowd control and media access," said Officer J. D. Bettes, a Garland police spokesman.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Heng-ming Chen, the leader of a Taiwanese religious group, prayed through his hand last week in front of his modest house in Garland, Tex. Ching-Hung Chiang, left, a religious group member, with Chi-Jen Lo, described as the reincarnation of Jesus, and Richard Liu, an interpreter. (Photographs by Mark Graham for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KGC (NYSE) (53%); K (TSX) (53%); 

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: KINROSS GOLD CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; GARLAND (TEX); TAIWAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: GOD'S SALVATION CHURCH; UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS; SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS RELIGION (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CULTS & SECTS (74%); SUICIDE (60%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; CHEN, HENG-MING MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



102 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 4, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Gates, on Capitol Hill, Presents Case for an Unfettered Microsoft

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3

 BODY:
In his first testimony before Congress, William H. Gates, the chairman of the Microsoft Corporation, delivered a spirited defense of his company's business practices today and portrayed Microsoft as the standard- bearer of the nation's high-technology economy.
In listing his industry's achievements, Mr. Gates boasted that software makers had created more than two million American jobs, had contributed $100 billion to the economy last year and had generated technological change at an awesome rate. 
 Mr. Gates, who at age 42 is the nation's wealthiest person, stopped just short of reformulating the famous declaration of Charles E. Wilson, the president of General Motors, who told Congress in the 1950's, "For years I thought what was good for our country was good for General Motors and vice versa."
Yet at a time when Microsoft is defending itself against both an antitrust suit by the Justice Department and a rising chorus of criticism that it is abusing its considerable power in the marketplace, Mr. Gates minced no words about where he believed the real threat to the information age lay.
"Will the United States continue its breathtaking technological advances?" Mr. Gates asked members of the Senate Judiciary Committee. "I believe the answer is yes -- if innovation is not restricted by government."
He made his comments in a four-hour hearing convened to explore, in the words of Senator Orrin G. Hatch, the committee's chairman, "how market power works in the software industry and whether Microsoft is abusing its market power."
Mr. Gates was one of six computer industry figures to address the committee on that issue today.
He was joined by two of his allies in the industry, a venture capitalist and two of his company's fiercest competitors, who warned the Senators that Microsoft's appetite knew no limits and was smothering competition in the software industry.
Senator Hatch, a Utah Republican, said Congress had no present plans for new antitrust legislation tailored to high-technology industries. The current antitrust laws date back a century to the era of the rail trusts, which led to the passage of the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890.
In the hearing, Senator Hatch noted there is "nothing inherently wrong with one company having monopoly power. The issue is whether the company uses that power to enhance and expand its monopoly position."
Senator Hatch observed that monopolists are subject to closer antitrust scrutiny than other companies and they have to be more careful in their business practices. After the hearing he characterized Microsoft as a monopoly and said the company "will have to learn to live by the rules that govern monopolies."
The Justice Department sued Microsoft last October, contending that the company was violating a 1995 consent decree with the Government by forcing makers of personal computers to load Microsoft's Explorer program for browsing the Internet's World Wide Web as a condition of licensing its Windows operating system, which is the industry standard.
Microsoft asserts that Explorer is not a separate product but an "integrated feature" of Windows -- and thus an allowable improvement to the operating system under the consent decree. In December, a Federal judge issued a temporary injunction ordering Microsoft to offer PC makers the choice of taking Windows without Explorer. Microsoft is appealing that order.
The Government is also considering bringing a broader antitrust case against Microsoft under the Sherman Act, Justice Department officials have said.
The fundamental antitrust issue before the Justice Department and Congress is whether Microsoft is using its dominant position in operating system software, where Windows controls 85 percent of the market, to gain an upper hand in new markets unfairly. Markets that Microsoft has entered in the last two years include not just Web browser software but also emerging areas of on-line commerce, from selling airline tickets and books to producing entertainment programming and publishing magazines on the Internet.
The two Microsoft rivals who joined Mr. Gates in the hearing room were James L. Barksdale, the president of the Netscape Communications Corporation, which makes the leading browser, Navigator, and Scott McNealy, the chairman of Sun Microsystems Inc., which is sparring with Microsoft over changes that Mr. Gates's company made to Sun's Java programming language.
Two other speakers, invited as Microsoft's allies, were Michael S. Dell, the chairman of the Dell Computer Corporation, and Douglas Burgum, chairman of Great Plains Software Inc. The sixth speaker was Stewart Alsop, a venture capitalist and columnist for Fortune magazine.
The testimony from the software executives was at times filled with technical jargon and acronyms, talk of beta software, HTML, Java OS, client-server, API's and vaporware. But the pro- and anti-Microsoft sides struck broad themes that have a certain resonance in Washington.
Mr. Gates's position -- a now-familiar ode to the industry that he personifies -- has a Reaganesque ring: It is morning in high-tech America. "I am proud to be part of an industry that has revolutionized the world in only 25 years," Mr. Gates said. "The computer software industry has produced more new products and services at affordable prices, created more economic opportunity and empowered more people than any other industry at any other time in history."
His opponents espoused a digital-age variant on the Vietnam-era domino theory: If some limits are not soon placed on Microsoft's relentless expansion into new markets, the company's spreading monopoly will trample rivals -- not with superior products but with sheer market muscle. Competition and innovation, they say, will be stifled as a result.
Even so, Microsoft's competitors went to great pains to distance their stance from old-fashioned protectionism.
"Despite how some have painted the picture, the issue is not about one company versus another, or a personal battle between one C.E.O. and another," Mr. McNealy of Sun Microsystems said. "The issue is about protecting consumer choice in the marketplace. It is about protecting innovation. And it is about enforcing the laws of the land."
Netscape, Microsoft's main rival in Web browsers, still has more than 55 percent of the market, though its share has fallen rapidly in the face of Microsoft's aggressive marketing and improved browser design.
One practice that was questioned was Microsoft's contracts with some 40 Internet service providers, which prohibited them from promoting competing browsers.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 5, 1998, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article and a picture caption in Business Day yesterday about an appearance by William H. Gates before a Senate hearing referred incorrectly to comments by James L. Barksdale, president of the Netscape Communications Corporation. In calling for a show of hands to demonstrate that Microsoft had a monopoly, he asked how many of those with personal computers used Microsoft's Windows operating system -- not the company's Web software, Microsoft Explorer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: William H. Gates of Microsoft, left; Scott McNealy of Sun Microsystems, and James L. Barksdale of Netscape, testified before Congress. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1); William H. Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, bottom, looked the other way when Jim Barksdale, the chief executive of Netscape Communications, asked how many computer owners use Microsoft Explorer. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP; DELL COMPUTER CORP; GREAT PLAINS SOFTWARE INC MICROSOFT CORP (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP; DELL COMPUTER CORP; GREAT PLAINS SOFTWARE INC US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; LAW AND LEGISLATION ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (86%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; GATES, WILLIAM H; HATCH, ORRIN G (SEN); MCNEALY, SCOTT; BARKSDALE, JAMES L; DELL, MICHAEL S; BURGUM, DOUGLAS; ALSOP, STEWART BILL GATES (94%); ORRIN HATCH (89%); MICHAEL DELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998



103 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Panel Rejects Adding Markers to Explosives

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 4

 BODY:
Because of the large amount of explosives used in this country, it is impractical to put chemical markers into explosive material to deter terrorist bombings, a National Research Council committee said today.
The expert panel also said there was no feasible way to neutralize the explosive properties of ammonium nitrate, a commonly available chemical fertilizer used in the 1995 bombing of the Federal Building in Oklahoma City. 
 Despite promising proposals for putting additives into explosives to make them easier to detect or to help trace their origins after a bombing, concerns about cost, safety and effectiveness must be addressed before additives can be widely used, the committee said in a report.
The best ways to prevent illegal bombings until better technologies can be developed, the report said, are more uniform enforcement of restrictions on buying commercial explosives, expansion of voluntary programs to report suspicious fertilizer purchases, and wide use of detection methods.
"There is no one single measure that can make the nation safe from terrorist bombing," Dr. Marye Anne Fox of the University of Texas in Austin, co-chairwoman of the committee, said at a news conference.
Dr. Fox, a professor of chemistry, said all of the options being examined for detecting and tracing explosives had economic and social consequences that limited their use and effectiveness in the United States. Although there have been discussions for more than two decades of ways to enhance detection of explosives before they are set off, or to trace explosive residues after a bombing, she said, there has been relatively little research in this area.
After the bombings at the Federal Building and at the World Trade Center in New York City in 1993, Congress rejected several Clinton Administration proposals to add detection chemicals or tracer materials called taggants to explosive materials. The National Rifle Association and other groups opposed putting taggants into black powder or smokeless powder, the most common bombing materials, because of questions about the effectiveness of marking such a widely used ingredient and concerns that the foreign chemicals might affect the performance of the gunpowder.
The Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 authorized the Treasury Department to study tagging explosive materials and to look at ways to render common chemicals inert for use in explosives. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, part of the Treasury Department, asked the National Research Council, a unit of the National Academy of Sciences, to examine the issues. A second research council committee was asked to look into tagging and ways to monitor black and smokeless powder.
The Treasury Department said the National Research Council report issued today was a part of its study of the issues, which should be completed this year. The department said the firearms bureau would commission research into several areas suggested by the panel: the environmental impact of putting taggants into certain explosives, the economic impact of putting additives into explosives and assessing the practicality of applying some new technologies.
Tom Wyld, a spokesman for the rifle association, said: "The conclusions generally mirror what we have been saying for years. We have to address concerns about safety, cost and other matters before going ahead with some of these proposals."
The new study said policy makers could consider adding detection markers or identification taggants to more explosives if the threat of illegal explosions increased in the country. About 2,000 illegal bombings occur annually in the United States, the committee said, but few involve loss of life, serious injuries or significant property damage.
Commercial high-grade explosives, like dynamite and military plastic explosives, are seldom used in bombings in this country, it said, but can have devastating consequences when they are used.
Dr. Edward M. Arnett, the other co-chairman of the 18-member committee, said it was difficult to control illegal use of explosives in the United States because they were used so extensively for legitimate purposes, like in the mining, construction and agricultural industries.
The most accessible explosive material to would-be terrorists is amonium nitrate, said Dr. Arnett, an emeritus professor of chemistry at Duke University. It is made in great quantities for fertilizer and legitimate blasting agents.
To control access to ammonium nitrate, the committee said retail sales should be restricted unless buyers produce identification and all transactions are recorded.
Dr. Arnett said, that even if ideal early detection or tagging materials were developed for most of the explosives used in this country, terrorists might try to import explosives or find ways around the monitoring systems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (55%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL AUSTIN CO (69%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (55%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (55%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (91%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (91%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (91%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (91%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY (OKLA); UNITED STATES (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; EXPLOSIVES; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; AMMONIUM NITRATE; FERTILIZER BOMBINGS (93%); FERTILIZERS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); EXPLOSIVES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); FIREARMS (88%); CHEMISTRY (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (50%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



104 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Stocks Ease Slightly But Bonds Rebound
The stock market took a break from setting records, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average falling 45.59 points, to 8,539.24. The market was led lower by Disney stock, which fell as analysts lowered their earnings outlooks. A plunge in Intel, the technology bellwether, in after-hours trading also raised concerns.
Treasuries rebounded slightly after a two-day slide, with the yield on the 30-year bond falling to 6.02 percent from 6.07. Page D7. 

Another Deal In Oil Services
The consolidation in the oil services industry continued, with EVI Inc. agreeing to buy Weatherford Enterra for $2.6 billion in stock. But the shares of EVI fell nearly 8 percent, reflecting concern about the transaction's effect on the company. D3.
 
Same-Sex Harassment Illegal
The Supreme Court ruled that Federal law bans workplace sexual harassment by people of the same sex. The unanimous decision expands the reach of the law against sexual harassment beyond the prevailing male-female context. A1.
 
Ford Is Sued Over Wartime Role
A lawsuit accuses Ford Motor of having profited from the forced labor of thousands of civilians at a truck factory of its German subsidiary during World War II. Ford maintains that the factory was under Nazi control during the war, though it said it would investigate the issue further. The suit was said to be the first to accuse an American company of profiting from forced labor in Germany during World War II. D5.
 
Archer Informant Sentenced
Mark E. Whitacre, the former Archer Daniels Midland executive who worked as a Government informant in an investigation of price-fixing by the company, was sentenced to nine years in prison for stealing millions of dollars from his former employer. Mr. Whitacre was also ordered to repay Archer more than $11.4 million. D2.
 
Earnings Up at Kmart and Saks
Two retailers, Kmart and Saks Holdings, said earnings before special items rose 14 percent and 39 percent, respectively, in the most recent quarter. D3.
 
Backpedaling Seen in Indonesia
The painful austerity measures that President Suharto of Indonesia promised in return for international aid have been disappearing after Mr. Suharto briefly adhered to them, businessmen and economists say. A1.
 
Early Pitch for Windows 2020?
One day after facing the wrath of rivals before Congress, William H. Gates traveled to a Manhattan public school to survey a computer leasing program that Microsoft has helped finance. But his appearance was also intended to get across another message: he's not such a scary guy. B1.
 
Higher Profits Seen
Computer Sciences, which is fighting a takeover bid by Computer Associates, disclosed a forecast of big increases in earnings in an effort to show that the offer was too low. Analysts and investors questioned the numbers, however. D5.
 
Murdoch Faults Book Executives
Rupert Murdoch acknowledged that executives of HarperCollins, which he controls, had erred in the clumsy way in which they dropped the publication of a book by Chris Patten, the last British Governor of Hong Kong, a decision that was widely attributed to Mr. Murdoch's desire to avoid antagonizing the leaders of China. A4.

GRAPHIC: Photo.
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,539.24, down 45.59
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.02%, down 0.05
The Dollar -- 126.70 yen, up 0.48
 
Graphs: "TODAY"
 
Factory Orders
 January figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.5%
 
Another graph tracks the share price of EVI, since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); WH4 (FRA) (84%); WFT (SWX) (84%); WFT (PAR) (84%); WFT (NYSE) (84%); ADM (NYSE) (83%); CA (NASDAQ) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (84%); NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (83%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (83%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (83%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (83%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (83%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (83%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (92%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); WEATHERFORD INTERNATIONAL LTD (84%); ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (83%); CA INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (92%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SENTENCING (88%); WORLD WAR II (87%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); PRICE FIXING (73%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN EMPLOYMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); BUSINESS TORTS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (70%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); COMPUTER RENTAL & LEASING (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); BILL GATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



105 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1588 words

HEADLINE: Indonesia's Chief Undercuts Vow to Reform the Economy

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, March 4

 BODY:
As a decision nears over whether to infuse billions of dollars in international aid, a close look at the performance of President Suharto shows a pattern of evasions and half-measures on the economic reforms he agreed to six weeks ago.
From cars to cloves to banks to plywood, the painful austerity measures Mr. Suharto promised in return for the aid made brief appearances here. But many have disappeared again in a haze of missed deadlines, quick name changes and fiscal shuffling, according to Indonesian and foreign businessmen and economists. 
 Tax breaks for a "national car" were removed, only to reappear in a new form. Cartels controlled by Mr. Suharto's close friends in cloves and plywood seem to have been dismantled, only to rise again, the analysts said.
Banking reform, probably the most critical step in regaining financial stability, appears to have been slowed by the financial interests of the country's elite. The removal of subsidies for basic commodities has been announced several times, only to be delayed as food riots have flared around the country.
Officials of both the United States and the International Monetary Fund warn that unless quick action is taken on these and other reforms, a $40 billion rescue package could be suspended later this month, further deepening Indonesia's crisis and threatening economic fallout throughout the region.
For both the United States and the I.M.F. the stakes go beyond Indonesia itself. With its falling currency and huge foreign debt, Indonesia has become the epicenter of Asia's economic turmoil. If the rescue effort fails here in the world's fourth-largest nation, the damage could spread around the world. If Mr. Suharto successfully defies the I.M.F., both American and I.M.F. officials worry that other countries would then feel free to ignore the fund's requirements for economic reform. But Mr. Suharto, whose word has been law here for 32 years, is resisting this formula, which would cut deeply into the interests of his wealthy children, his friends and favored businessmen. For years, he heard little but praise for economic policies that brought development and a measure of prosperity to Indonesia; now he is being told his policies are at the heart of Indonesia's crisis. He appears reluctant to surrender his lifelong leadership style of cronyism and cartels, and eager to show that he is not dependent on the I.M.F.
And so, when the I.M.F. demanded in January that he cut loose the tax breaks that allowed one of his sons to make money on a "national car," the President said yes, but immediately found a loophole.
The car, called the Timor, was one of the most striking examples of Suharto family favoritism. Under the control of a son, Hutomo Mandela Putra, it was manufactured entirely in South Korea but was exempt from payment of import and luxury taxes. This allowed the Timor to undercut the prices of its Japanese and other competitors here. But more worrisome to the I.M.F., it also wasted government resources on a project that benefitted Mr. Suharto's family more than it contributed to the Indonesian economy.
These exemptions were removed in the January agreement. But there seems to be some fine print. As of January, 39,000 Timor cars had been imported, of which 24,000 had been sold. Last month, the Government decided that the remaining 15,000 cars could keep their tax exemptions. In the current slow-moving market, industry analysts estimate it will take two years to sell them -- by which time the original tax exemption law would have expired anyway.
The President's best friend, Mohamad "Bob" Hasan, headed a cartel that controlled Indonesia's $4 billion plywood export industry, the largest in the world. Along with cartels in cement and cloves -- a key ingredient in Indonesia's sweet cigarettes -- it was abolished specifically by the January agreement as part of the I.M.F.'s program to open Indonesia's economy to free-market forces.
But apparently -- like the clove cartel -- it was abolished only in name. Mr. Hasan's group, known as Apkindo, immediately formed what it called a statistical research board. To pay for the board, Apkindo told exporters they would have to pay $5 for each cubic meter of plywood exports. The annual total of this de facto tax would be between $40 and $50 million.
In addition, exporters said, they were told that they must continue to use Apkindo's shipping company. They had to comply, they said, because they were told they had to submit to Apkindo precise details of all their shipments.
Apkindo officials, including Mr. Hasan, have denied that the shipping restriction exists. And this week, on the eve of the arrival here of former Vice President Walter F. Mondale, who brought a message of concern from President Clinton, Apkindo announced the termination of its statistical research tax. But Mr. Hasan remains one of the most powerful men in the country, and exporters are now waiting for his next directive.
The investments of friends and family members also seem to be a priority as Indonesia addresses the reform of its ailing banking system, one of the most important measures demanded by the I.M.F.
In one of the world's most unregulated financial industries, banks here were required to hold no more than about $16 million in capital. In February, the Government announced that this capitalization requirement would be raised in stages to about $300 million by the year 2003 to make sure banks were on a sounder financial footing. Banking officials said no more than 10 banks would be able to meet that requirement, setting the stage for a major round of mergers and consolidations.
But only two days after it was announced with great fanfare, the bulk of that requirement was officially "deferred," leaving the industry in a state of uncertainty. The uncertainty was heightened by the Government's record of favoritism in its previous step to reform the banking sector last November.
At that time, also at the urging of the I.M.F., 16 ailing private banks were forced to close. Depositors were allowed to recover a maximum of only about $2,000 from these banks. The Government announced that it would not bail out large depositors because, as one analyst put it, "it would send all the wrong signals to the financial markets."
But many of the shareholders and large depositors of these banks were influential businessmen or members of the President's family. Last month, the Government quietly announced that they, too, could recover their deposits, a move that banking analysts say will cost Indonesia about $400 million.
One of the most difficult and far-reaching requirements of the January agreement was the removal in stages of government subsidies for fuel and electricity as well as for a range of basic food commodities, with the exception of rice.
Food-price subsidies were to have been removed on Feb. 1, and there have been a series of Government announcements of compliance, the most recent of which was issued today. But economic analysts here say the Government marketing agency, known as Bulog, appears still to be subsidizing commodities, particularly flour and sugar. And there is strong pressure on the Government here not to allow the prices of fuel and electricity to rise as scheduled next month.
In this case, the I.M.F. may agree with a slowdown in implementation. Even though the subsidies remain, prices have been rising wildly in recent weeks, mostly as the result of the increased cost of imports due to the weakened currency. These increases have set off dozens of food riots around the country.
The hardships and social unrest that could result from further price rises demonstrate the difficulty of implementing the austerity measures demanded by the I.M.F. It is not only the reluctance of Mr. Suharto but the extremity of Indonesia's economic problems that make thoroughgoing reforms so difficult.
Mr. Suharto's reluctance to press ahead with reforms like these has led to a new confrontation with the I.M.F., which must decide by March 15 whether to proceed with a second outlay of $3 billion as part of a $40 billion rescue package it organized last October.
He has spent much of the past month flirting with a quick-fix idea to artificially strengthen the value of the currency by creating what is called a currency board. Outside analysts are virtually unanimous in saying such a step would be a disaster in Indonesia's fragile economy. They say the idea has only served to distract Mr. Suharto from the urgent tasks at hand.
Indonesia's lack of compliance led to a previous confrontation with the I.M.F. in January, after which Mr. Suharto appeared to capitulate to international pressure and signed a wide-ranging, 50-point austerity program.
Now, with much of that program still languishing on paper, the pressure on Mr. Suharto has built again.
In Washington on Tuesday, Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers said the United States, which has effective veto power over the actions of the I.M.F., might not support continued funding without greater signs of compliance by Indonesia.
I.M.F. officials in Jakarta have also hinted that they are prepared to withhold new funding, in what appears to be part of an orchestrated campaign to push Mr. Suharto into action.
"They've got a big headache, to give or not to give, to disburse or not to disburse" said Mari Pangestu, a leading economist here. "They want a clear statement of his intentions but they are not going to get it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Indonesia's "national car," the Timor, is among Government-supported enterprises that have enriched President Suharto's family and friends. Tax exemptions for the car were briefly lifted but have been restored. (Reuters)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (72%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FOREIGN AID; TAXATION; AUTOMOBILES; BANKS AND BANKING INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); BANKING LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); EXCISE TAX (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TRENDS (76%); CURRENCIES (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); RIOTS (67%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; SUHARTO (PRES) MOHAMAD 'BOB' HASAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



106 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3698 words

HEADLINE: ASYLUMS BEHIND BARS: A special report.;
Prisons Replace Hospitals for the Nation's Mentally Ill

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
Michael H. had not had a shave or haircut in months when he was found one recent morning sleeping on the floor of St. Paul's Episcopal Church in suburban Lancaster, next to empty cans of tuna and soup from the church pantry.
There was little to suggest that he had once been a prosperous college graduate with a wife and two children -- until he developed schizophrenia, lost his job and, without insurance, could no longer afford the drugs needed to control his mental illness. 
 Charged with illegal entry and burglary, Michael H. was taken to the Los Angeles County Jail. The jail, by default, is the nation's largest mental institution. On an average day, it holds 1,500 to 1,700 inmates who are severely mentally ill, most of them detained on minor charges, essentially for being public nuisances.
The situation in the jail, scathingly criticized as unconstitutional by the United States Justice Department last fall, is the most visible evidence that jails and prisons have become the nation's new mental hospitals.
On any day, almost 200,000 people behind bars -- more than 1 in 10 of the total -- are known to suffer from schizophrenia, manic depression or major depression, the three most severe mental illnesses. The rate is four times that in the general population. And there is evidence, particularly with juveniles, that the numbers in jail are growing.
Some of these people have committed serious, violent crimes. But many more are like Michael H., whose family agreed to discuss his case on the condition that he not be identified: homeless people charged with minor crimes that are byproducts of their illnesses. Others are picked up with no charges at all, in what the police call mercy arrests, simply for acting strange.
The mentally ill at risk of being jailed include adults like Helen Rose Akanni, a woman with paranoid schizophrenia who was mistakenly charged with drunken driving and held for a week before a psychiatrist saw her. They include teen-agers like Jason E., a manic-depressive whose violence gives his father the choice of having him jailed or endangering his family.
"Part of mental illness in America now is that you are going to get arrested," said Laurie M. Flynn, executive director of the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, an advocacy group of relatives and friends of people with mental disorders.
What experts call the criminalization of the mentally ill has grown as an issue as the nation's inmate population has exploded and as corrections officials and families of the emotionally disturbed have become alarmed by the problems posed by having the mentally ill behind bars.
The trend began in the 1960's, with the mass closings of public mental hospitals. At the time, new antipsychotic drugs made medicating patients in the community seem a humane alternative to long-term hospitalization. States also seized the chance to slash hospital budgets. From a high of 559,000 in 1955, the number of patients in state institutions dropped to 69,000 in 1995.
But the drugs work only when they are taken, and when they work, patients are tempted to stop, because of the unpleasant side effects. As states lagged in opening a promised network of clinics and halfway houses to monitor patients, obtaining treatment became harder. Health insurers restricted coverage, for-profit hospitals turned away the psychotic, and new laws made it more difficult to commit disturbed people. Thousands fell through the cracks.
Coincidentally, with voters willing to spend freely to fight rising crime rates, states were building more jails and prisons. Jails became the only institutions left open to the mentally ill 24 hours a day.
Homelessness was the most public sign of the problem. But for growing numbers of people, the price of mental illness was arrest. Ms. Akanni, for example, became upset when she could not find her 2-year-old daughter; the girl had fallen asleep under a bed. To calm herself, Ms. Akanni went for a drive, but she got in an accident. When she gave her name as the Lord God Almighty, an officer arrested her for drunken driving. A week passed before a psychiatrist saw her and she was able to explain that she had a 2-year-old at home, alone.
When Ms. Akanni was released, she was arrested again, for abandoning her child. The girl had survived by eating garbage.
"The inmates we see in jail today are the same people I used to see in psychiatric hospitals," said Dr. Eugene Kunzman, the former medical director of the mental health program at the Los Angeles jail.
In many states, so many public hospitals have closed, or the laws regulating admission to hospitals have been made so tight, that sometimes the only way to get care is to be arrested. Resources are especially scarce for juveniles.
In Dallas, social workers advised Jason E.'s family to have him jailed to get treatment. He had assaulted both parents and his brother, and hospitals were too expensive or refused him because he was violent. Jason's father rejected the advice and kept him at home, only to be warned he could be charged with endangering his other son.
"It's tragic," said Judge Hal Gaither of the Dallas County Juvenile Court. "If you are a young person and mentally ill, you have to get arrested to receive treatment."
Though some people do benefit from regular medication while in jail, others suffer as the stress deepens their depression, intensifies delusions or leads to a psychotic break. Suicide is a risk: 95 percent of those who commit suicide in jail or prison have a diagnosed mental disorder, a study in the American Journal of Psychiatry found.
Locking up the mentally ill also has high costs for the nation's crowded prisons and jails.
Because judges are often reluctant to grant bail to the mentally ill, and because they need special treatment, they tend to stay in jail much longer than other inmates. On Rikers Island, New York City's jail, where 15 percent of new inmates have serious mental disorders, the average stay for all inmates is 42 days, but it is 215 days for the mentally ill, said Dr. Arthur Lynch, the official in the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation who oversees treatment in the jail.
Last year, when Rikers admitted 133,300 inmates, the city jail system treated 15,000 of them for serious disorders. And in a state that has only 5,800 adult patients in its public mental hospitals, New York's state prisons treat 6,000 inmates, 8.7 percent of their population, for serious disorders.
Legal Aid lawyers in the city are seeing more "junk arrests" of homeless mentally ill people, said Susan L. Hendricks, director of litigation for the Legal Aid Society in New York. "The city has turned prisons and jails into a catchment for mentally ill people who get into trouble," she said.
Jails and prisons often find themselves unprepared to deal with the mentally ill. Guards may not know, for example, how to respond to disturbed inmates who simply are not capable of standing in an orderly line for meals; a common result is that the inmates are put in solitary confinement.
"We are doing the best we can, but it is definitely frustrating for the officers," said Gayle Ray, the county sheriff for Nashville, where 142 inmates on antipsychotic medication, 8.6 percent of her jail system's 1,630 inmates, are housed on one floor of the Criminal Justice Center. "Jails were not designed to be mental hospitals, and what's happening is a real passing of the buck to another part of the system."
Advocates for the mentally ill say the clock is being turned back to the 19th century, when it was common in the United States to confine people with mental illness in jails. Mental hospitals, or asylums, grew out of a crusade in the 1840's by Dorothea Dix, the Boston reformer, who warned that "insane persons" were being confined in "cages, closets, cellars, stalls, pens: chained, naked, beaten with rods and lashed into obedience."
"Criminalization," said Dr. E. Fuller Torrey, a leading researcher of schizophrenia in Washington, D.C., "has been both a personal disaster for the mentally ill, and an institutional disaster for the criminal justice system."
 
The Jail
Faulting System In Los Angeles
In Los Angeles, an average of 1,000 new offenders a day are brought to the county jail system, seven separate jails spread across 4,000 square miles housing a total of 22,000 inmates. It is a logistical nightmare.
When the Justice Department investigated the jail last year, this was the screening procedure it found: On entering, each prisoner was issued a sheet and towel and was shown an informational video. Among other questions, the video asked new arrivals to tell jailers if they had a mental health problem.
Many of the sickest new arrivals did not, because they were in denial. Others did not respond because they had been to the jail before. They knew that if they did, they would be issued yellow jumpsuits, which made them easy targets for guards or other inmates. They might be locked 23 hours a day in dirty isolation cells. And any medication they had would be confiscated until a jail psychiatrist saw them, which could take weeks.
"Unconstitutional conditions exist at the Los Angeles County Jail," the report by the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division concluded, "including a deliberate indifference to the inmates' serious mental health needs."
The study, prompted by relatives of people who had been jailed, was the first Federal review of the predicament of the mentally ill in jail. It produced a case study of the forces that draw the mentally ill into jails, and of the problems that they pose for jails and that jails pose for them.
"The problem I see is that the whole concept of treatment of the mentally ill in jail is an oxymoron," said David Myer, who directs the Los Angeles Mental Health Department's programs in the jail. "Jail is a horrible place. It isn't good for people who are well. For someone who is mentally ill, it is terrible."
The troubles begin with the fact that the county jail is a jail, not a hospital. It is run by the sheriff's department, whose main mission is to keep discipline among its large population and to process inmates for court.
In addition, most deputies have little training in dealing with the emotionally disturbed, said Anita Dunsay, a recently retired clinical psychologist who worked in the jail. "The deputies tend to be fresh graduates of the sheriff's academy, and baby-sitting isn't what they joined up for, so they easily get angry at the mentally ill," she said.
One result, the Justice Department charged, was that even though l,700 inmates a day got some form of treatment, many more had mental illnesses that were going undetected. This was particularly true of those who were quietly depressed or had personality or anxiety disorders, illnesses for which California law does not mandate care. The Justice Department report also charged that record-keeping was so haphazard that some mentally ill inmates were lost in the system, while many illnesses were misdiagnosed and patients were given the wrong medication.
As a visitor toured the Central Jail three months after the report's release, mentally ill inmates in yellow jumpsuits could be seen meeting with a psychiatrist on a steel bench in a busy corridor. A stench from the jail's blocked sewer caused people to cover their noses and mouths. Cells reserved for the mentally ill were so crowded that some men had to sleep on the floor. Some babbled; others complained that they could not sleep because of rats in their quarters.
The physical conditions improved dramatically in January, when the sheriff's department, under threat of a Justice Department lawsuit, moved most of the mentally disturbed inmates to the county's new Twin Towers jail There, in an area dedicated to the mentally ill, the inmates are housed in clean, modern, one- and two-man cells.
The screening process was also updated: deputies now directly ask new arrivals if they are on medication. Already the number identifying themselves as mentally ill has increased, and Mr. Myer said he expected it would eventually climb by 50 percent.
"The moral of the story," Mr. Myer said, "is that if you want to get something done, you need to bring the power of the Federal Government in and threaten to take over your jail."
But even as the Los Angeles jail moves toward, in effect, creating its own mental hospital, there are still problems inherent in dealing with the mentally ill in any jail. Inmates, said Dr. Kunzman, the former medical director, are seldom in jail long enough to be stabilized on the right medication, to offer them adequate therapy or to plan for their care after release.
And so far the changes at the Los Angeles County Jail have affected mainly physical conditions, not treatment, said Marianne Baptista, an administrator at Step Up on Second, a mental health agency in Santa Monica whose caseworkers often search the jail for missing clients. "On our end, nothing's changed," she said.
Her agency's clients still often disappear into the jail after being arrested, without any notification to the clinic. "More often than not, once in jail, their medications are taken away from them or they are given something different, and then their symptoms come out again," she said. "Being in jail may make them more crazy."
That cycle can cause long-term physical damage, said Kay Redfield Jamison, a professor of psychiatry at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. "Every relapse you have increases the odds that your brain is being damaged and that you will have another relapse faster, just like with heart attacks," she said.
Without the state hospitals, experts say, a revolving door has been created, in which many mentally ill people cycle from clinics to homelessness to jail.
In Los Angeles, more than 70 percent of the severely mentally ill homeless have been arrested at least once, according to a report prepared for the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors by Carla Jacobs, a board member of the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill.
Many mentally ill people do manage to get treatment and do not end up in jail, of course, especially those with higher incomes. But the magnitude of the problem is suggested by a survey by the alliance of families with a seriously mentally ill member; 40 percent of the ill individuals had been arrested.
Jails and prisons have only recently begun to keep statistics on the mentally ill who pass through them, and those numbers can vary according to the quality of a jail's screening or which mental disorders are counted.
On an average day, said Linda A. Teplin, a professor of psychiatry at Northwestern University Medical School, 9 percent of men and 18.5 percent of women in local jails -- about 56,000 people -- are severely mentally ill.
An estimated 10 percent of all inmates in state and Federal prisons, or 122,000 people, are severely mentally ill, said Allen J. Beck of the Justice Department's Bureau of Justice Statistics. And about 20 percent of juveniles in criminal justice facilities, or 20,000 people, are that ill, said Joseph Cocozza, director of the GAINS Center, a research organization in Delmar, N.Y.
It was Professor Teplin's research that first demonstrated that the mentally ill are arrested much more often than people in the general population. But the problem, she said, is not police callousness. "The police arrest the mentally ill because they have no other alternative," she said.
She recalled riding with the police in a Midwestern city one night when they received a call about a crazy man on a bus. The man, named Charlie, was both schizophrenic and a drunk. They took him to a detoxification center, where he fell asleep. But the detox center recognized him and insisted he was crazy, not drunk, so the police drove him to a hospital.
At the hospital the doctors also knew Charlie. Regarding him as difficult, they said he was an alcoholic to avoid admitting him.
Finally, the police arrested Charlie, Professor Teplin said. It was a cold night and they did not want him to freeze to death. He was charged with disorderly conduct.
 
The Delinquent
Young, Mentally Ill And Bound for Jail
The 16-year-old girl suffered from delusions and hallucinations. The diagnosis was "psychotic, not otherwise specified." Her father was in prison for sexually abusing her sister. Her mother was an alcoholic. Not surprisingly, the girl began skipping school. She got pregnant. She assaulted her mother.
Before most state hospitals were closed, the girl would probably have been committed to a state psychiatric hospital. But in Texas, where she lives, the juvenile court declared her a delinquent and sent her to the state's juvenile justice agency, the Texas Youth Commission. The commission sent her to its Corsicana Residential Treatment Center for seriously emotionally disturbed youths.
The girl personifies the problems facing many young people with mental disorders, said Linda Reyes, a psychologist and assistant deputy executive director of the commission. "Unless you are wealthy and can afford private doctors, you have to get arrested to get treatment," she said.
Even so, the commission is limited in what it can do. The girl refuses to take antipsychotic medication, and because Corsicana is not a hospital, its staff cannot make her take it. She is not making progress -- she walks around naked and urinates on the floor -- but by law, when her term expires, she must be released.
Incarcerating mentally ill adolescents is "tragic and absurd," Dr. Reyes said. "The system we have created is totally ineffective. It doesn't rehabilitate the kids. And it doesn't even take care of public safety, because when she is sent home, she will just get picked up again."
Of the 4,791 juveniles in the Texas agency's custody, 22 percent suffer from schizophrenia, manic depression or major depression. The national figure is similar: an estimated 20 percent of incarcerated juveniles are seriously emotionally disturbed.
When other psychiatric disorders are included, the percentages rise sharply. A recent survey by the California Youth Authority found that 35 percent of boys in its custody and 73 percent of girls need treatment, said its director, Francisco Alarcon.
One reason for the higher percentage of young people with mental illness in jail, specialists say, is that many states have cut budgets for adolescent psychiatric hospitals even more than those for adults.
"I had a 15-year-old girl who was hallucinating and psychotic," said Cathy Brock, a supervisor at the Letot Center in Dallas for runaway children. "And a staff member from Mental Health and Mental Retardation agreed she needed hospitalization. But then she said they were over budget for the year, so couldn't I find an offense that would get her arrested, like an assault?"
The Dallas County Juvenile Department has as large a budget for psychiatric hospitalization, $6.6 million this year, as the county's mental health department.
As a result, Ms. Brock said, "When I have a kid who is severely mentally ill and has been arrested, and the family has no resources, I will do everything I can to make sure that kid gets adjudicated." But urging judges and families to convict children, she said, "presents all kinds of ethical binds.".
Another reason these young people are incarcerated disproportionately is that they act out their illnesses more than adults, usually in aggressive and impulsive ways that can get them arrested, said the president of the National Mental Health Association, Michael Faenza.
There is evidence that the number of disturbed young people being arrested is increasing. At Corsicana, Dr. Reyes said, the proportion of juveniles on antipsychotic drugs has doubled to 80 percent since 1990.
But it is unclear whether this trend indicates more mental illness, or reflects tougher sentencing laws that are driving greater numbers of all young people behind bars.
Dr. Torrey, the schizophrenia expert, said he does not believe that social conditions, like the breakdown of the family and bad parenting, cause young people to become mentally ill. "What we are seeing," he said, "is the breakdown of the public mental health system."
 
The Asylum
Well-Meaning Plan To Close Hospitals
For a growing number of the mentally ill, it has come to this, said Dr. Michael Pawel, executive director of the August Aichhorn Center for emotionally disturbed juvenile offenders in Manhattan: "Jail has become the place where, when you have to go there, they have to take you in."
As thousands of the mentally ill end up behind bars, no one has estimated the cost of shifting so many of the mentally ill from one kind of institution, hospitals, to another, jails and prisons. Hospitals can cost three to four times more than prisons, but prisons cost more two to three times more than community clinics, not counting the substantial extra expense involved in treating the mentally ill in prison.
But because of the price exacted on the mentally ill themselves, some therapists and mental health advocates are reconsidering what they did in helping to close state hospitals.
"I was not wrong that antipsychotic medications were good," said Dr. Richard Lamb, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Southern California School of Medicine. Dr. Lamb worked in a state hospital in the 1960's and was among those pushing for the treatment of people outside hospitals. "But I was wrong about discharging so many people with severe problems."
Part of the premise, he recalled, was that governments would build places in communities where discharged patients could continue to take their drugs and get therapy. But, largely for economic reasons, this was never done.
Now, Dr. Lamb said he realizes, "Some people just need more structured care."
Thinking over what seemed at the time like a wonderful reform, he likened himself to the British colonel in "The Bridge Over the River Kwai." The colonel built a bridge for his Japanese captors because the idea was so magnificent. "What have I done?" he asked himself.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The new Twin Towers jail in Los Angeles has an area for mentally ill inmates, but offers little treatment. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A1); More than 150 mentally ill inmates are housed on the third floor of the Criminal Justice Center in Nashville, above. A nurse passed medication to a prisoner in his cell, below. (Photos by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES COUNTY JAIL; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MENTALLY ILL (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES COUNTY JAIL; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; SCHIZOPHRENIA; DEPRESSION (MENTAL); CHILDREN AND YOUTH MENTAL ILLNESS (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (90%); PRISONS (90%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (90%); DEPRESSION (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (89%); HOSPITALS (87%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); PSYCHIATRY (76%); FAMILY (76%); PARANOIA (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (75%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (75%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (75%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (75%); BURGLARY (75%); CRIMINAL NUISANCE (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); TRENDS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); HOMELESSNESS (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); NUISANCE (53%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX HELEN ROSE AKANNI (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



107 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Fraud Ruling Invalidates Miami Mayoral Election

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 4

 BODY:
Citing "a pattern of fraudulent, intentional and criminal conduct" in the casting of absentee ballots, a Florida judge voided Miami's mayoral election today and ordered a new vote to be held in 60 days.
The ruling, which overturned first-round balloting on Nov. 4 that led to the runoff election of Mayor Xavier L. Suarez, leaves the city without a mayor until the City Commission appoints one in the interim. Under the city charter, the commission, which is the city's legislative body and which is to meet on Thursday, has 10 days to make such an appointment. 
 The judge, Thomas S. Wilson Jr. of Circuit Court here, ruling in a lawsuit brought by the defeated incumbent, Joe Carollo, said there was no evidence that Mr. Suarez knew about the fraud.
The unusual court decision has thrown the city of about 360,000 residents into fresh turmoil as it tries to recover from a financial crisis that required appointment of a state oversight board in 1996 and from the convictions of a former city manager and a city commissioner who went to prison for bribery and obstructing justice.
The official who presides over the five-member commission, Commissioner Humberto Hernandez, is awaiting trial on Federal charges of mortgage fraud and money laundering in a case unrelated to city business.
Many Florida officials praised today's ruling for sending a message that election fraud would not be tolerated. Gov. Lawton Chiles said in a statement that the decision would "help restore integrity to the elections process and give people confidence that democracy works."
A state criminal investigation has so far led to the arrest of four campaign workers on charges of voting fraud in the election last November.
Today's ruling did not address the question of who should function as mayor in the interim, and both Mr. Carollo and Mr. Suarez immediately laid claim to the office. Members of the commission said today that they were considering holding the new election on May 5.
"It's going to bring pain to the city because it's going to be an abrasive campaign," Commissioner Tomas Regalado said of the special election, "but we needed this to clear the name of the city. To me this is the best thing that could have happened because after this election we come out clean."
Judge Wilson's ruling was a sweeping indictment of the absentee ballot system, which last month was the subject of a state grand jury report that found it riddled with flaws. The panel's finding included the casting of ballots in the name of dead people and manipulation of elderly voters.
Miami-Dade County has begun reforming the system by tightening requirements for the request and delivery of absentee ballots.
After a two-week trial last month in which 27 witnesses asserted their Fifth Amendment rights and refused to testify, Judge Wilson said 60 other witnesses he heard from gave ample evidence of fraud.
In his written decision the judge said the absentee ballots cast in the election included those from people who did not vote, did not live in Miami or the district in which their ballot was cast, and did not qualify as unable to vote at the polls. Several ballots were even doctored to alter a vote for Mr. Carollo into one for Mr. Suarez, the judge noted.
"This scheme to defraud, literally and figuratively, stole the ballot from the hands of every honest voter in the city of Miami," Judge Wilson wrote.
In a similar case in 1993, a state judge also threw out the results of a mayoral election in the nearby city of Hialeah and ordered a new vote.
Mr. Carollo, 42, a businessman who served as Mayor from 1996 to 1997, said he felt vindicated.
"It's a great day for Miami because democracy has been defended and protected," he said at a news conference outside the court. "We live in a great country, and I'm proud of being an American."
Mr. Suarez, 48, a lawyer who served as Mayor from 1985 to 1993 and has had a controversial four-month second tenure, said he would not appeal the decision because he was certain to win again. He said he ran a clean campaign and that he planned to implement measures for the new election "to assure that every single vote is exactly as proper, legal and kosher as a human being can possibly make it."
Mr. Carollo won a majority of the ballots cast at the polls in a first-round election, which included five candidates, but was 155 votes short of a majority over all because Mr. Suarez won most absentee ballots.
Mr. Suarez won the runoff on Nov. 13, with 23,598 votes to Mr. Carollo's 20,739. Judge Wilson's ruling today overturned the first-round election, thus invalidating the runoff.
Judge Wilson found that Mr. Hernandez's district was "the center of a massive, well-conceived and well-orchestrated absentee ballot voter fraud scheme."
A secretary for Mr. Hernandez is among the four campaign volunteers arrested in the ongoing criminal probe.
Mr. Suarez himself has contributed to the tragic-comical political scene here since the election by appointing Mr. Hernandez to preside over the commission despite his legal troubles and engaging in antics that have earned him ridicule.
Mr. Suarez has made headlines by trying to dismiss a popular police chief, threatening The Miami Herald with the withdrawal of city advertising unless the newspaper was "a lot nicer" to him and calling a state senator with a hard-to-pronounce name "Senator Cabbage" in a formal meeting.
Many Miamians said they were glad they would get another chance to vote.
"I hope there's a third candidate," said Jorge Gonzalez, 58, a construction worker.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The lawsuit that overturned the Miami mayoral election was brought by the defeated incumbent, Joe Carollo, who praised yesterday's ruling. (Associated Press); After the Miami mayoral election was voided yesterday, Mayor Xavier Suarez answered questions. (Reuters)(pg. A18)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI (FLA); UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); MIAMI, FL, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ABSENTEE VOTING; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (94%); ELECTIONS (93%); MAYORS (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); MISCONDUCT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BALLOTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); ELECTION FRAUD (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); WITNESSES (77%); GRAND JURY (74%); MORTGAGE FRAUD (73%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); ARRESTS (73%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (73%); BRIBERY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA; WILSON, THOMAS S (JUDGE); SUAREZ, XAVIER L (MAYOR); CAROLLO, JOE; CAROLLO, JOE THOMAS J WILSON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



108 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Report Shows a Strong and Diverse Job Growth for New York City

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
The New York City economy added more new jobs in 1997 than in any year since 1984, the New York State Department of Labor said yesterday.
Perhaps just as important, the growth was diverse. The city even added jobs in what has been one of its historically most important, but chronically weak industries: apparel manufacturing. For the first time since 1978, the garment industry added workers -- only 400, but a gain nonetheless. 
 The new numbers -- the result of annual revisions to monthly job estimates that all states make at this time of year, a kind of economic summing up -- show that New York City added 54,800 net new jobs, up 69 percent from the 32,500 added in 1996 and the best one-year performance since the 77,700 jobs that were added in 1984. The city also continued to lead the state in economic performance. Of the 106,000 new jobs added statewide, 52 percent were in the city's five boroughs, the state said.
Most of the new jobs in the city were in so-called business-services fields like accounting and law, many of which are linked to Wall Street, and in retail and food service jobs that are linked to the boom in tourism and in construction. Manufacturing over all, aside from the garment industry, declined, but by a lesser amount -- 2,000 jobs lost in the city -- than in many previous years.
"The region's economic performance is still strong and as good as it's been in a long time," said Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Regional Financial Associates, an economic consulting and research firm. Another plus, Mr. Zandi said, is that the growth has not been based on just a few pillars. Although the city and state economies have certainly been energized by the billions of dollars in bonuses and profits generated by Wall Street -- which leads indirectly to new job growth in areas like real estate and retailing -- the industry itself has been only one among many that added new workers during the year.
But the revisions, however strong, still represent what by some measures is a half-empty glass for the city and the state. Economic growth in New York City and New York State and in New Jersey all lagged behind growth in the nation as a whole in 1997. And in comparison with genuinely booming places like California and high-technology corners of the South, the region looks almost anemic.
Total nonfarm employment in California, for example, rose 3.5 percent last year, according to the revised job numbers, and the national average -- which will not be released until sometime this spring -- is expected to be about 2.7 percent, according to estimates by Regional Financial Associates.
In New York City, by contrast, the job count rose 1.7 percent, while New York State saw growth of 1.3 percent in total nonagricultural employment. New Jersey did slightly better, up 2.4 percent for the year.
Unemployment in New York City also remains far higher than in the nation as a whole. Even with the revisions, which added 8,600 private-sector jobs to the preliminary total, the average unemployment rate for the city over the year was 9.4 percent. In more than a few months, the unemployment rate was twice the national average.
New Jersey, which released its numbers on Tuesday, also had a strong year in 1997, its best performance in adding new jobs on a year-to-year basis since 1987, the State Labor Department said. For the year, New Jersey employers added 86,500 new jobs. As in New York, the strongest growth was in the broadly defined service category.
Of the new jobs, 48,400 were in services, including 13,200 in the personnel supply industry, which provides temporary workers to companies, 6,300 in computer and data processing jobs and 8,000 in health care.
Stephen Kagann, the chief economic adviser to Gov. George E. Pataki of New York, said he thought another important trend for the year was what he called a turnaround in the manufacturing of durable goods in upstate New York, where job growth in many communities has been weak or nonexistent through much of the 1990's.
Companies making durable items -- those meant to last longer than a year, like machinery or furniture or computers -- employed 1,100 more people over the year in upstate New York, the first gain in perhaps a decade, he said. In the 10 counties of the New York City metropolitan area, by contrast -- the city plus Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland and Putnam Counties -- manufacturing of durable goods continued to decline, down 1,800 jobs from 1996, Mr. Kagann said.
Other numbers in the report similarly jumped out not so much for their magnitude as for their direction. As recently as Tuesday, state officials said they had expected the job totals for apparel manufacturing to follow the long-ingrained pattern downward. The projected loss for 1997: about 1,600 jobs. The upward revision of 2,000 jobs, inched the category into positive territory, if only just barely.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); JOB CREATION (92%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



109 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK;
Matchmaking, or How Conductors and Orchestras Get Together

BYLINE: By BERNARD HOLLAND 

 BODY:
Symphonic matrimony is rarely for life and not always for love. Odd couples abound in the relationships between conductors and the orchestras they direct. Some are marriages of convenience. Others involve a dowry of sorts. For every good coupling there are others one can't quite understand.
Christoph von Dohnanyi and the Cleveland Orchestra show us that one plus one can equal four or five: a good conductor and a fine orchestra reacting chemically into music-making higher than the sum of its parts. Esa-Pekka Salonen energizes the Los Angeles Philharmonic with his youth and progressive ways. Moving in the opposite direction, Kurt Masur's sterner tenure has put a brake on the New York Philharmonic's tendencies toward excess. 
 Like Mr. Dohnanyi, Mr. Masur will apparently leave his orchestra in four years. If this divorce is not quite free of dispute, his colleague's in Cleveland appears to be amicable.
But how are we to explain long-term unions like Seiji Ozawa and the Boston Symphony? The rumbles of unrest between Mr. Ozawa and his players have been heard for years, but he is celebrating his 25th season at the orchestra and doesn't seem to be going anywhere. Wolfgang Sawallisch seemed a perfect balancing weight in Philadelphia, tempering the orchestra's opulence with his sober, no-nonsense sense of style. And yet he is on his way out, perhaps voluntarily but without any undue protestation from management.
I am delighted to hear of recent successes by Riccardo Chailly and the Concertgebouw Orchestra. Yet it remains an unlikely pair: an Italian of almost flaky personality and tastes conducting a Dutch orchestra of historic conservatism? If they have over 10 seasons come to coalesce happily in some of the standard repertory, the players can sound distinctly uneasy in less standard pieces, almost to the point of unwillingness.
Why, indeed, do orchestras and their boards hire the conductors they do? The correct reason will be that players want them (although musicians often like conductors for the wrong reasons) and that enlightened management has decided that the leader and the led will be a good musical fit. Fit also applies to music directors and their local public. For the job, at least in this country, includes serious gladhanding, schmoozing and all the strategies of good public relations and salesmanship.
Some orchestras need help from within. James Levine goes to the Munich Philharmonic, inheriting a second-rate orchestra long conditioned by the dubious ministrations of the late Sergiu Celibidache. He also comes into a relatively new concert hall troubled by acoustical problems since its opening.
Mr. Levine, year by year and section by section, has built the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra into one of the best and most contented groups of musicians in the world. At the Met, his control over artistic decisions has been near total. In Munich, as an American, a Jew and the locus of rumors about his private life, he is already facing unpleasantness from the German press and public.
But up to now Mr. Levine has been primarily an opera conductor. Munich gives him an orchestra of his own and with it the opportunity to transform a bad ensemble into a good one. Reportedly, Mr. Levine could have had the Philadelphia job but refused it. Success in Germany will mean quite a triumph for all parties. I admire his courage.
Some orchestras hire conductors for what they bring with them to the marriage, either a fat personal recording contract in which the new orchestra will share, or a certain glamour that can be exploited by marketing departments. When Andre Previn came to the Pittsburgh Symphony years ago, a regular presence on public television with his new orchestra created publicity that could scarcely be bought.
There is a lot of money and the recording clout of London/Decca behind Mr. Chailly. Without them, he is still an undeniably talented man. But he is also a musician whose repertory and inclinations run against the grain of his orchestra. The Concertgebouw is probably glad to have Mr. Chailly, however. Proud but sagging in both visibility and resources, it used his dowry wisely.
Never forget as well that Mr. Ozawa is a national hero in Japan and that corporations like Sony and NEC contribute heavily to the Boston Symphony. There are gray areas of cause and effect in these matters, but it would be naive to imagine that no cause and effect exists.
Hiring a name often backfires. Philippe Entremont's engagement at the New Orleans Symphony some years ago had certainly as much to do with his nationality in a French-influenced city as it did with Mr. Entremont's zeal as an orchestra builder. When the New Orleans's fragile financial problems intensified, Mr. Entremont simply left, only to be hired by the Denver Symphony, which offered him an attractive contract and limited obligations. When that orchestra developed economic troubles, Mr. Entremont left again. The rubble in both cities has yet to be cleared.
Mstislav Rostropovich enjoyed a long and visible relationship with the National Symphony in Washington, one propelled equally by bearish personal charm and cold war politics. Taking a charismatic Russian cellist and conductor, also an eloquent rebel against Soviet Russia, and depositing him in the capital of the free world was an image too succulent to be denied.
Mr. Rostropovich is a great cellist and a conductor capable of doing a number of Russian orchestral standards in exciting fashion. The National Symphony, whose poor reputation stretches back to my wartime childhood days with Hans Kindler, badly needed a teacher and a builder, and Mr. Rostropovich was neither. Now the orchestra has both in the form of Leonard Slatkin, a conductor said to be interested in Washington's extramusical sources of power as well. Secretary of Music? Minister for the Performing Arts? Who knows?
Occasionally an orchestra position becomes a refuge. Simon Rattle's emergence as a boyhood sensation in Britain was followed by some rough guest-conducting experiences in places like Tel Aviv, Amsterdam and Cleveland. Mr. Rattle wisely grasped the principle of too much, too fast and settled in at the city of Birmingham in Britain. There, in relative safety, he could develop his considerable talents and demonstrate what hard musical preparation and spectacular salesmanship could do for a provincial orchestra of marginal individual talents. An adoring British press helped not a little.
In Birmingham, Mr. Rattle once again made the case for the whole exceeding the sum of parts, but now he seems restless and ready to move on. There have been big successes recently, especially at the Berlin Philharmonic. The reported stirrings of discontent from Berlin about its current head, Claudio Abbado, must have been real, for Mr. Abbado has just announced his resignation as of 2002.
If Berlin does not beckon, America will. For years Mr. Rattle was the shadow candidate in Boston and all but public heir apparent; but with few prospects in Europe, Mr. Ozawa seems to have dug himself even deeper into his job.
Mr. Rattle has recently been courted by the Philadelphia Orchestra and has appeared with it in successful concerts. The players want him; it is a fine orchestra; but no amount of charm and ambition could reduce Mr. Rattle's problems in a conservative and culturally lethargic city, an old-money town that clings stubbornly to its aged and acoustically disastrous Academy of Music, that drags its feet over a long-planned new concert hall and that has had its fund-raising problems in recent years.
It does no good to pine for the days when conductors came, bought a house, sent their children to local schools and stayed for 20 years. When transportation was slow, global ambition was necessarily tempered. Now two or even three careers are only a Concorde ride apart.
If you want sanity in the orchestra-conductor business, go to smaller places, where good sense is imposed by the conditions. One of the most instructive trips I have ever taken for this newspaper was to Cedar Rapids, Iowa, a year ago. The Cedar Rapids Symphony has in miniature the same anxieties as orchestras with many times its budget, but it has a sense of home and a longtime music director who is of the place he works. Let's keep the Concorde out of Cedar Rapids.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Is the chemistry good or is it explosive? From left, Seiji Ozawa, Simon Rattle and Christoph von Dohnanyi. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times; Paul Kolnik; Steve J. Sherman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (68%); GERMANY (51%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (72%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (58%); CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (58%); CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (68%); GERMANY (51%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (72%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); CONSERVATISM (63%); 

PERSON: HOLLAND, BERNARD KURT MASUR (70%); CHRISTOPH VON DOHNANYI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



110 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Auto Sales Fell In February, Hurt by G.M.

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 4

 BODY:
Auto sales dipped slightly in the United States last month, as very weak car sales at the General Motors Corporation offset flat or rising sales at other companies, particularly the Chrysler Corporation and the Korean auto makers, which offered big rebates and other deals on small cars.
G.M. announced today that its sales fell 7 percent in February from a year earlier, as a 2.5 percent increase in sales of sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and mini-vans failed to offset a 14.1 percent plunge in car sales. Because G.M. still holds nearly a third of the American auto market -- more than every foreign auto maker combined -- the weak sales at G.M. were enough to drag overall auto sales down by seven-tenths of 1 percent last month. 
 G.M.'s sales of small cars fell the most. While the company's Oldsmobile and Cadillac divisions showed little change in sales and Buick's sales actually rose last month, the Chevrolet, Pontiac and Saturn divisions each had car sales that dropped by about a fifth.
"The small end of the market is just a battleground, and that is where we had our biggest declines," said Donald R. DeVeaux, G.M.'s director of North American market analysis.
The Ford Motor Company said today that its sales edged down by half a percentage point last month, as a slight gain in sales of midsize cars was offset by an 11 percent drop in sales of full-size pickup trucks. Ford introduced a new and larger full-size pickup on Feb. 26, and Ford officials said today that some customers appeared to have been waiting for the new model to reach dealerships before making purchases.
Ford ended production of several small-car models last year, and so has been hurt less than G.M. by weak demand and intense foreign competition in that segment of the market.
The industry sold cars and light trucks in February at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 15.1 million vehicles. This was in line with forecasts for the full year and substantially higher than in January, when demand was weak following numerous year-end sales in December.
Nicholas J. Colas, an auto analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston, said sales were likely to continue at February's level, because many Americans are refinancing their home mortgages at lower interest rates, freeing money to buy new vehicles. "We should look forward to another four to six months of pretty good vehicle sales," he said.
Chrysler announced on Tuesday that its sales had climbed 3.1 percent in February. The auto maker has stanched sales losses in small cars by offering $1,500 rebates on the Dodge and Plymouth Neon, and by converting some Neon options into standard equipment. The introduction of the big Dodge Durango sport utility vehicle also led to a 35 percent increase last month in Chrysler's sales of utility vehicles.
The biggest gainers in sales last month were two South Korean makers of small cars: the Kia Motors Corporation reported a 145 percent increase in sales, while the Hyundai Motor Company's sales were up 60.3 percent. Both are offering generous deals in the United States and expanding their dealership networks here to try to offset weak sales in their home market.
Mercedes-Benz, a unit of Daimler-Benz A.G., said today that its sales had risen 58.8 percent last month from a year earlier, as demand remained strong for the ML-320 sport utility vehicle it introduced last year. Across the industry, sales of sport utility vehicles, mini-vans and pickup trucks rose 5 percent and accounted for 46.3 percent of all light-vehicle sales last month. Car sales fell 5.1 percent from a year earlier and made up the rest of the market.
G.M.'s market share, which has been falling for three decades, dropped to 28.9 percent last month, compared with 31 percent a year earlier. The drop in sales from February 1997 was particularly bad news because G.M. had not done especially well then either.
G.M. started last month with an unusually large inventory of unsold cars. According to Ward's Communications, a market data company in Southfield, Mich., G.M. had a four-month supply of Chevrolet Cavaliers, for example, at the beginning of February. Yet G.M. said today that Cavalier sales dropped by a third last month from levels a year earlier. G.M.'s failure to sell small cars could put pressure on the company to cut back production in the months ahead.
Executives at the company, the world's largest auto maker, acknowledged that they faced a tough task. "The overall economy is strong, and we look at that as a big plus, but there is no denying this is going to be a very tough, very competitive year for us," said Ronald L. Zarrella, G.M.'s vice president and group executive for North American auto marketing.
But G.M. fared better in the markets for midsize and luxury cars. Sales of its five new midsize cars -- the Oldsmobile Intrigue and Cutlass, the Chevrolet Malibu and the Buick Century and Regal -- were 43.6 percent higher than sales a year ago of the eight models they replaced. Sales also rose for the new Chevrolet Corvette and the Cadillac Seville and Catera.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "U.S. Vehicle Sales in February" tracks annual selling rate for vehicles sold, seasonally adjusted, from August 1996 through February 1998. Chart also lists car and light-truck sales figures and market share figures for February, comparing them to last year's figures. (Sources: Company reports; Commerce Department)(pg. D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (72%); CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CHRYSLER CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; KIA MOTORS CORP; HYUNDAI MOTOR CO CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); FORD MOTOR CO (94%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (72%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CHRYSLER CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; KIA MOTORS CORP; HYUNDAI MOTOR CO US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; REBATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) AUTOMOTIVE SALES (94%); MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); SALES FIGURES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



111 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Spring Directions;
Striking Gold With Grand Economy

BYLINE: By JULIE V. IOVINE 

 BODY:
GREAT style never comes on like gangbusters. This spring, more than ever, subtle refinement is the key to fresh interiors.
"It's not about spare minimalism but the glorification of pared-down shapes, an appreciation for color and the intelligent understanding of engineering, of making things work the right way," the New York designer Carl D'Aquino said. He is guided by common sense but creatively charged by modern art and architecture. 
 "I'm passionate about certain modernists," Mr. D'Aquino said, citing particularly the inspiration of the Italian architect Renzo Piano, designer of the Menil Collection museum in Houston, and the American painter Arthur Dove, who distilled nature into "clean, clear-cut geometry," as Dove once said of his work.
It's an approach that encourages lyrical solutions to the most quotidian design problems -- like where do we hide the television if we want to watch it over dinner in the living room?
In a downtown apartment for a couple in their late 20's -- the kind of bland new construction that makes the heart sink -- Mr. D'Aquino was challenged to work within a strict budget in a less than sumptuous space: two small bedrooms, 1,200 square feet. With children pending, the couple didn't want to invest in major structural changes. Still, that didn't stop Mr. D'Aquino from drawing on sources as far flung as Frank Gehry's Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain (for hall lighting), and a 1970's Paco Rabanne chain-mail disco dress (for movable screens).
Here, his goal was to evoke youth, elegance and a knowing eclecticism out of what he called "a new sheetrock box." Striking gestures were focused in the living-dining room and hall. Nor did the small scope of the job deter Mr. D'Aquino from commissioning artisans for a few carefully calibrated touches of pizazz. Instead of installing an ornate mantel for an undistinguished fireplace, he hung over it a large Tramp Art mirror framed in found wood. He added more texture with subtle-hued, unpolished granite pavers for the fireplace.
To hide a television set in a corner of the living room, Mr. D'Aquino designed a three-panel screen of steel, sandblasted acrylic and patinated Formica, which rolls out on a semicircular track. "Remember those interlocking chain-mail dresses from the 70's?" he asked. "That's what I wanted the pattern to look like." The designer added that his aim was to make the screen a bit of a teaser, both translucent and shiny. A matching screen slides over the kitchen door and camouflages an ungainly pass-through to the living room. (He calls that dubious modern convenience a "yuppie food hole.")
"We really tried to thwart the floor plan envisioned by the developer," said Dawn Barry, Mr. D'Aquino's design associate. "It was so predictably mundane," she added, pointing to a small alcove in the living room near the entrance, which was obviously intended to be the dining nook.
Instead, it became a library corner. The designer lined the wall with bookshelves made of inexpensive stained composite wood, finessed with a translucent acrylic back, and aglow with fluorescent lights.
Mr. D'Aquino said the couple arrived in New York from Hong Kong with nothing but "their cassettes and book cartons." In setting up their first home in New York, they wanted to live elegantly -- but not with pretension. Hence, the television in the living room (the husband's choice). "I've done enough armoires in my day," Mr. D'Aquino said, referring to the chronic "entertainment center" quandary. "The screen was a nicer way out of it."
Within the embrace of the bookshelf walls stands a Victorian fainting couch. "The piece was crucial," said Mr. D'Aquino, who is soft spoken but determined. "Once I knew that my client would buy it, I knew I could go with character pieces." There's nothing arbitrary about Mr. D'Aquino's eclectic taste in living-room furniture, which also included a 16th-century-style Knole sofa at the other end of the room, a Federal-style table, and a 1950's chandelier -- all as distinctive as sculpture.
One of the advantages to keeping the furnishings select is the chance to draw attention to scale. "I love to fool around with size," he said, pointing to a diminutive Turkish tray table in front of the massive Knole sofa and to towering carved maple lamps fabricated by Stephen McKay, which stand sentinel in the corner "like guests that never leave," the designer said.
One problem with the apartment's dumbbell-shape plan is that it admits light only into the living room and bedrooms, not the connecting hallway, kitchen or bathrooms. Undaunted, Mr. D'Aquino, in a personal homage to Mr. Gehry, designed what he calls clouds of bent acrylic, reflectors on tracks the length of the hallway. The drama is heightened by hand-rubbed Venetian plaster walls tinted silver to bounce the light (the "clouds" also disguise institutional high-hat ceiling spotlights).
The window treatment had to have an opulent edge without blocking light. Mr. D'Aquino layered two curtains, one striped and sheer over a second of silvery 100 percent silk taffeta, trimmed on the bottom in gold satin. Meeker souls might prefer a sturdier silk blend, but Mr. D'Aquino considered the billow and crinkle of the real thing worth the shorter life expectancy. "Do we really need to save our curtains for the next generation?" he asked.
An inexpensive green velvet curtain to cover two walls in the bedroom was also practical. "We didn't want to do a big paint job in the bedroom," Ms. Barry said.
The bedroom is a strong contrast to the rest of the apartment. "They wanted it to be soothing, deep and dramatic, all about upholstery," she said. Mr. D'Aquino calls it "the velvet cocoon." It is sparsely decorated: a French 40's sleigh bed, signed by the designer Jules Leleu, and an acid green plastic side table designed by Antonio Citterio and Glen Oliver Loew (for the video games).
The marriage of a French 40's antique and an avant-garde table from Milan is typical of Mr. D'Aquino's inventive but practical way. "I work backward from the way my clients want to live, where they're going to read a book, or how close they want to be eating together," he said. "Then I choose the pieces that will help make it happen."
His only regret is that the apartment's other inhabitants are "two of the biggest long-haired cats I have ever seen in my life." The owners wanted them to have full lounging rights. So far, he says, the velvet curtains haven't been touched.

GRAPHIC: Photos: DRESS UPS in a condo, a Tramp Art mirror and a Formica panel screen. (Rob Gray Photography)(pg. F1); LIGHT PASSAGE -- Dynamic light shades -- the designer calls them "clouds" -- are made of bent acrylic sheets mounted on a track. They camouflage standard light spots in the entryway. Plaster walls in a silvery shade reflect light. VERNAL LUXE -- Two bedroom walls were draped in velvet; acid-green table is high-style Italian. STYLE FOR STACKS -- Backlighted bookcases of stained composite board, below, have a translucent acrylic back, turning a living-room corner into a library with a Victorian divan. Color-corrected fluorescent lights set in a four-inch gap behind the acrylic cast an embracing, low-heat glow. SCALE GAMES -- A Knole sofa fit for a baronial hall, right, is attended by a small Turkish tray table. Instead of centering the 1950's Venini chandelier, the designer directed it above a round table, creating a more defined dining area. (Photographs by Rob Gray)(pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); SPAIN (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (69%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PACO RABANNE PARFUMS (54%); PACO RABANNE PARFUMS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); SPAIN (54%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (69%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DESIGN; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CONSTRUCTION (90%); PAINTING (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (73%); 

PERSON: D'AQUINO, CARL; IOVINE, JULIE V FRANK GEHRY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



112 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasuries End 2-Day Slide as Traders Await Jobless Report

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The Treasury market managed a mild rebound from its two-day slide yesterday, even as traders remained focused on the February employment report, which will be announced tomorrow.
The 30-year bond rose 24/32, to 101 14/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 6.02 percent, from 6.07 percent on Tuesday. 
 Traders said investors were bottom-fishing after the Treasury market had been significantly cheapened over the last few days, a result of strong economic reports that suggested the economy might not be slowing. Some had expected it to slow because of the Asian financial crisis. The strong reports earlier this week from the nation's purchasing managers and on new-home sales raised fears that the Federal Reserve might tighten monetary policy.
Additionally the central bank was in the market yesterday as a buyer of various maturities. One reason for the upward pressure was short-covering, but profit taking on the upticks kept a cap on the day's gains.
Short sales occur when some market participants sell borrowed securities, hoping to buy them back later at lower prices, and pocket the difference. If prices begin to rise instead of fall, these participants often cover their short positions by buying back the securities immediately to limit their losses.
James Padinha, an economist with Briefing.com, a market analysis concern in Menlo Park, Calif., said that although the Treasury market opened down after overnight weakness, the decline was less than some had expected and that set off the round of short-covering that bounced the market up.
With the employment report only days away, there is little chance investors will make big bets or change investment strategy, Mr. Padinha said. He is forecasting a gain of 270,000 new jobs, above the average estimate of 225,000.
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, testifying before the House Budget Committee yesterday, said he saw the risks in the economic outlook as evenly balanced between a potential slowdown stemming from the turmoil in Asia and faster growth spurred by consumer spending, a view he had expressed on Tuesday in Senate testimony.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since November 1997. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT BRIEFING.COM (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (93%); BONDS (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); NEW HOME SALES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (69%); INTEREST RATES (59%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



113 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: NATO Myopia

 BODY:
NATO expansion received a strong endorsement this week from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, but the most interesting thing about the Senate's handling of this issue is the ambivalence so many members express. Rarely has such an important matter seemed headed for approval with so little enthusiasm or attention. That should indicate that something is amiss. The United States ought not to take such a fateful step without a compelling justification and fervent conviction.
Serious doubts about the financial cost of enlargement remain, even among supporters of expansion. There is considerable concern about the long-term effect on Russia of advancing NATO eastward. Some senators understandably resent White House pressure to approve the admission of Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic because President Clinton has committed Washington to the plan and rejection by the Senate now would undermine America's international leadership. 
 The clearest sign of ambivalence is a proposal by a Republican, John Warner of Virginia, and the Democrat Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York to freeze expansion for three years after the first round of growth. The amendment is a well-intentioned but inadequate way of dealing with the fear that once begun, eastward expansion will be difficult to stop until it reaches the Russian border, a prospect that worries many senators almost as much as it does the Russians.
A freeze offers the illusion that NATO expansion can be stopped after the admission of Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, and that their membership alone will not produce a divisive new line across Europe. Neither assumption is true. Expansion will create a new East-West divide, and that in turn will produce great pressure for further expansion as excluded countries press to join the elite NATO club. Romania and Slovenia have all but been promised admission already.
To bring the NATO military alliance to Russia's doorstep is clearly to invite a resumption of chilled relations with Moscow and even a turn away from democracy in Russia. To stop short of the Russian border somewhere in central Europe is to create two Europes, one democratic, prosperous and defended by American might, the other politically adrift, economically disadvantaged and militarily insecure. It would be far better, as Mr. Moynihan proposes, to put off NATO expansion altogether and let the European Union take the lead in unifying Europe through economic cooperation. Those senators ready to support NATO expansion should understand the political and financial price. Those who are uncertain should not vote for expansion in the expectation that it can be contained.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HUNGARY (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); POLAND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ROMANIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; POLAND; HUNGARY; CZECH REPUBLIC; EUROPE (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HUNGARY (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); POLAND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ROMANIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); 

PERSON: MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN) MARK WARNER (58%); JOHN WARNER (58%); BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



114 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Aides Spread Data Critical of Starr as Lawyer for G.M.

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 4

 BODY:
A week after the Whitewater independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr, ordered a White House official before a grand jury to account for accusations spread about prosecutors, President Clinton's aides today circulated a batch of material critical of Mr. Starr's performance as a lawyer for the General Motors Corporation in the early 1990's.
The material summarized a complaint filed on Monday by a South Carolina plaintiff's lawyer that asks the Justice Department to investigate Mr. Starr for obstruction of justice. The complaint, by J. Kendall Few, asserts that Mr. Starr sought to cover up perjured testimony in a civil lawsuit in which Mr. Few's clients had been injured in a car accident. 
 Mr. Few said Mr. Starr had misused the lawyer-client privilege in an appeals court argument to conceal false testimony by an engineer for General Motors at previous trials over the combustibility of fuel tanks.
Justice Department officials said today that they would read Mr. Few's complaint before deciding whether it merited a more formal review.
"We open our mail," one official said.
General Motors and its lawyers today denied the accusation and pointed out that Mr. Few had been sanctioned $53,000 in the case for falsely accusing the company of withholding documents.
Mr. Few said in an interview today that Mr. Starr had misused the lawyer-client privilege to conceal from jurors an embarrassing 1973 memorandum by a G.M. engineer that provided a cost-benefit analysis explaining why it did not make economic sense to improve fuel tanks and reduce the likelihood of fires in accidents.
The engineer, Edward Ivey, had testified that he did not know why he prepared the memorandum or whether he had circulated it among company executives, so the memorandum was never introduced as evidence at trials related to the fuel tank problems. In statements made in 1981 to G.M. lawyers, Mr. Ivey apparently said he had been ordered to prepare the report and had probably sent it to five executives of the Oldsmobile division, Mr. Few said.
Mr. Starr successfully argued before a Federal appeals panel that the engineer's 1981 statements were protected by the lawyer-client privilege, and the case was settled for terms that have never been made public.
Kyle Johnson, a G.M. spokesman, noted that a Federal appeals panel had unanimously ruled in the company's favor on the issue.
"In that case, General Motors properly asserted claims of attorney-client and attorney work product privileges with respect to certain documents generated by its counsel," Mr. Johnson said. "Mr. Starr and Kirkland & Ellis's representation of General Motors in the case was proper in every respect."
Mr. Few said he was raising the complaint now because a Florida judge in a different case involving General Motors had recently unsealed documents that revealed the engineer's statements.
He said also he had had no contacts with White House officials.
"This has absolutely nothing to do with the President," Mr. Few said.
But G.M. officials noted that Mr. Few still had a number of cases against the company. And supporters of Mr. Starr suggested that the new complaint was intended to undermine his efforts to fight claims of lawyer-client privilege. The privilege has been invoked by several witnesses, most notably Monica S. Lewinsky and top White House aides.
White House officials, hoping to capitalize on Mr. Few's complaint, faxed to reporters excerpts from Mr. Starr's brief in the case in which he embraced the lawyer-client privilege in behalf of G.M.
"It is well established that the attorney-client privilege is the oldest privilege protecting confidential communications, and is also one of the most sacred and absolute," Mr. Starr wrote. "The public interest will be served by honoring the public policies that underlie the fundamental protection offered litigants by the attorney-client privilege."
At a closed hearing today, Judge Norma Holloway Johnson of Federal District Court heard arguments between prosecutors and Ms. Lewinsky's first lawyer, Francis D. Carter, over whether the lawyer-client privilege protected his conversations and written work. Participants said Judge Johnson had not issued a ruling but suggested that she would make one soon.
Mr. Carter's lawyer, Charles J. Ogletree Jr., declined to provide any details of the hearing and said his client was not suspected of doing anything improper.
"One thing was crystal clear," said Professor Ogletree, who teaches at Harvard Law School. "There was a clear expression that there is no interest in Frank Carter. Their argument has been that he was an unwitting participant in any improper effort by Lewinsky to misuse the affidavit process."
Prosecutors are trying to determine what Mr. Carter knew about Ms. Lewinsky's affidavit in the Paula Corbin Jones case in which she denied having a sexual relationship with Mr. Clinton.
In some of the secretly recorded conversations with Linda R. Tripp, Ms. Lewinsky contradicts the affidavit and acknowledges having a sexual relationship with the President, according to people who have heard the tapes.
Last December, Mr. Carter took Ms. Lewinsky as a client on the word of Vernon E. Jordan Jr., the President's close friend. Mr. Jordan began testifying before the grand jury on Tuesday and is expected to continue on Thursday.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (85%); KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: PERJURY; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ROADS AND TRAFFIC LAWYERS (93%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); ATTORNEY CLIENT PRIVILEGE (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (74%); APPEALS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (69%); APPEALS COURTS (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LABATON, STEPHEN; STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S; FEW, J KENDALL BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



115 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 41 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
DOLLAR STRENGTHENS. The dollar rose on optimism that the Government's February jobs report due tomorrow would show further strength, while German joblessness was expected to worsen. In New York the dollar cost 1.8184 marks, up from 1.8096.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks German mark to the dollar, since September 1996. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET US DOLLAR (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



116 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: The Threats to Mass Transit

 BODY:
In agreeing to provide an extra $26 billion for the nation's highways this week without a commensurate increase for mass transit, the Senate has thumbed its nose at a majority of the American population, the nearly 55 percent of all Americans who live and work in more than 40 major metropolitan areas. Boosting the share of spending for roads and bridges without providing a reasonable increase in aid for commuter trains, subways and buses ignores the complexity of mobility in metropolitan America. Moving workers to their jobs depends on a network of decent roads and reliable mass transit. Without rapid transit, many of these metropolises would be parking lots at rush hour.
In this decade, spending for mass transit has generally amounted to 20 percent of the total Federal aid for highways, bridges and mass transit. To maintain this 80-20 ratio, transit spending, mostly for capital programs, has to rise whenever highway aid does. But this modest approach has come under attack as power in Congress has continued to shift to the South and West. Some Southern and Western states, which got back substantially less than a dollar in aid for every dollar in gasoline taxes sent to Washington, resented the way existing aid formulas tied to energy and environmental goals and aging systems gave Eastern and Midwestern states more than a dollar in aid for each dollar of gas taxes. 
 The Senate is currently working on a $171 billion highway spending bill for fiscal years 1999 through 2003, including the $26 billion added this week. But pending mass-transit legislation, sponsored by Senator Alfonse D'Amato of New York, would set aside only about $36 billion for transit, or about 17 percent of total highway and transit spending. The short-term task Senator D'Amato and his colleagues have set themselves is to win $5.2 billion more for mass transit. If they are successful, even that amount will not cover transit's capital needs, which are roughly $13 billion to $15 billion a year. As a matter of long-term economic self-preservation, members of Congress who represent metropolises should organize to push for a higher level of aid.
States with transit systems face other threats as well. Under several legislative proposals, each state, regardless of need, would be guaranteed a level of mass-transit aid equal to 70 to 90 percent of the Federal gas tax revenue it contributed for the mass-transit account of the Highway Trust Fund. That would divert money from vital projects to secondary ones. When the highway and transit bills are merged to form the new Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act, the Senate should insure that it does not undermine the transportation networks of the nation's metropolises. Reliable rapid transit remains an effective tool for cutting congestion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); US TRANSPORTATION EFFICIENCY ACT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); TRAINS (73%); CITIES (72%); FUEL TAX (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (66%); GASOLINE (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



117 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: For the Mayor by the Bay, the Honeymoon Is Over

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 27

 BODY:
For a while now, San Franciscans have been griping that Mayor Willie L. Brown Jr. is taking on imperial airs.
First there were the $1 million festivities surrounding Mayor Brown's inauguration two years ago, then his penchant for limousine motorcades with motorcycle escorts, then a proposal to adopt as his official residence an admiral's mansion on an island in San Francisco Bay. Finally, as the cost of renovating City Hall neared $300 million, he announced that given the space needed for a ballroom, a catering kitchen and an expanded office of protocol, there would be no office space left in the Beaux Arts palace for those city employees he described as "pencil pushers." 
 In February, while the Mayor toured the Philippines and Vietnam, cartoonists back home sketched "King Willie" wearing a crown and holding a scepter. On his return, Mr. Brown, paying no heed, paraded down the runway of a Chinatown fashion show, dressed in robes of a Chinese emperor.
"People have been trying to label me for years and years and years," the 63-year-old veteran politician said in an interview the other day, brushing aside the label of majesty. And if he happens to carry a high profile, well, that comes with a benefit. "I get more national attention for this city," he said, "than the previous two mayors combined."
But after walking on air for much of his first two years as Mayor, the exuberant and elegant Mr. Brown is losing altitude.
"The bloom is off the rose," said Mervin Field, the dean of California pollsters. "For the first year, he could do no wrong. He was like the man on the flying carpet; you could not see what was keeping him up."
Since then, Mr. Brown's approval ratings have slid like a cable car down one of San Francisco's famous hills -- to percentages in the mid-40's from the mid-60's. A recent survey of 600 city voters by the polling firm of Fairbank, Maslin, Maullin & Associates found that only a third of them wanted him re-elected in 1999. And the same poll indicated overwhelming support for two anti-Brown measures on the ballot this June: one to return a full complement of municipal employees to City Hall when the renovation is complete next year, the other to dilute the Mayor's control over redevelopment of the former naval base on Treasure Island.
"The guy could be in real trouble," said Paul Maslin, a partner in Fairbank, Maslin. Noting that Mr. Brown's two most recent predecessors, Frank Jordan and Art Agnos, had failed to win second terms, the pollster warned, "He'd better make some progress in the next 12 months, or he is going to be unbelievably vulnerable."
Yet few people have ever made much money betting against Willie Lewis Brown Jr., master politician and master communicator. From his first job, as a black shoeshine boy in a white barbershop in East Texas, Mr. Brown has thrived in adversity. In California, where blacks account for only 7 percent of the population, he not only became Speaker of the Assembly but also held the job for 15 years, a record. In San Francisco, where blacks are only 11 percent of the population, he became the first black mayor.
Further, he is running this beautiful city at a time when it is hard to go wrong. Since his inauguration in January 1996, a booming economy has cut local unemployment almost in half, to 3.5 percent. With tourism and real estate surging, swelling tax receipts have transformed an $89 million budget deficit into a $78 million surplus. On the political front, a series of retirements has allowed the Mayor to appoint almost half of the 11-member Board of Supervisors, or city council.
Mr. Brown has also planted seeds for a crop of public works projects that should reap baskets of votes on Election Day 1999.
"The Mayor has commitments to build two new stadiums, two new museums, a new zoo, a new civic center and an expansion of the convention and visitors center," said John Whitehurst, a Democratic political consultant here. "Previous mayors would have been happy with just one of these. By November 1999, a lot of ribbons will be cut, a lot of ground will be broken."
Mr. Whitehurst forgot to mention the $2.4 billion expansion of San Francisco International Airport -- the largest airport construction project under way in the nation and the largest public works project in local history.
Looking through this cloud of construction dust, it is hard to determine whether Mr. Brown is suffering from anything more than a big-city mayor's routine midterm dip in the polls.
For all of that, though, some elements of his style have not played well here. Back-corridor jokes that entertained reporters and politicians for years in Sacramento are bombing in the Bay.
"The one-liners, where he thought he would get a laugh, are getting him an outraged public reaction," said James Richardson, author of "Willie Brown: A Biography" (University of California Press, 1996).
In December, for example, when Latrell Sprewell, a basketball player for the Golden State Warriors, tried to choke his coach, P. J. Carlesimo, the Mayor said: "His boss may have needed choking. It may have been justified."
Angry letters flooded local newspapers. At a stadium groundbreaking ceremony a few days after his remark, the Mayor was booed. "Fault lines have become more and more visible between the administration of Willie L. Brown Jr. and the people," said an editorial in The San Francisco Examiner.
Further sapping support for the Mayor has been his lack of progress on two issues that bedevil the city: its role as a regional magnet for the homeless (average welfare payments here are 50 percent higher than in neighboring communities) and its creaky transit system.
As many as 15,000 poor people sleep on the streets here every night, and the issue of homelessness contributed to the political demise of Mayors Jordan and Agnos. Mr. Brown, who was a critic of past policies on homelessness, has himself made little headway against it. When clandestine encampments of the destitute and the mentally ill spread through the 1,000-acre Golden Gate Park, he proposed borrowing an Oakland city helicopter equipped with heat-sensing equipment to detect camp sites.
"Shopping-cart confiscations, citations for camping in the park after it was closed, open-container violations -- are all up under this administration," complained Paul Boden, director of the Coalition on Homelessness. "These are all the things he blasted Frank Jordan for, things he blasted as racist and classist."
Mr. Brown now describes the homeless as an intractable problem. "Forty percent of homeless people in San Francisco are single male veterans, all of whom ought to be the Federal Government's problem," he said in the interview the other day.
The other main irritant to voters here is the city's mass transit system, the San Francisco Municipal Railway, commonly known as Muni.
While tourists revel in San Francisco's turn-of-the-century cable cars, locals complain that the rest of the bus and rail system is not much more modern. Almost 700,000 passengers ride the system, which was starved for decades by mayors seeking to balance budgets. As the average age of buses and streetcars hits 10 years, breakdowns are frequent, schedules are fictitious, and commuter frustrations are high.
Willie Brown the candidate promised to repair the system in 100 days. Willie Brown the Mayor has learned that it can take up to three years for manufacturers to deliver new rolling stock.
At one point, the Mayor tried -- and failed -- to soothe riders by proposing a largely mysterious concept of "flexible schedules" and suggesting that the riders needed to learn patience, "to live in the real world." But in recent weeks, the Mayor's famous political instincts have kicked in. He has taken to riding the buses and trains incognito, and is starting a campaign against transit obstacles like jaywalkers.
Somewhat chastened, the Mayor now explains that he is grappling with a legacy of "25 years of inefficiency, 25 years of chaos, 25 years of underfunding Muni." As for overcoming that legacy, "even God couldn't do that in 100 days."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "People have been trying to label me for years and years and years," says San Francisco's Mayor, Willie L. Brown Jr., who brushes aside the label of majesty but enjoyed a stroll in an emperor's robes at a fashion show last month. (Thor Swift for The New York Times; Frederico van Houtryve)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); PHILIPPINES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTIONS; MAYORS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); CITIES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); REFERENDUMS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); NAVIES (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); FASHION SHOWS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); POLITICS (71%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (71%); FASHION & APPAREL (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (64%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (61%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; BROWN, WILLIE L JR (MAYOR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



118 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: First Union to Acquire Money Store for $2.1 Billion

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
The First Union Corporation said yesterday that it would buy Money Store Inc. in a $2.1 billion stock swap that creates the largest home-equity lender in the country. The deal also promised to bring a measure of conservativism to the lower end of the consumer finance industry, which had been hammered over the last year by earnings problems related to overly optimistic accounting practices.
A home-equity loan allows borrowers to tap into equity stakes they have built up in their homes. Home-equity borrowing has grown quickly as lower interest rates and a greater acceptance of debt have made it more attractive to consumers. Home-equity debt totaled about $96 billion at the end of the third quarter last year, up from $85.3 billion for all of 1996 and $79.1 billion in 1995, according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
 Money Store, which specializes in home-equity and mortgage lending to people with troubled credit histories, is one of the more visible lenders in the so-called subprime business. Until recently, the subprime market has been enormously profitable -- often at the expense of less sophisticated, low-income borrowers, the industry's critics say -- and bigger banks see subprime lending as a growth opportunity.
"This makes strategic sense for First Union because we're in a fight for the consumer in banking right now," said R. Harold Schroeder, an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. "The more banks can widen their product set and broaden their distribution channels the better off they are."
Analysts expect further consolidation in the consumer finance businesses, as companies like the Associates First Capital Corporation and Household International Inc., the top two players in the industry, look to solidify their dominance. Weaker companies in the industry have become more affordable to potential acquirers because their share prices have softened as price competition and lax lending standards have eaten into many lenders' margins.
The Beneficial Corporation, the third-largest consumer finance company in the country, has seen its earnings come under pressure and recently put itself up for sale. Bank advisers say Household has emerged as the leading candidate to take over Beneficial.
First Union, based in Charlotte, N.C., and Money Store, of Union, N.J., said they did not expect the transaction to result in office closings or substantial layoffs. First Union, the nation's sixth-largest bank, is paying $34 a share for Money Store, or a 24 percent premium to Money Store's closing share price of $27.50 on Tuesday.
Although Money Store's shares have been underperformers during the last year, the stock has risen steadily since The Wall Street Journal reported a few weeks ago that the lender was putting itself up for sale. First Union's shares fell 75 cents, to $52, and Money Store's shares rose $4.25, to $31.75, yesterday in trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
While some analysts and bank advisers regard $2.1 billion as a rich price for Money Store, First Union will be able to finance Money Store's loans more cheaply than Money Store could on its own. Money Store, which also has a strong presence in small-business lending, will retain its name and management and operate as a separate division within First Union's consumer business.
First Union is expected to bring tighter accounting standards to Money Store's business. Though Money Store is not considered to be nearly as free-wheeling an operator as many of the small subprime companies that have gotten into trouble over the last year, it still has made use of "gain on sale accounting." This type of accounting allows Money Store to immediately recognize anticipated profits on loans that are packaged and sold as securities. "Anticipated" is a key word here, for each company sets its own target for what it expects those profits to be -- and last year many subprime lenders proved to be too aggressive in recognizing lush returns.
An auto lender, the Mercury Finance Company, suffered the most prominent meltdown, but other financing companies, like the Cityscape Financial Corporation and the First Merchants Acceptance Corporation, also encountered problems.
Money Store's fourth-quarter profits plummeted to $111,000, from $29.8 million in the fourth quarter of 1996, in large part because of charges it took when it abandoned the sub-prime auto lending business.
Money Store has 4,800 employees and operates nationwide. First Union, which agreed to acquire the Corestates Financial Corporation for $17.1 billion late last year, has 44,300 employees, mainly on the Eastern Seaboard.
Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Company advised First Union on the transaction, while Money Store was advised by Prudential Securities Inc. The deal is expected to close in the third quarter.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Leading Lenders"
First Union's merger with The Money Store will create the largest home equity lender in the United States.
 
BANK HOME EQUITY LENDERS

Loans outstanding,	In billions	end of 3rd qtr. 1997	of dollars	1 BankAmerica	$11.25	2 First Union	11.10	3 Banc One	8.86	4 Nationsbank	7.15	5 Wells Fargo	6.59	
 
NON-BANK HOME EQUITY LENDERS

Loans securitized	In billions	in 1997	of dollars	1 ContiFinancial	$5.68	2 Money Store	5.50	3 IMC Mortgage	4.57	4 First Plus Financial	3.05	5 Advanta Mortgage	2.63	
 
Source: Home Equity News 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (66%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (65%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: MONEY STORE INC; FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP; FIRST UNION CORP MONEY STORE INC (96%); WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%); ASSOCIATES FIRST CAPITAL CORP (66%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (66%); HSBC FINANCE CORP (65%); BENEFICIAL CORP (64%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONEY STORE INC; FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP; FIRST UNION CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; CONSUMER CREDIT CONSUMER LENDING (91%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (91%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); SECURITIZATION (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); CONSERVATISM (57%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



119 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Dow Ends Hot Streak and Fears About Asia Reappear

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The stock market took a break from its record-setting run yesterday as the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 45.59 points, to 8,539.24. The Dow had set five highs in a row.
In one sense, the modest selloff was nothing extraordinary, considering that the Dow had risen 13.3 percent, or 1,000 points, between Jan. 9 and Tuesday's new high. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index had jumped 16.9 percent in that time and hit another new high yesterday, rising 2.56, to 1,759.70. 
 But two events yesterday may have raised concerns that could turn a one-day pause into something more.
First, the Dow was led lower by Walt Disney, which plunged 3 1/8, or 2.8 percent, to 106 7/8, after several analysts had downgraded the company's earnings outlook.
"I think people are worried about first-quarter earnings," said Timothy M. Ghriskey, senior portfolio manager at the Dreyfus Corporation, acknowledging this was not the case just a week ago. "We are in a period now that if a company is going to have bad earnings, they will announce them." First-quarter earnings reports will begin to be released in mid-April.
Then, after the market closed, Intel announced that its first-quarter results would be below expectations. That announcement was even more surprising than the Disney news and could help send technology stocks -- and possibly the broader market -- lower today.
Intel's news comes on top of Compaq Computer's announcement on Tuesday that competition had kept prices lower then expected in the first quarter. Compaq fell 1 13/16 yesterday, to 28.
Intel rose 1 1/8 yesterday, to 86 7/16, ending a four-day slide. But in after-hours trading, Intel plunged 9 7/16, or 10.9 percent, to 77. Other technology stocks also fell. Dell Computer ended regular trading up 7 15/16, to 139 1/16, but fell 8 7/8, to 130 3/16, after hours.
In another negative sign, the futures contracts for the 30 stocks in the Dow and the 500 in the Standard & Poor's index also fell sharply after the market had closed.
The Intel announcement was additionally worrisome because it could revive concerns about the impact on American corporate earnings from the economic turmoil in Asia. That anxiety, along with general earnings concerns, had subsided after the relatively positive reports from the fourth quarter finished coming in last month. Intel has significant business in Asia.
The S.& P. index of 500 stocks also fell yesterday, finishing down 4.69, at 1,047.33. Trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 644.3 million shares, above average for the year, and decliners led gainers by 1,738 to 1,231.
The analysts who lowered Disney earnings forecasts cited soft ratings at its ABC television network and poor showings for some recent films. Jill Krutick of Salomon Smith Barney said all Disney's fiscal second-quarter gains expected in film and broadcasting had been wiped away. Analysts from Schroeder & Company and Goldman, Sachs & Company also put out reports on Disney yesterday.
Ms. Krutick lowered her earnings projections for the second quarter to 50 cents a share from 54 cents and cut her forecast for all of 1998 to $3.17 a share from $3.25. But she noted that the downgrades she and other analysts had made "might be perceived more negatively than usual" because of Disney's strong run-up this year. Disney shares, which had risen to a 52-week high of 115 3/4 on Feb. 23, have drifted nearly 8 percent lower.
The reports from the analysts were made after Disney had disclosed new information on its film performance and other areas in response to calls from analysts yesterday. Disney, however, made no public statements, meaning that the companies the analysts work for had the first opportunity to trade on the negative news. Arthur Levitt Jr., the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said in a speech last week that he was worried about such trading advantages.
Yesterday, there were large order imbalances that delayed the opening of trading in Disney, which finally began trading at 10:05 A.M. at 106 7/8.
Drug stocks also fell sharply yesterday, led down by American Home Products, which fell 2 13/16, to 91 3/4. Late on Tuesday, the company announced that it had withdrawn an application to the Food and Drug Administration for approval of the hypertension drug Tasosartan from its Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories. American Home cited unresolved concerns about the safety of the drug.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since February 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (96%); DIS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (96%); DREYFUS CORP (69%); WALT DISNEY CO (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STOCK INDEXES (96%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); BONDS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



120 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 5, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE REVIEW;
Philip Johnson Geometry In an Advertising Wrapper

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
Philip Johnson is back, with yet another plan for Times Square. This is the fifth proposal Mr. Johnson has prepared for this location since 1983, when he unveiled his scheme for four gigantic towers designed to straddle what was then a bedraggled Crossroads of the World.
Times Square has turned around since then, and so has Philip Johnson's health. Two years ago, at the age of 90, the architect was overcome by complications following heart surgery. His office was closed. Interlopers sat themselves down at his fabled corner table at the Four Seasons restaurant. A vacuum settled in. "How are you feeling?," a reporter called to ask a year ago. "How do you think I'm feeling?" came the crotchety reply, before the phone crashed down. Then some kind of miracle -- genetic? medical? both? -- kicked in. The architect's hands, which once looked aged, are now pink. 
 But please stop whatever you're doing and read a chapter or two of "Nietzsche in Turin," Lesley Chamberlain's charming book about the philosopher's life in 1888, his last productive year of writing. Contemporary art and architecture, and Philip Johnson's place within it, make infinitely more sense when viewed against the backdrop of late 19th-century romance. Architecture is the art of not upsetting the apple cart. Yet this art thrives on the imagination of those who rattle the cart with relish. Mr. Johnson's new Times Square design is Nietzschean in this disturbing sense.
Mr. Johnson's plan has been scaled back, from four towers to two. Prudential, the corporate moneybags behind the original scheme, has sold off the other two parcels to different developers. One of these, the Conde Nast headquarters, is now in construction. The second, which will house the North American division of the Reuters news agency, is to break ground in September. The New York firm Fox & Fowle are the architects for both of these projects.
One point can't be made too strongly. This project, which started out with the abysmal intention of turning Times Square into one more gray corporate canyon, has been turned around in completely the right direction. Thanks mainly to the grit and determination of one person -- Rebecca Robertson, a former New York State official who was in charge of redeveloping 42d Street -- Times Square is well on its way toward realizing its potential as the media hub of the world.
Mr. Johnson is as yet without a developer. Prudential is still shopping around. But never mind. Built or not, Mr. Johnson's project has earned a place in the history of ideas. His site is the two parcels on the south side of 42d Street, with Seventh Avenue running down the middle. The basic shape of the two buildings is nearly identical to the version Mr. Johnson prepared in 1994: a geometric composition with a rectangular core of glass with faceted corners.
But the envelope now comes with a new wrapper. Mr. Johnson and his associates, including the Los Angeles designer Deborah Sussman, have come up with a new, patent-pending form of curtain wall. Rectangular panels clipped to the walls' spandrels would provide a surface for advertising that would rise the full height of the buildings.
The spandrels could be made of plastic, embossed with simple graphics. Or they could be equipped with electronic gear to accommodate illuminated ads that move. While windows would interrupt these surfaces, they are narrow enough that the image can jump across the surface, as it does, for example, across the exhaust grills on the backs of New York City buses.
On the main portion of the facades, the spandrels would be of normal width. Instead of forming a continuous sign, illuminated spandrels would be sprinkled across the surface (like those snowflakes stapled to the sides of 666 Fifth Avenue at Christmastime). Or, they could be programmed to send signals into the night. Drink Diet Pepsi. Dance the rumba. Call your mother. Rent This Space, in other words, and you can design these buildings yourself.
Apollo in the Marketplace. That is the phrase Walter Gropius used to describe the architect's place in a capitalist society. But the marketplace is itself a Dionysian precinct, nowhere more riotously than in Times Square, with its gigantic incitations to revelry and lust.
Philip Johnson has long flourished in this precinct. Throughout his career, Mr. Johnson has used his Apollonian mentor, Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, as a foil to define his own esthetic identity. Mies once said, "You cannot invent a new architecture every Monday morning." Mr. Johnson said, more or less, of course I can, you old coot. Mies said, "I don't want to be interesting, I want to be good." Mr. Johnson said, "I wouldn't know how to be good."
Actually, Mr. Johnson can be excellent. But he has played a far more valuable role in the culture by daring to be dreadful. This is the architect who hung Andy Warhol's huge "13 Most Wanted Men" on the side of the New York State Pavilion at the 1964 New York World's Fair. Who dreamed up the Chippendale top for the A.T.&T. (now Sony) Building in 1983. Who once declared himself a whore.
Even fans of Dionysius want architecture to be Apollonian. That is why Nietzsche moved to Turin, with its ordered Baroque arcades. And, to this day, many architects dream of creating an Apollonian order. They imagine that this is what architecture is supposed to do: control emotion, restrain chaos and reinforce convention. Mr. Johnson himself fell into that mode as the apostle of Mies. Some think he should have stayed there.
It's probable that Mr. Johnson's Times Square design, if built, will not achieve the landmark status of the Seagram Building, on which he collaborated with Mies in 1958. And yet, the Times Square design represents our historical moment as fully as the Seagram Building represented mid-century New York. The Seagram Building arose at a pivotal time, when the industrial city was dying and the mass media city was being born. Times Square is the heart of this new city. Its economic base rests not on production, but on promotion. No architect alive is as thrillingly attuned as Philip Johnson to promotion's sordid glories.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 1998, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An architecture review on Thursday about Philip Johnson's proposal for two new towers in Times Square referred incorrectly to the status of Mr. Johnson's firm while he recovered from heart surgery two years ago. The firm, Philip Johnson/Alan Ritchie Architects, did not close; it continued to work on projects designed by Mr. Johnson and new designs under Mr. Ritchie's direction.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two towers proposed by Philip Johnson for Times Square would provide space for advertising rising the height of the building -- for images, perhaps, like this one of the architect. (Philip Johnson/Alan Ritchie Architects)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CONDE NAST TRAVELER (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE AND 42D STREET (NYC); ; UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ARCHITECTURE ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); NEWS REPORTING (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (71%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, PHILIP; MUSCHAMP, HERBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1998



121 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 38; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE ART

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel 

 BODY:

Two Warhols, Together Again
Last month Christie's used its annex at 308 East 59th Street together with its Park Avenue showroom to exhibit a collection of cutting-edge art, almost as if the auction house were a gallery or a museum. The purpose of the exhibition was mysterious: the group of artworks from the 1960's and 70's had no prices or estimates on them, and Christie's offered no definitive schedule of which, if any, of the works would eventually find its way to auction. 
 Now Sotheby's is putting on an exhibition, this week through March 14 at Andre Emmerich, the East 57th Street gallery that it bought two years ago.
Unlike Christie's, Sotheby's has a clear mission, to promote highlights of its sale of contemporary art on May 14. And estimates are available on all but one of the works on view.
The work without a price tag is Andy Warhol's "Early Colored Liz." The famous 1963 image of Elizabeth Taylor, taken from the film "Butterfield Eight," belongs to Irving Blum, the Manhattan dealer. It is part of his private collection, and he says he has no intention of selling it.
Mr. Blum agreed to lend his prized Warhol because it came from the famous Stroher collection, which includes another well-known Warhol, "Orange Marilyn," that will be in the May sale. "Orange Marilyn" is one of the most important examples of Pop Art to come to auction in years and carries a hefty $4 million to $6 million estimate. Sotheby's officials said they hoped that seeing the two Warhol portraits displayed together, as they once had been, would cause a stir.
"Orange Marilyn," the 1964 iconic image of Marilyn Monroe based on a film still from the movie "Niagara," is being sold by a descendant of Karl Stroher of Germany. His collection of 20th-century works was one of the first in Europe to include American Pop Art.
Also on view at Emmerich is Lucian Freud's famous "Large Interior, WII (After Watteau)." Painted between 1981 and 1983, it was inspired by Watteau's 1712 "Pierrot Content," now in the Thyssen Collection in Madrid, and depicts two of Freud's children and three friends in a rundown London interior. The Freud painting is estimated to go for $2.5 million to $3.5 million. It is being sold by James Kirkman, who was Freud's dealer from 1972 until 1992.
In addition to these two big-ticket paintings, Sotheby's is showing a selection of Minimalist pieces by artists including Carl Andre, Robert Ryman and Dan Flavin.
With so much fuss being made about art that won't be sold for more than two months, is Sotheby's worried that these works will seem like old news by the time they reach the auction block?
"I'm not worried, because these are such extraordinary works nothing you can do will over-market them," said Tobias Meyer, the head of Sotheby's contemporary art department worldwide. "Several museums are interested in the Warhol, and this way board members can see it at their leisure. It's a client-oriented thing."
 
The Art of the Phone
For the last few years museums and their sponsors have been cooking up creative marketing strategies to heighten the public's awareness of the sponsor's name and draw visitors to the exhibitions they are financing. The latest idea involves the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum and Nokia, the mobile telephone manufacturer and one of four major sponsors of the Guggenheim's "China: 5,000 Years" exhibition, on view at its Fifth Avenue headquarters and its SoHo branch through June 3.
Today through April 30, owners of Nokia mobile phones are invited to take them to either of the Guggenheim branches and with the purchase of a ticket, have a friend admitted to the museum at no charge.
While Nokia has supported athletic events like the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans, it has never financed a museum exhibition.
"The profile of our consumer is similar to that of the Guggenheim's museum visitor in their economics, life style and preferences," said Jim Bowman, Nokia's vice president for corporate communication. "They also appreciate art."
Nokia is advertising the special promotion in newspapers and at retail outlets.
"It's good for the sponsor because it's widespread recognition of their product, and it's good for us because it means increased admission," said Judy Cox, a museum deputy director.
Officials at the Guggenheim say they have big plans for Nokia. They hope that the phone company will become a regular sponsor and that it will continue to support the China exhibition when it travels to the museum's branch in Bilbao, Spain.
The traveling show will combine the traditional Chinese art on display at the museum's Frank Lloyd Wright building on Fifth Avenue at 89th Street and the contemporary section now on view in SoHo. It opens in Bilbao on July 17 and runs through Oct. 22.
The museum also hopes that Nokia will sponsor "America: 300 Years," a selection of works from the Guggenheim's permanent collection and from other American museums and private collections. That show is scheduled to open later this year at the China National Art Gallery in Beijing and in early 1999 at the Shanghai Museum.
If Nokia agrees to help sponsor any or all of these shows, the Guggenheim says, it will offer visitors the same take-your-phone offer.
 
The Spirit of the Square
The dressing up of Times Square has reached inside some of the area's office buildings. Take the 40-foot domed ceiling in the lobby of 1500 Broadway, at 43d Street.
The ceiling was recently transformed by Luke Gray, a 36-year-old New York artist, with "Transmission 1998," a bright mural that uses 23 colors reminiscent of Pop Art, though not Pop images. Instead, the work has fragments of images that the artist describes as "animal, cosmic and molecular."
Orna Shulman, executive vice president of Intertech Corporation, the building's owner, said she first saw Mr. Gray's work at Snyder Fine Art, the 57th Street gallery.
"He's an interesting artist because of his expressionistic style," Ms. Shulman said. "We have done public art in other parts of the country, but because this is Times Square, the fanciful aspect of this work just seemed appropriate."
Rather than spending time on carefully conceived and labored studies of the work, Mr. Gray spontaneously created the mural, his first public project, in one six-hour session.
"I called it 'Transmission' because it looks like all the colors are flowing out of the building's central column like a power station," Mr. Gray said.
The artist said he has also used a spontaneous process for his paintings on canvas. "For me it's a great adventure," he said. "You don't lead the work. It leads you."

GRAPHIC: Photo: For sale: Lucian Freud's "Large Interior, WII (After Watteau)." (Sotheby's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); GERMANY (52%); EUROPE (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S; NOKIA TELECOMMUNICATIONS; GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC) CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%); SOTHEBY'S (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOTHEBY'S; NOKIA TELECOMMUNICATIONS; GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); GERMANY (52%); EUROPE (52%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ART ART DEALERS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PAINTING (77%); FILM (77%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL ANDY WARHOL (69%); ELIZABETH TAYLOR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



122 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 41; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: DESIGN REVIEW;
Thinking Big and Designing Small: Finnish Grace in Everyday Objects

BYLINE: By GRACE GLUECK 

 BODY:
A cup shaped to fit the hand or a chair that coddles the bottom may not seem like crucial considerations. But in 20th-century Finnish design, a concern for comfort has been as much a part of the game as simplicity, elegance of form and ease of production. It goes with the distinctly Finnish development of modernism evolving from the progressive design movement that swept Europe after World War I.
That the Finnish spirit helped in humanizing the formalities of modern design -- its rigid geometricism, no-frills austerity and mass production imperatives -- comes across clearly in "Finnish Modern Design: Utopian Ideals and Everyday Realities, 1930-1997," at the Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts. The show is part of the big culture fest in New York this season that marks Finland's 80th year of independence. 
 Organized by Nina Stritzler-Levine, director of exhibitions at Bard, and Marianne Aav, who holds the same post at the Museum of Art and Design in Helsinki, "Finnish Modern Design" is a fine companion piece to the current retrospective of Alvar Aalto's architecture at the Museum of Modern Art. In the Bard show, the work of Aalto (1898-1976), an artist- craftsman as well as an architect, is also much in evidence.
The display of 140 objects -- chairs, coffeepots, lamps, textiles, bowls, glasses, vases, plaques, wearables, even a pair of ergonomic pruning shears -- is divided into two parts: one covering the years 1930 to 1960, the other from 1960 to 1997. The objects, mostly designed for industry or for limited production in artists' studios, are handsomely laid out, and although the exhibition galleries are small, everything seems to fit handily into its own space.
In 1930, the Stockholm Exhibition introduced international modernism to Scandinavia. Already, Aalto and other Finnish architects were doing major public buildings in modern style. The field of applied arts and crafts began to follow suit. The glassworks of Iittala, Karhula and Riihimaki and later the Arabia ceramics factory retuned their product lines as did textile designers and other individual craftspeople.
Still, the traditional Finnish love of the countryside, the deep regard for natural forms and materials, did not fade out. It melded with modernism to create a strong Finnish presence. Among the classics in the show is an exquisitely streamlined platter in the shape of a leaf made of laminated birch by Tapio Wirkkala (1915-1985). Imbued with the Finnish love of wood, Wirkkala used thin laminated striations to represent the leaf's veins in a highly stylized piece that is really a paean to the spirit of earth. Another such form is "Calla" (1946), by Gunnel Nyman (1909-1948), a vase of shaded green glass whose unadorned but lyrical shape suggests a calla lily, a staple of the Finnish landscape.
Glass and ceramic design became, in fact, one of the great Finnish success stories, helped in part by a peculiar economic circumstance.
After World War II, Finland, which had allied itself with Germany hoping to regain territory ceded earlier to the Soviet Union, had to pay heavy reparations to the Russians in the form of manufactured goods. The demand was for products from the metal and engineering industries, whose leading companies also had glass and ceramics factories. To get foreign currency for the expansion of heavier industry, the companies promoted the export of glass and porcelain to the United States and Switzerland, pushing artisans to strive for quality and innovation.
Two major designers for these companies were Wirkkala and Kaj Franck (1911-1989). In 1946, Wirkkala produced for Iittala a clear mold-blown vase engraved with vertical striations, called "Chanterelle" because of its flaring mushroom shape. It came to symbolize the nature-inspired elegance of Finnish art glass, and, as seen in the show, still works its magic. Aalto, too, explored glass, and his suave "Savoy" bowl of 1946, an undulating form in clear blue, has become a legendary token of Finnish design.
Franck, designer for the Arabia company, was the leading advocate of functionalism in glass and pottery. He is known for, among other things, his phenomenally successful "Kilta" dinner service of 1949, a group of 10 minimal shapes in oven-proof faience, made in a modular format that allowed the pieces to be mixed and matched. Among his glassware designs in the show are a handleless clear glass pitcher and cocktail shaker in laboratory-flask shapes, with glasses fitting inside the pitcher to save space. This handsome design was a concession to the American market; at the time, a cocktail shaker was foreign to Finns.
As for furniture, in the early period Aalto was the star, particularly lauded for his experiments with bentwood and molded plywood. His sleek cantilevered "Armchair Model No. 31," designed in 1931 of bent laminated birch and molded plywood, accomplished his goal of an all-wood version of the ideal modernist chair. The graceful roll of the laminated seat and back is beautifully set off by the curves of the bentwood arms and legs. But although "No. 31" was an esthetic hit, as with many of Aalto's designs its high production costs forestalled mass marketing.
Far more successful, in production terms, was the 1946 "Domus" made by Ilmari Tapiovaara. Of solid birch and molded pressed plywood, this sturdy looking chair with short arms and a particularly user-friendly seat incorporated ideas that Aalto had introduced in the 30's, including stackability. Its attractive modernity along with its ease of assembly and transport made it an international success.
To American viewers of a certain age, some objects in the early part of the exhibition, along with "Domus," may seem like old pals. There are, for instance, the birch stacking stools designed by Aalto in 1932; the simple bell-shaped hanging lamp of white-painted sheet metal perforated to diffuse light, made in 1947 by Lisa Johansson-Pape (1907-1989), and Antti Nurmesniemi's squat, homey little red coffeepot of enameled steel with stick-out handle of 1957.
If the second part of the display seems, with certain exceptions, less even than the first, there are reasons. The period it covers, from 1960 to now, has had its ups and downs for designers. For one, in the hairy late 60's they were attacked for elitism, and many left for other parts. The energy crisis of the 1970's strained industrial resources, and the collapse of the Soviet Union, with which Finland had an exclusive trading partnership, led to factory cutbacks and unemployment. (One writer in the well-rounded catalogue suggests that the vast but dull Soviet market dumbed down Finnish invention anyway.)
Still, there is plenty of oomph in this section, which stresses the use of new technologies and materials over the past decade or so. The jewelry and textiles seem more assertive, with strong entries like "Planetoid Valleys," Bjorn Weckstrom's 1969 moon-terrain necklace of rough-surfaced silver squares, and "Seagull," Maija Isola's bold cotton hanging of 1961 for the textile and clothing manufacturer Marimekko, repetitively printed with big sine waves in alternating reds, yellows, blues and greens outlined in black.
Chairs, too, have a more adventurous look, for example Hannu Kahonen's "Trice" of 1985, its high back and flared seat made of thin, paperlike white polyester set on a black coal fiber frame with broad red ribbons for arms, and Ilkka Suppanen's 1994 "Nomad," a thick sheet of white felt spread on a frame of painted black steel. In the clothing line, there is "Ryppypeppu" ("Wrinkled Behind"), designed in 1966 by Annika Rimala, a jumpsuit in a bright orange chain pattern, with wrinkles built in at knees, elbows and bottom.
There's more, much more, to this lively digest of Finnish design, which with its lucid catalogue will tell you all and then some about one of the world's outstanding achievements in modern design. And Bard presents it with customary finesse.
"Finnish Modern Design: Utopian Ideals and Everyday Realities, 1930-1997" is at the Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts, 18 West 86th Street, Manhattan, through June 14.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Chanterelle," a mold-blown vase by Tapio Wirkkala from 1946. (MuseoKuva, Helsinki)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: EUROPE (90%); FINLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (56%); SWEDEN (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (56%); 

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (73%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (53%); 

COMPANY: BARD GRADUATE CENTER FOR STUDIES IN DECORATIVE ARTS BARD GRADUATE CENTER (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: BARD GRADUATE CENTER FOR STUDIES IN DECORATIVE ARTS

GEOGRAPHIC: FINLAND; EUROPE (90%); FINLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (56%); SWEDEN (53%); NEW YORK, USA (56%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (73%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (53%); 

SUBJECT: DESIGN; ART; HANDICRAFTS; GLASSWARE; REVIEWS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTS (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); CHINA & POTTERY PRODUCT MFG (77%); POTTERY & CERAMICS MFG (72%); WORLD WAR I (71%); TEXTILES (64%); GLASS MFG (57%); 

PERSON: GLUECK, GRACE ALVAR HENRIK HUGO AALTO (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



123 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 3098 words

HEADLINE: The Oscar Chase: Power and Dollars

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, March 5

 BODY:
Forget Saddam Hussein. Forget Kenneth W. Starr and Bill Clinton.
The countdown to the 70th annual Academy Awards, on March 23, has enough tension and spin control to teach those fellows a few Hollywood-style lessons. For example, when up against "Titanic," the front-runner in the race for best picture and the all-time, worldwide box-office champion, flatter your opponent, but gently (or not so gently) put him down. 
 Here's what Harvey Weinstein, co-chairman of Miramax, which is distributing "Good Will Hunting," one of the five best-picture nominees, has to say about the Oscar race: "It's a battle. 'Titanic' has great special effects, but in 'Good Will Hunting,' the special effects are the words."
Sandy Reisenbach, executive vice president of marketing and planning at Warner Brothers, which released "L.A. Confidential," another best-picture nominee, said of "Titanic": "It sank once. Maybe it'll do it again."
And Curtis Hanson, director of "L.A. Confidential," said: "There are a number of potential icebergs out there in the water. 'L.A. Confidential' is one of them."
"Titanic," made by 20th Century Fox and Paramount, may hit an iceberg or two on Oscar night, but the film will, in all likelihood, dominate the three-hour ceremonies at the Los Angeles Shrine Auditorium. James Cameron's 3-hour and 14-minute blockbuster, about a fictional love affair aboard the doomed vessel, has earned 14 nominations, matching the record of the 1950 classic, "All About Eve." More important, this week "Titanic" became the first film to pass the $1 billion mark in ticket sales.
How can the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, composed of the Hollywood establishment, ignore all that money?
"The only unanswered question about 'Titanic' is whether it will beat the record set by 'Ben-Hur,' which won 11 Oscars," remarked Damien Bona, co-author with Mason Wiley of "Inside Oscar: The Unofficial History of the Academy Awards," most recently updated in 1996 and published by Ballentine Books. He added, "It certainly could."
But the studios that produced "Titanic" are not taking any chances, pouring hundreds of thousands of dollars into the push for an Oscar. Robert G. Friedman, vice chairman of Paramount, which is distributing the film in the United States, insisted that the campaign was "low profile," and that "we believe in the light touch." Still, the company has used the standard tactic of sending videos of the film (it takes up two cassettes) to all Academy members. And like the producers of the other best-picture contenders, which include Fox Searchlight's "Full Monty" and Sony's "As Good as It Gets," it has also advertised prolifically in the trade press.
These kinds of efforts, along with the dizzying spin control, have accelerated each year, making the Oscar contest increasingly resemble a political campaign. In Hollywood terms, the stakes are even higher. An Oscar victory generally translates into huge profits at the box office; can transform careers, and enshrines a film in the Hollywood pantheon.
But such benefits cost. The Oscar campaign for "Titanic" and its competitors, as well as for the individual acting and other awards, is running up a bill for studios and distribution companies of at least $1 million -- for advertising, for the production and distribution of cassettes and for appearances by nominees.
Though most of the advertising campaign is focused on the trade press, producers have bought more time on television and space in newspapers in Los Angeles, certainly to promote the nominated films to audiences but also to create interest among Academy voters.
Miramax and Warner Brothers seem to be spending the most on advertising generally. And both have taken the extra step of sending out screenplays of their nominated films -- "Good Will Hunting" and "L.A. Confidential" -- to all Academy voters.
Warner Brothers' Oscar campaign seems partly motivated by the hunger of the studio for a winner after a lackluster year with flops like "The Postman," starring Kevin Costner, and "Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil." The studio's advertisements concentrate on Mr. Hanson, nominated as best director as well as for his screenplay, whose co-writer was Brian Helgeland; it is also heavily promoting Kim Basinger, nominated for best supporting actress.
Hollywood executives said Miramax was putting a lot of money into advertising in The Los Angeles Times in its campaign for "Good Will Hunting." And Mr. Weinstein, the Miramax chief, has displayed formidable talents as a master spinner, insisting to every reporter and gossip columnist that the movie will emerge like "Chariots of Fire" as an unexpected Oscar winner.
But it's not just advertising and spin. Again as in a political race, appearances and interviews by the candidates are considered crucial.
Many veteran stars, like Robert Duvall, nominated for best actor for "The Apostle," or Gloria Stuart, a star of the 1930's nominated as best supporting actress for "Titanic," seem to understand this and are eager to appear on television to discuss their Oscar prospects. But some younger actors, like Ben Affleck, nominated for the screenplay of "Good Will Hunting," and Kate Winslet, nominated as best actress for "Titanic," have publicity agents who, improbable as it seems, are keeping them under wraps, a move that may hurt their chances.
Betting on the best-actor category centers on three veterans: Mr. Duvall, Jack Nicholson for "As Good As It Gets" and Peter Fonda for "Ulee's Gold." Mr. Fonda has been doing a lot of interviewing; Mr. Nicholson has not been that visible.
Also nominated are Matt Damon for "Good Will Hunting" and Dustin Hoffman for "Wag the Dog." Leonardo DiCaprio, the star of "Titanic," was not nominated.
The best-actress race is considered extremely close, but since most of the candidates are British, they have not been doing the usual round of interviews here. Judi Dench was the initial favorite for her role in "Mrs. Brown," partly because Academy voters traditionally adore British stage actresses in costume dramas. Now the odds are improving for two other British actresses, Helena Bonham Carter, also in a costume drama, "The Wings of the Dove," and Julie Christie in "Afterglow."
Ms. Christie, a top star of the 1960's and 1970's who has not appeared in many films lately, is a sentimental choice, but her movie has not quite found an audience. On the other hand, if "Titanic" sweeps the Oscars, Ms. Winslet could win in an upset.
Still, the lone American nominee, Helen Hunt, for "As Good as It Gets," is also emerging as a favorite. Like many political candidates, Ms. Hunt is juggling several jobs, including her television series, "Mad About You," yet managing to speak to as many journalists as possible, often from her car phone.
 
Getting Personal?
There's more than political maneuvering in this year's races. Filmmakers here generally view the nominations as among the most hopeful signs in years that Hollywood is experiencing a small resurgence of more personal movies, driven by story and character.
"Think of 'Boogie Nights' or 'Wag the Dog' or 'L.A. Confidential' or 'The Sweet Hereafter' or 'Good Will Hunting' or 'As Good as It Gets' or other films up for Oscars," said Mr. Hanson, whose "L.A. Confidential" won virtually every critics award in the nation and has been nominated for nine Oscars. "These are personal movies both in subject matter and budget; they're so-called 'adult movies,' and they fall into a category that was considered extinct a few years ago."
"They're not high-concept, they're not star-driven, they're not theme-park rides," he continued. "These pictures not only got made, but they did better on a profit basis and with the Academy than many of those big films that got made solely because of who was in them or because of their apparent 'marketable hook' that studios have been preferring." He added, "I'm not so naive as to say we're in a golden era, but the door is ajar, and hope is alive."
James L. Brooks, director and co-writer with Mark Andrus of "As Good as It Gets," which earned seven nominations, said the best-picture nominees, including "Titanic," had each resulted from a director's intense yearning to create an original, even a personal film.
"What they have in common is someone passionately wanted to make this specific picture because it wasn't like anything else," Mr. Brooks said. He added: "A couple of years ago, if you said you felt passionate about an original idea, people would turn deaf ears. I don't think that's true now."
Last year's nominations were dominated by films like "Shine," "Fargo" and "The English Patient," made by so-called independent film companies (which are mostly owned by conglomerates). Unlike standard Hollywood fare, those movies were generally more personal and offbeat, featuring more unknown British and Australian stage actors than Hollywood stars.
But this year, in the emphasis on more personal stories, the nominations offer a glimpse of how the lines have blurred between Hollywood studios and the independent companies.
"As Good as It Gets," for example, is a small and quirky love story, even though its cast is led by Mr. Nicholson, one of the biggest Hollywood stars. "Good Will Hunting," about a blue-collar mathematical genius in South Boston, was directed by Gus Van Sant, well known for "Drugstore Cowboy" and "My Own Private Idaho," edgy films out of the independent movement. Though Robin Williams, nominated for best supporting actor, has an important role, the other stars include once-unknowns like Mr. Damon and Mr. Affleck, who co-wrote the movie.
"L.A. Confidential," adapted by Mr. Hanson and Brian Helgeland from the James Ellroy novel about the underbelly of Los Angeles life in the 1950's, has no stars and uses an ensemble cast, including two Australian actors. Even "Titanic," in Mr. Brooks's analysis, has some of the sensibility of an independent film in that it grew from the personal vision of its creator, Mr. Cameron.
Then there is "The Full Monty," a gritty comedy about six unemployed men in Sheffield, England, who regain their self-respect by stripping in a club for women. The film had no stars and cost only $3.5 million. It has grossed more than $210 million around the world, making it far more profitable so far than "Titanic."
But the fact that the film's maker, Fox Searchlight, is a division of 20th Century Fox, owned by Rupert Murdoch, which helped finance "Titanic," underlines the impossibility of distinguishing an independent from a studio film.
Why the success of "The Full Monty?," which was nominated for four Oscars, including best screenplay and director. Simon Beaufoy, who wrote the screenplay, said he thought the theme of unemployment and the desperate quest for self-respect struck a nerve among audiences. The notion of male strippers with imperfect bodies helped.
"It was really important that they were as imperfect physically as the rest of us," Mr. Beaufoy said. "That's the bottom line as to why the film is successful. It would be any man up there doing it. It's not George Clooney. It's not Woody Harrelson. It's you and me."
 
Butterflies for Cameron
Though "Titanic" seems to be the current favorite in the best-picture race, there's plenty of speculation about an upset by "The Full Monty" or "L.A. Confidential." Mr. Bona, the Oscar expert, pointed out that often the biggest moneymakers, like "E.T." and "Star Wars," have not been rewarded with the Academy Award. Still, he said, "The fact the production of 'Titanic' was such a crap shoot, and paid off in spades, means that the industry will pat James Cameron on the back."
Mr. Cameron said that he was too nervous to think about winning the Oscar and, as unlikely as it sounded, that he almost wished he wouldn't.
Almost.
Facing that crowd at the Shrine Auditorium and the television audience, possibly one billion people, was a "horrifying" prospect, he said. "I'm petrified," he continued. "Directors choose that role because they want to be behind the camera, not in front of it. That's for actors. It's horrifying to me. You reach a point at one of these ceremonies where you hope someone else wins so you don't get up and embarrass yourself."
Mr. Cameron was pilloried in the press and across Hollywood for going $100 million over budget on his $200 million movie. He's now Hollywood's king.
"We went in with a harebrained theory," the 44-year-old filmmaker said. "Let's do a romantic epic because no one's done one in a long time. All the big commercial heavyweights in the last few years have been science-fiction films. And we thought there was a hunger for emotion, for character, for drama."
Mr. Cameron said the film's length, which was initially seen as commercially disastrous, worked to its advantage. "The good side of it is that in the first hour and 40 minutes, nothing much happens, we get to know the characters, it's all talking heads," he said. "By normal Hollywood mainstream filmmaking standards, it shouldn't have worked. But it does."
"It does because we've been conditioned as an audience to an accelerated pace of editing and a certain style of filmmaking that's more and more frantic," he added. "So something like 'Titanic' comes along -- it's so old that it's new again."
 
A Celebrity at 87
With the final ballots mailed on Tuesday to the 5,371 voting Academy members, many nominees are anxious and, to some degree, delirious.
"Has my life changed? Oh my lord," laughed Ms. Stuart who, at 87, is the oldest person ever nominated for an Acadey Award. She said: "My life has changed from climbing into my car to go to the supermarket to spending my life in limos. It's changed so that couturiers want to dress me for the Oscar. I picked Escada. Harry Winston called to decorate me in jewels. My calendar is full of social events. And I'm getting scripts."
Ms. Stuart retired from acting in the late 1980's. She was working as a book illustrator and artist when Mr. Cameron came to her home to test her after seeing her in a laser disk reissue of the 1932 James Whale cult melodrama, "The Old Dark House." Since "Titanic," she's been offered a number of roles.
"I was offered a script where I play a space woman," Ms. Stuart said. "I don't see myself as a space woman. She continued: "Another one had too much violence and kinky sex. I wouldn't want to be part of that. There have been some others, but there really hasn't been a great role for an old lady since Jessica Tandy in 'Driving Miss Daisy.' "
Similarly, Robert Forster, a 56-year-old Hollywood veteran, said his struggling 30-year career had been abruptly revived by his nomination as best-supporting actor for his role as a bail bondsman in Quentin Tarantino's "Jackie Brown."
"It's amazing," he said. "This is all too much for a guy my size -- you have to be 200 pounds to handle this, and I'm 40 pounds short." He continued: "The first thing you do is get offers for material that's not so great but lots of money. I'm cautious about that. I want material that will keep my career alive for as many years as I've got."
As to the inevitable question about his outfit for the Big Night -- virtually all the prominent nominees are provided free clothes by well-known designers -- Mr. Forster said simply: "Armani has offered me a free tuxedo. Who am I to refuse Armani?"
Ms. Hunt said that as hard as she worked -- she's in her sixth year of "Mad About You," is directing several shows of the series and is weighing a play in New York and several film scripts -- there is only one thing people are curious about. "They keep asking about the dress," she said. "I've got to turn the dress drama down."
Even Atom Egoyan, the reflective 37-year-old Canadian filmmaker nominated as best director for "The Sweet Hereafter," said he was unexpectedly shaken by the clothes issue. "The nomination is a very big deal in Canada, and all sorts of designers want to outfit you," he said.
He said his wife and collaborator, Arsinee Khanjian, has been approached by virtually every Canadian designer. "My wife is completely overwhelmed," Mr. Egoyan said
But headded: "Actually, this whole thing is a real ride. I've been feeling giddy from the morning I was nominated. I just can't stop smiling."
 
Voting Members: 5,371 With Perks
 HOLLYWOOD, March 5 -- It's one of the world's more exclusive and powerful clubs.
The Oscar electorate now comprises 5,371 voting members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences -- the figure varies almost monthly -- whose decisions on the night of the Academy Awards (March 23) can make careers, shatter egos and add millions of dollars to the profits of a winning film.
The voters are, in a sense, the cream of the motion picture business.
Who are they? John Pavlik, an Academy spokesman, said members were divided into 13 branches, the largest among them actors. The other branches include directors, writers, cinematographers, producers, sound technicians, editors, executives and musicians. There are also members-at-large.
Mr. Pavlik said the Academy kept no records of the age of its members, but it is believed that most voters are men over 40.
Oscar nominees are automatically considered for membership in the following year. Otherwise, candidates are sponsored by two members. Generally, applicants have worked five to eight years in the movie business.
The executive committee of each branch meets twice a year to assess prospective candidates. Final approval comes from the 39-member board of governors, made up of members of each of the branches. The current president is Robert Rehme, a producer. Recent presidents have included the director Arthur Hiller and the actor Karl Malden.
Dues are $200 a year. This entitles cardholders to free films at the Samuel Goldwyn Theater, the Academy's plush private auditorium. During the Academy Award campaign, cardholders can also see films free at many theaters in Los Angeles, New York and elsewhere.
Perhaps it is not surprising that talent agents are the one powerful group in Hollywood bypassed for full membership. Agents, who are often resented because of their clout, are associate members of the Academy, leaving them relatively powerless. Virtually every year the Academy's leadership hears a proposal to give agents full membership. Inevitably the proposal has been rejected, one of the rare occasions when actors, writers and directors can thumb their noses, albeit anonymously, at agents. BERNARD WEINRAUB

GRAPHIC: Photos: SEEKING OSCAR -- On the set of "Titanic," top, the director James Cameron, right, with Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet; Judi Dench in "Mrs. Brown," and Jack Nicholson in "As Good as It Gets." (Paramount Studios (top), Miramax Films (center), Columbia/TriStar (bottom) and the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.)(pg. E1); Curtis Hanson, a best-director nominee for "L.A. Confidental." (Associated Press)(pg. E18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: TITANIC (MOVIE); GOOD WILL HUNTING (MOVIE); L. A. CONFIDENTIAL (MOVIE)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS & SCIENCES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS & SCIENCES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; ACADEMY AWARDS (OSCARS); AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; ADVERTISING; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (75%); TICKET SALES (71%); WRITERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (66%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (64%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD; CAMERON, JAMES BILL CLINTON (91%); KATE WINSLET (79%); JAMES CAMERON (78%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); LEONARDO DICAPRIO (58%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



124 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
DOLLAR SURGES. The dollar jumped 1 percent against the mark after a member of the Bundesbank indicated it would not raise interest rates this year. In New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.8335 marks, up from 1.8184.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks German Mark to the Dollar, since September 1996. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BUNDESBANK

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (74%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); TRENDS (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



125 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
Unsold Apartments to Yield Larger, Fancier Units

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
A developer is renovating 80 apartments that it bought in January in a 208-unit building on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and combining at least 15 units.
The builder, Essex Capital Partners Ltd., is to invest $30,000 to $95,000 to upgrade each of the one- and two-bedroom units, with 593 to 981 square feet, at 200 East 90th Street. The combined apartments are being reshaped to create three- and four-bedroom units with 1,264 to 2,052 square feet, as well as one with up to five bedrooms and 3,600 square feet. 
 Financing for the $16.5 million project, including the acquisition of the units, is coming from investors, lending institutions and the developer. Essex Capital buys and develops underperforming residential and commercial properties along the East Coast.
The company, with offices in Manhattan and Washington, bought the units, as well as 7,500 square feet of retail space, in the 18-year-old building at Third Avenue, which was converted from rental to a co-op in 1988. Forty-four units were sold through 1990, when the market declined sharply, and the rest were rented. Eight years and three owners later, an additional 84 had been sold.
The seller of the remaining unsold units was a financial institution that took back the apartments in an uncontested foreclosure from the previous owners. The previous owners had improved the lobby and common areas, but their plan, also to upgrade and combine units, was cut short.
Peter Hauspurg, chairman of Eastern Consolidated Properties, a real estate investment banking company, said it was unusual to find a large block of units available because as a result of the boom-and-bust-cycle of the late 1980's, most have been sold.
"But there are deals that were bandaged together, only to crash again," Mr. Hauspurg added, noting that the deal could work if the units were purchased and improved at a price lower than what it would cost to build new ones.
That was a factor in buying the units, a move that the president of Essex Capital, Mitchell B. Rutter, said "represented an opportunity to buy a building within a building in a good location."
Because most of the units are or will soon be vacant, Mr. Rutter said, he will not have difficulty renovating and selling them. Another factor is that the 29-story building is a co-op, but its rules are similar to those of a condominium. Owners can buy and sell units without board approval and have more flexibility in subleasing them. That, along with upgrading and combining units, will make the project more competitive, he said,
"We are hopeful, and all indications are positive, that everything Essex Capital plans to do will be carried out," the secretary of the co-op board, Eric M. Dessen, said. "It would increase the value of all the apartments and bring stability to the building."
Meryl Sacks, a senior account executive at Charles H. Greenthal Management, which manages the building, said, "An active sales program is the last piece of the puzzle."
The building has been down this road before. In its life as a co-op, sales have been hampered by factors like the recession and the changing ownership of the unsold units. Despite that, the finances remained stable because the rental income was sufficient to cover operating costs, Ms. Sacks said.
Mr. Rutter said the difference with his plan was that it is well capitalized, allowing Essex Capital to invest more money in the units and sell them at a higher price.
What brokers say is on Essex Capital's side is timing, because demand is outstripping supply, especially for larger units and those with high-quality finishes. "Buyers today are not looking as much for location as they are space and or good quality apartments," said Diane M. Ramirez, executive sales director at the Halstead Property Company, a large brokerage firm.
The 80 units will have kitchens with granite countertops and bathrooms with marble floors and walls. Asking prices are $175,000 to $317,000 for the smaller units and $565,000 to $950,000 for the combined units. The agents expect the five-bedroom unit to cost $1.2 million to $1.6 million.
By comparison, the Real Estate Board of New York recorded the median sales price at the end of last year for co-ops in postwar East Side buildings at $162,000 for one bedroom, $439,000 for two bedrooms, $650,000 for three bedrooms and $1.69 million for those with four or more bedrooms.
Monthly fees, including real estate taxes, at 200 East 90th Street are $543 to $2,247. Those for the biggest unit are estimated at $3,584. In the three weeks since sales started, contracts are pending on 14 apartments, said Aimee Mandossian, director of sales and marketing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: ESSEX CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD CAPITAL PARTNERS HOLDINGS II-A LP (58%); CAPITAL PARTNERS OCP AS (58%); CAPITAL PARTNERS AS (58%); CONSOLIDATED PROPERTIES LTD (54%); REAL ESTATE BOARD (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ESSEX CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD REAL ESTATE BOARD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); FORECLOSURE (74%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); APPROVALS (69%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE MITCHELL B RUTTER (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



126 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: A New Penn Station

 BODY:
Negotiators for the United States Postal Service and a city-state development agency have finally reached a tentative peace agreement that would transform part of the James A. Farley Post Office on Eighth Avenue in Manhattan into a railroad station. One big question is how much the Postal Service is willing to part with. But the news that both sides are now willing to get started is welcome. New Yorkers need and tourists deserve a new terminal on the West Side that is not only comfortable and efficient but evokes the grandeur lost when New York City foolishly dismantled the old Penn Station in 1963.
The shape of the project will begin to emerge only when the Postal Service and the Pennsylvania Station Redevelopment Corporation draft a memorandum of understanding that spells out exactly how much space the Postal Service will provide and what plans it has for the rest of the 1.4-million-square-foot building. But the vision of a grand new gateway to the city, long nurtured by organizations like the Municipal Arts Society and public figures like Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, seems somewhat less remote than it was a few weeks ago. 
 The big issues are size and scheduling. During its negotiations with Amtrak a few years ago, the Postal Service said it would give up 325,000 square feet for a terminal that would accommodate Amtrak's proposed high-speed rail service and commuter rail lines. There is no firm evidence that it is willing to go much beyond 350,000, which represents only about a quarter of its space and is clearly inadequate to accommodate not only the trains but the shops, restaurants and other amenities that will help underwrite the estimated $315 million cost.
In addition, the Postal Service is thinking of gradually moving its operations out of the station. Would it not be better to find a new site for its midtown postal operations and then relinquish much or all of the property at one time, to insure coordination in design and construction? The Farley project should be guided by the same principle that produced Rockefeller Center, the United Nations and other great public buildings and spaces that define New York. These projects were not conceived in pieces or developed in fits and starts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (58%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (55%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP); POSTAL SERVICE UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (58%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (55%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (94%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP); POSTAL SERVICE UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (94%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; EDITORIALS; GENERAL POST OFFICE BUILDING (NYC); HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; PENNSYLVANIA STATION (NYC); STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER) POSTAL SERVICE (94%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (77%); TRAINS (77%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); 

PERSON: JAMES ALOYSIUS 'JAMES A' FARLEY (73%); DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



127 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1735 words

HEADLINE: China's Paragon of Corruption;
Meet Mr. Chu, a Hero to Some, an Embezzler to Others

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: YUXI, China

 BODY:
Chu Shijian is still a hero in this ramshackle town, even though he stands accused of diverting more than $145 million from state coffers, one of the most spectacular cases of corruption in China since the Communist Party came to power nearly 50 years ago.
A short and impetuous man, often seen on a factory floor with his sleeves rolled up and a Red Pagoda cigarette dangling from his lower lip, Mr. Chu cut a distinctive figure at the tobacco company he led for 17 years. Mr. Chu, who turned Red Pagoda into the most popular brand in all of China, now languishes in jail here in Yunnan Province. 
 Many residents credit Mr. Chu with single-handedly bringing prosperity and pride to Yuxi, creating thousands of jobs, and building the town's only skyscraper. In Beijing, the authorities portray Mr. Chu as a criminal degenerate who skimmed the difference between the low official price and a much higher sales price on billions of cigarettes each year, yielding a huge off-the-books income that he channeled into dozens of hidden bank accounts.
In between these two extremes lies a more nuanced picture of Mr. Chu as a talented manager working in a system so economically irrational that it encourages inaccurate financial reporting as well as outright embezzlement. Low state-mandated prices, mixed with high market demand, invariably invite trouble.
Mr. Chu and the story of Red Pagoda embody a central paradox of China today: virtually any multimillion-dollar company, striving to become modern in a system that remains stubbornly old-fashioned, is wide open to so much corruption that success almost inevitably leads to financial shenanigans that can spoil any chance of efficiency or genuine profitability.
The authorities like to portray corruption in China as the fault of a few immoral individuals, or as a minor obstacle to reform, rather than as a symptom of deeper trouble. Yet corruption is virtually built into a system where prices are controlled but finances are not.
As executives and officials here acknowledge when pressed, there barely exists a large company in China today that does not have hidden accounting, secret decision making, tiny salaries and lavish perks for managers, all of them invitations to greater financial impropriety. Corruption is now so endemic in China's businesses that no one can accurately see where it begins and ends.
"There is no way to measure corruption in China's state-owned enterprises," said Kenneth G. Lieberthal, a China scholar at the University of Michigan. "But the fundamental structure of Chinese enterprises provides management with ample opportunities to engage in significant self-dealing."
The hand-in-hand collusion of business and government is at the root of structural problems that underlie the Asian financial crisis in many of China's neighbors. Though China has so far avoided a currency or stock market dive, it suffers from cronyism as much as, if not more than, Indonesia, Thailand or South Korea.
Hundreds of company executives were disciplined for corruption last year, though it is widely believed that many thousands more have gone unpunished. Without a working legal system, wrongdoing is typically investigated by "discipline inspection teams" that are heavily political, leaving the well-connected free to flout the law.
What seems most remarkable about Mr. Chu's case is that it was ever exposed. With no independent media, and no incentive for government officials to admit how bad corruption has become, it is the rare case where the head of a company loses his or her political connections so completely that the case is made public. Yet that is what happened to Mr. Chu, who is now 70.
"Chu thought he was untouchable, after all he had done," said a Chinese businessman who works with Red Pagoda, known in Chinese as the Hongta Group. "His connections were not as strong as he thought."
In January, the authorities announced that they had expelled Mr. Chu from the Communist Party for "serious economic crimes," a virtual guarantee that he would eventually be charged, tried in court and found guilty.
An official report on his wrongdoing, recently printed in People's Daily, was almost like a catalogue of how to run a family empire, with Mr. Chu's wife and daughter running a huge bribe-taking scheme.
When Mr. Chu was named general manager of Red Pagoda in 1979, it was a small factory, earning less than $1 million a year by making a hodge-podge of local brands of cigarettes. Like most state-run companies, Red Pagoda was required to hand over all its profits to the Government, while its managers and employees alike earned under $25 a month.
Mr. Chu recognized that as China's booming economic growth gave ordinary people the buying power to afford cigarettes, promoting the factory's flagship Red Pagoda brand all over the nation was the way to maximize income.
It worked. Red Pagoda became so popular that the official price of $1 a pack was outstripped by the market price that eventually grew to $1.50 to $2. Still operating in a system that required the company only to report income from the official, artificially low price, Mr. Chu found that he could set aside millions of dollars earned at the higher, market price.
Mr. Chu spent some of Red Pagoda's unreported income on new machinery, insisting that his company have the most up-to-date operations to spur production. He also built new apartment buildings for his employees and modern offices for his staff, since waiting for officials to do so might mean waiting forever.
Yet there was a dark side, too. By 1995, when the company rolled more than 100 billion cigarettes, the Red Pagoda brand was so sought-after that distributors were willing to pay bribes to Mr. Chu and his family just to gain access to his product, even at inflated prices.
Since his official salary remained less than $250 a month, the temptation for graft proved irresistible. The same is true, Chinese business leaders agree, at many large Chinese companies.
"The investigation showed that Chu Shijian abused his power to approve the illegal purchase and speculative profiteering of cigarettes from 1991 to 1995," the official report said. "His family members and other relatives received large bribes."
Mr. Chu personally pocketed at least $1.7 million in bribes, the report said, while his daughter took more than $5 million and his wife took more than $1 million. But even that is a fraction of the more than $145 million that Mr. Chu diverted from the Government, hiding it in various company bank accounts.
In 1996, Red Pagoda reported an income of $2.3 billion, though it is anyone's guess how much more was coming in unofficially.
"Only a fool reports his company's income accurately," said another Chinese businessman in Kunming, the capital of Yunnan Province. Most companies, the executive said, operate multiple sets of company accounts, often making it impossible to decipher true revenues or profits.
One of the glaringly unanswered questions in the official report is how Mr. Chu operated his scheme for years without detection by local tax collectors, auditors and tobacco officials. It would have been impossible to divert such a towering amount of cash, Chinese executives who did business with Red Pagoda say, without systematically bribing local officials.
For years Mr. Chu was protected politically. His biggest backer was always Pu Chaozhu, a boyhood friend who rose in the provincial hierarchy to become Communist Party chief of Yunnan Province in 1985. Mr. Pu remained there 11 years, before he was forced to retire in 1996, the same year that Mr. Chu came under investigation.
Businessmen in Yunnan also say that Deng Zhifang, the youngest son of Deng Xiaoping, the paramount leader who died last year, was one of the many "princelings" -- the offspring of China's leaders -- who were associates of Mr. Chu. Neither Mr. Pu nor Mr. Deng has been charged with wrongdoing.
"For every corrupt act, it takes a manager to engage in it and an official to tolerate it," said Yasheng Huang, a China scholar at Harvard Business School. "Unlike owners of private firms, public officials do not gain economically from efficient uses of the state-owned assets. At best, they do not actively punish managers who abuse state-owned assets. At worst, they use their power to benefit themselves."
When Mr. Chu's empire began to crumble, it did so quickly. In 1996, his wife and daughter were arrested. Mr. Chu's daughter, Chu Yingqun, died in prison, apparently from suicide.
The report also fails to accurately document another side of Mr. Chu's illegal activity. Because of onerous taxes on domestic sale of cigarettes, businessmen say, Red Pagoda exported millions of dollars worth of cigarettes each year, only to smuggle them back into China, where they could be sold without paying tax.
Mr. Chu's son headed Red Pagoda's overseas operations in Singapore, the Asian center for cigarette trading, an industry long dominated by organized crime. In 1993, Tommy Chui, a distributor for British American Tobacco agreed to testify for the prosecution in a smuggling case, only to have his corpse turn up floating in Singapore harbor, padlocked in an industrial laundry bag with his mouth taped shut.
Mr. Chu's son remains at large, and is believed to be in Singapore.
According to the authorities, the elder Mr. Chu tried to escape overseas after he realized that the investigation into Red Pagoda's activities could not be stymied by "hundreds of thousands of dollars" in bribes he attempted to give investigators. He was stopped at a border checkpoint, trying to enter Vietnam in December 1996, and has been held in custody since.
In Yuxi, however, Mr. Chu remains a hero, even after the publicizing of his purported wrongdoing.
"After all he did for this company, he should be forgiven," said a financial officer at Red Pagoda, whose 5,500 employees are now led by Zi Guorui. "He's an old man."
The executive, standing outside Red Pagoda's headquarters in Yuxi, gestured at the gleaming skyscraper behind him.
"Look at this building," the executive said. "No one else could have done what Chu Shijian did for us."
The Chinese businessman in Kunming offered a slightly different view.
"He did what every other company head in China does," the businessman said. "He just messed up his connections."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chu Shijian, who led the Red Pagoda tobacco company for 17 years, is accused of embezzling millions of dollars. Mr. Chu, 70, is now in prison, as is his wife. His daughter died in prison and his son is missing. (Xinhua News Agency); Cigarettes. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Above Board, Under the Table"
Here are 1997 rankings of the least and most corrupt countries in which to do business. Rankings are based on surveys of executives, analysts and the general public.
 

LESS CORRUPT	 		Score	Rank	(out of 10)	1 Denmark	9.94	2 Finland	9.48	3 Sweden	9.35	4 New Zealand	9.23	5 Canada	9.10	6 Netherlands	9.03	16 United States	7.61	
 

MORE CORRUPT	 		Score	Rank	(out of 10)	52 Nigeria	1.76	51 Bolivia	2.05	50 Colombia	2.23	49 Russia	2.27	48 Pakistan	2.53	47 Mexico	2.66	41 China	2.88	
(Source: Transparency International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); CANADA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NIGERIA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (78%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); YUNNAN, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (78%); 

COMPANY: PARAGON TOBACCO CO TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (59%); TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARAGON TOBACCO CO TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (59%); TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); CANADA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NIGERIA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (78%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); YUNNAN, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ETHICS CORRUPTION (91%); EMBEZZLEMENT (91%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); ETHICS (78%); TRENDS (76%); TOBACCO MFG (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (54%); 

PERSON: CHU SHIJIAN; FAISON, SETH CHU SHIJIAN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



128 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Aid to Help Train People on Welfare as Child Care Workers

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

 BODY:
Officials in the South Bronx and Harlem plan to use Federal economic development aid to train welfare recipients as child care workers, helping them find work while creating thousands of sorely needed day care openings for children, thus making it possible for even more jobless parents to work.
The two communities' efforts are meant to address what experts have called a missing link in the welfare-to-work progression: many people motivated -- or required, under new workfare programs -- to look for jobs or enter training programs have been unable to for want of an affordable, safe place to leave their children during the day. 
 In the next two years, more than 2,500 new child care spots could be created through the two initiatives, which officials said would cost more than $3 million. They said the Harlem effort would start first, in May.
Officials of New York's Empowerment Zone, whose management is divided between agencies in Manhattan and the Bronx, said their child care initiatives were an important part of any overall economic development strategy. "We're creating entrepreneurs, and making more people available to go to work," said Nancy Devine, chief program officer at the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone Corporation.
Four organizations have already been chosen by the Harlem part of the empowerment zone to train 400 people to provide what is known as family day care, for small groups of children, typically in the provider's home. Trainees will be instructed in early childhood and educational development, nutrition, first aid, safety, health and small-business skills.
The groups are the Dominican Women's Development Center, Rena Day Care Centers, Union Settlement Association and a partnership of Harlem Congregations for Community Improvement and Child Care Inc. The Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone Corporation will provide $1 million; the four groups will add $1.4 million from other sources.
The shortage of child care in Harlem is estimated at 9,350 slots, Ms. Devine said. Her agency's two-year program, which is to get under way within two months, should reduce that gap by 2,000, she said.
Meanwhile, the Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation, overseen by Fernando Ferrer, the Borough President, intends to train about 50 people to provide family day care. "It's a very smart investment," said Mr. Ferrer, who announced the plan, "Bronx Cares," yesterday in his State of the Borough address. "We're talking about creating, for starters, 50 providers, who'll be able to work at home. That opens up 500 slots, 10 per provider, with a minimal amount of money. That's mothers who can go to work, who can qualify for a job in the empowerment zone or for a job training program."
Bronx officials are hoping to provide subsidies to attract established group day care centers, which can serve dozens of children at a time in classroomlike settings, to open in the South Bronx. The Bronx development agency will spend $2 million in the first year for day care programs.
Robin C. McClary, a senior project manager at the Bronx agency, said that in the South Bronx part of the zone, there were only two day care centers, serving fewer than 200 children despite a population that includes 4,000 children under age 6, and in which more than half the families were on public assistance.
Child care experts lauded the two programs but warned that training family day care providers could be more difficult than anticipated.
"We've been doing family day care provider training in the South Bronx for four years," Nancy Biberman, president of the Women's Housing and Economic Development Corporation, said.
"We've trained 125 women, and we now have 30 providers in our network, and 100 kids in day care," she said. "But we've actually gotten only four women off welfare and into self-sustaining businesses. It sounds good, but it's extremely complex."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: UPPER ROOM (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; CHILD CARE; DAY CARE CENTERS CHILD CARE (92%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



129 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Factory Orders Up; Jobless Claims Down

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 5

 BODY:
The Government reported a rebound in monthly factory orders and a large drop in weekly jobless claims today, which analysts called evidence of a vibrant economy.
They said the numbers also suggested the economy had yet to feel any significant impact from Asia. 
 The Commerce Department said orders for goods produced by factories rose five-tenths of a percent in January, to $337.4 billion, compared with a 2.6 percent drop in December.
The Labor Department said the number of people filing first-time claims for state unemployment benefits in the week ended last Saturday dropped by 16,000, to 304,000.
The Labor Department also said continuing jobless claims in the week ended Feb. 21 fell by 103,000 to the lowest level in more than eight years.
The department releases its employment report for February on Friday. Analysts expect it to show the unemployment rate fell back to a 24-year low of 4.6 percent from 4.7 percent in January, and many predicted 247,000 jobs were created.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; PRODUCTION JOBLESS CLAIMS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



130 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: The Rot in Indonesia

 BODY:
Indonesia faces an immediate financial crisis that the International Monetary Fund can help fix, and a longer-term political crisis that can be remedied only by reforms that President Suharto seems incapable of adopting. Though the monetary fund is right to be concerned about corruption and financial favoritism in Indonesia, it should be concentrating on the economic problems that threaten to bankrupt that country. The other problems, including the business manipulations of the Suharto family, will require sustained American pressure.
The I.M.F. came to Indonesia's rescue with a $40 billion bailout out of concern for its 200 million citizens and out of fear that the country's financial collapse would ripple around the world. The most pressing problem is the collapse of the rupiah, the Indonesian currency. That has raised the price of food and other imports and frightened away foreign investors. As a result, interest rates have soared to levels that have devastated Indonesian companies and their creditor domestic banks. The proper remedy for this financial chaos is financial reform. President Clinton's emissary, Walter Mondale, properly warned Mr. Suharto that he must stop evading such reform. 
 In Indonesia's case, that means the appointment of competent economic ministers. Unfortunately, Mr. Suharto recently appointed a political hack as head of the central bank. Reform also means that Mr. Suharto must first pledge, then keep, a tight lid on the money supply. If he does, inflation, which last month exceeded 200 percent a year, will fall and the rupiah will rise. He must also negotiate a feasible repayment schedule with foreign creditors and control government spending, but not as tightly as the I.M.F. insists since its targets would force him to cut back on food subsidies that Indonesia's citizens desperately need.
Mr. Suharto has made progress in cleaning up the banking industry. The I.M.F. insists that he close failing banks and prop up solvent ones so they can reopen lines of credit to cash-starved Indonesian factories. Here is where I.M.F. money and other international aid can play a significant role.
Once core financial problems are addressed, Washington must press for other reforms. Indonesia should end the cartels through which Mr. Suharto's family and friends control trade in plywood and other products. Special banking deals for family members should be eliminated, and his friends and relatives should not get a cut of international business deals. The I.M.F. should play a role in pressuring him to accept these changes. For now the emphasis must be on the financial problems that threaten economic collapse. But Mr. Suharto should not think that is all that is required of him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEMS LTD (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; ETHICS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDONESIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); POLITICS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (73%); FOOD PRICES (73%); ETHICS (72%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (68%); TRENDS (64%); CARTELS (60%); INTEREST RATES (53%); 

PERSON: SUHARTO (PRES) BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



131 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Miami Delays the Naming of an Interim Mayor

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 5

 BODY:
The question of who is the mayor of Miami remained up in the air today after the City Commission postponed making an interim appointment in response to a court ruling that voided the last election because of ballot fraud.
The commission delayed the decision because one candidate, the previous Mayor, Joe Carollo, is planning a legal challenge to the ruling. 
 Mr. Carollo, whose lawsuit challenging the validity of the vote led to the court decision, said he planned to go to court on Friday seeking to be allowed to serve as interim mayor until a new election.
On Wednesday, Judge Thomas S. Wilson Jr. of Circuit Court in Miami overturned the first-round balloting on Nov. 4 that led to Xavier L. Suarez's defeat of Mr. Carollo in a runoff on Nov. 13. Judge Wilson ordered that a new election be held in 60 days.
But the judge did not address the question of who would act as mayor in the meantime. The city charter gives the City Commission 10 days to fill the vacancy, but Mr. Carollo says that because he was in office before the election, he has the right to resume his duties until a lawful successor is elected in early May.
Today his lawyer, Kendall Coffey, sent a letter to City Hall advising the commissioners that Mr. Carollo would seek "an emergency appeal" of Judge Wilson's decision to the Third District Court of Appeals.
While postponing their decision on an interim mayor until Wednesday, the five commissioners emphasized that Miami was not a city in chaos.
"The city will continue to do business and provide services to our residents, and everything is going fine," said Commissioner Wifredo Gort. "We are running City Hall. We're giving instructions to the city manager, and the city manager follows these instructions."
Despite such assurances, the political uncertainty comes at a sensitive time for Miami, which is still trying to recover from a financial crisis that required Gov. Lawton Chiles to appoint a financial oversight board in 1996 to steer it toward solvency.
After considerable progress over the last year in reining in spending, the city faces a shortfall of at least $25 million in this year's budget after the commission balked at imposing a fire-rescue services fee to raise revenue, state officials said.
But Joe Pena, a special assistant to Governor Chiles who is working with the oversight board, said the problems at City Hall should not interfere with the financial recovery plan because most of the work was being done by an administrative staff still in place.
"We've got to continue to stay focused," Mr. Pena said. "We're confident that we'll continue to strengthen the City of Miami."
Officials with Miami-Dade County, which encompasses the city, have also taken pains once again to keep Miami's problems from detracting from an area that is heavily dependent on tourism and international trade. While the city carries the name Miami, it is only 1 of 30 municipalities that best define the area outsiders identify as Miami.
The city represents only 6 percent of the region's budget and 17 percent of its residents, county officials said. Nationally, Miami ranks 44th among cities with more than 100,000 residents, with 358,600 people counted in the 1990 census and a 1996 estimated population of 365,100.
County officials also said they were working to repair the absentee ballot system, something that national experts said was also susceptible to fraud across the country. Some experts said it was a good sign that the fraud in Miami had led to at least four arrests.
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); MIAMI, FL, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MAYORS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); APPOINTMENTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); CITIES (89%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); BALLOTS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); BUDGETS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



132 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Stocks Fall Sharply Following Intel Warning
Stock investors rushed to sell yesterday in the aftermath of a late Wednesday warning from the technology leader Intel that its first-quarter results would fail to meet expectations. 
 The news from Intel, coupled with an earnings warning from Motorola after the market had closed yesterday, undermined the exuberance that had carried stocks to record levels recently. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 94.91 points, or 1.11 percent, to close at 8,444.33. Worse hit was the Nasdaq composite index, heavily weighted with technology stocks, which fell 47.78 points, or 2.72 percent, to 1,711.92. Page D6.
 
Treasury securities resumed their slide after a one-day pause. The yield on the 30-year Treasury rose to 6.06 percent from 6.02. D6.
 
Good Month at Stores
Retailers reported bigger-than-expected gains in sales for February, helped by extraordinarily warm weather and a burst of new spring merchandise that lured shoppers. A Goldman, Sachs index that measures same-store sales rose to the highest level for February in four years. D4.
 
Signs of Economic Vibrancy
Factory orders rebounded in January and claims for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell last week, the Government reported. The data raised expectations that the Labor Department's February employment report today would also show strength. D5.
 
Another Kind of Computer Hacker
In a television advertising campaign that begins Sunday, William H. Gates, the nation's richest man, will endorse the Big Bertha line of oversized golf clubs. The chairman of the Microsoft Corporation is adding endorser to his resume at a time when he seems to be engaged in a frenetic series of activities intended to change perceptions of him as a rapacious monopolist of the information industry.
Stuart Elliott: Advertising. D5.
 
3Com to Revise Accounting
When 3Com acquired US Robotics, the accounting wizardry was as impressive as any high-technology product ever produced by either company. Now, under S.E.C. pressure, 3Com has revised the accounting.
Floyd Norris: Market Place. D5.
 
Japanese Bank Bailout Starts
Twenty-one big Japanese banks submitted applications for public funds, seeking to take part in a bilout that the Government hopes will help restore worldwide confidence in Japan's financial system. D18.
 
Change Seen at Washington Post
The Washington Post is expected to name a new managing editor -- Steve Coll, editor and publisher of its Sunday magazine. D5.
 
Discontent at Saturn
Loyal owners of G.M.'s widely praised Saturn cars routinely make the pilgrimage to the company's assembly plant in Spring Hill, Tenn. But many workers at the plant are unhappy over falling sales, dwindling bonuses and what they view as management bungling. Their discontent could result in a vote to jettison an innovative labor contract forged by G.M. and the United Auto Workers. A1.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,444.33 down 94.91
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.06% up 0.04
The Dollar -- 127.81 yen up 1.11
 
Graphs: "TODAY" shows Unemployment. February figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern. Expected: 4.6%.
Consumer Borrowing. January figures due at 3 P.M. Eastern. Expected: +$4 billion
 
Photo: William H. Gates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (66%); WPO (NYSE) (62%); MSI (NYSE) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (66%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (62%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MICROSOFT CORP (66%); WASHINGTON POST CO (62%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAIL SALES (88%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); RETAILERS (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); BAILOUTS (66%); COMPUTER CRIME (65%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); PUBLISHING (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: BILL GATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



133 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 3746 words

HEADLINE: ANTIQUE FORTRESS: A special report.;
Park Ave. Armory Is Losing the Battle Within

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB and CAROL VOGEL 

 BODY:
The Seventh Regiment Armory stands like a fortress overlooking Park Avenue, a crenelated, red-brick landmark with a formidable presence that befits its role as the premier showplace in New York City for internationally renowned art, antiques and crafts shows.
But inside, the 118-year-old armory is something else: a long-neglected giant in such disrepair that crumbling ceilings and leaky walls are endangering portions of the building's permanent multimillion-dollar collection of American paintings, decorative arts and military artifacts. 
 Parts of a first-floor ceiling have collapsed over the last two years, ruining original hand-stenciled walls and damaging historical paintings. More ceiling damage occurred last week when torrential rains caused chunks of plaster to fall in the south portion of the building's main corridor. State officials in charge of the armory, which was built with private money on city-owned land, have closed two architecturally prized rooms whose portrait-covered walls and oak floors were drenched by cascading water from the leaks.
Yet while repairs and maintenance have been postponed for lack of money, the obscure state agency that runs the building has rented out the armory's huge former drill hall for exhibitions at what amounts to bargain-basement prices to a small group of show sponsors.
Exhibition promoters clamor for dates that many experts say can produce $1 million in profits for a show running a week to 10 days. But the state rents the space without competitive bidding for less than $7,000 a day.
Such lost economic opportunities and deterioration are among the findings of an inquiry by The New York Times into the state of the storied armory.
Government officials in charge of the building attribute the problems to years of neglect under previous state administrations, which they say they are correcting. And they defend their rental practices as cost-efficient and responsible. But civic leaders still fear for the future.
"We are really worried about saving the building," said Brendan Sexton, president of the Municipal Art Society, the private group that has long campaigned to preserve the city's architectural heritage. "It is a storehouse of city and national treasures, but it is not being treated like a landmark."
The armory, which occupies the block bordered by East 66th and East 67th Streets and Park and Lexington Avenues, is a bit of New York in a bottle. Along with National Guard members, it attracts affluent art collectors worldwide who come to New York just to attend galas and high-priced charity openings of prestigious art gatherings like the International Fine Art and Antiques Dealers Show or the Winter Antiques Show. The armory is also frequented by a hundred homeless women who live in a shelter on two of the building's five stories.
On many days, 40 boys and girls in crisp uniforms march down the armory's hallways in formation, the latest incarnation of a century-old military youth corps known as the Knickerbocker Greys. Patrons dine in the Seventh Regiment Mess Hall, a dark, wood-paneled restaurant lined with moose heads.
And on days when booths are being built for art shows, the armory can be a lucrative workplace for more than 40 union carpenters with suspected organized-crime affiliations or criminal records. Those backgrounds led the state in 1995 to bar them from work at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. After they were ousted from the convention center, , their union put them on a preferential hiring list for armory shows.
The agency responsible for the building is a little-known branch of state government, the grandly named division of military and naval affairs, which oversees the state's National Guard, including the guard's air and naval units.
Maj. Gen. John H. Fenimore 5th, who was appointed by Governor George E. Pataki in 1995 to lead the division, acknowledged the significant repair problems. But he blamed "decades of underfunding" by previous legislatures and gubernatorial administrations for maintenance not only of Park Avenue, but of many of the state's 65 armories.
For the 1997-1998 fiscal year, General Fenimore said, about $3 million was allocated by the Legislature for maintenance and repairs at the armories, although about $35 million is needed for essential work.
General Fenimore and other division officials defended their management as the best that could be expected given the shortage of money, and they pointed to more than $500,000 worth of repairs undertaken at the Park Avenue armory in the last fiscal year.
The absence of competitive bidding for show dates, they said, is a sound practice given the smooth operation and prompt payment of leasing fees by the armory's longstanding show promoters.
"To the best of my knowledge, the building has been maintained as well as possible," General Fenimore said in an interview. "It is underfunding, not lack of willingness, that has caused the problems."
But some critics say the division is responsible for the armory's problems.
"They are letting this building rot and fade away," said David C. Dalva, a dealer in French antiques and a trustee of the Seventh Regiment Fund, an 89-year-old group founded to preserve the armory's art and military collections. The group and the state are locked in court battles over which of them is the rightful owner of the collections.
Because of concern over the building's deterioration, the fund, without the state's permission, lent four paintings worth an estimated $1 million to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in the late 1980's for safekeeping.
While state lawyers defend the ownership of the collection, it is clear that the Pataki administration is unhappy with the military affairs division's management record. In an interview, Charles A. Gargano, a top economic adviser to Governor Pataki, said extensive managerial changes could be coming.
"In my opinion," said Mr. Gargano, who is chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, a state agency, "the building needs rehabilitation, and the private sector is best suited for that."
 
Built to Last
A Palatial Home For Elite Soldiers
Vanderbilts. Morgans. Auchinclosses. Winthrops. These families and others with wealthy New York bloodlines are amply represented in the Seventh Regiment rosters. So are the poet Ogden Nash, the artist Thomas Nast and August Belmont, the financier who was a leading figure in building Belmont Raceway and the city's first subway line.
The regiment was formed in 1806 as a militia by city residents who elected officers and provided their own elaborate uniforms and weapons.
Dubbed the Silk Stocking Regiment because of its cadre of wealthy and prominent New Yorkers, the unit volunteered for duty in the War of 1812 and made its mark as one of the first militias to march to the defense of Washington at the outbreak of the Civil War. In 1863, it helped suppress the anti-draft riots in Manhattan.
In the 1870's, the regiment privately raised $601,536, commissioned a design by Charles W. Clinton, one of its veterans, and built its grand home on city-owned land. The armory opened in 1879.
The building's highlights include a massive truss system enclosing a 31,000-square-foot Drill Shed, which is bathed partly in natural light and is now used primarily as the exhibition hall for art and antiques shows.
The armory's dozen ornately decorated rooms are among the finest surviving examples of the American Esthetic Movement, whose hand-crafted designs were a defiant reaction to the manufactured products of the Industrial Revolution.
Portions of the interiors were designed by the architect Stanford White, and many of them were furnished and detailed by Louis Comfort Tiffany, along with Associated Artists, the firm in which Tiffany was a partner. He included many examples of the stained-glass lighting and windows for which he is best remembered.
One of the most elaborate rooms is the Veterans Room, commonly referred to as the Tiffany room. Tiffany decorated the room with five stained-glass windows, wrought-iron candelabras, a stenciled aluminum-leaf pattern on the ceiling and recessed iron tiles, designed by White, that resemble plates of armor.
Since the day it opened, the armory has also been decorated with artworks and furniture donated for the most part by Seventh Regiment veterans.
This collection, dominated by Nast's huge canvas of the regiment departing New York for battle in 1861, is conservatively valued in excess of $10 million. It contains ornate regimental silver, a trove of uniforms, battle flags, weapons and other military memorabilia, and one of the country's richest repositories of Civil War art.
"These are the icons of battle art," said Harold Holzer, co-author of "Mine Eyes Have Seen the Glory: The Civil War in Art" and vice president for communications at the Metropolitan Museum. "These are the images that launched a thousand prints."
In 1942, the National Guard took over the management and maintenance of the building from the city. Five years later, when the Federal Government reorganized state national guards, the Seventh Regiment ceased to exist as an active military unit. Members of the old regiment were incorporated into the 107th Infantry, and they and other guard units were assigned office and training space in the Park Avenue building.
Although the actual ownership of the armory is murky, because the original owner, the Seventh Regiment, no longer exists, the state has been responsible for the building's upkeep for 55 years.
During the last decade, the 107th virtually ended its military functions at the armory, with most of its training held elsewhere. As military needs declined, the building was put to its diverse uses.
"The armory is like Broadway, cutting across different groups, classes and cultures in the city," said Susan A. Nayowith, the director of the women's shelter at the armory, run for the city by the Lenox Hill Neighborhood House, a nonprofit agency.
Some staff members and shelter residents say there are awkward moments when restaurant patrons encounter women in nightclothes in the building's lone elevator. And there are some bruised feelings when the homeless are told to enter and leave through an unmarked basement door instead of the canopy-covered staircase used by restaurant and exhibition visitors. Still, there is a hearty dose of bonhomie amid the sprawl.
"We coexist peacefully," said Ms. Nayowith.
 
Assessing Damage
Concrete Evidence Of State Cutbacks
The diminished military use over the last 15 years was paralleled by a decline in state spending on maintenance. State officials said records of maintenance expenditures in the 1980's were unavailable, but that cutbacks at the armory stemmed partly from wider state budget problems in those years on into the 1990's. They noted that in 1993, only $78,000 was allocated for major repairs, and in 1996 that figure fell to $21,000.
In a structural study of the city's armories 12 years ago, the New York Landmarks Conservancy, a private nonprofit group, found that the Seventh Regiment Armory needed extensive repairs because of water collecting, mainly behind the walls of the south side of the building. For example, the report cited serious plaster damage in the elaborate Board of Officers Room.
Pamela Hawkes, who worked on the report as a partner in Ann Beha Associates, a firm of architects in Boston, said her firm detailed the findings to the division of military and naval affairs. Peg Breen, the Conservancy president, said the division had been notified of the study 10 years ago.
Walt Wheeler, a division spokesman, said the agency's officials had never received the report and were unfamiliar with its contents. But he said that the division had allocated "a larger proportionate share of maintenance and repair funds to the Park Avenue armory" than to others in the state that also need help.
Between 1993 and 1997, he said, the division spent $1,595,048 on repairs at the armory, and it has three projects under way valued at about $145,000.
But the damage is outpacing the division's ability to correct it. Out of concern for safety, the division in November 1996 closed the celebrated Clark Room, once lined with portraits of former regimental commanders, to the public because of leaks and falling plaster. The following March the state put the adjacent Mary Divver Room off limits, citing safety problems.
To prevent further damage to paintings in the rooms, the division has stacked them side by side on the floors alongside rolled-up oriental rugs.
State officials said it was unclear when the rooms could be used again.
 
Checking the Books
Dubious Payments, Past and Future
Four years after the Landmarks Conservancy first documented structural problems at the armory, the state Comptroller's office uncovered equally troubling financial problems. Audits in 1991 and 1993 found that the state was losing money because the division of military affairs had negotiated leases below fair market rates with show sponsors and other groups. The Comptroller said the division allowed some renters to default on bills.
The backdrop for the audits was a scandal within the division. James Doolan, the armory's superintendent through much of the 1980's, pleaded guilty in 1993 to extorting $100,000 in cash and gifts from show organizers and exhibitors. After the audits, division officials promised to tighten oversight. But today, with the success of the armory shows growing, the bargain rents persist and seem even more glaring.
Division officials said in recent interviews that they did not look at the exhibition rentals primarily as an income-generating opportunity, even though they produced $1.4 million in revenue last year, up $400,000 from 1996. The money is deposited in the state general fund.
"The armory rental program is intended to be a public service, not a profit-maximization program," Daniel J. Travers, the division's director of facilities management and engineering, said in a written statement. For show organizers, though, the armory can be a money mill.
At the longest and most lavish events, some promoters charge exhibitors $10,600 to $26,000 for space, and most shows are jammed with more than 70 exhibitors. In addition, the organizers keep the entrance fees, with tickets costing between $8 and $16 and as many as 22,000 people attending the most popular shows. Profits, say several organizers, can be $1 million for a six-day event.
What does the state glean from this? Forty thousand dollars in a good week.
The division leases the Drill Shed for $6,667 a day, or $40,002 for a six-day show. Nonprofit groups are charged less, $3,400 a day for fund-raisers. The state gets no percentage of the entrance fees, as some exhibition hall operators in other cities do.
It is difficult if not impossible to compare the rental rates at the armory fairly with those at other exhibition halls.. With its Upper East Side location, the armory is often the only site that promoters of upscale shows will consider, because it can attract what is probably the country's most exclusive walk-in neighborhood clientele. Many show organizers now shut out of the armory said they would be willing to pay rental fees of as much as $20,000 a day if they were allowed to compete for the best dates. But often, several of them said, they did not even get their calls returned. Among those with stories of futilely sitting by the phone are a prominent antiques dealer, the host of a public television program, and representatives of the Kremlin Museums in Moscow.
"I would have thought, given who we were calling for, that we would have gotten a response," said Peter L. Schaffer, an owner of A la Vieille Russie, the Fifth Avenue gallery that was acting on behalf of the Russian show in the late 1980's.
Chris Jussel, the host of "Antiques Road Show" on PBS, which invites the public to bring objects for appraisals, portrayed his unsuccessful armory dealings as "a voyage through a maze of Byzantine machinations." "The state won't give you any information," he said. "You have to guess what's available and hope they'll offer it to you." From December 1996 through February 1997, executives with his show said, they called several times for information and got no response.
Scott Swenson, the armory's superintendent, did not return numerous telephone calls from reporters for comment on charges that he did not respond to requests from show organizers for possible dates.
Without singling out any official, General Fenimore, the military affairs division's commander, acknowledged that there have been managerial problems at the armory. But he emphasized that the state intended to overhaul policies there and at other armories.
"The procedures have to be brought up to modern business standards if we are going to properly market these armories," he said.
But competitive bidding, routine in any situation involving big government contracts, does not appear to be on the agenda.
"Using the competitive bidding process would be cumbersome for short-term arrangements, said Mr. Travers, the division official in charge of the rentals, in a written response to reporters' questions. He added, "It is generally considered good business practice to maintain working relationships with established good customers who pay their bills in a timely manner, conduct their events without adverse incident and demonstrate care in the use of a historic facility."
 
Paying the Price
Carpenters With Connections
It is not only potential show sponsors who complain about the armory, however. The dealers who fill up the Drill Shed during shows also have complaints. The draw of doing business in this prime East Side location is indisputable, some said, but they described setting up shop there as as gut-wrenching at times.
"I grimace every time I do it," said W. Graham Arader 3d, a dealer who exhibits at the armory's Winter Antiques Show. Mr. Arader often has to pay extra money directly to workers hired for the shows, he said, to get essential services performed.
"Unless you want to have a booth that's unpainted and dark, somebody's always got to be paid off," he said. "By the time you're through, you're paying about $500 an hour."
Rental fees at most shows at the armory generally range from about $4,500 to $20,000, depending on booth size and show.
What dealers rent is an essentially empty booth: they have to pay contractors chosen by the show producers for virtually all additional work. Electrical floor outlets, for example, can run $150 each, dimmers are $75, and eight-foot track lights $250. Raising a booth's ceiling a few feet can cost more than $6,000.
"At Grosvenor House in London, our outside contractors and assistants are more than welcome," said Mr. Schaffer, the dealer in Russian art and objects. "But here, we cannot bring in our own electricians or wallpaper hangers."
Or carpenters.
In 1995, the state barred 94 carpenters from work at the Javits Center after background checks turned up criminal records or suspected links to organized crime. But after being ousted from the center, 43 carpenters were included on a referral list of 300 workers authorized by their union for employment at the armory. The jobs pay about $50 an hour in wages and benefits.
Officials in the military affairs division said they did not conduct background checks because the armory was essentially a third party in the hiring arrangements. The carpenters, they said, were hired through agreements between private contractors and the union, the District Council of New York City and Vicinity of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners.
Last November, one of the contractors, the ESR Company of Teterboro, N.J., informed the union that a carpenter who had been banned from the Javits Center, Richard Mazzarella, had threatened to hit an exhibitor with a wooden block at an antiques show in October. The company said it would no longer use him at the armory. Mr. Mazzarella could not be located for comment.
The inclusion of the 43 carpenters for armory work was called outrageous by James F. McNamara, the research director for the Association for Union Democracy, a private group that monitors labor problems. "It's amazing," he said, "how so many connected people end up in one job site, given the tremendous number of fully qualified union members who have been out of work for long periods."
After inquiries by The Times, a union official said an expanded referral list was being prepared that would permit most of the union's 20,000 members to qualify for jobs at the armory. The official, Douglas J. Banes, a vice president, said the union had no legal grounds to expel the 43 from
For all this, it is unlikely that the attraction of the armory as a show site will diminish, unless the structural damage becomes more extreme. As Sanford Smith, who puts on six art and antiques shows a year at the armory, said: "The city doesn't have any other spaces like this. It's location, location, location. There's nothing like it."
Mr. Schaffer, the dealer in Russian art, agreed. "The armory is like no other place in the world," he said.
 
A Public Place
 The historical rooms and much of the permanent art collection of the Seventh Regiment Armory are normally closed to the public. But a spokesman for the state Division of Military and Naval Affairs, Peter P. C. Kutschera, said that tours could be arranged by calling the armory's superintendent, Scott Swenson, at (212) 879-9713.
The Seventh Regiment Fund, a veterans' group, also conducts occasional tours for groups interested in art, architecture and history. The fund's number is (212) 744-2968.
Several of the building's prized paintings, including Thomas Nast's "Departure of the Seventh on 19th of April, 1861," are hanging in the building's main corridors and can be viewed by visitors to art, antiques and craft shows and by patrons of the Seventh Regiment Mess, a restaurant in the building. The mess is open to the public for dinner Tuesdays through Saturdays, with access through the main armory entrance on Park Avenue.
"Works on Paper," an art fair featuring more than 90 dealers, is at the armory through Sunday. The fair features watercolors, prints, photographs, posters, drawings and illustrated books. Information: (212) 777-5218.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A water-damaged ceiling and walls taint the grandeur of the Board of Officers Room in the Seventh Regiment Armory. (Timothy Fadek for The New York Times)(pg. A1); A CRUMBLING LANDMARK -- The 118-year-old Seventh Regiment Armory, left, the premier showplace in New York City for international arts and antiques shows, is a neglected giant that is showing its age. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Several of its elaborate rooms have been closed to the public because of deterioration. The elaborate Board of Officers Room, above, has serious plaster damage to its walls and ceiling from collected water. (Timothy Fadek for The New York Times); ARTS AND ARMS -- The state rents the armory's drill hall without competitive bidding for less than $7,000 a day to organizers of shows like the recent craft fair, left. (Timothy Fadek for The New York Times); Visitors to the armory often encounter members of the century-old youth corps known as the Knickerbocker Greys, whose members march through the halls in formation. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times)(pg. B14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SEVENTH REGIMENT ARMORY (NYC); SURVEYS AND SERIES; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; EXTORTION; BRIBERY; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; ART; ANTIQUES PAINTING (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); ART COLLECTING (77%); VISUAL ARTS (77%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); BRIBERY (74%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (69%); WEATHER (69%); TRADE SHOWS (66%); EVENT MARKETING (66%); EXTORTION (59%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: RAAB, SELWYN; VOGEL, CAROL; DOOLAN, JAMES JOHN H FENIMORE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



134 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: Craft Sees Signs Of Water as Ice In Moon Craters

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 5

 BODY:
An American spacecraft has found evidence that relatively large amounts of frozen water exist on the Moon, scattered in craters over vast spans of the north and south poles, scientists announced today.
Rather than being entirely a dry wasteland, the scientists said, the Moon may have enough water, in the form of small ice crystals mixed in loose dirt, to sustain lunar colonies and provide fuel for rockets exploring the solar system. 
 The preliminary findings, from the Lunar Prospector spacecraft, which was launched on Jan. 6 to study the composition of the Moon, inspired excited scientists to speculate about returning humans there after a quarter-century absence.
"We have found water," said the mission's principal scientist, Dr. Alan B. Binder of the Lunar Research Institute in Gilroy, Calif.
But some experts cautioned that finding water is one thing, and coming up with an economically feasible way of extracting it from a harsh and unforgiving environment is another.
Dr. Binder said the orbiting spacecraft's measurements of atomic particles escaping from the Moon were the "first unquestionable results" showing water at both lunar poles.
In 1996, a Defense Department spacecraft called Clementine was diverted to the Moon and bounced radar signals off the surface that suggested that deposits of water ice lay in deep craters near the south pole.
Researchers working with Clementine said they thought they had found ice but were not positive. Their interpretation of radar signals indicated that 110 million tons to 1.1 billion tons of frozen water could be contained in an area of up to 5,500 square miles.
Preliminary estimates of Lunar Prospector data suggest that there are 11 million tons to 330 million tons of lunar water ice in sun-shielded craters scattered over as much as 25,000 square miles of lunar surface, scientists said. The new results also suggest that there is frozen water on both poles, the scientists said, and almost twice as much at the north pole as at the south.
Dr. William C. Feldman, a co-investigator from Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, said data from the spacecraft's neutron spectrometer instrument "are consistent with the presence of water ice in very low concentrations across a significant number of craters."
In areas where water ice is found, it appears to make up only 0.3 percent to 1 percent of the Moon's rocky soil, known as regolith, the scientists said at a news conference at the Ames Research Center, a NASA field installation near Mountain View, Calif. Still, they said, over such a wide area, this could represent 2.6 billion to 26 billion gallons of water.
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration noted that a typical person used 100 gallons of water daily for drinking, food preparation, bathing and washing. At this rate, 33 million tons of water, or 7.2 billion gallons, could support 1,000 two-person households on the Moon for over a century, without recycling, the space agency said.
Once recovered, the moon water could also be broken down into its constituents, hydrogen and oxygen. Hydrogen could be used as a powerful rocket fuel, and oxygen for breathing.
Scientists say they believe that the Moon was created four billion years ago, possibly from debris thrown into space from the collision of a young Earth with a large meteor or comet. The Moon formed as a dry body, many believe, and any water present would have come from its bombardment by comets. The only water that would remain on the airless Moon would have to be hidden in craters in places shielded from sunlight, which would evaporate any moisture.
Apollo astronauts who visited the Moon six times found no evidence of water, but all of their landings were in the equatorial region, where temperatures reach 250 degrees Fahrenheit, and not at the poles, where craters shielded from sunlight by high rims remain frozen at 280 degrees below zero.
The polar regions appear to be covered with these craters filled with ice-tinged soil, Dr. Feldman said.
"This is a significant resource that will enable a modest amount of colonization for centuries," he said.
Dr. Wesley T. Huntress Jr., the space agency's Associate Administrator for space science, said the new findings were primarily of scientific interest now and several obstacles would have to be overcome to turn lunar ice into a resource.
"A cost-effective method to mine the water crystals from within this large volume of soil," Dr. Huntress said, "would have to be developed if it were to become a real resource for drinking water or as the basic components of rocket fuel to support any future human explorers."
Dr. Binder said it should be relatively simple to free water from the lunar soil by scooping it up, heating it in a chamber until the water evaporates out, and collecting the moisture in a distiller. The biggest problem, he said, would be developing equipment that could work at the extremely cold temperatures found at the poles.
Dr. Bruce C. Murray, a planetary scientist at the California Institute of Technology, said that while the spacecraft's findings were significant, he was very concerned by the contention that water could be easily and economically extracted from lunar soil. It would be easier and cheaper, Dr. Murray said, to bring water to the Moon from Earth than to mine it from a low-volume source.
"Water found at 1 percent by volume is not a resource," Dr. Murray said in a telephone interview after listening to the news conference, "It's just not at high enough levels to extract it economically. For something to be a resource, it has to be, by definition, economically viable; and this would not be."
Dr. Murray, a co-founder of the planetary Society, a space advocacy group with 25,000 members, said raising unrealistic hopes about lunar colonization based on these findings could hurt space exploration in the long run.
"Raising false hopes that fail makes people more cynical about space," he said.
The Lunar Prospector scientists said that their findings were based on only a month of data and that more readings would be needed to confirm the form, location and quantify of frozen water. The spacecraft, four feet in diameter and 650 pounds, is to collect data for at least another year. Toward the end of its mission, it is to be lowered from its current orbit of 62 miles to about 6 miles to give scientists an even closer look at possible water deposits and other materials making up the lunar surface.
The spacecraft measured lunar water indirectly by looking at the behavior of neutrons, subatomic particles that constantly bombard the surface. As neutrons bounce off materials at or near the surface, they lose energy and speed depending upon what they strike. Neutrons detected by Prospector produced signals signifying water, scientists said.
Researchers noted that the $65 million spacecraft's instruments actually detected hydrogen, the element that combines with oxygen to make water. Scientists consider this a "water signature" because water is the best candidate for the way hydrogen can be stored on the Moon. For instance, the researchers said, it would have to be much colder on the lunar surface for the instruments to be detecting hydrogen in a substance like stable methane.
"The presence of water is a logical conclusion, but it is a leap of faith," Dr. Binder said. "We will have to sample it before we really know for sure."
NASA officials said that there were no current plans to send a spacecraft to the surface of the Moon to confirm the water finding but that such a mission might be proposed in light of the new discovery.

GRAPHIC: Diagram: "A CLOSER LOOK: The Moon's Moisture"
The Lunar Prospector found water ice on the surface of the Moon by registering the speeds of neutrons dislodged from the Moon's crust by cosmic rays. Areas that have little or no water emit hot and fast neutrons; moist areas emit cool and slower neutrons.
 
Cosmic rays bombard Moon's surface, where they dislodge neutrons, which collide with other atoms. (Source: NASA)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: EARTH'S MOON (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: LOS ALAMOS MONITOR (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EARTH'S MOON (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; LUNAR PROSPECTOR (SPACECRAFT); MOON; WATER; APOLLO PROJECT; WEATHER SPACECRAFT (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); RADAR SYSTEMS (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (78%); PHYSICS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); SPECTROSCOPES & SPECTROMETERS (60%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E MOON CRATERS (95%); ALAN B BINDER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



135 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1800 words

HEADLINE: Many at the Saturn Auto Factory Are Finding Less to Smile About

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: SPRING HILL, Tenn., Feb. 28

 BODY:
Every week, hundreds of curious tourists make pilgrimages to this small town to take a tour of the Saturn factory. They watch yellow and orange conveyors flow through it like veins carrying car parts to the heart of the assembly line.
Many come to see where their beloved Saturns were built. They wave at workers, who smile and wave back. Indeed, the scene resembles the touchy-feely image created by Saturn's advertising campaigns -- one of cheerful, dedicated Americans working in teams to build quality cars. But all is not well on the factory floor. 
 Some workers are embarrassed by the television ads that continue to portray them as a contented work force. "We want to sell cars and build an image, but I want to feel like I'm living the truth," said Daniel R. Lawrence, 45, who installs batteries at the factory here.
The market for small cars is collapsing, and even Saturn's well-liked no-haggle pricing policy and reputation for good customer service could not keep Saturn's sales from plunging. The cheerful workers in Saturn's advertisements have been complaining about what they see as bungling by Saturn's parent, the General Motors Corporation. They have watched their annual bonuses dwindle and have begun to fear for the first time that Saturn may be approaching the kind of catastrophe that would cause layoffs.
On March 10 and 11, Saturn's 7,200 unionized workers will vote on whether to ask G.M. to jettison the innovative labor contract forged here by Saturn and the United Automobile Workers union in favor of the traditional contract that governs the Big Three's 400,000 other unionized workers. If dissident workers prevail, the U.A.W. and G.M. would presumably begin discussing what to do next. There are no formal provisions in the current contract on how to overturn it. At the very least, a negative vote would be a staggering blow to corporate America's most ambitious continuing experiment in labor-management relations.
The vote, which is expected to be close, "represents a confrontation between the new and the old, the future and the past," said David E. Cole, director of Office for the Study of Automotive Transportation at the University of Michigan.
G.M. executives, fearful of tipping the union vote against the Saturn contract, have refused to comment since workers decided in late February to vote on changing the contract, which -- an unusual feature -- has no expiration date. The U.A.W. national union also refused to comment.
In the meantime, the company is quietly fighting back. Last week, it agreed to make it easier for Saturn workers to earn bonuses, by allowing them to win up to $1,860 this year if quality goals are met and letting them keep half of any cost savings they discover. In addition, if the factory produces 280,000 cars a year -- 30,000 cars fewer than before but still 30,000 more than the factory churned out last year -- they could earn a few thousand more. Many workers are skeptical about reaching the quota anytime soon.
The 75-page Saturn labor contract is a bare-bones document compared with the 1,470-page tome that covers workers at other G.M. factories. The Saturn contract requires managers and hourly workers to cooperate in teams. On the other hand, the traditional contract divides responsibilities with hierarchical precision. Managers are required to go through union officials to make many requests of workers. Workers get higher base pay but forgo the chance to earn the big bonuses Saturn workers have received in past years.
G.M. assembly line workers, on average, earn $40,622 a year, plus a bonus tied to corporate performance that has amounted to $2,439 over the last six years. Saturn workers, by contrast, on average earn between $36,774 and $41,787 a year, depending on whether the factory meets its quality, health and safety, and training goals. They have earned additional bonuses amounting to $32,829 over six years for reaching production targets.
The crucial difference in the contracts, from the standpoint of Saturn workers, is that workers here are protected against layoffs except during "unforeseen or catastrophic events or severe economic conditions." Saturn is in deep enough trouble, many workers say, that layoffs are increasingly likely.
The traditional U.A.W. contract allows layoffs but requires G.M. to continue paying idled workers 95 to 100 percent of their base pay until they are offered another job or retire. The Saturn contract offers no explicit protections.
Thomas W. Hopp, 39, said his two decades of experience working at G.M. factories had taught him a simple truth. "If we're not making cars, your job is in jeopardy," said Mr. Hopp, who helped organize Concerned Brothers & Sisters of Local 1853, which forced the contract vote. "I get scared when that line isn't running."
Slow sales are the root of the problem, and Saturn is suffering along with the entire market. Small-car sales peaked in the 1980's but have fallen 20.0 percent just in the last four years.
Until 1996, Saturn sheltered itself from the downturn by increasing its market share, mainly by building a nearly cultlike following with its folksy advertisements featuring workers. But for the last two years, Saturn has been stuck with a dwindling share of a withering market.
Small-car sales have faltered for a number of unrelated reasons. With a gallon of gasoline priced less than bottled water, few want to buy small, fuel-efficient cars. The Asian currency crisis has helped foreign small-car makers drop prices to woo Saturn buyers. And the proliferation of sport utility vehicles and other light trucks is hurting sales of small cars, whose drivers find the bigger vehicles blocking their view of the road.
Saturn has fared better than some competitors, but its sales still dropped 9.9 percent last year. In October, Saturn lowered prices on its 1998 models. In January, with unsold Saturns piling up at dealerships, the company stopped building cars on Mondays. Workers use the time to maintain equipment or take additional courses on creative thinking, conflict resolution and other Saturn standbys. Last month, Saturn lowered lease prices: its cheapest car can be had for $129 a month.
Precisely because Saturn workers are used to taking pride and responsibility in the cars -- and company -- they have built, they are doubly frustrated by what they view as mistakes by management. The disputes are fueling an extraordinary debate between labor and management over how the company should be run.
Many workers and local union officials believe General Motors has missed several opportunities to expand on Saturn's success as a popular small-car maker. G.M. should have helped Saturn grow into a company selling cars and trucks of all sizes and shapes, they contend.
"If Saturn is to take its place as initially stated to be an import fighter, well, the imports are fighting us on a lot of fronts," said Joseph D. Rypkowski, president of Saturn's Local 1853. With more than 70 percent of Saturns sold to non-G.M. customers, he sees lots of potential. "If we can do that in the small-car market, we can do that in midsized and there's no reason we can't do it in trucks," he said.
But until next spring, nearly a decade after the first Saturns rolled off the assembly line, dealers will have nothing to show loyal customers who had children and outgrew the small cars. Only then will dealers begin selling the Saturn LS, its first mid-sized sedan.
Similarly, G.M. did not act on workers' suggestions two years ago that Saturn begin selling a small sport utility vehicle, and workers have watched Honda's CR-V and Toyota's RAV4 sell like hot cakes instead. Saturn now is considering selling a small sport utility vehicle, but not until 2002. And instead of sending Saturn the Catera, a small, sporty near-luxury sedan, G.M. doomed it to slower sales by christening it a Cadillac and hoping it would attract buyers without gray hair to G.M.'s luxury brand.
Executives at General Motors said they had little choice but to starve Saturn. The parent corporation nearly ran out of money in the early 1990's and had to cut back in the development of new cars and trucks at all its divisions.
G. Richard Wagoner Jr., G.M.'s president of North American auto operations, said early last month that it was easy to second-guess G.M. now, but acknowledged that Saturn would be better off if it were already selling a midsized car. "Clearly we would like to have it," he said.
Last summer, Michael E. Bennett, chairman of Local 1853, took the unusual step of proposing that G.M. spin off Saturn as a separate company. That request was rejected.
Indeed, instead of increasing Saturn's autonomy, G.M. is increasingly integrating it into the corporate parent. That's part of G.M.'s strategy to capitalize on worldwide efficiencies by using common parts and processes for many of its different cars, and by having workers around the world jointly develop new models. The coming Saturn LS was developed in Europe as the Opel Astra and will be built at a spare factory G.M. owns in Wilmington, Del.
That has alarmed workers. "They think that General Motors is swallowing us back up, which in fact it is," Mr. Bennett said. "The problem with that is that Saturn was set up to be a different kind of car company and a different kind of car, and the two strategies aren't fitting very well."
All of these issues add up to matters of pocketbooks and pride. The G.M. decisions have hurt Saturn sales and profits, which have caused workers' bonuses to fall to $2,200 last year from $10,000 in 1995 and again in 1996.
Some workers argue that the Saturn contract, and the style of factory life it makes possible, should not be abandoned. "If this was a normal G.M. plant under a national agreement, we'd already have a layoff," said Dennis Adams, who assembles about 500 front doors a shift here, and plans to vote to keep the current labor agreement. "We have a better system here," said Mr. Adams, who worked at other G.M. factories for 16 years before coming to Saturn in 1993.
Local union leaders, who favor retaining the contract, said Saturn had not faced such a challenge before because times had been good. "We're really for the first time getting a test," Mr. Rypkowski, the union president, said.
Many workers who want to return to the traditional U.A.W. agreement said they were embarrassed, not proud, of Saturn's image because of all the changes in the last couple of years. Boyd R. Burton, 38, who has worked at Saturn for nine years, recently had some friends over at his house when a Saturn commercial was shown on television.
"They asked if that's really the way it was there," Mr. Burton said. He told them: "That's not reality -- it isn't working like that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A parking lot at the Saturn plant in Spring Hill, Tenn. As interest in small cars dwindles, many Saturn workers fear that they may lose their jobs. Many workers blame management for not expanding the line. (Dan Loftin for The New York Times)(pg. D2)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: SATURN DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORP; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (68%); UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: SATURN DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORP; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SALES; UTILITY VEHICLES LAYOFFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (68%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (52%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



136 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Fund-Raising Points To Running for Higher Office

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY 

 BODY:
Just two months into his second term, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and his aides sent a strong signal yesterday that he plans to seek higher office, saying they would hold a series of fund-raising events this year, including a $1,000-a-plate dinner in May.
When asked at a news conference yesterday about the May dinner -- an annual event that has raised at least $1 million in the last four years -- Mr. Giuliani said this year's dinner would be "for the future possibility of running for an office" that has not been specified. 
 "That's probably not going to be determined until some time well into the future," he added. "But the reality is that you have to raise money for the possibility of running for public office in cycles of three, four and even five years."
To that end, the Mayor's political aides said other events were planned for this year, including a private reception already scheduled for next month and a dinner at the St. Regis Hotel in December. These are in addition to his plans to speak at Republican fund-raising events in Buffalo and in Michigan and Arizona.
Mr. Giuliani has received international attention for the crime reductions and economic gains that, supporters say, have restored New York City's luster during his four-year tenure. In recent weeks, he has also bolstered his persona as an Eisenhower-era disciplinarian by ordering a crackdown on jaywalking and delivering a citywide call for civility. The formula appears to work, at least in New York City; several polls have put his approval rating among city residents at close to 70 percent.
The Mayor, who is prohibited by local law from seeking a third consecutive term in 2001, declined to say whether he was considering running for governor, United States senator, or President -- only that he was keeping his options open. "And the only way you can exercise the option of running for another office someday is if you raise money," he said.
The tentative arrangements for the fund-raising dinner in May, which were reported yesterday in The New York Post, underscore the uncertainty that Mr. Giuliani harbors about his political destiny.
John H. Gross, who has served as the Mayor's campaign treasurer in the past, said he would probably establish two committees -- one complying with Federal campaign finance laws, the other with state law -- so that contributors could choose how to direct their donations.
"We will have two separate committees which will comply with the separate laws of government, state and Federal," Mr. Gross said.
Despite the strong support that Mr. Giuliani enjoys among New York voters, his ability to appeal to a broader audience remains to be seen; political positions that are de rigueur in New York City do not always travel well. His support for abortion rights, gun control and domestic-partnership benefits for gay couples are unlikely to endear him to the social conservatives who have dominated Republican Presidential primaries in recent years.
In addition, some Republicans will never forgive the Mayor for supporting the Democratic incumbent, Mario M. Cuomo, in the 1994 race for New York governor that was eventually won by George E. Pataki.
"He's not very viable in the Republican Presidential race," said Michael Murphy, a Republican consultant and self-described Giuliani admirer. "If his people are telling him he is, he needs to get new people. They owe him better. Iowa and New Hampshire are not outer boroughs."
Mr. Murphy, whose campaign work includes last year's re-election of Gov. Christine Todd Whitman in New Jersey, said the Mayor could beat Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan or any other Democrat in a New York race for Senate -- a political pursuit that one aide says does not interest the Mayor.
"That's his race," Mr. Murphy said. "If he were paying me for advice, that's where I'd tell him to go."
But John McCain, a Republican Senator from Arizona and a likely Presidential candidate, said Mr. Giuliani "clearly has national potential."
"I think that there's tens of million of Americans who visit New York every year, and the overwhelming majority of them are impressed at the dramatic changes that have taken place under his stewardship." Mr. McCain said. "It's hard for them to believe they can walk through Central Park, that there's no squeegee people and that practically everywhere you look, there's the presence of law enforcement."
Mr. Giuliani's scheduled appearance at a fund-raising event for the Senator in Arizona sometime this spring has heightened interest among campaign contributors, Mr. McCain said.
"People know of what he's done in New York. And there's something interesting to people in the West about the Mayor of, in the view of some, the nation's premier city," he said.
Asked whether he would consider Mr. Giuliani as a running mate if he were to run for President, Mr. McCain said, "I think he would have to be considered by anyone at the top of the ticket, because he brings an enormous advantage in New York and the Northeast, an area we have had difficulty with."
The publicity and the public approval have clearly convinced the Mayor and his advisers that his message -- a melange of fiscal prudence, governmental accountability and "personal responsibility" -- is resonating with people who live outside the city's five boroughs.
"People seem to be listening," Mr. Giuliani said. "Not always agreeing, but they seem to be listening, and we seem to be actually -- even more than in the first term -- able to set the agenda of what people discuss."
Whether city residents are responding to a set agenda or simply to whatever their Mayor is saying, they are paying attention to the Mayor, often on subjects that at times seem unrelated to municipal government. A sampling of his actions since his second term began in January include: calling for an overhaul of the City University of New York system, vocally attacking the president of the Grammy Awards for impertinent behavior, requesting that New Yorkers be more civil with one another, and declaring the city to be safe haven for the original Winnie-the-Pooh doll.
This week, he again managed to attract national attention. CNN broadcast a segment on the Mayor's collaboration with a writer-illustrator on a children's book that features his dog, Goalie.
For all the interest in Mr. Giuliani's political ambitions, his aides nevertheless express surprise when subjects like fund-raisers and out-of-town trips arise.
Cristyne F. Lategano, his communications director, answered questions about the fund-raising dinner by saying that for the last several years, the Mayor has held events like this in late May, around the time of his birthday. They are invariably held at the Sheraton New York on Seventh Avenue and 51st Street.
Of course, those annual May events have all been to help his election and re-election campaigns for mayor. Why now, she was asked.
"If you don't raise money, you begin to close options as opposed to keeping them open," she said.
Mr. Giuliani also took a matter-of-fact approach to the subject, saying he enjoys his job -- "right now."
"When I was running for mayor, every single day people would ask me to make a solemn pledge that I would finish every day of the term," he said. "And I said those were unrealistic promises to make. I'm hardly going to make that same promise today when I didn't make it when I was running."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 FUNDRAISING (92%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITY LIFE (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); 

PERSON: BARRY, DAN; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); GROSS, JOHN RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



137 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: CONNECTICUT;
Jobless Rate Drops, Thanks to Aberration

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WETHERSFIELD

 BODY:
The state unemployment rate continued dropping in January. But state economists warned that the latest monthly figure was exceptionally low because of a statistical aberration.
The rate, which relies heavily on sample data from a population survey, dropped, to 3.8 percent, the Labor Department reported yesterday. 
A labor statistics supervisor, Salvatore DiPillo, said an unexpected drop in the population figures led to the decline. Mr. DiPillo said he expected the blip to correct itself in a few months, when figures are adjusted, sending the unemployment rate closer to the 4.4 percent rate reported in December.
An estimated 1.6 million residents were employed in January, an increase of 38,700 over January 1996.
Job losses were reported in areas including wholesale and retail trade, 2,300; services, 2,300; government, 500, and transportation, communications and utilities, 400. Construction and mining added 1,200 jobs, and manufacturing grew by 900.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: CONSTRUCTION & MINING GROUP (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); STATISTICS (88%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (87%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (87%); EMPLOYMENT (85%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: SALVATORE DIPILLO (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



138 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 6, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Incubators for Long Island

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
New York State officials announced $22 million in financing yesterday for four business incubators on Long Island aimed at nurturing entrepreneurs in biotechnology and software.
Two other programs are also being contemplated by the state to help Long Island enhance its reputation as a center of high technology. Only one of the state's existing 37 incubators is on Long Island, at the State University at Stony Brook. 
 "Long Island has always had a high-tech economy, with the defense firms, its highly skilled labor force, hospitals and Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories," said Michael F. McKeon, a spokesman for Gov. George E. Pataki. "This is a natural fit for Long Island."
Support programs for new biotechnology companies will be established at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset and the State University of New York at Farmingdale. The SUNY program will be operated in conjunction with the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories.
An incubator for software producers will be located at Briarcliffe College in Bethpage. The state will contribute $500,000 to complete and expand a previously announced program for software manufacturers at SUNY Stony Brook.
The incubators provide space to new companies and offer experts to give management advice, and help in writing business plans and obtaining investment capital. TERRY PRISTIN
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SUNY (NASDAQ) (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORY (57%); STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (68%); COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORIES (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (68%); COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORIES (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; BIOTECHNOLOGY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); BUSINESS PLANS (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TRENDS (68%); 

PERSON: EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); EDDIE GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1998



139 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 7, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Not to Bury Homer but to Update Him

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS 

 BODY:
Who killed Homer?
The question is at the heart of a bitter debate among scholars over who is to blame for the crisis in classics education. With a declining interest in ancient studies at universities across the country and a fear that the disciplines are becoming irrelevant, classicists worry that the founding ideas of Western literature, art and philosophy are losing ground. 
 In fact, "Who Killed Homer: The Demise of Classical Education and the Recovery of Greek Wisdom" is the title of a new book due out next month that argues that American classicists are "peewee gladiators" who have "lost sight of any real intellectual or educational goal" through their obsession with "tenure, promotions, leave, salary, visiting lectureships, positions on editorial boards, prestige."
"The dumbing down of the classics is under way," says John Heath, a professor of classics at Santa Clara University, who wrote the book with Victor Davis Hanson. "There will be nothing left in a generation."
For more than a decade, classicists have been slugging it out in articles, books and conferences over who's murdering Homer.
The quarrel erupted in print in 1987 when America's premier classical publication, the American Journal of Philology (a love of words and literature; it comes from the Greek words philein and logos) warned it would not publish articles lacking "rigorous scholarly methods" or based on "mere speculation." The editorial was widely seen as a declaration of war by traditionalist scholars on the modernists or "theorists," who apply modern analytical methods drawn from feminist studies, poststructural criticism and multiculturalism to the ancient world.
"I thought the traditional approach just fine," says Georg Luck of Johns Hopkins University, who wrote the controversial editorial, "but I had no idea saying so would produce such an uproar."
The traditionalist approach is based on a close study of ancient languages and literature. At its base is the belief that the values of ancient Greece and Rome provide the "essential core of Western learning in language, reasoning, ethics, esthetics and philosophy," as Professors Heath and Hanson put it.
Feminists and theorists, on the other hand, stress the ancient world's elitism, indifference to women, tolerance of slavery and glorification of bellicose white male heroes instead of democracy, free inquiry and human rights. They argue that they are making the classics more relevant by asking the same questions about the ancient world that we ask about our own, questions about the social, political and economic forces shaping literature and thought.
"To keep Latin and Greek vital we must keep asking new questions," says Barbara K. Gold, a classicist at Hamilton College. "Purist approaches are no longer attractive to students. We can't ignore the multicultural campus."
Amy Richlin, a feminist scholar at the University of Southern California, says: "I want to inject the excitement we find in feminist and other modern studies into the classics. I want to invigorate it."
For many theorists, the great texts of antiquity have no immutable significance and can mean different things to different readers. While some find in antiquity the origins of the glories of Western civilization, others see what Nancy Sorkin Rabinowitz of Hamilton College called "a formative moment of misogyny" in her introduction to "Feminist Theory and the Classics" (Routledge, 1993).
Tina Passman of the University of Maine, who describes herself in the same book as "a lesbian, radical feminist and classicist," berated traditionalists for failing to see that the male-dominated ancient Greek world was built on the ruins of an earlier "harmonious matriarchal/ matrilineal culture." Other essays in the volume include "The Primal Mind: Using Native American Models for the Study of Women in Ancient Greece" and "The Case for Not Ignoring Marx in the Study of Women in Antiquity."
Such approaches infuriate traditionalists, who accuse theorists of imposing a preconceived political agenda on the ancient world that denigrates Greek and Roman civilization.
"How will students learn to love the classics when their professors write incomprehensibly about a world they hold responsible for all the neuroses of present-day society?" asks Professor Hanson, who teaches Greek at the California State University at Fresno.
This struggle between traditional and multicultural approaches to scholarship exists in practically every discipline on campus, from literature to mathematics. What creates special bitterness among the classicists, however, is each school's belief that its rivals are to blame for falling student enrollments, declining linguistic standards and the "watering down" of the core discipline through the use of translations and the inclusion of ancillary subjects like mythology and ancient art.
"These are perilous times for classics in America," Bruce Thornton of California State University at Fresno wrote in a survey of the dispute last year. He said the classics were caught between "a utilitarian right," which doubts its relevance, and the "multiculturalist left," which accuses the ancients of "patriarchy, oppression, sexism, colonialism and God knows what other crimes."
Amy Richlin laments weak linguistic skills, saying many students starting the classics without high school Greek "just don't have time to really master it."
To some extent, the quarrel between traditionalists and theorists may be distracting both schools from the real common enemy they face. This is what is known as "presentism" or the tendency to focus on very recent events.
As an example, Professor Richlin cites next year's planned Berkshire Conference of Women Historians, saying that 80 percent of the discussion will be on events after 1789 and half on those after 1900.
"The growth of presentism is the greatest danger we face," she warns. "Historical studies which ignore 3,000 years of history will not bring good results."
While no one denies that the classics have declined in prestige and importance on university campuses, other scholars question whether the future is as dark as the Cassandras warn.
Matthew S. Santirocco of New York University says the classics can infiltrate mainstream university studies through multidisciplinary courses, where texts are read in translation and students study nontraditional aspects of the ancient world like the role of women, theater and art. N.Y.U.'s Ancient Studies Center offers interdisciplinary courses on such themes as death and the ancient world and Alexander the Great and the lands he conquered.
Meanwhile, a recent study by Richard A. LaFleur of the University of Georgia suggests the classics are holding up reasonably well and may even be in for a revival. While the number of enrolled college Latin students had fallen from 39,600 in 1965 to 24,398 by 1972, it has remained fairly stable since then and reached 25,897 in 1995, the last year surveyed.
Greek fared less well with the number of enrolled undergraduates dropping from 19,500 in 1965 to 16,272 in 1995. But again it has held fairly stable at around that level since 1986.
Professor LaFleur's study, suitably entitled "Latina Resurgens," also shows public secondary school Latin enrollments rising 15 percent between 1990 and 1994 to the highest level since 1970, with a similar increase at private schools, suggesting more classics majors are in the pipeline. New York City private schools often tout their Latin classes as a lure for prospective parents. "Gaudeamus, igitur" is his conclusion. (That's "Therefore, let us rejoice," in case you were wondering).

GRAPHIC: Photos: The number of undergraduates who can read Homer in Greek is no longer falling. (Culver Pictures)(pg. B9); Feminists ask the same questions about the world of Apollo and the Muses as they ask about their own. (Culver Pictures)(pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; ART; PHILOSOPHY CLASSICS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); ANCIENT & EXTINCT LANGUAGES (77%); WRITERS (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); PUBLISHING (70%); ETHICS (62%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL VICTOR DAVIS HANSON (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1998



140 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 7, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: THINK TANK;
The Country Club: The Good Life or a Greedy One?

 BODY:
In "The Theory of the Leisure Class," the economist Thorstein Veblen said: "In order to gain and to hold the esteem of men, it is not sufficient merely to possess wealth or power. The wealth or power must be put in evidence, for esteem is awarded only in evidence." In a book being published this month, "The American Country Club: Its Origins and Development" (Rutgers University Press), James M. Mayo, a professor at the school of architecture and urban design at the University of Kansas, quotes various writers on this suburban oasis.
The Country Club . . . is everywhere a clear American felicity; a complete product of the social air and soil which alone have made it possible. . . . It becomes, for the restless analyst, one of the great garden lamps in which the flame of Democracy burns whitest and steadiest. Henry James in "The American Scene," 1907. 
 There, paradoxical as it may at first appear, is the idea of the country club as it should be, and as sometimes it is. It is really the love of home and the love of friends whom one would have about one's hearth that has brought about their organization. For the love of home involves also the neighborly idea, the love of one's fellows, of companionship, of something beyond "highballs" and poker and the scandal or shop talk of the smoking room. Frank S. Arnett, Munsey's Magazine, 1902
Country clubs are the result of the centralization of population, the increase of wealth and the discovery of America by the game of golf. . . . Country clubs could hardly flourish in great numbers without golf. To a majority of the active male members, golf is the great attraction. Golf keeps up the membership and makes the club strong. E. S. Martin, Harper's Weekly, 1900
The country club seems almost destined to satisfy the somewhat communistic dream. . . . To begin with, the country club is not the result of a movement, but it is a growth which in itself better favors permanent place and power. Without the stress and tension of new-century town life, so generally condemned, country clubs could not have so multiplied. The amazing wholesomeness of country club life becomes the complement of the worst evils of the money struggle. Robert Dunn, Outing, 1905
The country club . . . serves as a clearinghouse for social paper. Did the Garveys get their Packard second-hand?. . . . Did the Sacketts live as regally as they would have us think, that weekend they motored east in April? Charles Merz, The New Republic, 1923
The whole intention. . . . to give an air that one would find in the most friendly and cheerful of homes, and yet, perhaps, here and there a touch of formality to insure not only the impersonal note so necessary in a club house but also the sense of contrast between such life and actual home life. For a club, though a close relation of the home, is not an effort at imitation; it is an extension of the home, not an enlargement of it. Miss Swift, Arts and Decoration, 1925
Lack of ethnic diversity hangs like a specter of past evils over today's clubs. The recent acrimonious flap over the lack of minority members . . . has continued to reverberate through the private club world. This is to be expected when moral and ethical issues collide with legal rights and principles. Club managers will need to take a position of strong, if quiet, leadership in their clubs, recognizing the delicacy of their position as employees, yet pressing to bring their clubs in line with the late-20th-century social and moral values. Tom Finan, publisher of Club Management, 1990
It is, above all, a single yet complex expression of both greed and magnificence, an expression of the continually evolving American Dream that embodies the best of its optimism and native exuberance along with its native excesses and its uncritical acceptance of the good life. William Wyckoff, "The Making of the American Landscape," edited by Michael P. Conzen (Unwin Hyman, 1990)

GRAPHIC: Photo: An undated photograph of the Shinnecock Hills Golf Club in Southampton, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: COUNTRY CLUB HOTELS LTD (91%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KANSAS, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: GOLF GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); WRITERS (76%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); 

PERSON: MAYO, JAMES M (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1998



141 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Russia Seeking Senior Role On Inspection Teams in Iraq

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, March 6

 BODY:
In an effort to expand its influence on the special commission charged with disarming Iraq, Russia has asked Secretary General Kofi Annan to name a Russian as co-deputy chairman of the panel, United Nations officials said today.
The move is believed to require Security Council approval because the resolution setting up the commission specifically mentioned a chairman and a deputy and made no mention of other officers or of the nationalities of the officers. 
 Richard Butler, an Australian arms-control expert, is now chairman; Charles Duelfer, an American, is his deputy.
A question still being debated among American officials is whether a Russian co-deputy would best serve Unscom's interests, given Moscow's arguments that economic sanctions on Iraq should be eased, despite Baghdad's record of concealing its weapons programs.
In Washington, a State Department official who requested anonymity said, "We encourage broad international participation in Unscom and have confidence that Chairman Butler will make personnel decisions with the best interests of Unscom in mind."
The Russians had proposed five deputy positions, one for each permanent member of the Security Council: Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States. France, which suggested the number be kept to two, has assigned a political adviser to the commission's headquarters here. Russia and France have been more sympathetic to Iraq than most Western nations.
Some officials and diplomats see the request by Russia as a further test of Mr. Annan's willingness to be flexible with Iraq. But in this case, the action would mean the Secretary General was treading on Security Council territory. Mr. Annan has said repeatedly that he would not or could not dilute the authority of the Security Council or Unscom, which the Council established in 1991 as a semiautonomous body.
A series of steps that Mr. Annan has taken this week, including the appointment of a political representative in Baghdad, and his willingness to consider the Russian request have raised questions among diplomats about about whether there were any side agreements to the accord he struck with Iraq last month to open some previously closed sites. United Nations officials have denied any secret deals.
In recent months, Russia has supported Iraq's demands that the commission -- and in particular its inspectors -- be more broadly representative of the United Nations. President Saddam Hussein has accused the inspectors of being American spies and has said that both Mr. Butler and Mr. Duelfer are beholden to Washington and insensitive to Iraqi concerns about sovereignty.
Commission officials and American diplomats dismiss these charges, saying Iraq is trying to blunt the effectiveness of the commission or sideline it entirely because it is closing in on some important sites for inspection.
Russia has been critical of the inspection process, complaining that the inspectors are too aggressive and too slow to complete their task.
Suspicions about Russia were raised when United Nations inspectors reported finding a document indicating that Russia and Iraq had discussed the sale of equipment that could be used in a biological warfare program. There also have been complaints that confidential information about proposed inspections have reached the Iraqis through the Russian Embassy in Baghdad.
Russia stands to gain if United Nations sanctions against Baghdad are lifted because Iraq owes Russia billions of dollars for weapons, and Russia has a commitment to develop oilfields in Iraq.
United Nations officials have drawn up procedures for inspecting eight "presidential" sites that Mr. Hussein agreed to open in talks with Mr. Annan in Baghdad on Feb. 22. Under the agreement, these sites are to be visited by inspectors accompanied by diplomats.
Fred Eckhard, spokesman for the Secretary General, said the procedures would be presented to the Security Council and made public on Monday, after the arrival in New York of Iraq's Foreign Minister, Mohammed Said al-Sahaf.
Iraq complains that the United Nations monitoring infringes on the Government's rights, an accusation that has become the theme underlying all discussions with Baghdad for more than a year.
But United Nations searches of sites not classified as presidential have continued without incident. On Thursday, Scott Ritter, an American expert on concealment whom the Iraqis had barred in January, returned to Baghdad with 50 inspectors to complete the job the Iraqis had interrupted. He and his team, drawn from 11 countries, visited three "sensitive" sites today without incident. Sensitive sites are another category to which Iraq wants to control access.
There were no efforts to prevent Mr. Ritter from returning to Iraq, although Iraqi officials barred television crews from recording his arrival at Habbaniya air base, about 70 miles west of Baghdad. Iraq does not allow inspectors to land at Saddam International Airport, on the edge of the capital.
On Monday, Jayantha Dhanapala, the Under Secretary General for Disarmament Affairs, is to go to Iraq to begin laying the groundwork for visits to the presidential sites. Mr. Dhanapala, a Sri Lankan arms control expert, is to direct the visits -- officials in Mr. Annan's office do not call them inspections -- with Mr. Butler.
In planning how to handle the presidential sites, members of the special commission, which had little input into drawing up the procedures, worry that diplomats, with little or no expertise, could limit the inspectors' work.
The diplomats, for example, are seen as being sympathetic to Iraqi demands for "dignified" searches.
Iraqi officials have complained about what they see as a gangbuster style among inspectors, accusing them of barging into private living quarters unannounced. Commission experts respond that unless they can make unannounced inspections, objects or documents can be hidden from them.
Inspectors are concerned that diplomats may hint to Baghdad when searches are planned, reducing visits to "ritual searches" that Iraq can use to argue that it has met the requirements of the agreement with Mr. Annan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%); FRANCE (93%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%); FRANCE (93%); CHINA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DISARMAMENT (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); APPROVALS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (68%); 

PERSON: ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); BUTLER, RICHARD; DUELFER, CHARLES; CROSSETTE, BARBARA SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1998



142 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 7, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Prices Rise Despite Strength In February's Report on Jobs

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices rose yesterday despite a strong February employment report. Investors, resigned to the likelihood that the Federal Reserve will not lower interest rates anytime soon, took advantage of the slide in bond prices earlier in the week and bought.
Most of the gains were on the long end of the yield curve, with the 30-year Treasury bond up 22/32, to a price of 101 16/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 6.02 percent, from 6.06 percent on Thursday. 
 The Labor Department said yesterday that 310,000 jobs were added in February, more than the consensus forecast of 250,000 new jobs, while average hourly wages rose six-tenths of 1 percent.
The report provided evidence of the economy's strength, a sign that would typically rekindle inflation worries. But some market analysts said the number of new jobs was not as big as some had feared. In addition, after a recent slump and with the prospect of a Fed rate cut quickly diminishing, the 6 percent plus yield on the long bond began to look attractive, bringing buyers into the market.
Anthony Chan, managing director and chief economist at the Banc One Investment Advisors Corporation in Columbus, Ohio, said that the root of yesterday's rally might have stemmed from a small dip in the Employment Diffusion Index, which is released with the employment report. The dip suggested the latest surge in jobs was somewhat less widespread than in the previous report.
The index declined to 57.3 in February, from 64.2 in January, its lowest reading since August 1997, when it bottomed out at 56.5. "Anytime that this index declines, it increases the probability that a good part of the jobs gains were due to special factors, rather than solid widespread fundamental trends," Mr. Chan said.
Many investors were also assured by a loss of 2,000 jobs in manufacturing. "The reason for the credit market's optimism." Mr. Chan said, "is that many investors assumed that with Intel and Motorola screaming about Asia, it might make sense to assume that the 2,000 decline in manufacturing employment might be an indication that the Asian flu is also beginning to impact the overall economy more broadly."
Marilyn Schaja, an economist with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, noted that the Labor Department had warned that some of the data, like the hourly earnings increase, might be distorted because of a a statistical anomaly.
Still, "regardless of any possible distortion, the data indicate a continued very tight labor market," Ms. Schaja said. "These data, in themselves, will not push the Fed to firm monetary policy because inflation remains extremely tame and the potential impact from the Asia crisis still looms," she added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); MSI (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); INTEL CORP (52%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (94%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); INFLATION (89%); YIELD CURVE (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (69%); INFLUENZA (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ANTHONY CHAN (84%); MARILYN SCHAJA (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1998



143 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: D.C. Ennui

 BODY:
A new axiom on domestic affairs seems to have taken hold in Washington this year. It is, simply, the less you do, the more popular you become. Take the Republicans in the House, who once vowed to make history by remaking government. This year they seem content with mini-measures on school vouchers, drugs and crime. Indeed, House members are much more involved in palace intrigue than in any item on their agenda. Yet the approval ratings of Congress, like those of a President Clinton who offered his own list of sound-bite policies in the State of the Union speech, have soared to record levels.
The virtues of not doing much were discovered last fall, when Speaker Gingrich and Trent Lott, the Senate majority leader, adjourned early for the year. Now Congress is back in session, but who would know it? Where Republicans and Democrats once waged epic ideological battles, they now jockey over modest changes in the distribution of highway money. With a booming economy, a balanced budget and the fire-breathers on the left and right unable to get a majority, there is not much more to do except push through a status-quo budget. 
 As sometimes happens, the ennui has produced a new effort by Republicans to chew themselves up. The widely reported intention of Mr. Gingrich to run for President has accelerated the battle over who might succeed him. This in turn unleashed a torrent of criticism of the putative heir, Dick Armey of Texas, the combative majority leader. The infighting has widened divisions that opened up last year, when Mr. Gingrich quashed an attempted coup attempt by some of his closest allies.
The jockeying has been complicated by the surprise decision by Bill Paxon of Buffalo, a once-rising star, to retire from the House and from politics altogether. In leaving, Mr. Paxon declared that he probably could have beaten Mr. Armey, whose real friends could caucus in a phone booth. The rest of the House Republicans, many of them moderates from the Northeast and Midwest, are searching for an alternative. One result is that Robert Livingston of Louisiana, chairman of the Appropriations Committee, has quit talking of retirement and now seems ready to run for Speaker.
Another reason that Republicans have the luxury to fight with each other is the peculiar state of Mr. Clinton's political situation right now. Though he goes higher and higher in opinion polls, the allegations against him have banished fears among Republicans that they could lose Congress to the Democrats in the fall. Complacent about their fortunes, Republican leaders have decided that cooperation with Mr. Clinton on the basics is what the public wants, and they seem willing to endure the criticism of the emotionally distraught but suddenly impotent right wing. There is a lot of Republican talk about flat taxes and other transformation of the tax system, but no one seriously thinks that can happen anytime soon.
The last President who, like Mr. Clinton, lost his Congressional majority after his first two years and then was re-elected with a Congress from an opposing party was Dwight Eisenhower. Like Mr. Clinton, Eisenhower and Congress jockeyed over a centrist program and both remained popular as long as the economy did well. Some say Mr. Clinton's popularity is wide but shallow and could dry up if the economy wilts. But that is always the case.
The nation has a long list of unmet needs in education, retirement programs for an aging population and lifting up the poor. It used to be said that you needed a vision on such things to succeed. In the politics of this moment, vision has become passe. Barring some unforeseen disaster, this is the era of the lethargy thing. It is not elegant, but it is working well enough to satisfy the incumbents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) READY-TO-RUN SOFTWARE INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; PUBLIC OPINION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TAX LAW (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); COUPS (68%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (57%); 

PERSON: GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) NEWT GINGRICH (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); TRENT LOTT (57%); ROBERT A LIVINGSTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1998



144 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 7, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
S.& P. 500 Jumps 2% as Bargain Buyers Fuel Trading

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
If the market is lower, it must be a buying opportunity.
Investors followed that mantra with a vengeance once again yesterday, scooping up technology shares and other issues that were battered in a selloff on Thursday that had pushed most major stock market indexes down more than 1 percent. 
 Stocks zoomed, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index up nearly 2 percent to a record close and the Dow industrials up nearly 1.5 percent. At least temporarily, buyers disregarded concerns about the outlook for corporate earnings, highlighted by a double dose of profit warnings from the technology bellwethers Intel and Motorola, as well as anxieties about the impact of Asia's financial crisis on American multinational companies.
But late news from Compaq Computer that excess inventory and price cuts would lower first-quarter profits below expectations was a reminder that stumbling blocks loom in the market's path. Compaq, whose announcement came after the market had closed, closed at 27 5/8, up 1/2.
While trading was in session, investors took all news as good news. They viewed a February decline in unemployment, equaling the 24-year low it hit last November, as a sign that the domestic economy was motoring along at a healthy pace. That could offset the impact of Asia's slump, said Robert Froehlich, chief investment strategist at Zurich Kemper Investments.
"In the corporate earnings picture, there's a big question mark about what's going to happen in Asia," he said. "So the driver of the profit engine is going to be the United States."
"The stock market knows the only way companies are going to be profitable is if the domestic economy is strong," Mr. Froehlich added. "And for the economy to be strong, consumers must be strong and buying. And they can't stay strong unless they have a job. Forget everything else. If they don't have a job, they can't drive anything."
American stock markets also gained from strong showings overseas, where most stock markets in Europe and Asia finished higher.
The buying spree erased much of the losses of Thursday and pushed the S.& P. 500, up 20.64 points, to 1,055.69. While no other major market indexes pushed further into record territory, the Dow Jones industrial average surged 125.06, to 8,569.39. The Dow stands just 15.44 from its closing high of 8,584.83 reached last Tuesday.
On the New York Stock Exchange more than 665 million shares traded, the highest daily volume since Feb. 5
Despite its 2.43 percent climb, the technology-laden Nasdaq composite failed to recoup all of Thursday's 2.72 percent loss. It closed at 1,753.49, up 41.57.
The demand for stocks, especially technology shares, indicated investor unwillingness to miss a chance to participate in another leg of the market rally, said Michael W. Clark, head of American equity trading at Credit Suisse First Boston.
While Intel sank almost 13 percent on Thursday after the company said product demand was sluggish, after further reflection, investors decided the shares were cheap and rushed in to buy, Mr. Clark said.
Investors viewed the announcements by Intel and Motorola as indications of temporary problems and not signals of fundamental weakness in their sectors, said Jack Geraghty, semiconductor analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston.
"It appears that some of the companies have inventory problems," Mr. Geraghty said. "If there were something wrong with demand, Dell would not be having a good quarter."
In addition to technology shares, airline stocks also benefited from the change in investor sentiment.
The stocks were helped by the overall rally and by a sharp drop in crude oil prices, said Samuel C. Buttrick, an airline analyst at Paine Webber. Crude oil contracts fell 42 cents a barrel, to $14.91, the first fall below $15 in four years.
"On a day when the market is up and oil prices are down, I'd be surprised if airline stocks were not leading the charge," he said.
The American Stock Exchange airline sector index was one of the best-performing indexes yesterday, up 3.97 percent. So far this year, it is up 13.91 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Graph shows the Dow Jones Industrial Average daily closes for the months of March 1997 through March 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: NASDAQ NATIONAL MARKET INTEL CORP (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); DEUTSCHE ASSET MANAGEMENT SCUDDER INVESTMENTS (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: NASDAQ NATIONAL MARKET

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R JACK GERAGHTY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1998



145 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: JOBS JUGGERNAUT CONTINUES SURGE; 300,000 FIND WORK

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR 

 BODY:
After seven years of economic growth, the American job juggernaut has not even begun to slow down.
In February, for the fourth consecutive month, employers added more than 300,000 jobs, the Labor Department reported yesterday. And as it has month after month, the surge in hiring far exceeded the expectations of economists. The February data brought the total number of jobs created in the last six months to an astounding two million. 
 The unemployment rate edged down to 4.6 percent from 4.7 percent, returning to the 24-year low that it reached in November. Also, the proportion of Americans working -- 64.2 percent -- remains at an all-time high. And perhaps most important, the report underscored how briskly the real pay of average American workers is now rising.
The labor market has not been this strong for this long since before the oil crisis in 1973, reflecting a happy confluence of optimism, low inflation, moderate interest rates, high stock prices and a soothing absence of economic policy blunders.
While it is hard to imagine that the current pace can continue for long, there are few signs of an abrupt slowdown. "What's amazing isn't the demand for workers but the ability of the economy to keep delivering them," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist of Deutsche Morgan Grenfell.
Total hours worked rose sharply in February, and the January increase was revised higher as well. The steep rise in hours -- at a 6.5 percent annual rate so far this year -- implies that the gross domestic product is continuing to grow at a fairly robust pace this quarter. And a sharp pickup in temporary employment -- a gain of 52,000 such jobs in February -- is another possible forerunner of more permanent hiring. (A recent study by the Chicago Federal Reserve suggests that temporary hiring is a reliable leading indicator of future growth in payroll jobs.)
While the labor market is getting tighter, pay increases are coming faster. This was perhaps the biggest news buried in yesterday's employment report. Average hourly earnings jumped by 8 cents in February, to $12.60. Although the Labor Department cautioned that the measure was volatile and that last month's figure might have been exaggerated by statistical anomalies, the increase for the last 12 months is just over 4 percent, a sharp acceleration from a 3 percent gain the previous year.
"Tight labor markets are having an effect," said David Wyss, chief economist at DRI/McGraw-Hill, reflecting the opinion of most economists. "There's been a clear escalation since 1994 and 1995."
Overheated labor markets helped end the long expansions in the 1960's and 1980's. Naturally, economists are watching labor costs carefully for signs of incipient inflationary pressures. Such pressures would prompt the Federal Reserve to rein in the economy.
Still, the bond market took the glowing employment report calmly yesterday, perhaps because interest rates have already moved up from their lows. Stock and bond prices rallied yesterday, as investors once again decided to look for bargains.
With wages continuing to outpace inflation, workers are clearly benefiting from the recovery that once was derisively dismissed as the "jobless" or "stealth" recovery. The cost of living has risen a scant 1.6 percent over the last 12 months, while the real, inflation-adjusted gain in average hourly pay for production and nonsupervisory workers has been 2.5 percent -- the strongest 12-month increase in more than two decades.
The unemployment rate for adult men remained unchanged from January, at 3.8 percent, its lowest point in two decades. The rate for adult women edged down to 4.3 percent in February from 4.4 percent in January. Much of the recent growth in employment reflects increased participation of women, particularly women with high school educations or less. Alan Krueger, an economist at Princeton and the former chief economist at the Labor Department, said this pool of workers was not drying up. "If growth were coming from college-educated workers, we'd be exhausting the pool," he said.
Low-wage, less-skilled workers are finally benefiting -- as they usually do in recoveries -- disproportionately from tighter labor markets. Unemployment rates among high school dropouts are much higher than for college graduates, 7 percent versus 1.9 percent. But the situation is improving much more for the low-wage group. In the nearly eight years of the economic recovery, unemployment among college-educated workers, for example, has fallen from 3.2 percent to 1.9 percent, slightly more than one percentage point. By contrast, unemployment among high school dropouts fell from 11.9 percent to 7 percent in February, nearly a five-point decline. Two-fifths of that decline has come in the last year, said Tom Nardone, an economist at the Labor Department.
The boon for workers is causing some headaches for companies. Employers continue to complain that workers, especially ones with college degrees or special skills, are in short supply -- not surprising given the extremely low unemployment rate for this group. The latest survey by the National Federation of Independent Business, also released yesterday, shows that in February, 26 percent of businesses had openings they could not fill (a bit lower than in January but far higher than the 15 percent of five years ago). But, so far, the rising labor costs faced by businesses have not resulted in higher prices for consumers -- or a higher rate of inflation.
In another economic report, the Federal Reserve said borrowing by consumers increased at a 2.8 percent annual rate in January, down from a 4.7 percent rate in December. A slowdown in auto lending offset a pickup in credit card borrowing.
Somewhat surprisingly, the recession in Asia seems to have had only a modest effect on American labor. About one-quarter of America's factory output is exported, including shipments to Asia. Moreover, many companies compete with imported goods, and Asian products will become cheaper because of the collapse of many of the region's currencies. Manufacturing employment in the United States was indeed basically flat in February, for the first time in several months. Factory hours actually fell by half a percentage point, and two industries that had been hiring heavily -- electronic components and industrial machinery -- did not add workers.
But these signs of weakness were overshadowed by robust hiring in construction and services last month. Aided by the lowest mortgage rates in four years -- just under 7 percent -- builders added 41,000 jobs. Mild weather in parts of the country and the cleanup and rebuilding that followed flooding and ice storms in other areas also stimulated construction. The boom in mortgage refinancing added thousands of jobs in the financial services sector.
Most of the hiring, however, was done, as usual, by the giant service sector, which added 146,000 workers, including 25,000 in health care, 25,000 in computer and data processing, and 17,000 in financial services.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Consumer Borrowing" shows net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding, from Aug. 1996 through Jan. 1998.
 
"Annual Rates of Change"
Jan. +2.8%
Dec. +4.7
Nov. -4.8%
Oct. +10.1
(Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. D14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (61%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; CONSUMER CREDIT; CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WAGES AND SALARIES EMPLOYMENT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INFLATION (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); STATISTICS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1998



146 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 7, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Rates Move Up

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 6

 BODY:
Home mortgage rates rose this week, according to Freddie Mac. Thirty-year mortgages increased to an average 7.19 percent from 7.09 the previous week, while 15-year loans rose almost the same amount to 6.80 percent from 6.69. One-year adjustable- rate mortgages also inched upward to an average 5.70 percent from 5.65 percent, according to Freddie Mac, a corporation that is chartered by Congress and buys mortgages from lenders and packages them into securities for investors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; INTEREST RATES; MORTGAGES MORTGAGE RATES (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (88%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1998



147 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 7, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: A Small War to Control a Crumbling Armory and Its Art

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL and SELWYN RAAB 

 BODY:
With questions arising over the upkeep and management of the landmark Seventh Regiment Armory on Park Avenue, a struggle has erupted over who will control the building and the millions of dollars of paintings and artifacts it contains.
Charles A. Gargano, a top aide to Gov. George E. Pataki, says the state may transfer control of the building to a private group. The Municipal Art Society of New York, a nonprofit organization that has long championed the cause of historic preservation, is pressing for a civic organization to take over the building, privately constructed on city-owned land and opened in 1879. And a veterans' group established decades ago is claiming ownership of the armory's multimillion-dollar collection of paintings and military regalia, setting off a protracted legal battle with the state. 
 But the obscure state agency that runs the building says it is poised to reverse the armory's structural decline and is committed to continuing its management, even if it must form a partnership with a private group. The agency, the Division of Military and Naval Affairs, which oversees the state National Guard, blamed the chronic physical deterioration in the building on past state budget cuts and a "massive deterioration and decline of the New York National Guard from 1985 to 1995."
The guard's personnel decline, the officials said in a statement, has been reversed, allowing the division to focus "on solving inherited and deferred problems as they relate to an aging infrastructure." They estimate that the building needs $2 million in repairs.
At stake is the future of one of New York City's most prominent landmarks, now damaged by water leaks that have gone unrepaired for years. In the last decade, as the number of art and antiques shows in the city has quadrupled, the Upper East Side armory has become the most prominent site in the country for such lucrative events.
The New York Times reported yesterday that structural problems at the imposing red-brick building bordered by Park and Lexington Avenues and East 66th and 67th Streets have become so severe that a portion of a ceiling recently collapsed, ruining hand-stenciled walls.
Leaders of civic and veterans' groups, as well as art and antiques dealers, have also questioned the division's policy of renting the enormous drill hall for shows at what they say are bargain-basement rates without competitive bidding.
Neighborhood residents also say that the recent boom in shows has generated problems to which the armory management has been unresponsive. Walter L. Deane, president of the East 66th Street and East 67th Street Block Associations, said that among the most serious grievances are the loading and unloading of materials late at night and in the early morning, rat infestations from mounds of garbage bags on the sidewalk, and double- and triple-parking, which has tied up traffic.
Maj. Gen. John H. Fenimore 5th, who heads the Military and Naval Affairs Division, said in an interview that he had been unaware of the complaints but that he would try to solve them. If the community leaders contact him at his headquarters in Latham, an Albany suburb, General Fenimore, added, "I'll be happy to meet with them."
Despite the division's promise of changes, the leaders of several civic and veterans' organization say they are concerned that the decaying armory could imperil the collections of art and military memorabilia and the shows held there.
Estimating the true cost of repairs in the millions, Brendon Sexton, president of the Municipal Art Society, said that more funds for maintenance could be raised through higher rental fees.
Funds should also be spent to air condition the building, he said, so it could be used for summer events like traveling art exhibits and concerts. Over the years, the armory has been discussed as a summer home for the New York Philharmonic.
In addition to an infusion of government and private funds, Mr. Sexton said, the building's rescue lies in having a conservancy or nonprofit trust take over the management.
"We have talked with Mr. Gargano and people in the Governor's office, and we are trying to set up a not-for-profit group that would ask the state and the city for permission of taking on the task of rescuing the building," Mr. Sexton added.
Mr. Gargano, who as chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation is a top economic development aide to Governor Pataki, acknowledged in an interview that the building was in need of extensive rehabilitation.
Asked if the administration wanted to turn over the armory's management to a private group, Mr. Gargano said: " At this, point we don't have a definite plan. But it would be a prudent course of action to get a feel of what the private sector's interest might be."
Major General Fenimore said he would not oppose a partnership with a private group.
The most bitter fight over control at the armory, which is now in the courts, is between the state and the Seventh Regiment Fund, a veterans' group established in 1909 to help conserve the armory's art and military gifts. The dispute centers not on the building itself, but on the trove of Civil War paintings, silver and military artifacts that were donated to the regiment, which no longer exists. With its centerpiece canvas by Thomas Nast of the unit going off to war in 1861, the collection is valued at more than $10 million.
Fund officials claim ownership because during the Korean War, title to the collection was transferred to their organization by the commanding officers of the Seventh Regiment's successor unit, the 107th Infantry. The National Guard officers were concerned that the outfit might be sent overseas and that the armory's possessions would be best protected by the fund.
The state argues that the transfer was improper and invalid.
The dispute started in 1996, when the Pataki administration sent auditors to make an inventory of artifacts in the state's 65 National Guard armories. At the Park Avenue armory, fund officials refused to allow an inspection unless the state acknowledged that the fund owned most of the art and military regalia.
The State Attorney General, Dennis C. Vacco, retaliated by suing the fund, charging that the veterans had illegally created a private museum for themselves from a collection that was state property.
The fund countersued in November, based on a complaint by Kenyon B. FitzGerald Jr., the organization's president, that the state had attempted to seize the collection before resolution of the legal questions.
Both suits are awaiting rulings in state courts, but the dispute has spread into the armory itself.
David L. Dalva 2d, a fund trustee, contends that the division retaliated against him in December by abruptly evicting the nonprofit Seventh Regiment Rifle Club, which he headed, and which had operated a shooting range in the basement for more than a century. The division cited problems of lead contamination and other health hazards at the range. Mr. Dalva said studies by the club found no environmental problems.
Also entering the fray is the State Comptroller, H. Carl McCall, whose predecessor, Edward V. Regan, conducted audits in the early 90's that found faulty financial practices at the armory. A spokesman for Mr. McCall said a new audit was being planned. "It is something we are going to look into," the spokesman, Jeffrey Gordon, said, describing the armory's popularity as "an unusual situation."
"Most of the other armories are rust buckets, and no one is breaking down doors to lease space in those places," he said.
Some civic leaders believe the battling over the armory may itself cause further harm to the building.
"We have been telling state and city officials and the veterans' groups that everyone has to agree to quit their claims on the armory," Mr. Sexton said. "Otherwise we could lose this outstanding building."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY; MILITARY AND NAVAL AFFAIRS DIVISION (NYS); SEVENTH REGIMENT FUND AQUANTIVE INC (58%); NEW YORK NATIONAL GUARD (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY; MILITARY AND NAVAL AFFAIRS DIVISION (NYS); SEVENTH REGIMENT FUND NEW YORK NATIONAL GUARD (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SEVENTH REGIMENT ARMORY (NYC); HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; ART; SUITS AND LITIGATION PAINTING (90%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); HISTORY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); VETERANS (75%); LITIGATION (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (64%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (62%); BUDGET CUTS (51%); RODENTS (50%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL; RAAB, SELWYN; GARGANO, CHARLES A; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (73%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1998



148 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Delays Indonesian Aid; Reforms Seem to Be Stalled

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Saturday, March 7

 BODY:
As criticism grew of President Suharto's failure to press ahead with the International Monetary Fund's economic program, the fund said Friday that it was delaying the release of further financing for Indonesia.
In a statement, the agency said it was holding back on a scheduled infusion of $3 billion, which had been due this month, until at least April, according to wire service reports. It said the "basic conditions" for the financing had not yet been met. 
 The I.M.F. has organized a $40 billion economic rescue package for Indonesia, in return for which Mr. Suharto agreed in January to end monopolies and cartels, reorganize the banking sector, remove price supports and end expensive and money-losing projects.
But the I.M.F. and its key partner, the United States, have recently warned that the continued release of funds could be withheld because of what they said was Mr. Suharto's failure to press ahead with many of these steps.
In Washington on Friday, Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin said, "There obviously are issues of concern," Reuters reported. "I think what Indonesia needs to do is to re-establish financial stability and be on a sustained reform program."
The I.M.F. statement said the agency was delaying a review of Indonesia's performance, which had been scheduled to take place March 15. A team of I.M.F. experts is already in Jakarta.
"The I.M.F. management aims at the speedy renewal of the review discussions as soon as the basic conditions are met and the required changes in a few macroeconomic assumptions of the program can be made," the Fund said.
"Assuming this can be achieved, and given the existing I.M.F. procedures, the date of the executive board discussion of the conclusion of this program review could not be expected before April."
It noted that its decision to resume financing would involve discussions with Indonesia's new Cabinet. Indonesia is now in the middle of an electoral assembly session that is expected this month to name President Suharto, 76, to a new five-year term after 32 years in power.
For the last several weeks, Indonesia has been preoccupied with the politics of this electoral assembly. Its Cabinet and Finance Minister have been hobbled in their work on economic reform by the likelihood that many of them will not be reappointed.
Before the announcement by the I.M.F. of a delay, Finance Minister Marie Muhammad said today that any such action would hurt investor confidence and slow the recovery of the weak currency, the rupiah.
For the last two days, the rupiah has fallen in value, after nearly a month of relative stability, primarily because of a rising expectation that the I.M.F. funding would be delayed, according to financial analysts.
"Any delay in the disbursement will have a negative effect on the process of confidence recovery," Mr. Muhammad said. "This will adversely affect not only Indonesia but also efforts to strengthen and stabilize currencies in Southeast Asia."
But if there is a delay, he added, "Any differences of interpretation of the implementation of the I.M.F.-brokered reform package of Jan. 15 will be resolved as quickly as possible."
Mr. Suharto's most recent interpretation of the package came in a speech on Sunday in which he insisted that he was carrying out the reform program but that his policy might be described as "I.M.F.-plus."
At least in part, this "plus" includes his continued consideration of what is known as a currency board, a system that would artificially raise the value of the rupiah with economic consequences that outside experts say could be disastrous for Indonesia.
The possibility of a sudden increase in the value of the rupiah by decree helped support its value over the last month as traders held on to the currency, financial analysts said. But the President's hesitancy about reform has been a major factor in the continuing weakness.
"He is dodging the tough steps, and it just adds to the uncertainty," Mr. Malik said. "At this time, he should be trying to make an all-out effort to eliminate as much uncertainty as possible so that the markets have a clear picture, a game plan, of how Indonesia is going to tackle the problem."
Without this clear picture, experts said, investors will continue to stay away from Indonesia, unable to make their own plans.
"There's a kind of paralysis, and no one can see a way out of it," Linda Lim, an expert on Southeast Asian economies at the University of Michigan, said.
"Nobody is putting money into Indonesia, short term or long term, and the reason has got to be political risk," she said. "Political risk doesn't just mean the risk of political unrest and social unrest and food riots; it can also mean a paralyzed Government which cannot implement any of the policies that are required to bring back market confidence."
The decline in the rupiah's value has driven up the cost to Indonesia of its foreign debt, which is denominated mostly in dollars, to levels that are all but impossible to pay. Even with the temporary freeze on debt payments announced last month, the burden of more than $65 billion in corporate debt seems insurmountable.
This debt has pushed almost all of the country's major corporations past the level of bankruptcy, although they remain technically alive. Foreign banks have pulled back from their contacts with Indonesian banks, local lending has nearly stopped and business transactions have been put on hold.
"The devaluation is happening so fast that prices have not been able to catch up," an American businessman said. "How can you increase prices by 500 percent? People will start throwing rocks through your window. But if you don't, you lose money on everything you produce. And if you're an exporter and all your lines of credit are cut, how are you going to proceed?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); CURRENCIES (62%); CARTELS (55%); 

PERSON: SUHARTO (PRES); MUHAMMAD, MARIE (MIN); MYDANS, SETH MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1998



149 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Study Panel On Medicare Begins Work, In Conflict

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 6

 BODY:
A Federal advisory commission that will study the future of Medicare kicked off a year of work today with members declaring a desire for bipartisan agreement but skirmishing over President Clinton's proposal to open the program to millions of people 55 to 64 years old.
One member, Laura D'Andrea Tyson, former chief economic adviser to Mr. Clinton, cited new data from the Congressional Budget Office to show that his proposal would not increase the Federal deficit or harm the Medicare trust fund. 
 The budget office said that Mr. Clinton's proposal would increase Medicare spending by $9.4 billion over the next five years but that the new beneficiaries would pay most of the cost, with premiums totaling $7.9 billion. Mr. Clinton would make up the difference with measures to crack down on Medicare fraud and abuse.
The President's proposal "essentially pays for itself," Ms. Tyson said, so Congress can pass it this year without waiting for the commission to issue its report and recommendations next March.
In contrast, the chairman of the commission, Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, predicted that Congress would wait to hear from the panel, the National Bipartisan Commission on the Future of Medicare.
The 17-member panel, which includes 10 members of Congress, was created by the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. The law explicitly requires the commission to make recommendations on proposals to change the eligibility age for Medicare, now 65.
Rather than letting people buy into Medicare, Mr. Breaux said, "I am intrigued with the idea of allowing the uninsured to buy into the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program." That program is, in effect, a supermarket through which 350 private health plans are offered to nine million Federal employees, retirees and dependents.
In their two-hour meeting today, the commissioners seemed eager to disprove the conventional wisdom that they will become bogged down in partisan bickering. They agreed that Medicare had been immensely successful in improving the lives of elderly Americans, but said that bold changes were needed to preserve and strengthen the program for 76 million baby boomers.
Representative Jim McDermott, Democrat of Washington, said, "This commission will fail if we limit the discussion purely to one about money." He called for improvements in Medicare benefits to add or expand coverage of prescription drugs, long-term care and mental health services.
Senator Bob Kerrey, Democrat of Nebraska, called for an "income test," which would require elderly people with incomes over $75,000 a year to pay higher Medicare premiums.
And Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, said that "Medicare should have a budget," rather than being an open-ended entitlement program.
Nine of the commissioners are Democrats, but liberals appeared apprehensive that they might be outvoted.
Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan; Bruce C. Vladeck, former director of the Medicare program under President Clinton, and Ms. Tyson said they wanted to be sure that commissioners could file a minority report if they disagreed with the majority.
The 1997 law says the commission's final report shall contain a detailed statement of only those recommendations and conclusions that get at least 11 votes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL MEDICARE (93%); BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AGING (86%); MEDICARE FRAUD (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (69%); LIBERALISM (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (60%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); TYSON, LAURA D'ANDREA BILL CLINTON (92%); PHIL GRAMM (57%); JOHN DINGELL (56%); JIM MCDERMOTT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1998



150 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: Privatizing Social Security Wouldn't Pay Off;
What Higher Returns?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The projections of high returns in a privatized Social Security system cited in your March 2 front-page article are the result of two important accounting errors. 
 First, these calculations assume the stock market can continue to give over the next 75 years the same rate of return in an economy that is projected to have less than half the growth that it did over the last 75 years.
Second, calculations showing higher returns in a privatized system typically ignore the taxes that would be needed to finance the switchover. In a set of projections that correct for this error, the Employee Benefit Research Institute found that a privatized system will provide young workers with a negative return on their payments.
 
DEAN BAKER
Washington, March 2, 1998
 
The writer is an economist with the Economic Policy Institute.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR AZOV SEA FISHERY PROBLEMS (57%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (57%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (57%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (57%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (56%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (57%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (56%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); WRITERS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (52%); 

PERSON: BAKER, DEAN

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1998



151 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 16; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Ladies Sing the Blues

BYLINE: By Francis Davis; Francis Davis is the author of "Bebop and Nothingness" and "The History of the Blues."

 BODY:

BLUES LEGACIES
 AND BLACK FEMINISM
 Gertrude "Ma" Rainey, Bessie Smith,
 and Billie Holiday.
 By Angela Y. Davis.
 Illustrated. 427 pp. New York:
 Pantheon Books. $27.50. 
 AS a consequence of slavery and segregation, Angela Y. Davis contends in "Blues Legacies and Black Feminism," her study of the recordings of Billie Holiday and the blues vaudevillians Gertrude (Ma) Rainey and Bessie Smith, "black social consciousness has been overdetermined by race," with too little attention paid to sex and virtually none to class. Davis, a professor of something called the "history of consciousness" at the University of California, Santa Cruz, would have a hard time selling such a notion to this country's black poor, who are understandably inclined to blame the legacy of white racism for their poverty. But she's right in step with the more radical of her academic colleagues, even if her ingrained cultural nationalism prevents her from joining them in dismissing race as an arbitrary social construct with no basis in anthropology. Race, according to current academic thinking, is a smokescreen that has drawn discussion away from the more crucial issue of class.
If this sounds suspiciously like Marxism, it is Marxism gone post-modern: a tool for the analysis of literary and other "texts," not necessarily a call for the exploited masses to rise. One of the side effects of this recent trend has been to restore the credibility of certain black intellectuals and activists of the 1960's and 70's, whose Marxist ideals might otherwise make them seem like relics not of their own day but of the 1930's. Davis made the news in 1969, when the Regents of the University of California attempted to bar her from teaching at U.C.L.A. because she was a member of the Communist Party, and again a year later, when she briefly became a fugitive after being accused of supplying the brother of George Jackson with the firearms for his one-man raid on a Marin County courthouse. (Jonathan Jackson was killed, along with three others, in the ensuing shootout. Davis was later apprehended, tried and acquitted.)
Davis's thesis in "Blues Legacies and Black Feminism," in a nutshell, is that Ma Rainey and Bessie Smith, among other flamboyant women blues singers of the 1920's and 30's, helped not just to articulate black working-class consciousness but to shape it. "Women's blues," Davis writes, "provided a cultural space for community-building among working-class black women . . . in which the coercions of bourgeois notions of sexual purity and 'true womanhood' were absent." The songs performed by Rainey and Smith, in particular, served as "historical preparation" for a kind of social protest of which Billie Holiday's 1939 recording of "Strange Fruit," a song that condemned lynching, is a prime example.
Davis has never been the ideologue the popular media once cast her as. Though she takes an entire book to say what might have been said more effectively in an essay, "Blues Legacies and Black Feminism" is filled with powerful ideas. Davis observes that slavery, which often required women to work at the same jobs as men, "established a distorted form of gender equality" among blacks, leading to "gender politics within the slave community that were radically different from those operating in the dominant culture." After slavery, black women "faced ideological expectations of domesticity and subordination emanating from the dominant culture," even as political and economic restrictions on black aspiration "rendered such ideological assumptions flagrantly incongruous."
To Davis's thinking, vintage women's blues derived its power from its rejection of the standards of propriety embraced by the emerging black bourgeoisie. This is a valid way of hearing the blues, and Davis is hardly one of those scholars, like Houston A. Baker or Henry Louis Gates Jr., for whom the blues is an esthetic, a sensibility, a trope -- anything but a form of music worthy of explication on its own terms. Davis has transcribed the lyrics to some 250 songs recorded by Rainey or Smith, a good many of which she analyzes in detail. Her specificity, however, ultimately works against her, because her interpretations can be not just dogmatic but bizarre. She offers the dubious theory that "the blues" is sometimes a coded reference to white oppression. Imagining the female shouts of approval that have greeted most of Smith's live performances of "I Used to Be Your Sweet Mama," Davis neglects to consider that there were also men in Smith's audiences -- men whose audible protests of Smith's denunciations of them were the other half of a comic courtship ritual.
If Davis reduces Smith's legendary showmanship to an early form of feminist consciousness-raising, Holiday's powerful transformations of Tin Pan Alley ballads become a variety of private racespeak. Resolutely text-oriented despite her awareness that a song's "meaning" is not necessarily confined to its lyrics, Davis lacks the ear to do justice to Holiday as a great musician whose instrument happened to be her voice. Hearing Holiday tease Oscar Hammerstein 2d's maudlin lyric to "Lover, Come Back to Me," Davis interprets her real message to be "Lover, please stay away -- I am immensely enjoying this state of freedom from the vagaries of love constructed according to male dominance." The only valid response to such a willful misinterpretation is: Say what? Davis seems to think it a shame that circumstances forced Holiday to perform such material rather than the blues; to the contrary, Holiday embraced pop songs for the same reason that sophisticated contemporaries like Art Tatum and Coleman Hawkins did -- for the harmonic challenge such songs presented, their lyrics entirely aside.
Davis informs us that the blues has always been implicitly "gendered" as male, that the songs performed by Ma Rainey refused to "privilege" marriage over nonmarital or extramarital relationships and that most accounts of how Billie Holiday came to perform "Strange Fruit" have tended to "foreground" the contributions of white males. Leftist academics understandably ruffle at being made fun of for their jargon, but this is what they deserve for not acknowledging the obvious contradiction between their egalitarian politics and exclusionary mumbo jumbo. In addition to her confusion about what can be a transitive verb, Davis assumes that the reader is already familiar with the biographies of her three women singers, as well as with their music. Her failure to say much of anything about her subjects' personal lives is especially telling in the case of Smith, whose exploitation by a philandering husband might undermine Davis's image of her as a positive role model for black working-class women.
Davis sidesteps another potential ambiguity by ignoring Smith's and Rainey's costumes of feathers and rhinestones, as well as the other signs of conspicuous consumption that the performers' (presumably) black working-class audiences identified with as much as with their songs. This is another of those books in which the black bourgeoisie is given its lumps for acquiescing to what we are told are European-American standards of behavior. What I find most objectionable about this is that many of what are now regarded as distinctively African-American cultural traits are really the symptoms of poverty. Class and race have become hopelessly confused in this country, and black intellectuals like Davis should not add to the confusion. Davis chastises those black women's clubs of the 1920's whose efforts to uplift their race entailed virtually disowning free-spirited women like Rainey and Smith. But in attempting to recast these singers as working-class heroines -- to "valorize" them, in the current jargon -- isn't Davis practicing her own brand of social uplift and moral purification? The working class, as defined by Davis and most post-modern Marxists, sounds suspiciously like a middle-class conceit.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Billie Holiday. (Corbis-Bettman/FROM "BLUES LEGACIES AND BLACK FEMINISM")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BLUES LEGACIES AND BLACK FEMINISM (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); LITERATURE (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (79%); WOMEN (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); LITERARY CRITICISM (73%); TRENDS (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); SHOOTINGS (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); ACQUITTAL (50%); 

PERSON: DAVIS, FRANCIS; DAVIS, ANGELA Y ANGELA Y DAVIS (97%); BESSIE SMITH (94%); BILLIE HOLIDAY (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



152 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: A Different West Side Story

BYLINE: By Stephen O'Connor; Stephen O'Connor is the author of "Will My Name Be Shouted Out? Reaching Inner City Students Through the Power of Writing" and "Rescue," a short-story collection.

 BODY:

ON THE OUTSIDE LOOKING IN
 A Year at an Inner-City High School.
 By Cristina Rathbone.
 385 pp. New York:
 Atlantic Monthly Press. $26. 
 One of the reasons Cristina Rathbone's account of her year observing a Manhattan high school is so gripping is that the events she describes are so commonplace. Virtually every urban public school has students like the girl Rathbone calls Nicole, whose latest foster mother abandoned her for a week at Christmas with only "a $10 bill and an empty refrigerator for company"; or Rasheem, who after years in shelters finally found a permanent home and began to make real academic progress, only to slump back into despair when his best friend was wounded by a stray bullet; or Manny, who lived with his pathetic drug-addicted father and felt he had no choice but to emulate his widely respected uncle, a drug dealer who was eventually murdered, by selling heroin on the street.
Rathbone decided to spend a year at a high school in order to confront her own -- and society's -- fear of contemporary urban teen-agers. She settled on West Side High School, an alternative school marooned by budget cuts on three noncontiguous floors of a midtown high-rise, because it took in the most marginal teen-agers of all -- those already rejected by other high schools. At first Rathbone was too intimidated to do more than sit in on classes, but eventually, as she dared to accompany individual students to their homes, or on visits to relatives in jail, or, most interestingly, to gang meetings in Washington Heights, she stopped fearing the students and started to fear for them. Rathbone's involvement with some West Side students went far beyond mere reporting. In one instance she was horrified to realize that she had helped a boy steal $500 worth of designer clothing from his incarcerated cousin.
Rathbone's sympathy for students does not, however, prevent her from showing some of them at their very worst: going into crack houses, dealing heroin, beating up their classmates. But she never lets these students become the one-dimensional addicts, pushers and thugs of so many political speeches. Always they have their full human complexity, always they are individuals who might have had very different fates had they not been born in such grim circumstances.
Again and again "On the Outside Looking In" shows us good lives being wasted not only by poverty but by society's inadequate response to it. The budget cuts that stranded the West Side High School in an office building without a cafeteria or gym, and with so few textbooks that students cannot take them home, also eliminated desperately needed social services. When Rathbone herself succumbs to despair as she realizes that she can do nothing to protect the troubled students whom she has befriended, her readers share her feelings completely. But like everyone in public education, we are encouraged by the small successes she witnesses: a boy reading his first book, a girl leaving a gang to take a job at a movie theater, another girl getting top grades even as she deals with pain from years of sexual abuse.
While Rathbone's strong identification with West Side's students gives "On the Outside Looking In" much of its power, it is also the source of the book's one significant weakness. Given that she is writing about a high school, Rathbone says surprisingly little about the crucial question of what schools can and should do for their students. In particular, she shows scant appreciation for the important role that authentic academic accomplishment can play in shoring up even the most damaged student egos.
In the end, however, such oversights scarcely detract from the authentic and critically important story Cristina Rathbone has to tell. There are those who believe we have heard enough about the ravages of poverty, who would rather dwell on exceptional individuals who triumph over deprivation or on the majority who suffer it with quiet dignity. But if we are ever to make progress against the soul rot of economic injustice, we must look carefully at how it affects individual lives. And, most important of all, we must keep fixed in our minds the simple truth -- all too often obscured in American political discourse -- that what separates the poor from the rest of society is only, as Rathbone puts it, "the difference in where we were born, and to whom," not the difference of who we are.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ON THE OUTSIDE LOOKING IN (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WEST SIDE HIGH SCHOOL (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: WEST SIDE HIGH SCHOOL (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (88%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (88%); BUDGETS (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LITERATURE (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (73%); HEROIN (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); COCAINE (68%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); 

PERSON: O'CONNOR, STEPHEN; RATHBONE, CRISTINA CRISTINA RATHBONE (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



153 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 8; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Even Worse Than We Remember

BYLINE: By David M. Shribman; David M. Shribman is the Washington bureau chief of The Boston Globe.

 BODY:

SHOW TIME
 The American Political Circus
 and the Race for the White House.
 By Roger Simon.
 345 pp. New York:
 Times Books/Random House. $25. 
 SONNY BONO, the late Congressman from California and whimsical political philosopher, used to say that politics and entertainment had a lot in common: "Both have lyrics and both have a beat." Indeed, Ronald Reagan proved what Americans have long known but until recently did not fully appreciate: politics is performance art.
Now, 16 months after the curtain fell on the melodrama of the 1996 Presidential election, arrives Roger Simon's review. He finds -- no surprise here -- that the whole shebang was a show, and not a particularly edifying or even entertaining one. In short, "Show Time" gives the campaign two, maybe three, thumbs down, faulting the usual villains: the candidates, the handlers, the press, the voters and the system.
Why anyone would want to push the rewind button on a campaign that interested no one the first time around is beyond me. (By "no one" we can safely include here Bob Dole's forces, which showed almost no interest in winning, and Bill Clinton's team, which did its best to assure that nothing of interest occurred; during the second debate, Michael D. McCurry, the White House spokesman, said: "There can't be a television set still turned to this. It takes every ounce of strength not to get up and turn the channel.") For my part, I would sooner relive the Congress of Vienna, which had interesting principals, or even the 1828 tariff debate, which involved economic principles, than the 1996 campaign, which was devoid of both principals and principles.
But Simon, a columnist now newly planted as a White House correspondent for The Chicago Tribune, has concocted a wry cocktail, and he tells a dreary story with a fresh eye and a brisk pace. There is even a tidbit or two -- news magazine correspondents used to call this sort of ephemera "nuts on the fruitcake" -- for the withdrawal symptoms of the politically addicted. Clinton lathered antibacterial foam on his hand after working a crowd to make sure he didn't pick up any germs. Dole didn't tell his sisters of his intention to quit the Senate. Clinton was urged to move toward Dole on the debate set in the hope that he might unnerve him.
IN the old days, campaign books were chronicles about the country, how it was changing, what tensions were shaping it, which great debates were being held in living rooms and on factory floors and in coffee shops in colorful rural crossroads. They were works of probity, even poetry. It can safely be said that no one ever laughed out loud at a single thing Theodore H. White wrote. I laughed out loud twice during "Show Time," which is either a flaw in my character or a commentary on how American politics has gone wrong. Probably both.
Thus the modern campaign book, with almost nothing about demographic shifts, the economy, race, the size and role of government, the meaning of freedom, the balance of power or the balance of payments. This is a book about a campaign between a man who couldn't stop performing and a man who wouldn't start, between a man who found joy, liberation and redemption in campaigning and a man who was bored by it, demeaned by it and diminished by it. In short, it is a spoof of a spoof.
This book is meant to make three arguments: that Bill Clinton is a master practitioner of the modern campaign arts, which is to say that he is a showman; that Bob Dole is old; and that we in the press are fools. It's all true. But you knew that.
So this is an engaging but cynical book about a cynical process featuring cynical men. It is, to be sure, shorter than the 1996 campaign. It's also a good deal funnier. But it will make you want to press fast-forward next time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SHOW TIME (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TIMES BOOKS (72%); WHITE HOUSE (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); LITERATURE (73%); POETRY (60%); 

PERSON: SHRIBMAN, DAVID M; SIMON, ROGER BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



154 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 10; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Nice Work if You Can Get It

BYLINE: By Paul Levy; Paul Levy, a weekly contributor to The Wall Street Journal Europe, is the author of a memoir of his Kentucky childhood, "Finger Lickin' Good."

 BODY:

TENDER AT THE BONE
 Growing Up at the Table.
 By Ruth Reichl.
 282 pp. New York:
 Random House. $23. 
 THE memoirs of food writers have a particular poignancy, for the child really is father to the man. The tale of the growth and development of appetite, while always personal and specific, is universally interesting -- as is proved by the work of writers as various as Jeffrey Steingarten, A. J. Liebling, Barbara Kafka and M. F. K. Fisher. But while all good food writers are humorous -- it's a feature of the genre -- few are so riotously, effortlessly entertaining as Ruth Reichl.
Unlike her counterparts in London and Paris, who are rarely recognized, even by the waiter, until they pay the bill with a credit card bearing their bylines, the restaurant critic of The Times is a person with such power that she must be a mistress of subterfuge. Judging by this meaty memoir, Reichl is also witty, fair-minded, brave and a wonderful writer. New York's restaurateurs can count themselves lucky.
Reichl's fans will not be surprised to learn that I laughed a lot while reading her sometimes achingly funny book. But I was also moved, and drew a sharp breath of sympathy from time to time at the candor of some of the tougher passages. She is honest about a wide range of subjects, from her fear of driving and panic attacks on bridges to more serious worries about her mother's failure to take her lithium and her venomous warnings that manic depression can be inherited.
All autobiographers have a problem conjuring with the truth. My own strategy is to regard writing about oneself as inadvertent fiction. Reichl's is contained in her first sentence ("Storytelling, in my family, was highly prized") and in the conclusion to which it leads her: "Everything here is true, but it may not be entirely factual." She admits to compressing events, combining characters and indulging in a bit of embroidery. Never mind. I believe all her stories -- and if your mouth has ever watered when you smelled something good or you've ever been overwhelmed with curiosity about how something will taste, you will too.
Before Reichl learned to write about food, of course, she learned to eat. And in writing about her childhood, she confirms my feeling that the best background for becoming a good cook is to be descended through the female line from generations of noncooks, and to be brought up (as was still possible in the early 1950's) by professionals -- by maids who did the cooking. Admittedly, this can be difficult to achieve if you have Jewish grandmothers (my own were indifferent cooks). One of Reichl's was too rich and posh, the other too busy to cook. So Reichl's mentors were her Aunt Birdie's cook-companion, Alice, and Mrs. Peavey, the alcoholic aristocrat who defied her sons' wishes by becoming the Reichls' maid.
Memoir writing gives us a chance to play God and re-create our own families, especially our parents, and Reichl has triumphed in her portrait of her unstable mother, Miriam, a Ph.D. unfazed by moldy food, "taste-blind and unafraid of rot." Her economies (scrape off the decay, throw nothing away, cater large parties with leftovers from the automat) taught her daughter many things: "The first was that food could be dangerous, especially to those who loved it. . . . My parents entertained a great deal, and before I was 10 I had appointed myself guardian of the guests. My mission was to keep Mom from killing anybody who came to dinner."
Jane Grigson used to say that no good food writer ever set out to be one, but invariably fell into the profession by accident. Reichl's career path was straighter than most. Despite degrees in sociology and art history, she worked in restaurants as a waitress and then a cook. Waiting on tables, she learned that the cooks regard running a restaurant as warfare, but when she became a cook herself in the 1970's it was in a pacific, though class-conscious, Berkeley collective. Married to an artist, living in a commune and cooking Thanksgiving dinner for 12 with food rescued from Dumpsters, she was at last able to sympathize with her mother's view of the undesirability of waste.
As her readers will have guessed (but she didn't at the time), all this was an apprenticeship for the one job at which she was bound to excel -- restaurant reviewing. She knew how restaurants worked. Childhood vacations in France and a stint at a French boarding school in Canada, plus travels in North Africa, Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy, had also endowed her with a terrific taste memory. And she knew she could write -- after all, she started her life in Berkeley by "writing term papers for a living."
After that, it was just a question of meeting a few people: the generous Marion Cunningham, Cecilia Chiang and Kermit Lynch, the odious James Beard. (She tells it like it is.) Yet part of the charm of Reichl's memoir is her refusal to name-drop on the usual scale. Instead, she concentrates on the characters of the people she loves. Chief among these is her mild-mannered, long-suffering, scholarly German Jewish father. Eventually, she comes to realize that he has been a willing accomplice to his more flamboyant spouse, enjoying "the tumult Mom created." And Reichl discovers that her father kept some secrets of his own: he had flown with Wilbur Wright and -- very satisfying for a daughter who was a veteran protester against the Vietnam War -- been a draft dodger back in Germany.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: TENDER AT THE BONE: GROWING UP AT THE TABLE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); FRANCE (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (56%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); FRANCE (56%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (75%); LITERATURE GENRES (75%); MENTAL ILLNESS (64%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (64%); 

PERSON: LEVY, PAUL; REICHL, RUTH RUTH REICHL (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



155 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Tourism Slipping, Along With Asian Economies

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
THE long-awaited new Hong Kong airport at Chek Lap Kok is scheduled to open July 6, but the opening ceremony could resemble a funeral unless the Asian economic crisis moderates soon. Tourism has fallen steadily since July, to Hong Kong as well as to other Asian cities for which the new airport is expected to become a major hub. And the World Travel and Tourism Council recently forecast that the drop in tourism to Asia will continue through 1998, at a cost of more than 500,000 jobs.
Many intra-Asia flights have been cut back at least one-third, and flights to and within Asia have been sharply curtailed. Tourist industries in Hong Kong, South Korea, Thailand and Malaysia already show signs of having been flattened by a tsunami. 
 "I just got back from Hong Kong with a group," said Kurt Bodmer, vice president for business development with Japan and Orient Tours in San Diego, "and hotel officials in Hong Kong are scared to death about the outlook for the rest of the year."
As well they should be. In its February monthly bulletin, the Pacific Asia Travel Association said that while slumping tourism has hit most Asian nations hard since last July, "Hong Kong has been the most negatively affected." Asia's overall decline in visitors is likely to be about 12 percent in 1998, the association added, while Indonesia, Malaysia and South Korea could see as much as a 50 percent drop. Even Australia may suffer a 9 percent drop in international arrivals this year, the association said, with as much as a 33 percent decline from Asia.
Cathay Pacific Airways in Hong Kong, a government-owned carrier, is facing especially tough times. Last month it laid off 760 employees, attributing the cuts to a very bad year in 1997. And 1998, a spokesman added, shows little hope of improvement.
Still, Cathay Pacific is fighting back. Last November, hoping to stoke Hong Kong's economy, the government, hotels and the airline offered 20,000 round-trip packages to Hong Kong from the United States for $999 for two, including five nights at a hotel. Now it is offering a round-trip fare of $999 a passenger ($899 for seniors and students) from its New York and Los Angeles gateways, allowing visits to 17 other Asian cities within 30 days.
If the economy is the main culprit in Asia's tourist slump, bird flu in Hong Kong contributed to the falloff, as did the uncertainty following last summer's transfer of sovereignty in Hong Kong from Britain to China. Haze from forest fires in Indonesia last fall damaged tourism in a wide region from Singapore to the Philippines, and caused particular problems for Malaysia, whose goal is to double tourism to 20 million visitors by the year 2000.
"The economic meltdown in Asia caught us and others by surprise," said Nick Varian, chief executive of Venice Simplon-Orient Express, which operates the luxury Eastern and Oriental Express train that runs through Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand. Through March, some fares for the 1,200-mile Singapore-Bangkok journey have been reduced by more than a third, to $975 a person from $1,460.
While Asian governments and tour operators extol the bargains that await tourists, including hotel rates cut in half, many travelers appear to be resisting. Faced with falling passenger loads, Northwest Airlines recently suspended its three weekly flights between Detroit and Seoul, South Korea, while United trimmed its two daily nonstops between San Francisco and Hong Kong to one, and suspended service between San Francisco and Seoul, and between Seoul and Manila.
Two Australian airlines, Qantas and Ansett, also suspended service to South Korea. Korean Air eliminated 3 of its 17 weekly flights to Hong Kong; in April it will reduce its flights to Macao, Guam and Saipan. Japan Airlines is in the process of reducing Japan-Hong Hong flights by 12.5 percent, and recently cut service to Singapore. KLM Royal Dutch Airlines plans to suspend service to Ho Chi Minh City on March 25.
China appears to be weathering the region's cutbacks in flights, mainly because business travel to the Asian giant remains strong. Northwest, for example, recently increased Detroit-Beijing service to four weekly flights from three, while Japan Airlines plans to open new routes to Beijing, Shanghai and Dalian.
The Olympics and business travel to Japan appear to have kept the Japanese tourist industry afloat, if not robust. Despite the economic softening in Japan, the agreement in January to end most restrictions on air travel between the United States and Japan brought a flurry of jockeying for permission among U.S. airlines to fly new routes and with additional frequency.
But with intra-Asian tourism down, it is unlikely that foreign tourists to Japan this year will come close to last year's 4.2 million, a 10.5 percent increase over 1996.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 0293 (HKSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (56%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (56%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (99%); ASIA (99%); MALAYSIA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LTD (91%); JAPAN & ORIENT TOURS (56%); PACIFIC ASIA TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (55%); PACIFIC ASIA TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC ASIA TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (55%); PACIFIC ASIA TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; HONG KONG; HONG KONG (99%); ASIA (99%); MALAYSIA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS AIRPORTS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); AIR FARES (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRENDS (76%); TOUR PACKAGES (72%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); FIRES (60%); FOREST FIRES (50%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



156 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1867 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN;
Cancun

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER; LARRY ROHTER reports on the Caribbean for The Times.

 BODY:
From the moment it began beckoning to visitors less than 25 years ago, Cancun has been defined by contradictions. In a part of Mexico dominated by ancient Maya temples, it was envisioned as a modern creation, all glass and concrete and steel. In an area surrounded by nature at its most raw and unspoiled in the form of beaches and jungle, it is a purely man-made place.
Its adolescence over, however, Cancun has begun to learn how to coexist with its surroundings. Tour operators, realizing that vacationers do not live by beach and nightclub alone, now encourage visitors to put down that John Grisham novel or that bottle of Corona and venture out on day trips to such magnificent archeological sites as Chichen Itza and Tulum or the splendid colonial city of Merida. The beach and the bars, after all, will still be there for another day. 
 Cancun is shaped like the number 7, and the continuing construction of hotels the length of the long stem of the island has forced a search for new markets. The result has been a notable influx of middle-class visitors from Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Spain, who, like the Americans and Canadians who preceded them, have brought along their own habits and tastes. The benefit to Cancun can be seen in the opening of several restaurants specializing in Argentine parrillada (mixed grill), the extravagant smorgasbord of grilled meats that Brazilians call rodizio, and Spanish tapas, plus the welcome introduction of some new dance rhythms at local night spots.
Yes, the prevailing atmosphere as one cruises Kukulcan Boulevard, the busy strip where most of Cancun's 122 hotels are clustered, remains that of an Orlando or a Las Vegas dropped intact next to pellucid Caribbean waters. But Mexicans are beginning to talk of a Maya Riviera with Cancun as its core, though not its sole attraction. That may sound a bit far-fetched, but then again, so did the original concept of transforming a tiny Latin American fishing village into a haven for North Americans.
A note on security: Though visitors to Mexico City complain of increasing vulnerability to crime, the situation in Cancun is markedly different. Since tourism means everything to the local economy, a variety of precautions are taken to protect visitors. The main drag is well lighted; hotels and bars generally maintain good security, and cabs, though expensive, are safe. Even public transportation can be recommended; buses run frequently and are clean and cheap.
 
Events
 To the Maya, the spring Equinox, on March 21, was a sacred event, and at the pyramid of Kukulcan in Chichen Itza, modern-day visitors can still get a flavor of how seriously they regarded the date. Beginning at noon, the sun casts a strange shadow on the outside wall of the northern staircase of the temple, until all that is left is one zigzag strip, shaped like a serpent slithering sinuously down the steps. Thousands come each year, which makes it important to book as quickly as possible if you want to see the phenomenon.
The Christian calendar also plays an important role in the city of Cancun and environs in the form of Holy Week, Semana Santa. This year, it runs from April 5 to 11, and though the Cancun beach strip is likely to be overflowing with vacationers from Mexico City, traditional celebrations in the form of plays and processions are scheduled in town. One procession takes place at Cristo Rey Church in the Parque de las Palapas downtown on Good Friday.
Another fiesta marks the anniversary of the founding of Cancun on April 20, with parades, fairs, dancing and music, mostly downtown and on Kukulcan Boulevard; visitors are welcome to join in. For details, call the Cancun Tourism Office: (52-98) 87-33-11, extension 114 or 115.
The Cancun Jazz Festival is part of Festival Week '98, from May 16 to 26. Events will take place at Playa Ballenas: on May 22, hip-hop is the focus; on May 23, rhythm-and-blues, with jazz artists yet to be named. General admission tickets are $35. Information: (888) 625-4246.
 
Sightseeing
 A very pleasant seven-mile ferry ride from Cancun lies Isla Mujeres. There's an old pirate fortress here, and a turtle sanctuary. But the main attraction is Garrafon National Park with its aquarium. Anyone who wants to feel even closer to nature can simply wade into the water at the main beach, which is protected by coral reefs just offshore. There, huge schools of fish in brilliant shades of turquoise and yellow flit around visitors begging to be fed. Passage on the public ferry, which leaves from Punta Sam every two hours, is $1.50; boats also leave from Puerto Juarez every half hour or so ($2); water taxis provide the same service for $11.50 or more. Admission to the park is $4.
Farther away (70 minutes by bus but well worth the trip) is Xcaret (shkah-RET), perhaps best described as an eco-archeological theme park. More than a thousand years ago, the Maya gathered at this site, whose name means "the small cove," to embark for the sanctuary of Ix Chel, their goddess of fertility, on the nearby island of Cozumel, and to swim in sacred cenotes, or underwater rivers. Some ruins remain, but the real attraction is those underground rivers and caverns through which modern-day visitors now swim, snorkel and dive. Xcaret also has an aquarium, a botanical garden and a museum, as well as horseback riding and a swimming area where it is possible to frolic with dolphins ($75 for a one-hour session). Admission: $39. Information: (52-98) 83-31-43. Open daily from 8:30 A.M. to 9 P.M.; Sundays until 5 P.M.
 The best-known Maya ruins in the region, however, are probably Chichen Itza and Tulum. The latter is about an hour south of Xcaret, and includes some 50 temples and towers overlooking the Caribbean. Chichen Itza, on the road to Merida, is on an even grander scale: from A.D. 450 to 1200 it was one of the most imposing centers of wealth and learning in the Maya world, and today is one of the most visited of all Maya sites. One convenient way to get to either destination is to make a reservation on the Gray Line bus service by calling (800) 235-4079 in the United States or 86-79-01 from Cancun. The charge to Chichen Itza is $63 (children half-price), and includes air-conditioned transport, a buffet lunch, admission to the site and a guide. A similar package to Tulum (with breakfast and lunch) and the nearby recreational site of Xel-Ha costs $74, with children half-price.
 
Where to Stay
 Cancun now has more than 22,000 hotel rooms. At most hotels, the high season runs through mid-April, with prices dropping up to 30 percent after that until December -- except for July and August, winter months in the Southern Hemisphere and peak season for South Americans.
The Hotel Fiesta Americana Cancun, with 281 rooms at kilometer 8.5 on Kukulcan Boulevard, began its life as a place for honeymooners, and though it has expanded its clientele, it maintains a Mexican village ambiance that gives it an intimate feel. It also has one of the best beaches on the island and is close to malls, restaurants and the convention center. Doubles start at $165. Reservations: (800) 343-7821 or (52-98) 83-14-00; fax (52-98) 83-18-18.
Also on the northern shore, at kilometer 4.5 near the departure point for water taxis to Isla Mujeres, the Calinda Beach Cancun offers a broad beach with calm surf that makes it an ideal choice for families with small children. With 470 rooms, it may be a bit large, but like many Cancun hotels that are part of Mexican chains, rates tend to be more reasonable than at better-known international rivals, without any appreciable drop in quality. Doubles: $113 and up. (800) 228-5151 or (52-98) 83-27-77, fax (52-98) 83-18-57.
Budget: One of the few hotels not on the beach is the Holiday Inn Express. But it is conveniently situated on a small island, Pok-Ta-Pok, in the middle of the lagoon separating Kukulcan Boulevard from the mainland, just a short distance from the Cancun Club de Golf, with its 18-hole Robert Trent Jones course. There are 120 rooms; doubles start at $88. (800) 465-4329 or (52-98) 83-22-00, fax (52-98) 83-25-32.
On the beach, one reliable bargain, if you want an all-inclusive package, is El Pueblito Inn, at kilometer 17.5. This 239-room hotel spills down to the sea in a series of three-story buildings and even offers a water slide down to the shore, making it especially appealing to children. Rooms are large, running from $110 a person, with meals, drinks and recreational facilities included. (52-98) 85-04-22; fax (52-98) 85-07-31.
In the luxury category, one hotel that has made an effort to acknowledge that Cancun is part of Mexico is the Marriott Casa Magna, at kilometer 14.5. As its name indicates, this is a huge hotel, with 414 rooms and 38 suites. But the imposing scale is eased by a vaguely Maya exterior and an interior that feels like a classic Mexican hacienda, with colonial-style furniture and ceramics. Daily Spanish lessons are free. Doubles begin at $210. (800) 228-9290 or (52-98) 81-20-00, fax (52-98) 81-20-85.
 
Where to Eat
 It often seems that every restaurant and fast-food chain operating in the United States has a branch here, and authentic and deftly prepared Mexican food is not so easy to find. A happy exception is La Joya, in the Fiesta Americana Coral Beach Hotel at kilometer 9.5. Signature dishes include grouper with three kinds of mole to medallions of beef served with nopales (green cactus buds) and several types of fiery chilis. A dinner for two with wine runs about $120. (52-98) 83-29-00.
Maria Bonita, next to the Camino Real Hotel at kilometer 9.5, is more modest in both ambition and cost. The setting is typical Mexican hacienda, and the menu is heavy on classic Mexican dishes, such as Tabasco-style steak (on a banana leaf with peppers, onions and guacamole). The poblano chilies stuffed with lobster and huitlacoche, or corn truffles, were especially intriguing. But there is also a Tex-Mex Corner for fajitas or barbecued ribs. Dinner for two with margaritas: about $80. Open 6:30 P.M. to 12 A.M. (52-98) 83-01-00.
La Dolce Vita, overlooking the lagoon at kilometer 14.5, serves solid Italian cuisine. Antipasti, such as red ravioli of lobster and scallops, draw heavily on local seafood. Main courses, on the other hand, are more traditional, and include chicken parmigiana or veal marsala. Dinner for two with wine: $80. (52-98) 85-01-50.
The same ownership also operates La Fisheria, in the Caracol Plaza shopping center at kilometer 8.5. The seafood ranges from ceviche to daily specials built around perhaps the two tastiest fish coming out of the Caribbean, grouper and huachinango (red snapper). Dinner for two with wine: $65. (52-98) 83-13-95.
Downtown, a good and economical choice is El Pescador, at 28 Tulipanes, (52-98) 84-26-73. The setting is rustic, often filled with locals drawn by the prospect of tasty seafood tacos and other Yucatan specialties. No reservations accepted. Slightly more upscale is La Mesa del Pescador, a sister restaurant in Kukulcan Shopping Plaza, (52-89) 85-05-05. Dinner for two with beer: $35 downtown, slightly higher on the island.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Palm trees against a backdrop of high-rise hotels, where rates will drop up to 30 percent in mid-April. Dolphins Beach. Shopping for T-shirts at Kukulcan Plaza. (Photographs by Sergio Dorantes for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
 
Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Cancun. (Sources: Mexican Ministy of Tourism)
 
Map of Cancun.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WHAT'S DOING IN...(TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); BRAZIL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CHILE (79%); SPAIN (71%); 

STATE: CARIBBEAN SEA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (55%); CANCUN TOURISM OFFICE (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: CANCUN TOURISM OFFICE (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANCUN (MEXICO); MEXICO (95%); BRAZIL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CHILE (79%); SPAIN (71%); CARIBBEAN SEA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); BEACHES (76%); CRUISES (75%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); TOUR OPERATORS (70%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (67%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (60%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY JOHN GRISHAM (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



157 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 12; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2237 words

HEADLINE: An Island of Southern Hospitality

BYLINE: By ALEX WARD; ALEX WARD is editor of special sections for The Times.

 BODY:
FOR a couple of New Yorkers in search of a weekend destination, the Cloister, a famously traditional old Southern resort off the coast of Georgia, does not immediately leap to mind. So why did my wife, Nancy, and I choose it, and why in February? For years, our family has spent time each August on the South Carolina coast, a couple of hundred miles north of Sea Island, where the Cloister is situated. We love that part of the South, but it is usually sweltering when we're there. So we've often talked of traveling back down in cooler weather, and trying someplace different.
We were thinking midfall or midspring, not midwinter. But midwinter was when we found ourselves suddenly in need of a little R and R, and the off-season rates were attractive. So, we thought, what's a few months? 
 About 20 degrees, as a matter of fact, which depending on one's hardiness makes a difference in terms of options. And at the Cloister there are options: horseback riding, bicycling, skeet shooting, tennis, golf, kayaking, nature trips. There is also a plush spa and exercise facility, a heated outdoor pool and a croquet green that looks as if it's trimmed regularly with nail scissors.
Leaving New York at midday on a Friday, we made a tentative plan: be flexible. It would be nice to take advantage of at least a couple of these activities, but a storm had blown through Sea Island and if the weather was still bad, we would just stay inside, reading books and trashy magazines and familiarizing ourselves with room service.
A few hours later, when we pulled out of the car-rental lot at the Jacksonville, Fla., airport and began the 70-mile drive up I-95 north to Sea Island, the wind was blowing briskly and a couple of large drops of rain splattered on the windshield. The sky was gray and getting grayer. It was looking like a literary weekend.
Though the gloom remained for much of the next day and a half, those raindrops would be the last we'd see, as it turned out. And when we crossed the causeway that links Sea Island to its larger neighbor, St. Simons Island, we were already rethinking our strategy.
Part of the reason had to do with simply being in a new place and wanting to get out and look around. That was reinforced by our first glimpse of the Cloister, an inviting complex of Spanish missionary-style buildings surrounded by palmettos and gnarly, rambling old oaks. We checked in at the main building, for which the resort is named, and were shown to our room on the first floor of the nearby River House.
The room, No. 132, was bright if not overly spacious, with a king-size bed and a cranky heating vent that refused to budge from the highest setting. The most notable feature was a picture window looking out on the Black Banks River, which parallels the Atlantic Ocean on the inlet side of the island. Over the next two days, it provided us with views of heron, porpoises, otter and a beautiful sunset.
The rate was $288 a night, plus sales tax and 15 percent gratuities, a sum we estimated would amount to roughly $350. The Cloister is on the American plan, so this covered all of our meals, including lunch on Sunday, checkout day. Our goal was to keep expenses under $1,000, not counting air fare or car rental, so we had about $300 to play with. We dropped our bags and headed out to see how far that would take us.
We went back to the main building, a sprawling structure. Designed by Addison Mizner in the late 1920's. Stucco and red-tiled on the outside, it has a neo-Gothic interior -- beamed ceilings, stained-glass windows and a couple of canyon-sized sitting rooms, each with an enormous fireplace at one end. Norma Desmond would have felt right at home.
The day's events were posted on a large board across from the front desk and the friendly staff was eager to answer any questions about them. We had just missed afternoon tea, but maybe we'd like to try ballroom dancing that night. Hmmm. Skeet shooting? We'd think about it.
We peeked inside the dining room, looked at Herend china in one of the shops and then strolled around the immaculately tended grounds, past the tennis courts, past the impossibly green rye grass lawn with oak trees planted in honor of visiting dignitaries (the President Bush oak, the President Carter oak, the Lady Thatcher oak), and over to the ocean side of the island.
Without doubt, the Cloister's two main attractions are the playing privileges it offers at the two nearby golf clubs it owns (54 holes in all), and its beach, a wide, inviting, mile-and-a-half-long expanse of white sand. We aren't golfers, but as long as there is not a hurricane we will visit the beach anytime. Getting to this particular one requires passing through either the Sea Island Beach Club or the Sea Island Spa, which make up one long facility with a swimming pool in between.
The Beach Club has the resort's most attractive dining area, a cheerful, capacious, ocean-front room. The spa is a gleaming space complete with salon, a fully equipped exercise room and massage rooms. For guests, use of the spa costs $12 a day. An hour's massage is $75.
Indulging in that luxury would set us back half of our remaining weekend trust fund. And there were only two openings, both of them early the following evening. We looked at each other and shrugged: let's go for it.
The spa did advertise one freebie, a brisk walk along the beach at 8 the next morning. I envisioned a gaggle of earnest, arm-swinging race-walkers scattering shore birds in its wake, but I agreed to go along if we were up.
It was time to change for dinner. Coat and tie are required for the evening meal in the main dining room, and in the bar after 6:30. Dress requirements at the Beach Club and at the golf clubs, where Cloister guests can eat, are more relaxed. The food at all the places we tried was more or less the same: solid, unpretentious, plentiful. This is not a place for culinary delights or surprises, but if you go hungry, you have only yourself to blame.
I was pleased by the wine list in the main dining room, though; it was limited, but there were some nice choices at decent prices. We polished off our dinner (veal tournedos for me, soft-shell crabs for Nancy) with a $30 bottle of Brouilly. Service was polite and efficient without being obtrusive. But we found it awkward that the wait staff, with the exception of the wine steward, was black, and the guests all white. This was not the case elsewhere at the resort.
We made the next morning's beach walk with time to spare. The gaggle consisted of the two of us plus a chipper young spa employee and one other guest, whose husband, a physician, was attending a conference at the resort. We ended up talking as much as we walked. In a half-hour we covered two miles, plus topics that ranged from the local architecture to Broadway shows to the paucity of shark's teeth on the beach to, so help me, the economic situation in Indonesia.
BY this time, a patch of blue sky was visible off to the West. We had breakfast at the Beach Club, and energized by the improving weather, rented bikes ($4.50 an hour; $9 for four hours) and pedaled up Sea Island Drive, which bisects the island's tony residential community. The houses on Sea Island are referred to as cottages, but they are large, elaborate and carefully tended manses, some of which appear to have been patterned after the Hearst Castle.
We rode several miles, until the drive dead-ended at the Ocean Forest Golf Club. Eager to peer at more homes through the lush growth of tall pines, broad oaks and Spanish moss, we proceeded onto an adjoining private road that the bike-shed attendant assured us was on-limits.
Nine or so round-trip miles later, our real-estate voyeurism sated, we were back in our room, staring at the marsh and contemplating what to do next. The sun was gone and the wind was picking up. A light lunch seemed appropriate and then, if the rain held off, some tennis. The main board listed a drop-in round-robin at 2 o'clock ($12 a person; normally, court rates are $24 an hour), which sounded appealing.
Only to us. "You're it!" said the pro when we arrived, as if he was greeting the only survivors of a shipwreck. He popped open a can of balls and waved at the 17 immaculate Har-Tru courts, every one of which was available. "Take your pick."
We shouldn't have been surprised. It was getting blustery and the temperature had dropped noticeably. We went out anyway, two tennis nut-cases in golf heaven, and discovered to our delight that the baffling on the fences neutralized the wind and the cool air provided a kick. It may have been only 50 degrees, but back in New York it was 30. Feeling happy and magnanimous, I let my wife serve first.
Actually, tennis is a major lure at the Cloister. But as the pro told us, the season for it runs roughly from March to October, when there is a precipitous falloff. In February, it's nearly nonexistent. "Our winter is pretty short," he said, grinning, "but you've managed to come right in the middle of it."
That was beginning to sink in. If it remained cool the next day, we might want to check out early and go exploring the other nearby islands, St. Simons and, to the south, Jekyll.
This thought led to a moment of temporary insanity on my part. Figuring we would need extra money to carry out this plan and stay within our budget, I called the spa and canceled the massages. After a two-mile walk, a nine-mile bike ride and two hours of tennis, what exactly was I thinking?
Perhaps inspired by that blunder, I committed another by making dinner reservations at the Sea Island Golf Club. We were looking for a less formal alternative to the main dining room, where black tie is suggested on Saturday evenings, and the Sea Island course is beautiful, with a waterfront location that was once a cotton plantation and a long driveway under a canopy of arching oaks.
But the clubhouse, which occupies the plantation's old corn barn, is, well, a clubhouse, and the dining room, with its overhead lighting and paneled walls, is not the setting for a romantic meal. In truth, however, it was a pleasant enough experience. We both had a decent filet and, as everywhere, were greeted warmly, even fussed over, by a staff that seemed surprised at having nonmembers there for dinner. Our waitress, an amiable native of Jekyll Island, convinced us we shouldn't leave the area without seeing it.
Sunday morning threw us for a loop by being sunny and warmer. We repeated the beach walk (by ourselves this time), had a pleasant breakfast at the Beach Club and stopped at the concierge's desk to pick up information about the other islands. But the brighter day had brought with it a different buzz.
There were more people outside, riding bikes, strolling the beach, snoozing in the sun. Off in the distance, we heard the pop-pop of shotguns decimating the clay pigeon population. And, lo and behold, there were even signs of human life on the tennis courts. Maybe we should just stick around awhile.
Room checkout was noon, but the front-desk clerk said we were welcome to make it 3:30, or even later. We played another hour of tennis, lingered over lunch, took a last walk on the beach, loaded the car and went to pay the bill. The total: $863.68, well under our alloted thousand. You wait right here, I told Nancy, while I go for a massage. Just kidding.
We still had a little time before heading back to Jacksonville. We drove to the north end of St. Simons, past countless historical markers, one charming old church, and a number of uninteresting new housing developments, then turned back south, to Jekyll. The waitress's enthusiasm was justified; it's beautiful, especially the small historic district, where Rockefellers, Vanderbilts and Astors once vacationed.
Looming above the cottages they built is the Jekyll Island Club Hotel, a huge Victorian-era concoction of turrets, balconies and walkways. In the early evening light, it looked irresistible. We've made a note of it for our next weekend escape.
 
An island for golf and tennis
 Sea Island is 70 miles north of Jacksonville, Fla, and 80 miles south of Savannah, Ga. The Cloister operates a shuttle to the Jacksonville airport ($36 one way), and to Glynco Airport in nearby Brunswick, Ga. It will also arrange for transportation to Savannah ($135 for two people, one way), A 24-hour notice is required for pickup.
The resort offers a variety of packages, based around golf, tennis, the spa and the shooting school. Rates vary by activity and season. Our room was $144 a person a day, and will be $167 from March 15 through May, the high season. A similar room on the golf package costs $201 a person, double occupancy, through mid-March, then $261 through May. That price includes three meals daily and greens and cart fees. Tennis rates are somewhat lower, spa rates somewhat more. Most packages require a minimum stay of three nights.
Reservations and information: (800) 732-4752, fax (912) 638-5159.
The Cloister conducts wildlife and birding tours, though the more adventurous might want to try getting on the Tuesday or Wednesday boat trip to Little St. Simons Island. The Lodge on Little St. Simons Island charges $75 a person for a tour, lunch and afternoon at the beach at this private wildlife refuge. Its overnight program costs $300 to $500 a couple. Call way ahead: (888) 733-5774.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Cloister owns two golf clubs, with a total of 54 holes. The sprawling stucco and red-tiled main building. The Spanish Lounge, one of two sitting rooms in the main building. (Photographs by Gene Bednarek/Silver Image, for The New York Times)(pg. 12); Room 132, in the River House, where the author stayed. Tennis is a lure at the Cloister, which has 17 courts. (Photographs by Gene Bednarek/Silver Image, for The New York Times)(pg. 24)
 
Map of Georgia showing the location of Brunswick. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLOISTER, THE (RESORT) (SEA ISLAND, GEORGIA) SEA ISLAND SPA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLOISTER, THE (RESORT) (SEA ISLAND, GEORGIA)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA; SEA ISLAND (GA); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); LITERATURE (69%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (66%); 

PERSON: WARD, ALEX MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



158 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 15; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
Down Mean Alleys With John Goodman

BYLINE: By FRANZ LIDZ; Franz Lidz is a senior writer at Sports Illustrated and the author of the memoir "Unstrung Heroes."

 BODY:
JOHN GOODMAN cradles the make-believe bowling ball in his hands as if contemplating Yorick's skull. Standing in the middle of a midtown Manhattan intersection, he takes four careful steps, curls the ball behind him and flapjacks it down 55th Street. With Mr. Goodman's goading, the ball bellies out precariously toward the taxi on the right, then grips the asphalt and shimmies back toward the center of the street. The burly Mr. Goodman stops at the make-believe foul line and poises nimbly on his left foot like a ballet dancer. When the make-believe pins go down, he does a little jitterbug cakewalk.
On this cold morning, the actor, a nonbowler who has surely portrayed more bowlers than anyone in motion-picture history, is cakewalking around his past, revisiting old haunts and reviving memories of a time before his eight-year run as Roseanne's television husband, a time when he was just one more unemployed actor. Despite dark glasses -- or possibly because of them -- he is quickly recognized and accosted for autographs. Mr. Goodman, who now lives outside New Orleans with his wife and his 7-year-old daughter, is unfailingly friendly, charming, courtly, even kind to his fans. 
 "Are you John Goodman?" shouts one woman as he crosses 54th Street.
"Usually," he says in a voice that's surprisingly soft coming from a man the size of a tobacco warehouse. A small boy's smile creases the 45-year-old's pliant pudding face. Mr. Goodman always seems to have a smile, a nice combination of the innocent and the diabolical. Over the last few months he has worn it while helping Denzel Washington bottle a serial killer's evil spirit in "Fallen," while affecting an air of deadpan hipsterism in "Blues Brothers 2000," while squeezing palm-size people in his fist in "The Borrowers." He wears it again in "The Big Lebowski," Joel and Ethan Coen's kidnap-'n'-bowling caper grown from seeds planted in "The Big Sleep," the 1946 Howard Hawks classic starring Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall.
Mr. Goodman is cast in the Bacall role, as Walter Sobchak, a bowling brute with a lighted fuse. "Walter's whacked, a real piece of cake," he says. "He's not the brightest bulb on the Christmas tree." The Coens (Joel directs, Ethan produces, and they both write) tend to populate their intricate, unnerving fables with boldly outlined cartoon characters. Their style demands vivid acting, and Mr. Goodman -- in his third Coen brothers film (he was also in "Raising Arizona" and "Barton Fink") -- plays Sobchak exuberantly, with warmth and a kind of uncontained innocence. "There's something utterly guileless about John," says Joel Coen. "He's an incredibly versatile actor who often gets typecast in uninteresting parts."
Do Mr. Goodman's big guys have anything in common? He offers a wry half-smile with a kind of frank diffidence. "Yeah," he says. "They're all overweight."
Moving briskly across Madison Avenue, he passes the offices of Mad, the magazine that formed his boyhood consciousness. In the backwater of Affton, Mo., Mad was the only cultural event of the month. "I got my education from Mad," Mr. Goodman says. "If I didn't get a joke, I'd consult the encyclopedia." From Mad, he learned smart-aleck skepticism, suspicion of authority figures and Yiddishisms like furshlugginer and potrzebie.
Mr. Goodman's mother, a waitress at Jack and Phil's Bar-B-Cue who raised him from the age of 2, indulged his Mad-ness, but drew the line at James Bond novels. "Her boyfriend thought they were smutty," he explains.
At Ninth Avenue, Mr. Goodman hangs left and bellows, "There's my first apartment!"
He opens the front door of the building and scans the mailbox for familiar names. "I used to call this my hunting lodge," he says. "It had cable and a great brick view. The bathroom was in the hall, and the bathtub was in the kitchen. The stains on the tub's porcelain seemed to indicate that at one time gin had been brewed in there."
Mr. Goodman signed a lease on this distillery in 1976, a year after he had hopped a train for New York. He had arrived at Penn Station with a cardboard suitcase, a degree in theater from Southwest Missouri State and a $1,000 stake from his older brother. "I'd never been in New York before," he says. "I felt like a hick in a straw hat."
He remembers taking a taxi to a friend's digs on the Upper West Side. "I overtipped the cabby 10 bucks," he says. "I had no idea what to give him. My whole idea of tipping came from watching 'The Danny Thomas Show.' "
He made the rounds at audition halls, and within a month found work in a dinner-theater production of "1776."
"We opened and closed in Springboro, Ohio," he recalls. "That's five miles from Ridgeville, which is four miles from Waynesville, which is one mile from Corwin, which is three miles from Harveysburg."
His most memorable line? "When do we get to go back to New York?" deadpans Mr. Goodman, who played Thomas Jefferson. "I did a lot of preparation for the part. I actually kept slaves for a while and grew my own hemp." The research went largely unappreciated: "One of the critics indicated I was a little too antic to be one of the founding fathers."
MR. GOODMAN'S career was not an unfettered ascent. "That first winter in Manhattan I thought about giving up," he says. "It was day after day of nothing. I got to the point where I wasn't doing much of anything except the Sunday crossword puzzles." He patched together a slender living doing television commercials. He sold jeans, root beer, antacid. He got slapped around in ads for Mennen Skin Bracer. It was Mr. Goodman who said, "Thanks, I needed that!"
His stint as an Upper East Side bouncer lasted one night. "The club had this big German head bouncer who told us how to really hurt guys," he says. "You know, fishhook them, rip their cheeks. He giggled a little too much while demonstrating the old Detroit curb stomp, so the next day I called in sick and never came back."
Mr. Goodman flags down a cab, and instructs the driver to drive to 103d and Riverside. It was there in 1978, at the Equity Library Theater, that he made his New York stage debut (the theater closed in 1989). "I was Oberon in 'A Midsummer Night's Dream,' " he says. "People didn't seem to like the play too much, maybe because we did a disco version."
With New York's dailies on strike, the lone review appeared in the German-language paper Aufbau. "One of the cast members translated it for us," Mr. Goodman says. "The highlight: 'Puck is a good leaper.' "
Speeding southward, Mr. Goodman spots various landmarks: the actors' joint where he and Bruce Willis used to nurse Budweisers and leave dollar tips; the pinball arcade where he discovered Pac-Man. Turning down 45th Street, Mr. Goodman points out the Plymouth Theater. "I tried out for 'Equus' here," he says. "I thought I had a good shot at being one of the horses."
The taxi pulls up at 505 Eighth Avenue, the home of WBAI-FM. For three years in the mid-1980's, Mr. Goodman and a couple of pals performed sketches on a monthly radio show called "Citizen Kafka." His most inspired creation was Farmer Bob, a lecherous hayseed who harvested Cabbage Patch love dolls. "Kafka was trashy, deranged, disgusting," Mr. Goodman says. "It played right into my Mad sensibility."
The Coen brothers -- onetime Mad enthusiasts themselves -- say it was that very sensibility that got Mr. Goodman a part in "Raising Arizona." His escaped convict, a "criminal mastermind with a two-digit I.Q.," literally proved to be his breakout movie role. The ticking-bomb performance so impressed the Coens that they later asked him to appear in "Barton Fink," their post-modernist Faustian comedy. "What's it about?" asked Mr. Goodman.
"Well," said Ethan Coen. "You really have to read the script."
Mr. Goodman read it, liked it and played Charlie the insurance salesman with such sunny menace that he was nominated for a Golden Globe. "Only later did I find out what part I'd played in 'Barton Fink's' genesis," Mr. Goodman says. " 'According to Joel and Ethan, the film sprang from a mental picture they had of me and John Turturro sitting on the edge of a bed in our underwear."
The Coens based Lebowski's combustible Sobchak on a softball player they knew in Los Angeles. "We made the film out of a perverse desire to see John on screen blowing hard and pontificating," says Joel Coen.
"In a Norman Schwarzkopf haircut," says Ethan Coen.
"And a Ulysses beard."
"And yellow glasses."
"It's a powerful image."
The afternoon sun has begun to cut lengthening shadows across the theater district as Mr. Goodman spies the facade of the Eugene O'Neill. Thirteen years ago he made a showy splash here as Huck Finn's father, Pap, in the musical "Big River." "I used to shoot squirt guns out of a second-floor window," he says. "Just plain New York tap water. I didn't have the courtesy to use bottled water."
Good notices landed Mr. Goodman in a 1987 production of "Antony and Cleopatra" in Los Angeles, where he was spotted by an ABC talent scout. The network needed a mate for Roseanne. "Somebody furshlugginer," Mr. Goodman says. "And that somebody was me."
The rest is current events.

GRAPHIC: Photos: MAD MAN John Goodman, a star of "The Big Lebowski," whose boyhood consciousness was shaped by Mad magazine. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)(pg. 15); WACKO Mr. Goodman, left, as what he calls a "criminal mastermind with a two-digit I.Q." in "Raising Arizona," with William Forsythe. (20th Century Fox); FAUST NOUVEAU Mr. Goodman as Charlie the unsettling insurance salesman, right, in "Barton Fink" (1991), with John Turturro. (20th Century Fox)(pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BIG LEBOWSKI, THE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BOWLING (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); CELEBRITIES (74%); BALLET (70%); FILM HISTORY (69%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (64%); MURDER (62%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, JOHN; LIDZ, FRANZ DENZEL WASHINGTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



159 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2085 words

HEADLINE: SUNDAY VIEW;
Two Reminders of What Theater Is All About

BYLINE: By Vincent Canby 

 BODY:
TWO PLAYS, three playwrights, a total of seven actors -- and the New York theater seems suddenly bursting with possibilities.
That's all it takes when the productions are of the order of these two works that have come to us by way of London: "The Beauty Queen of Leenane," Martin McDonagh's dark, cheeky, highly theatrical Irish comedy directed by Garry Hynes, and "Art," the ineffably funny, sometimes riotous, very French meditation on male friendship (and other matters), written by the French playwright Yasmina Reza, translated by the British playwright Christopher Hampton and directed by Matthew Warchus. 
 "The Beauty Queen of Leenane," its original four-actor Irish cast intact, is playing a nine-week run Off Broadway, through April 19, at the Atlantic Theater, while "Art," starring Alan Alda, Victor Garber and Alfred Molina, has settled down on Broadway at the Royale. What? You haven't seen a straight play in months? It's time to rethink your priorities.
Though it was only a coincidence that "The Beauty Queen of Leenane" and "Art" opened just four days apart, they provide the sort of one-two punch of accumulating excitement that no amount of prefabricated hype can manufacture. The plays themselves have nothing in common except their display of talent and the heritage of a discipline whose pleasures can only be simulated by films and television.
This is living theater: actors acting in the moment you behold them, creating a relationship in which the members of each particular audience are as integral to a performance as what is happening on the stage. A performance is a spooky, ephemeral thing. Without you, it doesn't exist. When it's over, it's gone. It's never to be repeated in quite the same way again, unlike movies and live-on-tape television that, being frozen in time, are essentially inert.
As the actors are alive in the theater, so is the audience, which makes possible a complicity between the two that gives a special edge to both of these new productions.
There is a moment toward the end of "Art" when a character is given a felt-tip pen and dared to deface a white-on-white painting the audience doesn't much admire, though it is aware that the price was 200,000 francs, or about $40,000. The character pauses only a second. Yet it is enough time for the entire audience to suck in its breath in horror at this possible desecration, then to erupt in glorious belly laughs that signal utter surprise. The surprise is prompted less by what the character does than by the audience's sudden awareness of how completely and joyously it has become implicated in the events on the stage.
When you watch movies you are so wrapped in the dark that you can be persuaded to believe almost any nonsense. It's part of the fun of movies. The darkness absorbs the smells of hot dogs and popcorn and the noises of giant economy-size candy wrappers being ripped apart like packing cases. The darkness isolates the mind and melts the senses. I've wept more tears at junk movies than I ever have at funerals.
Live theater is something very different. There is all that light coming from the stage. You are never unaware of surrounding members of the audience, or of the fact that you are observing actors impersonate other people. The result is that you develop bifocal vision, which allows you to appreciate both the fiction taking place on the stage and the skills of the people making it possible. When you are swept away, you can be sure it is because of a nearly miraculous conjunction of what are -- to us -- arcane forces.
The downside: when the material is second rate and the actors unconvincing, you can't be wheedled into entering that other world. You are too obviously sitting in a theater, behind somebody with a head tic, watching the scenery shake when a door is slammed by an actor whose shoelace is untied. On the stage, every imperfection announces itself.
The pleasures of live theater are many and complex, but so rarely realized that when they are experienced they have a way of prompting you to try to redefine theater. What makes theater different? And, when it works, so fulfilling? The answer is never the same for any two plays.
 
'Art'
 "Art" could not easily exist in any other form, which is not to say that one day it won't be competently adapted as a film or television piece. It has only the slimmest of narratives, being a consideration of friendship, its rewards, liabilities, frustrations and mortality.
Specifically, it is about three middle-aged, middle-class, heterosexual Parisians: Marc (Mr. Alda), an aeronautical engineer who prides himself on his skeptical turn of mind; Serge (Mr. Garber), a successful dermatologist, happily divorced, who is beginning to enjoy the money he is making, and Yvan (Mr. Molina), who, for 15 years, has played comic relief for his far more self-assured friends.
At the start of the play he has just begun a new career in the wholesale stationery business and is, at long last, about to marry. Or, as he puts it, "I've given in to the logic of events, marriage, children, death. Stationery." His pals couldn't care less about his marriage, as long as he continues to attend to them. He has always been a perfect audience.
This long-time friendship begins to unravel when Serge proudly reveals a new aspiration: his desire to become a collector. He unveils the painting he has bought, "an Antrios," and not just any Antrios but "a 70's Antrios," from the painter's first white-on-white period. Marc is appalled. He thinks the painting is a joke and his friend has betrayed him by adopting the attitudes, manners and even the vocabulary of those who live their lives according to fashion. Serge calls Marc an enemy of modernism, "a nostalgia merchant" who refuses to be a man of his own time.
YVAN LOOKS at the painting and squints. He searches for a word to describe it. "Magnetic," Serge says helpfully, and he agrees. If Yvan is more conciliatory, it is largely because he is preoccupied with his new job in stationery and with furious family squabbles, which he recounts in priceless detail, about whether the names of both his mother and stepmother should go on the wedding invitations.
As the play proceeds, it becomes increasingly clear that the concern of "Art" is the shifting power positions of the three men vis-a-vis one another. Each man makes demands that change the rules by which their friendship flourished and endured. Friendships are as fragile as alliances between great nations. They can't easily survive the kind of brutal, broadside, very frank assaults each of these fellows launches when feeling cornered by the other two. Each is ready to go to war to protect his only natural resource: his own carefully guarded sense of self.
Though Mr. Alda, Mr. Garber and Mr. Molina make no attempt to play "French," the manner in which this friendship is conducted remains steadfastly French. It is a tribute to these splendid actors, to Mr. Warchus's direction, and to Mr. Hampton's brilliantly witty adaptation that the New York audience so readily accepts this hybrid social vision.
Friendships have different limits, different modes of expression in different countries. The kind of friendship depicted in "Art" reflects a society in which men feel -- rightly or wrongly -- far more at ease with women than men do in either this country or England. An American wife might encourage her husband to go to the local pub to watch a baseball game with his pals. Yet she would probably be suspicious if instead he said he was going to have dinner with them at a new, in restaurant and then catch a movie.
The machismo of these fellows is expressed not in cartoon attitudes and pursuits that pass for manly, but in arrogantly self-satisfied talk of sometimes overweening intellectual pretensions, which, they would think, they can't get at home. With any luck, they're right.
Did I say that "Art," which runs 90 minutes and is played without an intermission, is not only the shortest new play on Broadway, but also the funniest? It moves like the wind and leaves you exhilarated. It's theater, pure and elegant.
 
'The Beauty Queen Of Leenane'
Martin McDonagh is 27 years old and already a man of the Irish theater, but with a difference. Though he has a gift for language, he demonstrates in "The Beauty Queen of Leenane" that he is not especially interested in language as a poetic end in itself. Rather, he uses it to spin stories that make you laugh out loud as they curl your hair.
The landscape of the play is familiar: a small town (Leenane) in Connemara, County Galway, the kind of community that people are forever leaving in hopes of finding better lives elsewhere. Red-haired, 40-ish Maureen Folan (Marie Mullen) tells herself she would leave in a minute if she didn't have to take care of Mag (Anna Manahan), her whiny, mean-spirited, pinched-mouth old mum. Mag may or may not be as senile and helpless as she behaves. She apparently does have "a you-rine" problem. This gives her license to empty her chamber pot in a sink filled with dishes Maureen hasn't yet washed.
Mag is the cross that Maureen bears with a mixture of fury and fortitude until the appearance of Pato Dooley (Brian F. O'Byrne). He is a handsome, soft-spoken native of Leenane, who briefly returns home from England, where he is a construction worker. Maureen brings him home, spends the night with him, then in the morning walks dreamily around in her slip, flaunting the embarrassed fellow in front of her angry, frightened mum. From that morning on, Maureen imagines a future in which Pato will save her from Mag and Leenane.
More about the narrative cannot be told, if only because "The Beauty Queen of Leenane" depends so heavily on plot, on key information withheld from the audience and preparing for (not always gracefully) what will take place later. Mr. McDonagh's strong suit is creating characters so vivid, unsentimental and heartbreaking that they seem undercut by his melodramatic devices, which, of course, are also part of the play's sardonically comic vision.
The New York presentation by the Atlantic Theater Company, a joint production of the Druid Theater Company of Galway, Ireland, and the Royal Court Theater of London, is flawless as staged by Garry Hynes, the Druid's co-founder and present artistic director.
The fourth member of the extraordinary ensemble cast is Tom Murphy, who plays Ray, Pato's younger brother. Ray's unreliability as a go-between is as important to the events of the play as his dimwitted impertinence is to Mr. McDonagh's scathing view of rural Ireland. As you imagine it beyond Mag and Maureen's cottage, it is a barren, rain-soaked field just this side of a graveyard.
More about Mr. McDonagh later this month when another of his plays, "The Cripple of Inishmaan," begins performances at the Joseph Papp Public Theater.
 
'The Maiden's Prayer'
 "The Maiden's Prayer," Nicky Silver's new comedy at the Vineyard Theater, is less relentlessly wisecracking than his "Food Chain." Yet it is still enjoyably nutty as it examines the lives of Mr. Silver's dysfunctional Manhattanites: Paul, who loves Taylor, who loves his wife, Cynthia, whose sister, Libby, also loves Taylor but drifts contentedly into the life of a high-class prostitute. Don't try to remember these details. They make sense as you watch the play.
The Vineyard production, directed by Evan Yionoulis, is a good one, providing rich material for Patricia Clarkson, who plays Libby with pleased relish, and more difficult material for Joanna Going, who plays the equally neurotic Cynthia. There is a serious problem with the script, however. The center of the play is not the relationship between the sober-sided, promiscuously gay Paul (Geoffrey Nauffts) and the uncertainly straight Taylor (Christopher C. Fuller), but the love-hate relationship between Libby and Cynthia, who have been shortchanged by Mr. Silver.
The final irony (to borrow Oscar Jaffe's phrase from "Twentieth Century") is that the play's funniest performance is given by none of the above but by Daniel Jenkins, whose roles seem to be almost an afterthought. He appears as the various men Paul picks up, most memorably as Andrew, who searches not for Mr. Right but for the Right Apartment. It must have cable television, preferably with the premium channels. Andrew is the only one who stands a chance of realizing his dream.
The playwright's subversive message: think cable.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: SEEING THINGS Alfred Molina, left, Alan Alda and Victor Garber portray three longtime friends who disagree about a painting in the Broadway play "Art." (Hirschfeld)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BEAUTY QUEEN OF LEENANE, THE (PLAY); ART (PLAY); MAIDEN'S PRAYER, THE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

COMPANY: VINEYARD THEATER

ORGANIZATION: VINEYARD THEATER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (72%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: REVIEWS; THEATER THEATER & DRAMA (92%); WRITERS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (89%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: MCDONAGH, MARTIN; REZA, YASMINA; SILVER, NICKY CHRISTOPHER JAMES HAMPTON (57%); ALAN ALDA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



160 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 16; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: ART;
Showcasing 7 Photographers From Heyday of Life Magazine

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ZIMMER 

DATELINE: KATONAH

 BODY:
IT is tempting to say that the photographs now at the Candace Perich Gallery here make up a motley exhibition. Though the work is all black and white, the content varies widely. But because the pictures were all published in Life magazine in its heyday, from the 1930's through the early 1960's, they make a dynamic fraternity.
Carl Mydans is a Larchmont resident and one of two photographers in this group of seven who are still living. His contributions recall how seriously Life saw its responsibility to chronicle World War II. In his photograph of Gen. Douglas MacArthur's amphibious landing at Luzon in the Philippines in January 1945, the soldiers and their leader stride confidently. The viewer can imagine Mydans before the landing waiting for General MacArthur to turn his head just so, in order that justice could be done to the exaggerated length of his famous pipe. 
 But Mydans has photographs that show a different mood. Vladimir Nabokov, photographed in 1958 leaning out of a car window, has a pencil prominent in his hand. It is noteworthy in the exhibition as a whole how often cigarettes appear as vital props, so Nabokov's pencil becomes a poignant variant. The portrait was made in Ithaca in 1958 when the writer was teaching at Cornell and is an embodiment of that civilization which wars are fought to preserve.
"Reindeer Running" from 1940 reveals the shadow of a man with a pipe as if he is leisurely contemplating the spectacle in the snow before him. But the reindeer are being herded into Finland during the Russian-Finnish War. An unbelievable swarm of bodies and antlers blurred by the camera blends into a fearsome force of nature.
George Silk, who lives in Westport, is represented by sports photographs, and he seems to be fascinated with the human form in motion, the way that experimenters like Edweard Muybridge and Harold Edgerton were. The exertions of a hammer thrower and trackmen in forceful stride at the 1960 Olympic tryouts in Palo Alto, Calif., seem to be taking place against a background of resolutely parallel lines. This patterning is a sign that the photographer is panning the spectacle with his camera.
A photograph of a diver at Princeton University in 1962 is in a similar dynamically abstract vein. It shows his body making a pronounced shape, something like an inverted iceberg, when it hits the water.
Margaret Bourke-White has almost become a legend, abetted by her intrepid personality. The wonder that Manhattan was in the Art Deco era is caught in a 1939 picture of a DC-4 flying like a gliding silver bird over the city and its grid of tall, thrusting buildings. Bourke-White would have to have been taking pictures from another plane flying above the one in the photograph. The romance ubiquitous in modern life is the major theme represented in her work here, especially sleek abstract close-ups of then wondrous industrial products like a coiled metal rod ready for drawing into wire. Bourke-White covered personalities, too, and is represented by a 1945 portrait of one larger than life, Gen. George Patton.
Bourke-White's flying above her subject is a neat trick, which resulted in an amazing picture, but it is not derring-do. That is left to Alfred Eisenstaedt, who stood on top of the Graf Zeppelin in 1934 to take a photograph of the airship under repair as it crossed the Atlantic; a large hole in its hull is emphatically visible.
Capturing the essential Marilyn Monroe in 1953 must have posed no less a challenge, but Eisenstaedt's portrait is a definitive classic. No embellishments are in evidence, and the picture reveals that Monroe, wearing a simple black sweater, came by her sultriness naturally. The allure of a recumbent Katharine Hepburn is emphasized in a 1938 photograph by her white dress, the pleated skirt clinging to her body and then fanning out in a grand sweep.
Two strong contrasting pictures of America are provided by Andreas Feininger in photographs of the Brooklyn Bridge at night from 1948 and a small Arizona town on Route 66 from 1953. Feininger framed the high sky above the highway with tiers of clouds, which seem to be feats of construction on a par with any New York building.
If Feininger presents the framework for America, Nina Leen populates it with a fetching candid photograph of teen-agers in Tulsa, Okla., dancing at a party in 1947. Leen's 1952 photograph of a home economics class at Cornell speaks volumes about automation; the students are touching, almost hugging, labor-saving appliances, but no one is doing anything with her hands.
Peter Stackpole photographed Hollywood but is represented by only one picture, Errol Flynn, still pirate-like, shinnying up the mast of his own yacht in 1941.
"Life Photographers" is at the Candace Perich Gallery in Katonah through April 1.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Trackmen for the United States taking a hurdle at the Olympic tryouts in Palo Alto, Calif., in 1960 by George Silk, left. Gen. Douglas MacArthur just before going ashore at Lingayen Gulf in Luzon in the Philippines in 1945 by Carl Mydans, bottom left. The Graf Zeppelin with its hull under repair as it crossed the Atlantic in 1934 by Alfred Eisenstaedt. The photographs -- the works are all black and white -- are part of the exhibition "Life Photographers" at the Candace Perich Gallery in Katonah. (Alfred Eisenstaedt, Life Magazine  Time Inc.; Carl Mydans, Life Magazine  Time Inc.; George Silk, Life Magazine  Time Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); FINLAND (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LIFE (MAGAZINE) PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIFE (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILIPPINES (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); FINLAND (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; REVIEWS PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); WRITERS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (72%); OLYMPICS (63%); 

PERSON: ZIMMER, WILLIAM VLADIMIR NABOKOV (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



161 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Overall, Reading Scores Increase

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
DURING the first parent-teachers meeting at Public School 8 in Yonkers more than a century ago, the pressing issue was why the stagecoach transporting children to school was running late. In 1997, the buses were running on time but irate parents were still demanding answers -- because reading scores on the state's report cards a year ago were low.
This year parents at the DiChiaro Early Childhood School are singing educators' praises. Scores for third-grade reading almost doubled last year, with 48 percent of the students reading at grade level compared with 25 percent in 1996. 
 "It's still not what it should be," Principal Diane Harkin said, "but change takes place one day at a time." The percentage of students reading at mastery level -- or performing with distinction, as the state calls it -- increased almost fivefold at DiChiaro, also known as School 8, to 46 percent from 10 percent in 1996.
Reading scores also rose dramatically at Pocantico Hills Central School. There, 93 percent of the third-grade students were reading at grade level in 1997 compared with 52 percent in 1996.
Recalling the outrage a year ago when parents learned about the poor performance of their third graders, Peter M. Lisi, Principal of Pocantico Hills School and Superintendent of the district, said, "To get a report card that bad was shocking." Only 31 percent of the students were reading at a mastery level, a figure that rose the following year to 83 percent. He said hundreds of worried parents attended a meeting in the school cafeteria after the release of the 1996 figures to learn what could be done.
At DiChiaro, Ms. Harkin reported a similar scenario. "We were all really upset," she said, "but in a way it was good because it prompted us to focus on our needs."
At the Yonkers school, where almost 60 percent of the students qualify for free lunch, decorated paper plates festoon the hallways, attesting to the growing number of books read by students. It is part of the DEAR program, an acronym for Drop Everything and Read. The administration also sponsors TV turnoff nights (read instead!) and workshops for parents on sharing books with children.
At Pocantico Hills a similar enrichment program is known as BEAR, an acronym for Be Excited About Reading. There chubby paw prints line the hallways, recording books read by students.
In both suburban and inner-city schools, parents and educators are analyzing the results of the state's ratings. Efforts to improve scores have included revising curriculum, hiring new teachers and redeploying others.
The state's Education Commissioner, Richard P. Mills, said the report cards are part of an effort to raise the academic performance of students.
For most schools, the scores served as a wake-up call that many students were performing below expected levels. "The question many of us had to ask ourselves is, 'Where did we fall down?' " said the Superintendent of the Yonkers schools, Reginald F. Marra, who displays the motto, "Results, not excuses!" on his desk.
At the Carrie E. Tompkins School in the Croton-Harmon Union Free School District, Principal Lauren Allan said teachers blocked out two hours a day for reading. "We took a long, hard look at our curriculum and our priorities," she said.
The percentage of third-grade students enrolled at the Tompkins School who were reading at grade level rose to 89 last year, compared with 71 percent in 1996. The numbers for students reading at mastery level were even more dramatic: 63 percent in 1997, compared with 38 percent in 1996. The school, which serves students in kindergarten through fifth grade, was one of the highest performing in the county.
Other high performers were Meadow Pond Elementary School in the Katonah-Lewisboro School District, the Museum School in Yonkers, the Quaker Ridge and Heathcote Schools in Scarsdale, the Westochard, Roaring Brook and Douglas G. Grafflin Schools in Chappaqua, the Lincoln Titus Elementary School in the Lakeland Central School District, the Chatsworth Avenue and Central Schools in Mamaroneck, the Alice E. Grady School in Elmsford, the King Street and John F. Kennedy Schools in the Port Chester-Rye District, the Anne Hutchinson School in Eastchester, the Prospect Hill, Hutchinson and Colonial Schools in Pelham, Bronxville Elementary and the Mamaroneck Avenue School in White Plains.
Dr. Karen McCarthy, Superintendent of the Katonah-Lewisboro schools, attributed the success at Meadow Pond Elementary to a comprehensive, multifaceted approach to reading. "We refused to get sucked into the controversy of phonics versus the whole-language approach," she said. "We teach whatever works." She also observed that students in well-to-do school districts like Katonah-Lewisboro "come from homes where parents value education, and children come to school with the attitude, 'Teach me.' "
In Scarsdale, Dr. Richard W. Sprague, the Assistant Superintendent for Instruction, agreed that "very able students, well-educated families and a strong teaching staff formed a powerful combination."
At the Colonial School in Pelham, Principal Gerard P. Finelli reported that faculty meetings were spent discussing teaching rather than administrative functions. "Anything that could be taken care of by memo was," he said. "That left us free to talk about strategies and ideas."
Overall, reading scores have gone up, in part because schools last year were not required to test students with limited English. Teachers reported that many foreign-born students sat and stared at the reading test in 1996, unable to understand it. In many cases, the higher scores also reflect increased preparation for the tests. Peggy Sbarra, a third-grade teacher at the DiChiaro school, said she and other teachers familiarized students with the format of the tests the second time around.
Among schools showing the largest gains, parent involvement was also cited as a factor in students' reading success. "The report cards put the entire community on notice," Mr. Lisi in Pocantico Hills said.
Administrators at schools reporting the biggest declines, like the Pennington-Grimes School in Mount Vernon, said they were still studying the results. Pennington-Grimes, in the heart of the ethnically diverse city, was a high scorer for reading on the state report cards last year. More than 4,000 others throughout New York were tested in the program aimed at making all schools accountable to the public.
But this year, results showed that 69 percent of third graders at the elementary school were reading at grade level in 1997, compared with 79 percent the year before, and only 48 percent were reading at mastery level, down from 62 percent in 1996. Petronella Feaster, director of funded programs for Mount Vernon, said a more detailed analysis of the scores would be necessary before educators could comment.
Other low-preforming schools were the Longfellow and Holmes Schools in Mount Vernon, Foxfire, Pulaski Early Childhood School, the Fermi School for the Performing Arts, Martin Luther King Jr. School 9, School 22, School 30 and School 31 in Yonkers; Bedford Hills Elementary, Buchanan-Verplanck in the Hendrick Hudson Central School District, Columbus Avenue School in Valhalla, Mamaroneck Avenue School, Greenvale School in Eastchester, Daniel Webster School in New Rochelle and Van Cortlandtville School in the Lakeland School District.
Educators in both high and low performing schools were critical of aspects of the tests. "The statistical samples were too small," said Dr. Vincent T. Beni, Superintendent of the Southern Westchester Board of Cooperative Educational Services, "and the results exaggerated small differences."
He also said the second year's data measured different students and failed to take into account gains made or lost by the same class. Moreover, data should be analyzed over time -- not just a two-year period -- to yield significant results, he contended. "What you have here is something that starts conversations," he said.
Dr. Sherry P. King, Superintendent of the Mamaroneck Union Free School District, challenged the manner in which the state determined poverty levels. Those determinations are used to compare the performance of schools teaching students of similar economic backgrounds, and in most cases, they are based on the number of students qualifying for free lunches. But students in Mamaroneck take their own lunches to school, Dr. King said.
Dr. McCarthy of the Katonah-Lewisboro schools, said the greatest fallacy of the report cards was that they focused on the results of "a single test administered in a single day to a limited group of children."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Louise Kunin, a reading specialist, working with first graders at the Patricia A. DiChiaro Early Childhood School in Yonkers, where a coordinated curriculum to prepare students for later achievement tests has been adopted. (Richard Harbus for The New York Times)
 
Table: "Report Card: How the County's 3d Graders Are Reading"
 The New York State Report Cards allow parents, teachers and administrators to compare schools across the state.
 Student-teacher ratio -- The average number of students enrolled for each teacher at the school, calculated by The New York Times from state report card data.
 Income -- The percentage of students above the Federal income guidelines for free school lunch. Where missing, similar income figures were substituted from the 1990 census.
 Reading at grade level -- Percentage of third graders reading at or above level of typical students in tests given in spring 1997. Plus sign indicates school score increased at least five points from previous year, after adjusting scores to account for differences in the way the test was administered. A minus sign indicates a decline of at least five points.
 Advanced reading -- The percentage of students who read far above the average student, defined aswith distinction by the state.
 Reading performance -- A measure calculated by The New York Times using boxes, which compare schools with similar schools, after taking into account student family income and English-speaking ability as reported by the state. The boxes appear on a scale of 1 to 5 with one-fifth of students who took the test in each category. A score of 5 boxes is the highest and 1 the lowest. Because the scores of many schools cluster around the average, a score of 2 or 4 should be viewed as slightly above, or slightly below average.
 Notes: Only schools with third grades are shown; student totals for each district include only those schools. All data are from the 1996-97 school year. Blank space means no data were available.
 
About the 'Reading Performance' Ratings
 The performance scale uses standard statistical techniques to adjust for the differences that students take to school. It asks the question: How does a school compare with other schools that have similar students? Is a school making a difference in the lives of students?
 Educators have long known that children of affluent and well-educated parents tend to do better than other students, even when they attend seemingly mediocre schools. And they know that other schools that make a dramatic difference in lives of many disadvantaged students will often have lower average test scores than those serving the most affluent.
 To deal with this difference, The Times computed a new benchmark score for each school or group of schools, based on the backgrounds of students, showing the typical score expected of a school with similar students. Schools were then compared with these similar-school benchmarks and ranked by the distance above or below these benchmarks they scored.
 The elementary school analysis was based on third-grade reading scores showing the percentage of students at or above the typical reading level in the third grade. To account for student differences, The Times used the percentage of students above the eligibility limits for free school lunch and the percentage of children classified as having limited English proficiency.
 The analysis found that student background was a strong predictor of school success. About 75 percent of the difference in reading scores from school to school was attributed to differences in student backgrounds alone.
 After schools were compared with their benchmarks, they were ranked from 1 to 5, with schools serving a fifth of students in the state assigned to each category. The top performers were assigned a 5, the bottom to a 1. Many schools, including some ranked 2 or 4, were clustered close to their benchmarks. So a 3 should be seen as average, a 2 or 4 as slightly below or above average, and a 1 or 5 as much below or much above average.
 The performance scale is only one of many ways of looking at a school. It is best used as a starting point for discussion. No single statistical analysis or no one test score can tell the entire story of any school, and schools with fewer than 20 students tested were omitted from the analysis, because the performance of one or two students could sharply alter their results.
 After the first Times analysis of state test scores appeared last year, some school officials objected to it. Some said that school free lunch numbers were incomplete or inaccurate in their schools or did not accurately capture the problems faced by their schools. Others said in some cases a few wrong answers by a handful of students could cause a school to drop from one category to another. Still others said that the state reading test was not designed to compare achievement among schools and that reading scores should therefore not be compared at all.
 But many parents and administrators said that at many schools the reporting of test scores led to new conversations between parents and administrators, self-examinations and changes. Some said it put more focus on reading achievement and learning; others said it led to more time wasted in drill and rote preparation for this year's test. JOSH BARBANEL
 
Table lists the following data for Westchester grade schools: number of students, student-teacher ratio, income, percentage reading at grade level, percentage reading far above the average student, and reading performance. (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DICHIARO EARLY CHILDHOOD SCHOOL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DICHIARO EARLY CHILDHOOD SCHOOL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING; READING AND WRITING SKILLS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); PARENTING SUPPORT (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (50%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA DOUGLAS G GRAFFLIN SCHOOLS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



162 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: The Coast Guard Gathers Its Forces in New London

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
AFTER the Coast Guard opens its Leadership Development Center in New London later this year, every officer and senior enlisted person in the service will have to go through Connecticut at some point.
Since early in the century, New London has been home to the Coast Guard Academy, which provides about half the officers the Coast Guard needs every year. But the opening of the center on May 12 will bring together the Coast Guard officer candidate school, formerly in Yorktown, Va.; its warrant officer training course, from Pensacola, Fla., and its chief petty officeracademy, from Petaluma, Calif. "This will be a place that will serve more of the Coast Guard, more of the time, in more ways than ever before," said Rear Adm. Douglas H. Teeson, the superintendent of the academy. 
 Construction crews have been busy on a $12 million renovation of Chase, Roland and Yeaton halls, totaling almost 100,000 square feet of space at the south end of the campus. That is more construction than the academy has seen in a quarter-century, and more renovations are planned for two other buildings, Munro and Satterlee halls.
The buildings where the center will be housed are among the earliest put up when the 122-year-old academy relocated to New London in the early 1930's, and many consider it appropriate that as the mission gets redefined the Coast Guard is putting emphasis on its roots.
"The Leadership Development Center represents probably the greatest change that's ever taken place at the academy," said Capt. Jim Smith, deputy superintendent at the academy. "There are people who can spend a career in the Coast Guard now and never see the academy, but that's going to change. Everyone will rotate through the academy at key points in their career now."
Admiral Teeson said during a trial run of the warrant officers' course late last year that he saw first-hand the kind of valuable interchange that results from bringing all training together: the warrant officers, all of them in their 30's, mingled at the mess hall and in the student lounges with academy students, answering questions about life at sea and at various shore commands.
"They bring hundreds of years of experience to the Coast Guard Academy, from today's Coast Guard," Admiral Teeson said. "And I think, from the warrant officers' perspective, that they have a new respect for what the cadets are going through as they work towards their commissions and their degree."
Capt. Thomas E. Bernard, the director of the center, said bringing the leadership schools to the academy will allow for a broader experience than the students are getting now.
Officer candidates can be brought in to use the ship simulator at the academy, which is useful to show them how important it is to function as a team at sea -- better they crash a computer than a ship. Yorktown has never had such specialized equipment.
The academy also has specialty faculty and having all the courses in one location will make possible, for the first time, an external assessment team that will review the courses and recommend improvements. Operating the courses at separate locations would have made that too expensive.
"Now, all the leaders in the Coast Guard will have a personal connection to the academy," Captain Bernard said. "They'll get a better sense that the academy belongs to everybody in the Coast Guard, and that's a sense we want to strengthen."
The academy is going to have to adjust to some changes, though. For instance, as a university it has been used to having 300 students arrive every summer for a four-year tour; now, there will be classes coming in or going out almost every week.
The center will also mean an average of 120 more students on campus at any one time, as well as 80 additional staff -- which should be good for the local economy, officials say.
"The new students coming in will be older, more mature, with service experience and with families -- and with more money," Captain Smith said. "They'll go out to eat, they'll rent cars. From a community point of view, this is a very positive development."
New London City Manager Richard M. Brown agreed. "You're talking about a more permanent investment in the Coast Guard community here," Mr. Brown said, "which will protect us from future reductions, if there is another round of base closures."
And, he said, the Coast Guard is helping to make New London more widely known, just as the Naval Academy put Annapolis on the map. The city has already decided to paint on its welcome signs, "Home of the Coast Guard Academy and Barque Eagle."
"The Coast Guard is giving us another tool to help spur development," Mr. Brown said. "There's a real multiplier effect -- these people will go home and tell their friends and families about what's here, and they'll come and see it themselves,"
He also pointed out that the Coast Guard operates a small boat station in New London, and its Research and Development Center is just across the Thames River, at Avery Point in Groton.
"Southeastern Connecticut is now, in my mind, a center of excellence for all Coast Guard activity," Mr. Brown said.
The Coast Guard began a study of its training and education capabilities in 1994, led by Admiral Teeson before he was named the academy's superintendent.
"The academy was expanded in the 1970's when it looked like we were going to get some of the oceanographic work that ultimately went to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration," Admiral Teeson said.
"Basically, all we're doing is filling that extra capacity. We're using the facility now at about 50 or 60 percent, and that will go up to 70 or 80 percent, which is optimum. That leaves us enough open time to do maintenance and repairs."
Cmdr. J. Scott Burhoe, the center's implementation team leader, said groups from all the centers have been meeting regularly, to discuss the final items needed in the classrooms, the budgets and so forth.
"We're trying to figure out what the highest-priority needs are so we can fill them first," he said. "At this point, all the pieces to the puzzle are out there, we just have to make sure it fits together properly by May."
Although the official opening of the center is not until this spring, one warrant officer course went through in October and November as a sort of trial run. The 24 students spent a part of each day in a critique session. They also designed a logo for the course, started a scrapbook and built a website for the chief warrant officer indoctrination course.
"It was a matter of fine-tuning the course," said Senior Chief Petty Officer Leo Deon, one of those who attended. "We paved the road for future classes."
Commander Burhoe said there were some significant lessons learned. "We ended up using more faculty from the military college than we originally expected to use, so the issue has come, will the academy be able to support those personnel needs as we move forward," he said.
Admiral Teeson said he is working with others to make sure there are no logistical problems when the center begins operations. On paper, there is enough parking and room for everyone to use the athletic fields, he noted, "but in reality, it's going to be tough for the scheduler to fit it all in."
Captain Bernard said the hope is that consolidating all the training in a single location will give the Coast Guard a certain management consistency.
"If we're teaching our chiefs effective communication, we want to make sure it's the same principles that are being taught to our cadets," Captain Bernard said. "Otherwise, they may be out there with enough of a subtle difference in their approaches that it could cause conflict, or at least confusion."
"But that's also going to be one of our most interesting management challenges, internally," Captain Bernard said. "We want to keep the core culture of each of the courses, because the source of pride they feel comes from that. And if we have the same staff serving all of the courses, that could be difficult to maintain."
Admiral Teeson said there is also the danger that by having all the training in one place, if any single element of the training program is weak, it will affect a much broader population.
"I see a lot more opportunity than I see risk, though," said Admiral Teeson. The cadets go on sailing duty every summer, and the warrant officers and chief petty officers will be coming in for training, then returning as instructors, so there will be enough feedback from the fleet to determine very quickly if any area needs attention.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the new Leadership Development Center in New London, photographer shooting through a glass door captures the reflection of a saluting Coast Guardsman. The expanded Coast Guard Academy officially opens later this year. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 1); A $12 million renovation is under way to take in Coast Guard students from elsewhere in the country. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times); Soon, every Coast Guard officer will be familiar with the campus. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (95%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES COAST GUARD ACADEMY US COAST GUARD (92%); US COAST GUARD (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES COAST GUARD ACADEMY US COAST GUARD (92%); US COAST GUARD (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON (CONN); UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (95%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); RELOCATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: TEESON, DOUGLAS H (REAR ADM); HAMILTON, ROBERT A DOUGLAS H TEESON (56%); RICHARD M BROWN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



163 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property;
Are Big Retailers Waking Up to a Chelsea Morning?

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
WHEN art galleries started moving from SoHo to Chelsea a few years ago the owners said they were driven by two factors: the influx of retailers in their old neighborhood who could pay higher rents and the availability of old industrial buildings and garages that could easily be converted into galleries.
They said they hoped the new location west of 10th Avenue would prove less attractive to major retailers so that property values and rents would remain stable. 
 But is history beginning to repeat itself? There are some indications it is, although it is not clear whether a trend has begun in Chelsea, which traditionally has been defined as the neighborhood between 14th and 23d Streets and Seventh and 11th Avenues.
Banana Republic has agreed to occupy 5,000 square feet on the ground floor of the old Port Authority building at 111 Eighth Avenue between 15th and 16th Streets with a men's store, putting a national chain in a neighborhood that has held mostly small, locally owned businesses. The high-priced French clothing store Comme des Garcons, is venturing even farther west with a 5,000-square-foot store at 550 west 22d Street, between 10th and 11th Avenues, on a block that includes the Dia Center for the Arts and a number of galleries, including Max Protech.
And other retailers are also said to be looking at the area.
"I have gotten a call from a European retailer who is interested in the area," said Ruth Barone, a senior vice president of The Carlton Group who has been active with gallery owners. "They want to open in Chelsea and bypass SoHo completely."
Ms. Barone said that restaurants were also moving to the area. "It was unexpected that retail would follow so quickly," she said.
Indeed, the owner of one gallery in the area said she was appalled at what she described as the money-fueled rush to development. "I was quite horrified the other day when I got a call from a real estate company pushing a 15-story hotel up the street," said Barbara Gladstone, whose gallery is on 24th Street, between 10th and 11th Avenues. "There are a lot of investors out there who see opportunity but do not understand the fragility of the ecology here."
Faith H. Consolo, a senior managing director at Garrick-Aug Associates, which specializes in retail real estate, noted that the blocks around Eighth Avenue and 17th Street already supported two symbols of young affluence, an American Fitness exercise center and a Starbucks coffee shop.
New restaurants, such as Intermezzo, the Thai Restaurant and Lisello, have also opened along Eighth Avenue recently, she said. And a thrift store between 21st and 22d Streets has been replaced by World Clothing, which sells new apparel, while a candy store near 21st Street has been supplanted by Chelsea Gourmet Foods.
"A lot has to do with affordability," Ms. Consolo said. "Rents in Chelsea average $75 a square foot, while in SoHo the average is more like $150 a foot and you see some deals over $200 a foot."
AS a result, she said, the area may undergo a change, with national companies replacing locally owned businesses, as has happened in other neighborhoods in Manhattan. "This area could go the way of Columbus Avenue or the Flatiron District," she said.
Jonathan D. Switzer, a senior managing director of the Winokur Realty Company, agreed that Eighth Avenue in Chelsea was looking more attractive to retailers put off by the high prices and lack of suitable locations in SoHo, where he leases office space. But he said that Chelsea had a way to go before it became a true rival for SoHo.
"Eighth Avenue in Chelsea is getting stronger," he said. "In fact it is coming up the way SoHo did, following SoHo." He said the restaurants along the avenue were beginning to draw the street traffic that is attractive to retailers.
But west of Eighth Avenue and its subway line, he said, transportation becomes more of a problem, particularly in comparison to SoHo, which is almost completely ringed with underground trains.
"Comme des Garcons is a well run company, and you have to presume that they have done their homework," he said. "But it is not easy to get there by public transportation," he said, referring to subway lines. "You have to walk through several blocks of less developed areas to get there."
Nevertheless, the presence of the Chelsea Piers a block west, with their skating rinks, golf driving range, gymnastics center and other attractions that draw 3.1 million visitors a year may help bring people to a neighborhood that recently was a jumble of rundown industrial buildings, real estate executives say.
Jed Garfield, a vice president of Leslie J. Garfield & Company who has been involved with galleries in Chelsea, noted that a new restaurant, Lot 61, had opened on 21st Street between 10th and 11th Avenues. But he added that "it is a little early" to say that the area will become a retail destination.
In fact, he said, the dominant form of activity in the near future will probably be similar to that of the recent past. That is the conversion of old industrial properties, such as garages and warehouses, to art galleries and architects' offices.
Some retail real estate specialists say it is going to be difficult to bring national retailers to Eighth Avenue, because of what is there already. Much of the avenue between 14th and 24th Streets is occupied by small stores and shops, known in the trade as "little doors."
"You have a lot of very small buildings there," said Benjamin Fox, a partner in New Spectrum Realty Services. "It is a series of 20- and 25-foot storefronts that make assembling larger spaces difficult. And you can't do dynamic retail when you don't have enough space."
HE said he agreed that the complexion of Chelsea had changed in the last 10 years but added that because of the difficulty of putting together properties along Eighth Avenue, retail development, when it comes, may be on the side streets. "Streets like 22d could see the development of SoHo-type retail," he said.
Ms. Consolo acknowledged the pattern of many small stores was a barrier to larger retail development, but said it could be overcome. "A lot of those mom and pop stores have old leases, so you can put a lot of them together to get enough space" when the leases expire, she said. She said national companies in the apparel and housewares fields were negotiating for space in the area, although she declined to name them until the transactions were completed.
She noted that two buildings were combined in SoHo to develop a space suitable for Louis Vuitton at 114 Prince Street.
And the notion of what the Chelsea neighborhood encompasses is expanding with the interest in the area, brokers and other real estate executives say. "The hub is moving northward, with activity on 26th and 27th Streets," Ms. Barone said. "While that is happening, Times Square and Penn Station are spreading south," she added. "At some point they will meet."
Alan Victor, executive vice president of the Lansco Corporation, sees the retail interest in the Chelsea area as an expression of the economic vitality of the city. "Retailers have to start looking at new locations if they want to get into the city or to grow," he said.
Although the low-rise buildings typical in Chelsea mean there is less population density than in the high-rise residential sections of Manhattan, there are still a lot of people in the neighborhood who would benefit from large, modern stores, Mr. Victor added.
Farther west, he said, the traffic generated by the galleries will inevitably draw retailers, because traffic is what they live on. Although it is only one store, he said, the Comme des Garcons decision to pioneer the location between 10th and 11th Avenues is important.
"It says the neighborhood is not a frontier anymore," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Banana Republic is taking 5,000 square feet in the old Port Authority building on Eighth Avenue between 15th and 16th Streets, left. Tazza, which recently followed Twigs at 20th Street, is one of the many restaurants on Eighth Avenue. (Photographs by G. Paul Burnett for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANANA REPUBLIC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHELSEA (NYC); SOHO AREA (SOUTH HOUSTON INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT) (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RENTING AND LEASING RETAILERS (92%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PORT AUTHORITIES (53%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



164 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Revitalizing Jersey City's Depressed Journal Square

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
A $7.5 MILLION effort now under way to spruce up the Journal Square area of Jersey City is among the latest signs that, after years of decline, the business center of the state's second largest city is slowly rebounding.
While empty stores and office buildings still pockmark the area, their numbers have decreased and rents are beginning to inch up. One landmark 15-story building, at 26 Journal Square, where 30 percent of the 105,000 square feet of space is empty, has just been purchased by developers from Fort Lee who plan to renovate and lease it. 
 And Hartz Mountain Industries of Secaucus said it would start construction of an up to 550,000-square-foot office building if a tenant signed on for substantial amount of space.
At the same time Rite-Aid has doubled its space on the Square to 13,000 square feet and the Hudson County Community College is expanding in the area with a 32,000-square-foot building under construction at 870 Bergen Avenue. Over the next decade the college plans to increase its presence from 165,000 square feet to 500,000 square feet, said Peter Ciano, executive director of facilities for the college.
The city itself is moving ahead with the restoration of the landmark 1929 Loews Theater at 54 Journal Square, which is to be turned into a film and performing arts center.
The area's changing fortunes did not happen by chance. City officials and property owners decided in 1995 to form a special improvement district, or SID, in which property owners tax themselves to finance physical improvements as well as services, including security and marketing.
The city also contributes funds to the SID at Journal Square, which is a regional transportation hub with a bus center and PATH station; the station will be upgraded at a cost of $9 million beginning early next year.
The SID -- extending for a mile along Kennedy Boulevard from Newark Avenue south to Tonnelle Avenue with side-street branches -- contains 300 properties, with a total of 1,200 stores, office structures, residences and parking garages. It is among the larger of the nearly 40 SIDs created in New Jersey since the state passed a law in 1984 permitting communities to establish such tax-supported districts. "SIDs are a proven mechanism for local business districts to rally around, because they provide an assured financial stream" said Donald Smartt, an industry consultant based in Verona.
Since the Journal Square SID was formed nearly $3 million has been invested into programs aimed primarily at making the area cleaner and safer, said Brian T. Coleman, executive director of the nonprofit Journal Square Restoration Corporation, which manages the SID. Prime among them is a 50-man security and maintenance staff.
A recent study by the Center for Crime Prevention Studies at Rutgers University of the SID's first year of operations found that its programs had been successful in reducing crime and increasing the quality of life for residents and businesses in Journal Square. It said, for instance, that calls to the police concerning crimes against persons dropped an average of 14 percent, while calls on property crimes, such as burglaries, fell 16.5 percent on average.
Elliot Braha, whose family has run Lords, a children's store on the Square for more than 35 years, also sees the improvement. Incidents of shoplifting have dropped, shoppers feel more confident walking the streets and business has improved, said Mr. Braha, who is vice president of the Restoration Corporation.
"Without the SID," he said, "no one would be willing to come here and we would see a lot of boarded-up stores."
Since the SID was formed, the retail and office vacancy rates dropped to 5 percent from 15 percent and to 15 percent from 25 percent, respectively, said Mr. Coleman of the Restoration Corporation. "But for additional development to take place," he said, "Journal Square needs to become more attractive."
THE city's campaign to rejuvenate the Square, to be completed the summer of 1999, covers 10 blocks and includes new lighting fixtures, brick-paved sidewalks and the planting of trees and shrubs. A pedestrian plaza also will be constructed in front of the Port Authority's Journal Square Transportation Center, now used as a taxi queue. Financing is coming from city and Federal funds as well as $1 million from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
Journal Square began to decline as the middle-class exodus and poor economy of the 60's and 70's vacuumed commerce from its once vibrant core. It benefited little from the mid-80's building boom when all eyes were on reshaping the city's Hudson River waterfront. Then the recession hit, halting all redevelopment.
But in the last few years, with the economy reviving and the waterfront holding its own amid a second wave of redevelopment, the city shifted its focus to Journal Square.
Getting property owners to agree to a special tax was not easy. But they warmed to the idea when the city agreed to match the money property owners raised, beginning with a 4 to 1 match in the first year and decreasing annually until it phases out in the fifth year
Retailers pay special taxes of $22 a frontage foot a year.Garage and office owners pay 8 to 9 cents a square foot and residential owners pay $31 per residence. Assessments totaled $350,000 this year. Jersey City's contribution raised the budget to $1.8 million, said Mr. Coleman of the Restoration Corporation, noting that as the city's contribution decreased the assessment on property owners would need to rise to meet budgetary needs.
(The city's money comes from the 3 percent sales tax -- instead of the normal 6 percent -- charged by merchants in its Urban Enterprise Zone, which offers tax incentives to businesses and lower sales taxes to customers to increase investment in their borders. The Journal Square SID is within the zone.)
As the Square rebounds it is also redefining itself. Aware of the competition from the city's waterfront for office users, Mr. Coleman said the Square would attract smaller office tenants as well as back-office operations.
That is the intent of Blumberg & Freilich Equities of Fort Lee, which last month bought 26 Journal Square. "Space on the waterfront is tightening and that is being reflected in Journal Square," said Ary H. Freilich, a partner in the company.
Mr. Freilich said the building, which will be renovated over the next year, will offer space to smaller tenants at rents significantly lower than those on the waterfront. He said he expected to draw tenants looking for 1,000 to 5,000 square feet that needed to be close to Manhattan and mass transit links.
"We think there is a demand for such space and that the Square has turned a corner," Mr. Freilich said, noting that without the changes "we probably would not have bought the building."
Emanuel Stern, president of the real estate division at Hartz, said the improvements also convinced his company "to begin aggressively" to market its projected building. The new building would join a 273,000-square-foot building half its size at the site, just off Kennedy Boulevard. It would rise atop an existing parking deck.
Mr. Stern said the Square was benefiting from -- and would be a cost-effective alternative to -- the waterfront, where his company plans to break ground in June on a 417,000-square-foot speculative office building. "I always said a building would not be built on the Square until someone builds on the waterfront and sets the rents," he said.
As for the Square's retail sector, Mr. Coleman of the Restoration Corporation said: "While there will continue to be traditional retailers, the Square, in order to survive, needs to diversify by attracting more national and regional chains and more service oriented stores."
He said he hoped that the current demolition of the State Theater, creating a rare 20,000-square-foot development site, would help to at least partially realize that goal. And he noted that the Loews project would stimulate nighttime activity on the Square.
Work now under way on the old Loews Theater includes upgrading its mechanical systems, refurbishing its 3,000 seats and cleaning its facade, said Colin Egan, the city's project director. He said the theater's 2,000-seat main floor was expected be open by year's end for special events, such as classic film festivals and pop concerts.
"The intent is to revive the experience of the grand old movie palaces and use it," Mr. Egan said, and to make the theater, and by extension the Square, "a destination."

GRAPHIC: Map/Photo: Rendering at left shows $7.5 million in landscaping and other street improvements now under way in Journal Square. (Journal Square Restoration Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SIDE (ATH) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331111 IRON & STEEL MILLS (53%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERSEY CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RENTING AND LEASING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); CITIES (73%); TRENDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (65%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); LEGISLATION (50%); CRIME PREVENTION (50%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



165 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: JERSEYANA;
128 Pages, 200 Photographs and Decades of History

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY 

 BODY:
Shoppers at Smiley's Country Deli and Gervin's Sport Shop on Main Street in Woodbridge wouldn't know that the spot was once occupied by Blum's Grocery Store, where the proprietor stacked the canned goods in neat pyramids a century ago. Or that the Woodbridge Sons of Veterans' Drum Corps and Firing Squad used to practice out front, dressed in Civil War-era uniforms, in ragtag formation, with fife, drums and bayonets in hand. Unless, of course, they had seen a copy of "Woodbridge," by Robert J. McEwen and Virginia Bergen Troeger.
The book, whose cover features a photograph, circa 1900, of Blum's and the drum corps, is one of 415 titles in the Images of America series published by Arcadia Books, each documenting elements of a single community's history, from the mundane to the occasionally monumental. 
 Like Mr. McEwen and Ms. Troeger, most of the authors recruited by Arcadia are people with close ties to the community and a desire to preserve its past, said Jamie Carter, senior editor for Arcadia's northern office at the company's headquarters in Dover, N.H.
Those ties seem especially strong in New Jersey, where 75 communities have books in the Images series, the most of any state. (Massachusetts is second, with 67. New York has 30, Connecticut 16.)
"What you seem to be seeing is this pride in local history," said Richard Waldron, executive director of the New Jersey Historical Commission. "There's intense sense of place here. It isn't that people disregard the state, but we have a real strong interest in our immediate locality."
Mr. Waldron also said New Jerseyans' pride in their history may be propelled by a shared exasperation with outsiders who insist the state is little more than a stretch of highway between New York and Philadelphia.
Ms. Carter commented on how the state's physical landscape has changed, saying, "I think New Jersey has seen a lot of old buildings come down, and a lot of development," said Ms. Carter. "In other states, particularly New England, preservation is taken for granted. In New Jersey, they have to work extra hard at it."
Some of Arcadia's authors, like John T. Cunningham, whose 36 books include Chatham's entry in the Images of America series, are accomplished writers. Others are first-time authors drafted by Arcadia for their particular expertise, among them Kenneth T. French, the head librarian in the New Jersey Room of the Jersey City Library, who wrote, "Jersey City, 1940-1960, the Dan McNulty Collection."
Mr. French and Ms. Carter met at a New Jersey History Issues Conference at Seton Hall University in South Orange last March. He told her about Mr. McNulty, a funeral director and official city photographer whose streetscapes captured the flavor of Jersey City in the years surrounding World War II. A 1955 aerial photo of the bustling factories, shipyards and rail lines that once occupied what is now the Exchange Place financial district provides newcomers with an instant lesson in the city's economic history. "I wanted to do the McNulty pictures because I've loved them ever since I started working here," said Mr. French, a Jersey City native who now lives in Roselle Park.
Arcadia, which employs 25 people, is well aware how narrow the market is for each of its books, and it relies on producing as many titles as possible for a worthwhile overall sales volume. It is not a vanity press -- a pride press is more like it -- and authors do receive royalties. "I get about $1 a book, which is not a king's ransom," said Mr. French, who just sold out his initial printing of 2,000 copies.
Arcadia also relies on several standard features that help keep costs down in the Images series. The cover design, a sepia-toned print taken from the collection inside, is the same for all the books. And it's no coincidence that "Belmar," "Red Bank, Volume II," "Franklin Township" and every other book is exactly 128 pages.
Arcadia requires that the standard 200 photographs in each book be compiled by the authors, who are also responsible for researching and writing the captions, Ms. Carter said. (Inevitable mistakes, sometimes pointed out by the people who live in the buildings pictured, are corrected in subsequent printings.) Arcadia is sensitive to the historical, personal and sometime monetary value of the photos, she said, and conducts a careful inventory to prevent loss.
As word of the Images of America series has spread, the company no longer has trouble recruiting authors to write works that might seem too parochial to print. "In the beginning, that caused us some skepticism," Ms. Carter said. "People could not believe we wanted to publish a book on their town."

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ARCADIA BOOKS IMAGES OF AMERICA (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARCADIA BOOKS IMAGES OF AMERICA (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; WOODBRIDGE (NJ); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORY; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; STATES (US) HISTORY (90%); WRITERS (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (79%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (78%); LITERATURE (75%); LIBRARIES (75%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: STRUNSKY, STEVE; CARTER, JAMIE ARCADIA BOOKS (93%); JAMIE CARTER (90%); KENNETH T FRENCH (69%); DAN MCNULTY COLLECTION (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



166 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 5; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: MILESTONES;
Into Halls of Fame and Second Centuries

BYLINE: By SUSAN JO KELLER 

 BODY:

HALL OF FAMERS, NO. 1 -- It's been more than 50 years since Larry Doby broke the color barrier in the American League, joining the Cleveland Indians on July 5, 1947.
He'll always be No. 2, as far as the history books are concerned, because just 11 weeks earlier, Jackie Robinson had become the first black player in major-league baseball, signing on with the Brooklyn Dodgers in the National League. 
 But Mr. Doby has always been No. 1 with fans in North Jersey, particularly in Paterson, where he grew up. On Feb. 24, Congress gave final approval to legislation that will put Mr. Doby's name on the post office at 194 Ward Street. The bill's sponsor, Representative Bill Pascrell, a former Paterson Mayor, said the honor would be "a small expression of our appreciation in comparison to the trails he blazed."
Another form of recognition came on Tuesday when the 73-year-old former outfielder was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame. On July 26, he is to travel to Cooperstown, N.Y., from his home in Montclair for the formal induction ceremony.
Speaking of Jackie Robinson, he is now standing proud in Journal Square in Jersey City, in the form of a 12-foot-tall bronze statue. The monument, unveiled on Feb. 26, commemorates a day in April 1946 when Robinson came to town with the Montreal Royals, the farm team for the Dodgers, scoring two runs in a victory over the Jersey City Giants.
The 1990's team that made the statue possible includes the Jackie Robinson Foundation, the City of Jersey City, the state Department of Commerce and Economic Development, the New Jersey Sports History Commission and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
Speaking of milestones, this is the 25th anniversary of the Jackie Robinson Foundation, a nonprofit organization founded by his wife, Rachel. This year the foundation is supporting the education of 165 J.R. Scholars at colleges across the country.
 
HALL OF FAMERS, NO. 2 -- There's no hall, but there is a Hall of Fame for 10 women chosen as the first members of the state's first "Women's Hall of Fame."
The Newark Commission on the Status of Women chose the honorees, who were recognized last week at a luncheon at the Newark Museum celebrating Women's History Month.
Those inducted -- some dead and some very much alive -- were state Senator Wynona Lipman; Sister Mary Dwyer, a community leader involved with the St. Columba Neighborhood Group; Louise Epperson, an advocate for rights of the elderly; Emily Miles, a fashion designer who has run a charm school for black girls in Newark's South Ward for 30 years; Louise Scott, who opened the state's first black beauty school; Larrie West Stalks, longtime Essex County Registrar; Constance Woodruff, a journalist who was chairwoman of the state Commission on the Status of Women; Queen E. James, a leader in the Essex County Democratic Party; Amelia Stewart, a restaurateur, and Clara Dasher, former president of the Board of Trustees for Essex County College
Until a permanent home is found for the Hall of Fame, a plaque engraved with the names of its members will hang in the Newark Museum.
 
100, AND GOING STRONG
In the beginning, the name was the Society for Work Among the Italians, an organization devoted to teaching English, cooking, sewing and industrial arts to Italian immigrants in Morristown.
Some things have changed. In 1910, the group's leaders decided to affiliate with the National Settlement House Movement. They also adopted a new name: the Morristown Neighborhood House or, more simply, "the Nabe."
Some things haven't changed at all, including the goal of making Morristown a better place to live. The Neighborhood House now offers homework help, sports programs, music appreciation and other programs to more than 500 needy children every day at its 27,000-square-foot building at 12 Flager Street.
The Neighborhood House plans a series of events throughout the year celebrating its centennial. On April 4, the jazz artist Wynton Marsalis is to perform at a gala at the Parsippany Hilton. And last week an exhibition opened at the Morris Museum, which started out at the Neighborhood House at the turn of the century; the exhibition, "100 Years of Caring for the Community," runs through May 17.
To learn more about the Neighborhood House, call (201) 538-5493 or visit its website at http:// www.neighborhood-house.org.
 
100 MORE CANDLES -- In Bergen County, another service organization has also reached the century mark: the Family and Social Services Federation.
It began in 1898 as a day nursery for the children of working parents, established by the Woman's Club of Englewood. Now, the federation offers services to children, the elderly and all ages in between in Englewood, Hackensack and Westwood.
 
WEIGHING IN -- Better late than never, let's point out that the week of March 1 to 7 was Weights and Measures Week in New Jersey.
In an official proclamation, Governor Whitman said: "The week recognizes the important service performed by state and local weights and measures officials. These men and women work to insure that all measurements in New Jersey are accurate."
Woodrow Wilson was Governor in 1911 when the Office of Weights and Measures was established. The agency, now an arm of the division of Consumer Affairs, oversees the calibration of commercial scales in every supermarket, delicatessen, butcher shop and convenience store in the state.
Want to learn more? Group tours can be arranged to see what goes on at the Weights and Measures complex at 1261 Routes 1 and 9 South in Avenel. To make an appointment, call (732) 815-4840. SUSAN JO KELLER
Milestones, a new feature that will periodically appear in this section, will take note of -- what else? -- milestones in the lives of New Jerseyans and their institutions. Suggestions may be submitted by mail to Sunday New Jersey Section, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y., 10036, Attentionn: Milestones, or by E-mail to jersey@nytimes.com.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (65%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (84%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (84%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (83%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (83%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (54%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND INDIANS (84%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (84%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (83%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (83%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (54%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: HALLS OF FAME; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS BASEBALL (93%); LEGISLATION (90%); HISTORY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); ATHLETES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MAYORS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); ELDER LAW (70%); APPROVALS (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); WOMEN (68%); PORT AUTHORITIES (63%); COSMETOLOGY & BARBER SCHOOLS (61%); FASHION DESIGNERS (50%); 

PERSON: KELLER, SUSAN JO BILL PASCRELL JR (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



167 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 5; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST VILLAGE/LOWER EAST SIDE;
City Plans to Cast Dormant Theater in a New Role

BYLINE: By EDWARD LEWINE 

 BODY:
Jason Chen and Ralph Fong were chatting on East Broadway beneath the Manhattan Bridge on Wednesday afternoon when a visitor asked them about the vacant two-story building behind them.
"It's just been sitting around," Mr. Fong said, pointing to the building. 
 Mr. Chen added, "It's a waste to leave it like that with Chinatown being so congested."
But since 1993, when the venerable Sun Sing Theater closed, 75 East Broadway has lain fallow. The city owns the property, and there have been a number of plans for it, ranging from retail space to a homeless shelter. Now there is word of a new plan for the 37,000-square-foot building.
In January, the Economic Development Corporation, which manages city-owned property, told Community Board 3 it wanted to lease the building to Bill Lam, a Chinatown developer. Last week the board decided to put off a vote on the city's plan until meetings could be held to inform the neighborhood.
"There have been quite a lot of questions about who the developer is and what the plans are," said Christopher Kui of Asian Americans for Equality, a local nonprofit development group that also had bid for the site to use it as a cultural center. "We would like to have the developer talk to the community."
Mr. Lam, said his company, the Winking Group, was making plans for a meeting in the next few weeks. He said he planned to fix up the building in return for a long-term lease. "We will have a food court," Mr. Lam said. "As well as retail space and space allocated for community groups." He would not give further details or discuss his proposed deal with the city, saying it would be inappropriate before the company holds a news conference and community meetings are held.
But already, the prospect of retailers moving into the building has raised some concerns. "I worry about traffic congestion," said Amy Chin of the New York Chinese Cultural Center. "There are already a lot of stores in the area, and I wonder about the economic impact on these existing stores."
For now, the building gathers dust beneath the roaring and rattling of the subway trains that pass across the bridge. Decaying red signs on its facade advertise former tenants, including the Sun Sing Theater and a furniture shop named Solerwitz & Law, est. 1886.
"People have been wondering about it for a long time," Mr. Chen said as he and Mr. Fong resumed their conversation. EDWARD LEWINE

GRAPHIC: Photos: Around the neighborhood there is word of a new plan for the vacant 37,000-square-foot building that was home to the Sun Sing Theater. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "TIMELINE: Bright Lights to Dark, Under the Bridge"
Through old newspaper clippings it has been possible to piece together a history of the theater at 75 East Broadway.
 
1911 -- Opens, possibly with the name Florence Theater.
1942 -- As New Canton Theater, features Chinese opera. Lobby walls lined with portraits of lavishly dressed famous actors.
1950 -- Converts to movies.
1960 -- Now named Sun Sing; seats reduced to 676 from 706 to make way for supports for upper deck of Manhattan Bridge.
1972 -- Back to featuring live Chinese perfomers, including acrobats and sword-swallowers.
1993 -- Sun Sing Theater closes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CHINESE CULTURAL CENTER (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CHINESE CULTURAL CENTER (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CHINATOWN (NYC); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; THEATERS (BUILDINGS); MANHATTAN BRIDGE (NYC); RETAIL STORES AND TRADE COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CHRONOLOGIES (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (75%); RETAILERS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); ASIAN AMERICANS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (68%); THEATER (58%); HOMELESSNESS (55%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (55%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: LEWINE, EDWARD; LAM, BILL RALPH FONG (82%); JASON CHEN (82%); BILL LAM (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



168 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Dialing for Dollars in Brazil's Telephone Privatization

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

 BODY:
BRAZIL is blessed with lush jungles, the samba and joie de vivre. The country's telephone service, however, is another matter. Getting a dial tone and holding a conversation free of static are minor miracles, and the waiting list for lines, now 13 million potential customers long, moves more slowly than an Amazonian swamp.
Many analysts and money managers view this sorry state of affairs as a world-class investment opportunity, now that the Brazilian Government is moving to completely privatize its huge telephone company, known as Telebras, as soon as July, and to divide it into 12 or so separate operations. 
 Analysts expect profits to rise smartly as soon as private managers begin cutting bloated bureaucracy and investing in new infrastructure to meet the tremendous Brazilian demand for both cellular and conventional service. Added revenues are also expected from the introduction of such services as voice mail, call-waiting, call-forwarding and "800" numbers.
"Telebras has to catch an investor's attention, given its growth potential and its current valuation," said Jeffrey A. Everett, manager of the Templeton World I fund, which holds a $100 million stake in the company. "Privatization is going to be positive, and we think the future looks very bright."
Telebras shares, traded as American depository receipts on the New York Stock Exchange, have taken a wild ride in recent months. Lifted by expectations of the coming privatization, the A.D.R.'s hit a high of $167 early last July. Then turbulence from the financial crisis in Asia spread to Latin America, and a selloff in the Brazilian stock market drove the stock down as low as $83 last fall. Since then, however, fears have subsided that Brazil will devalue its currency, the market has stabilized and the telephone stock has rebounded, to $127.5625 at Friday's close.
A research report this month from J. P. Morgan said its $170 target for the stock this year "is easily achievable" if the Brazilian Government meets its July goal for completing the privatization process. If there are legal or regulatory delays, most analysts predict that they will last no more than a few months.
In mid-February, the Brazilian Government took an important step toward its July target by appointing a consortium led by Salomon Smith Barney to guide the sale of all or virtually all of its remaining stake in the company. That stake, which is worth $25 billion, comprises 21.3 percent of the outstanding Telebras shares and, more important, 50.04 percent of its voting shares. Wall Street analysts say that many foreign companies -- AT&T, MCI, GTE, Bell Atlantic, Bell Canada, Telecom Italia and France Telecom -- are preparing bids for control of the various pieces.
"There are not too many opportunities like this in the world -- huge telephone service markets with pent-up demand," said Raymond E. Liguori, head of Latin American equity research at Merrill Lynch. "There's India, China and Brazil, and Brazil is now."
Analysts note that telephone companies in other Latin American countries have improved service and profits greatly after privatization. For example, the Venezuelan telephone network, Compania Anonima Nacional Telefonos de Venezuela, was privatized in 1991 and management was handed over to GTE. Over the next five years, the number of employees was cut by 28 percent and the number of service lines was increased by 63 percent. The company's stock, which has the symbol VNT, was initially listed on the New York Stock Exchange in November 1996 at $18. It closed on Friday at $35.50.
Donald W. Hoskins, manager of U.S. Trust's Excelsior Latin America fund, sees at least as much upside potential for Telebras. Brazil's telephone market is far less developed than those of its neighbors; it has only 9 telephone lines per 100 inhabitants compared with 20 per 100 in Argentina. Moreover, he said, "23 million out of the 170 million Brazilians have purchasing power equivalent to Europeans."
AND even with the rise in Telebras shares since October, the stock still seems relatively inexpensive. It is trading at roughly 10 times its estimated 1998 earnings per share, Mr. Hoskins said, compared with an average of more than 12 for other Latin American telephone companies and of more than 17 for North American ones.
"It's cheap," Mr. Hoskins said.
When Telebras is privatized, it is also expected to be divided into 12 more manageable pieces, including one long-distance company, eight cellular companies and three regional "baby Brases." So any A.D.R. owned before the privatization will probably be split into 12 separate holdings, and analysts have come up with four possible investment plays.
One strategy is to buy Telebras now, and to sell it just before it is privatized and spun apart. According to this view, many investors will sell the bulk of the spinoffs immediately after privatization because they will not want to keep track of 12 foreign securities with various levels of liquidity and future growth potential.
Also, "investors fear that other investors will dump the little guys," said Luanne D. Zurlo, director of Latin American equity research at Credit Suisse First Boston. "It's a knee-jerk reaction."
Such thinking anticipates a second tack, which is to buy and hold Telebras through the privatization, and then, quickly, jettison the shares of a few of the weaker spinoffs before they tumble. Some possible candidates are the four cellular companies planned for the impoverished northern provinces.
A third option is to hold all 12 securities, weather the expected turbulence in some of the spinoffs in the first year after privatization and then reap the benefits over the long term. And a fourth, contrarian play is to wait for the breakup and the subsequent declines in some stocks, pick up those whose prices are driven down further than seems justified, and then hold them for the long term.
Mr. Liguori, the Merrill Lynch strategist, says he strongly believes in the third approach.
"Most individual investors should follow my Aunt Margaret's strategy," he said. "She owned AT&T prior to the breakup and she held on to all the pieces for more than a decade and she had some phenomenal returns."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Profits on the Line?"
The stock of Telebras, Brazil's telephone company, has been hit hard by reverberations from the Asian economic crisis. That fall and the company's continuing privatization make the security a good buy, some analysts say. Prices since Jan. 1997. Friday's close: $127.5625. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TELB3 (BOVESPA) (92%); FTE (PAR) (61%); FTE (NYSE) (61%); FTE (BIT) (61%); TIT (BIT) (50%); TI (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (61%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TELEBRAS (CO) TELECOMUNICACOES BRASILEIRAS SA (TELEBRAS) (92%); FRANCE TELECOM SA (61%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); TELECOM ITALIA SPA (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: TELEBRAS (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (74%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; PRIVATIZATION PRIVATIZATION (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); COMMON STOCK (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (76%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (76%); CURRENCIES (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); DEVALUATION (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD DONALD W HOSKINS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



169 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Who Cares What Owners Think?

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Who owns American companies?
The management, of course. Shareholders are tolerated, but managers rule. 
 That is an exaggeration, to be sure. But it summarizes the attitude of directors at two companies that have faced takeover bids this year. Fearing that shareholders might vote against the incumbent directors, the directors decided to change the rules.
In one case, Computer Associates gave up last week on its effort to acquire Computer Sciences. It wasn't that shareholders bought into claims of Computer Sciences that the $108-a-share offer was too low, for the price plunged when the offer was pulled. Instead, it was the moves the Computer Sciences board took to disenfranchise the owners. It hurriedly changed the company's bylaws to assure that shareholders could not throw out the board at a special meeting and to make it possible for the company to delay its annual meeting. The would-be acquirer was fighting those moves in court, but there was no certainty it would prevail.
Meanwhile, a Connecticut auto parts maker, Echlin Inc., is resisting a takeover proposal from another parts maker, the SPX Corporation. Echlin wants to end the right of shareholders to throw out the board through a special shareholder meeting and has asked the Connecticut Legislature to do just that by amending the state's corporation law. But the proposed law would go further. Even if SPX managed to persuade Echlin shareholders to throw out the current board, the new board would not be allowed to approve a merger with SPX for five years. Only directors who were in office before the offer was made could vote to approve such a deal sooner.
If America worked that way, perhaps the Federalist Party would still run the Government. It's reminiscent of the line about African democracy in the 1960's: One man, one vote, one time.
In the 1980's, shareholders began to wrest power away from managers, in part because of the threat of hostile takeovers. But the trend reversed as companies played on the fears engendered by the layoffs that sometimes followed leveraged takeovers. Legislators and judges became more sympathetic to management.
One indication of that power shift can be seen in the low level of dividends now paid to shareholders. As a percentage of corporate profits, dividends are at a record low.
"The managements of U.S. companies today stride the earth as global folk heroes," says Peter L. Bernstein, the economic historian and investment adviser. "Today, management is responsible for the reinvestment of close to two-thirds of the company's earnings. Tax considerations aside, investors are free to deploy for themselves only one-third of the company's earnings. Does this division lead to optimal allocations of capital? Whatever happened to the notion that the free market knows best?"
The low-dividend policy serves the bosses in another way. Most corporate executives have a lot of stock options in their companies, but few actual shares. And while option holders benefit from rises in the stock price, they do not share in dividend payments.
It is understandable that few shareholders are up in arms about their loss of power. After all, stock prices have zoomed in recent years, and investors are making money. It will probably not be until the good times are over, and a long bear market is in force, that the owners of American companies start looking for ways to take back the prerogatives of ownership.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Management Wins"
Price of Computer Sciences stock, Feb.-Mar.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SPW (NYSE) (83%); DAN (NYSE) (82%); CA (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333996 FLUID POWER PUMP & MOTOR MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS332912 FLUID POWER VALVE & HOSE FITTING MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SPX CORP (83%); DANA HOLDING CORP (82%); CA INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CORPORATIONS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT SHAREHOLDERS (91%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); MERGERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); APPROVALS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (67%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (67%); COMPANY EARNINGS (64%); BONDS (60%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; BERNSTEIN, PETER L

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



170 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Not Alpha or Omega: Risk, Small Caps and Beta

BYLINE: By NOELLE KNOX 

 BODY:
FIRST it was the market drop in October. Next came the Asian financial crisis. Then, last week, Intel delivered its gloomy revenue predictions. The market never lacks for traumas, and when they come it is small-capitalization stocks that often have the wildest fluctuations.
That is why some investors try to control risk in their pursuit of the small caps' historically higher returns. The investors may choose to buy "value," or low-priced, stocks, for example; if volatility arrives and the stocks fall, at least they won't tumble from too high a perch. Others select small companies that pay high dividends, which can help cushion stock price declines. 
 There is another way. Choose small stocks that have been historically less volatile than their peers. The measure of this volatility is called beta. It is a cute word for the results of an ugly regression analysis, but don't worry. You don't have to do any math because you can get stock betas from several places -- your broker, for example, or free on the Internet from America Online.
Betas are small numbers, typically falling between 0 and 2. A beta must always be read in relation to a particular index, which, for purposes of the calculation, is assigned a beta of 1. Stocks with betas greater than 1 are turbo-charged, rising more than the index does on good days and falling more than it does on bad days. Stocks with betas less than 1 are more stable than the index, both rising and falling less than it does.
Pioneered in the 1960's by William F. Sharpe, a Nobel Prize-winning economist at Stanford University, the beta concept led to the invention of index mutual funds. The Vanguard Index 500, for example, holds shares in all the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and hence has a volatility roughly equal to the index itself.
Despite the general volatility of small stocks, there are placid but attractive vehicles for investing in them, like the T. Rowe Price Small Cap Stock fund. It has had annualized returns of 28 percent over the past three years.
"I get morose because the market's up and I'm lagging, but on days when the market's down, I get to go home happy," said Preston G. Athey, one of its portfolio managers. The fund has a beta of 0.63 in relation to the Russell 2000, the benchmark index for small-company issues.
Or consider the Tab Products Company, based in Palo Alto, Calif. This small company, which had revenues of $155 million for the 12 months ended last May, makes office products and filing systems. And it has been successful, with a 36 percent increase in profits last year, a 49 percent jump in its stock price since the start of 1997 and even a 1.5 percent yearly dividend.
But this small-cap stock has been relatively stable, too. When the Russell 2000 plunged 6.1 percent last October, for example, shares of Tab Products fell just 3 percent.
"I would expect it to outperform the market but not be as volatile," said Samuel Eisenstadt, research director of Value Line, a market research organization. Value Line ranks Tab Products near the top of its list of stocks considered good investments based on such factors as earnings and volatility.
But betas, which are based on past performance, do not always predict future volatility.
Consider the Cheesecake Factory, a restaurant and bakery chain in Calabasas Hills, Calif. Analysts would have expected this high-beta stock to fall more than the Russell 2000 on Oct. 27, but instead it fell less, just 5.13 percent.
Even more, if there is a major event for a company -- a scientific breakthrough, say, or the arrest of a chief executive for money laundering -- all bets are off for divining future performance through beta.
Nevertheless, if a stock or mutual fund was risky in the past, it tends to be risky in the future, said James R. Raker, a senior analyst at Morningstar, the financial publisher in Chicago. Many experts say betas are most accurate in predicting the performance of a diverse portfolio of stocks, like Mr. Athey's fund.
Several other small-cap mutual funds have low betas and solid returns. For example, the Royce Total Return fund has a beta of 0.35 in relation to the Russell 2000; its 1997 returns modestly outpaced those of that index, 23.7 percent to 22.3 percent. The Scout Regional and Schwartz Value funds had respective betas against the Russell of 0.55 and 0.60, and 1997 returns of 23 percent and 28 percent.
Investors should not look to beta alone, however. They should consider a company's earnings, debt level and the like, or, for a fund, its managers' reputations and its performance compared with similar funds.
"Over the last few decades there have been major advances in academic finance to help us forecast the future volatility of a stock," said Theodore R. Aronson, managing partner of Aronson + Partners, quantitative investment managers with $1.2 billion in assets. But, he said, "you need to look at more than the statistical zigs and zags."'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); AOL (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS453210 OFFICE SUPPLIES & STATIONERY STORES (80%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC5943 STATIONERY STORES (80%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (80%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: TAB PRODUCTS CO LLC (80%); INTEL CORP (58%); AOL INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); INDEX FUNDS (71%); STATISTICAL METHOD (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (63%); 

PERSON: KNOX, NOELLE

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



171 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3706 words

HEADLINE: America's Treadmill Economy

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

DATELINE: SCRANTON, Pa.

 BODY:
THE caller insisted that a telephone number must exist for the Kimberly-Clark Corporation in Voorhees, N.J. He had called there once, and now he demanded that Sandra Singh find the number. His voice rose in anger when she said that only one New Jersey listing for Kimberly-Clark popped up on her computer screen -- in the town of Spotswood, not Voorhees. "Perhaps they moved," Ms. Singh offered, sympathetically. Only gradually did he give in, finally accepting the Spotswood number she proferred so amiably.
The call had lasted three minutes, an eternity in the world of telephone directory assistance, with its bent toward electronic voices and 10-second automated responses. But in corporate America, where the talk everywhere is of greater productivity -- producing more, faster, without adding human labor -- the AT&T Corporation has gone in the opposite direction, adding dozens of directory-assistance operators like Ms. Singh, who works at a new operator center here. She is trained to be patient with customers, so they won't hang up in anger and jump to a competitor. 
 "Our new directory assistance service has less to do with traditional notions of productivity than it does with using a personalized service to create a competitive advantage," said Howard McNally, AT&T's vice president for consumer product management.
The AT&T story is showing up in various guises at many companies. While productivity may be a national goal, conflicting pressures are getting in the way, pushing companies to add thousands of hours of labor as they fight to hang onto increasingly demanding and flighty customers.
The effect is a frantically busy economy -- call it the Treadmill Economy -- that has been creating more than 300,000 new jobs a month. It is an economy that adds workers rather than operate more efficiently. And while that keeps unemployment low, it is greater productivity that makes possible healthy raises and higher living standards.
"What we are beginning to recognize," said Paul David, an economic historian at Stanford University, "is that companies are increasingly embracing strategies that pay off in added revenue and higher profits for individual companies, but not necessarily in greater productivity for the nation."
That conclusion runs counter to a view that has become popular over the last two years among many experts -- including, at times, Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve. They have proclaimed a new era of rising productivity, in which a computer-equipped nation is returning to the rapid rate of improvement of earlier generations.
The trouble is that the new era fails to show up in the Government's productivity data, which measure how much national income, or output, is generated from an average hour of work, or input. The optimists say that the statistics are wrong, or that they have not yet caught up to the improvement taking place, or that they fail to reflect the higher quality built into some products and services.
But the experiences of American companies like AT&T suggest that the statistics are closer to the truth than the optimism is. Considerable amounts of labor are apparently going into design, advertising and marketing -- to make one pair of sneakers, for example, or one telephone directory system seem different from another, but without increasing the total output of sneakers or of responses to requests for directory assistance. As for quality, the improvements are much less substantial than the optimists claim.
The question of whether a new era is near is of more than academic interest. In any country, productivity is the main road to a rising standard of living. Only when a nation's workers produce more in a given amount of time can hourly or weekly or annual wages rise across the board. Rising output from the same amount of labor can also free workers and capital for other endeavors that a society deems desirable -- more day care for children, for example; the development of supersonic jets; more schools and teachers, or 100-mile-an-hour commuter trains.
But the country's standard of living, in fact, has not been rising in any significant way. Median household income is very much in line with the meager increases in productivity over the last quarter-century -- a prolonged slowdown unprecedented in the American experience. That helps to explain the feeling expressed by so many people -- particularly those whose incomes are not linked to the rapid rise in the stock market -- that they are working harder and longer with no appreciable sense that their wealth is growing.
The new-era talk has been circulating only in the last two years, as the economy has boomed and as wages have begun to improve. Profits have also done well in the last couple of years -- another bit of evidence, at least in the optimists' eyes, that productivity is improving. There has, in fact, been an upward spurt in productivity in the last year, but the average annual increase in the 1990's is only 1.2 percent, almost unchanged from the 70's and 80's. For 100 years until the early 70's -- America's industrial heyday -- productivity rose at an average annual rate of over 2 percent.
Critics of the new-era thesis note that a corporation can raise profitability, at least for awhile, without improving productivity. It can invest more in marketing and innovation, for example, to make a product or service seem different, and better, than a competitor's. The issue, they say, isn't that the growing service sector is less efficient than manufacturing or harder to measure, as some argue in explaining the nation's poor productivity performance. Rather, the critics say, the drag on productivity comes from the great quantities of labor that are expended, in both manufacturing and the service sector, to hold on to customers or to lure them away from other companies.
 
Now, Four Ways to Get a Phone Number
That is what is happening at AT&T. Even as it makes a point of paring its work force, it adds other workers -- either on its own payroll or through outsourcing -- to stave off new challengers to its bread-and-butter long-distance phone service.
Ms. Singh is one of the additions. Dial zero twice from most telephones, and people like Ms. Singh come on the line. She is a 35-year-old divorced mother of four who joined AT&T when the company opened a directory-assistance center last May on the upper floors of a stately former department store here. The store had flourished when Scranton was a prosperous coal mining and railroad center; now the city is riddled with unemployment and low wages.
"What we are betting is that consumers will be so captivated by our new 'Double 00' service that they cannot imagine dealing with our competitors," said Mark Siegel, an AT&T spokesman.
Ms. Singh and her colleagues, who earn $6.20 an hour, are paid to be pleasant and patient. Ask one to list the names and phone numbers of all the delicatessens on Sixth Avenue in Manhattan and she -- the majority are women -- will go patiently through 30 delis that come up on the screen before the caller has had enough.
"You get a warm feeling from these conversations," Ms. Singh said. "You don't come away from the job feeling brain-dead."
But Ms. Singh's role represents a considerable deterioration in productivity. Once, AT&T funneled requests for directory assistance to the Bell companies that provide phone service in each region of the country. Because the Bell companies actually operate the phones, they also have the most up-to-date information. For years, national directory assistance consisted of this single, linked system, orchestrated by AT&T.
But then the regional Bell companies began jockeying to enter long-distance phone service in competition with AT&T. And in 1995, AT&T decided that it no longer wanted to rely on potential competitors for national directory assistance.
That was when the proliferation in manpower began. Call 411 today, and you still reach a local operator. (In some cities, like Denver or Tampa, Fla., local operators for the first time will provide long-distance numbers, too.) A second layer of manpower kicks in when an AT&T customer dials 555-1212 preceded by an area code. No longer does an operator from a Bell company respond. Instead, the voice is that of a recently hired AT&T operator, one of more than 4,000 working directly for the phone company or for a contractor, Excell Agent Services, based in Phoenix.
Ms. Singh represents still another layer of new workers, a small but growing group of elite operators stationed in Scranton and in another recently opened AT&T center in Augusta, Ga. Their job is to offer the extra courtesy and patience not available at 555-1212, with its electronic voices and faster pace.
And, finally, a fourth layer of workers has sprung up: the hundreds of people who scramble to put together new data bases of telephone numbers, now that the Bell companies no longer make their numbers available through the cooperative system that AT&T once organized.
Excell is AT&T's data-base supplier. In Rube Goldberg fashion, it draws from published phone books, the Internet, postal and real estate records, mail-order houses and a cottage industry that has mushroomed to supply phone companies with phone numbers.
"I would say that 500 people are probably employed collecting numbers who would not be necessary if the regional Bell companies were still making their numbers available," said Dan Evanoff, chief executive of Excell. The Bells offer their numbers to others, but under terms that AT&T considers unpalatable.
 
How Novelty Gnaws At Productivity
Beyond AT&T, the drag on productivity seems woven into modern American business. Dozens of entrepreneurs, for example, invested thousands of hours to develop 4,000 computer games for the Christmas selling season last year, but fewer than 10 percent actually caught on with customers. In the productivity data, that represented a lot of labor input and not much output.
The obsession with novelty is also a big consumer of labor. New Balance Inc., the sneaker company, introduces a new, slightly different shoe every 17 weeks, investing thousands of labor hours in the design and marketing of each variation. And inexpensive labor dents productivity at United Parcel Service, which operates a huge package distribution center in Louisville, Ky., that looks like a 19th-century factory, crisscrossed with conveyor belts.
Seven thousand people work at the center, picking packages off the belts, sorting them and loading them into cargo containers for shipment. The work force has doubled in a decade as U.P.S.'s cargo planes bring in more and more packages.
If the Louisville center were to be automated, the work force could be reduced by 15 to 20 percent, said Kenneth E. Shapero, a company spokesman. Until now, the high cost of automating the center could not be justified, Mr. Shapero said, not in a city where U.P.S.'s wage bill averages only $11 an hour. For U.P.S., raising productivity -- increasing the number of packages that each employee can sort in an hour with the help of equipment -- has been less profitable than adding workers. But labor costs keep rising, Mr. Shapero said, and as a result, U.P.S. announced last week that it would build an $860 million labor-saving distribution center in Louisville.
The greatest drag on productivity, however, appears to be coming from the huge investment in manpower to develop products and services that are only slightly different from their predecessors, and then to advertise and market these variations. AT&T's national directory service falls into this category. So do New Balance's sneakers. And so, too, do the 401(k) plans managed by the Principal Financial Group, an insurance company based in Des Moines.
Principal administers the 401(k) plans of 37,000 companies with two million participating employees. The contracts are with the companies, but Principal deals directly with each worker. From one point of view, efficiency at Principal is greatly improved, said Steven Hensley, a vice president. Thanks to computers and new software, the 4,000 employees in Principal's pension division have in recent years doubled the amount of work they get done in an hour. But this is largely offset by the proliferation of tasks and services that Principal requires of its workers to satisfy customers.
"We are returning to a kind of contemporary crafts economy," said Jeffrey Madrick, an author specializing in economics who is writing a book on productivity. "We have shifted from a kind of standard mass-market economy to one that requires more creative input from its workers."
Mr. Hensley ticks off the labor and the skills involved in Principal's 401(k) services. There are the hours spent reaching new employees at the 37,000 companies, soliciting their enrollment. And the hours invested in a Spanish-language operation, in seminars for retirees and in the installation of a sophisticated system that allows people to see their 401(k) balance sheets on the Internet, at any time, rather than calling an "800" number or waiting for quarterly statements. And finally there are the hours invested by 150 consultants, hired in the last seven years, who give avuncular advice over the phone on taxes, investment, estate planning and the like.
"You don't do this if there is not a payback," Mr. Hensley said. The payback last year was an increase of 4,000 in the number of companies that contract with Principal. But only 2,000 were newly establishing 401(k)'s for their workers. The remaining 2,000 already had 401(k) plans and only switched them to Principal from other suppliers.
For Principal, that competitive victory is fine. But in the national productivity statistics, the company's investment in extra hours of work shows up as a labor "input" not entirely offset by a rise in "output," because half the new business is simply a shifting of existing business -- existing output -- to a new supplier.
Economists argue that the losers in this competition start to downsize, cutting back labor hours no longer needed to serve customers that have switched to Principal. But Mr. Hensley doubts that these cutbacks actually occur. Too many companies try to hold on and make a comeback.
"The marketplace may be forcing out some inefficient suppliers," Mr. Hensley said. "Maybe over the long run there will be a lot of that. But the fact is that we have more competitors today than 10 years ago. There is an oversupply."
What is true for fund managers is true for manufacturers, too. The Gillette Company finds that it cannot sell the same model of razor for more than three or four years without innovations. "People don't want to pay a premium anymore for aging models," said Edward DeGraan, an executive vice president.
So, in July, Gillette will begin to ship the fourth version since 1985 of its "wet shave" razor -- one not yet put on public view but likely to be only marginally different from the last version. That has been the pattern. One feature of the current model, for example, is a set of fins, resembling a miniature Venetian blind, designed to expose more of the facial hair for a cleaner shave. Another feature is a white strip above the twin blades that produces "a highly lubricious chemical that increases glide across the cheeks," Mr. DeGraan said. The strip grew wider and more lubricious from one model to the next.
Gillette spends tens of millions of dollars in the redesign and testing of such innovations, in new or retooled machinery and in advertising and promotion -- outlays that show up in the national productivity data as roughly the equivalent of thousands of hours of labor input. In Gillette's case, the total cost of this input has risen to 18 percent of net sales, from 14.4 percent in 1990.
Gillette makes up for much of these costs by finding ever more efficient ways to run its assembly lines. And, indeed, manufacturing's portion of the company's sales dollar has fallen.
"What we have managed to do is add to the value of the shaving experience," said John F. Bush, another Gillette vice president, "and we get a higher price and a greater profit margin when we do this."
Yet Gillette, a much-admired manufacturer, may not be doing much more than a struggling services company like AT&T to build the nation's income through greater productivity. "When we contrast what is happening today with 1960, we find many hours of labor going into the development of novelty features that are not durable," said Mr. David of Stanford. "There appears to be a greater outlay of labor today in replacing existing products with new ones that are not that much different."
 
Finding Some Gains Through Innovation
Of course, there are some real productivity gains in America. Allied Signal Inc., based in Morristown, N.J., has introduced an airplane cockpit device that warns pilots of obstructions 60 seconds before a potential collision. Until 1996, the most up-to-date devices offered only a 10-second warning, often not enough time for an airliner to avert trouble.
Advances in computer memory, which became cheaper, made the new device possible. It stores a terrain map of the world in a container not much larger than a shoe box, incorporating geographic data declassified only after the cold war.
"We thought up the concept 10 years ago," said Frank Daly, a vice president at Allied Signal, "but the computers needed then to store a map of the world would have taken up three rows of seats."
In productivity data, however, the device is potentially important because of its spinoffs. The device improves flight safety in bad weather, which means that flights are less likely to be canceled. More flights mean more output from the same crews, who spend fewer hours on the ground, waiting for the weather to clear.
Safer flights also constitute a quality improvement, which some economists say should be counted in the productivity data as greater output from the same labor input. Many such improvements are indeed included, and if every innovation counted as better quality, "the productivity growth rate would soar," said Richard Nelsen, an economist at Columbia University.
But not every innovation is an improvement in quality, and often for good reason.
AT&T argues that the "Double 00" directory assistance furnished by Ms. Singh and her colleagues is a quality improvement. But maybe not. Every time Ms. Singh cannot find a phone number, she worries that the customer may indeed be right -- that the number exists and that her data base is out of date.
So she shifts the call to a customer assistant like Laura Wolfe, a 29-year-old college dropout who earns $1 an hour more than Ms. Singh and is counting on AT&T to subsidize tuition so she can go back to school. If Ms. Wolfe cannot find the number either, she makes a discreet call to the local Bell operator in the city in question. What she does, in effect, is dial 411, as if she were calling from any household in the city.
Eight times in less than an hour late last month, she dialed 411 in various cities to come up with numbers, giving them to callers and also logging them on a sheet of paper that would be faxed to Excell in Phoenix later in the day for inclusion in the growing data base.
Some callers are clearly annoyed by the delay, even when they finally get the number they want. "Do you know what the problem was?" one caller asked after being made to wait for several minutes.
"No, ma'am," Ms. Wolfe replied.
 
A Simple Equation With Complicated Results
Productivity, as measured by the Labor Department, comes in two flavors.
The most common one, illustrated in the chart below, measures changes in productivity by adding up all of the nation's output in a given period and dividing that total by all the hours of work required to produce that output.
If American industry produced $100,000 in new goods and services in each of two years and spent 10,000 hours each year producing that output, then the productivity growth rate would be zero. But if the labor input declined in the second year to 9,700 hours for the same $100,000 in output, then productivity would have risen by 3 percent.
From 1870 until the early 1970's, America's productivity, in the nonfarm business sector, rose by more than 2 percent a year on average.
That average was pulled up by the economy's strong performance in the roughly 30-year golden age after World War II, when technological advances -- and the devastation left elsewhere by the war -- helped American industry to dominate the globe.
Since 1973, however, the average has been roughly 1 percent, despite occasional upward spurts -- including a blip over the last year or so. Explanations for the drop include the industrial rebirth of the rest of the world, but the exact reasons remain a matter of huge debate.
In measuring productivity, the trickiest factor in the equation is output. It is not simply the sum of what people pay for goods and services -- the cost of a razor, for example, or of getting a phone number from a telephone directory- assistance operator.
Rather, when the Government calculates output, it factors out inflation, to make the output figure more representative of the quantity of goods and services produced in the economy. And it factors in quality. Improved food packaging, for instance, maintains freshness -- and thus raises the quality of food products and their contribution to national output.
Some economists argue that the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics fails to give enough credit in the output column for improvements in quality. If the critics are correct, the productivity growth rate may be understated.
The second measure of productivity growth, called multifactor productivity, differs from the statistics shown here in one major respect. Input, the denominator in the productivity equation, is expanded to include not just the hours worked but also capital investment -- in essence, the machinery and tools that labor uses.
Multifactor productivity also showed robust growth before 1973 and a sharp slowdown ever since. LOUIS UCHITELLE

GRAPHIC: Photos: While many telephone companies have increasingly turned to automation, AT&T is paying people to be patient and polite with callers. Among the 350 workers at its directory-assistance center in Scranton, Pa., are, from left, Joe Saporito, Aileen Berry, Judy Hurley and Laurel Wolfe. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times); United Parcel Service said last week that it would build an $860 million labor-saving distribution center in Louisville, Ky. Dawn Overall was among 7,000 employees who manually sorted packages there last year. (Michael Clevenger for The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 
Chart: "Going Nowhere Fast"
The economy is generating millions of new jobs every year, but most Americans' standard of living is stagnant. What's wrong? With new competitors all around and customers growing more demanding, companies are spending furiously just to hang onto market share. And that means the nation's productivity -- the source of new wealth -- is growing very slowly. (Photo by Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)
 
MANUFACTURING Companies pour money and labor into minor refinements of products. But the design and promotion costs offset manufacturing efficiencies. Gillette, for example, has fiddled with the design of its "wet-shave" razor four times in 13 years.
 
SERVICES To suit a public that wants mass services tailored to individual needs, businesses from insurers to phone companies add staff faster than customers. AT&T has hired hundreds of low-paid workers to patiently field directory-assistance calls it doesn't want to lose to the Baby Bells and other competitors.
 
LOGISTICS In a nation that wants its packages delivered overnight, it has been cheaper for United Parcel Service to maintain high staffing levels at some distribution centers than to eliminate jobs -- but bolster productivity -- through automation.
 
(pg. 1)
 
Graph:
 
1947-1973
American industry is on top of the world. Productivity booms.
 
1973-1979
The Arab oil embargo shakes America. Slumping productivity accompanies higher oil prices and more global competition.
 
1979-1990
American industry falls further behind; the Rust Belt becomes a national symbol. Wages and productivity stagnate. But companies attempt a revitalization.
 
1990-present
Corporate America regains its global supremacy, but in ways that hold back productivity.
 
(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); KMB (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (92%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (77%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP; UNITED PARCEL SERVICE AT&T INC (95%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (92%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP; UNITED PARCEL SERVICE BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (77%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; PRODUCTIVITY; WAGES AND SALARIES; STANDARD OF LIVING; AUTOMATION; HIRING AND PROMOTION EMPLOYMENT (91%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); LIVING STANDARDS (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); JOB CREATION (67%); HISTORY (66%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (65%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; DAVID, PAUL (PROF) ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



172 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Another Victory For Death in Serbia

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES 

DATELINE: PRISTINA, Serbia

 BODY:
OF all the tinderboxes in the Balkans, Kosovo may be the nastiest. It is the place where an armed rebellion by the ethnic Albanian majority against their Serb rulers could easily draw in restive Albanian minorities in neighboring Macedonia and Montenegro. Perhaps it could then draw in Albania itself, then Turkey and Greece. That would produce the true nightmare: an international conflict that would pit the region's Orthodox Christians against its Muslims on a large scale.
Such nightmares have been part of the world's thinking about the Balkans for a decade now. Indeed, when NATO forces were sent to Bosnia three years ago, policy makers felt they were forestalling just such a messy escalation. 
 Now, it seems, they are going to have to think again about Kosovo, a tiny Serbian province where 90 percent of the people are ethnic Albanians, where armed rebellion is surfacing and where the Serbian government has vowed to keep control no matter what the world thinks of its methods.
It may sound like Kosovo is Bosnia all over again, but that is wrong -- both because escalation may be much more difficult to control here and because Kosovo came first.
The scenario of warfare radiating from Serbia was, in fact, first written not about Bosnia but about Kosovo in the late 1980's. It was there that the Serbian dictator Slobodan Milosevic set Yugoslavia on the path to disintegration by appealing to the ethnic insecurity of Kosovo's tiny, but powerful, Serb minority, which attaches mythic importance to the region as the site of a medieval battle lost to the Turks.
What followed offers a lesson in how intricately fear, distrust and intrigue can act together to defeat the best instincts of people who would prefer to use nonviolent political methods in the Balkans. Americans and others may have thought they were calming the region by enlisting Mr. Milosevic as a partner in the accords that have pacified Bosnia. But people in Kosovo see it differently: To them, watching Bosnia has only confirmed their worst fears about Serbian force and Western detachment, and this is a big reason their land now seems on a descent into open warfare.
When Yugoslavia was a Communist federation, Kosovo enjoyed the status of an autonomous province within the Serbian republic. But in 1989, Mr. Milosevic had chosen as his path to power an appeal to Serb fears of groups like Kosovo's Albanians, and he revoked the region's autonomy. That was what set off the first alarm bells.
 
The Nonviolent Approach
The response within Kosovo defied the worst predictions, however. Most of the rest of Yugoslavia dissolved in bloodshed in the next three years, but a remarkable civility reined in the tactics of Kosovo's ethnic Albanian leaders. They too wanted independence, but they knew the terrible price to be paid for indulging in violent revolt.
So instead, they sent activists to seminars in Norway to study nonviolence. They withdrew from all Serbian state institutions, forming their own shadow government, school system and health care service. Taxes were dutifully collected, even from the hundreds of thousands of ethnic Albanians living abroad, to run the administration. And there was little violence.
As Kosovo's Albanians see it today, though, the lack of drama in their land lulled Washington into a false belief that there was always another day to work things out -- and room to naively hope that Mr. Milosevic's brutal Serbian regime could be reformed.
It is ironic that the Dayton accord of 1995, which produced the uneasy peace in Bosnia, was probably the signal event in the formation of an armed insurgency in Kosovo. The leadership in the capital, Pristina, watched in disbelief as the fate of Kosovo was never raised in Dayton, and as other Yugoslav groups that had mounted armed rebellions achieved recognition and even independence. It was especially galling that the self-styled Bosnian Serb republic, which had overseen the expulsion and murder of tens of thousands of Muslims, obtained quasi-legitimacy in Dayton while Kosovo was ignored.
"It was a terrible, terrible lesson," said a minister in the self-styled government who asked to remain unidentified. "We learned that violence works. It is the only way in this part of the world to achieve what you want and get the attention of the international community."
Meanwhile, in the years that the dispute in Kosovo was allowed to drag on without being addressed from outside, the animosities and divisions between the province's ethnic Albanians, most of whom are Muslims, and its Serbs, who are Orthodox Christians, only deepened. Today, most students are handed diplomas from "the Republic of Kosovo" and know Serbs only as policemen and soldiers. The police patrol Pristina in flak jackets and carry automatic assault rifles. A privileged Serb minority of fewer than 100,000, which has a lock on authority and runs the state companies, lords it over an impoverished populace of 2 million, among whom the unemployment rate is 85 percent.
 
The End of Illusions
Any remaining illusions that Belgrade might begin a dialogue with the ethnic Albanians or restore the region's autonomy were shattered last week when police and paramilitary units, some of which served in Bosnia, responded to the emergence of a Kosovo guerrilla army by going on a killing spree that took scores of lives. Mr. Milosevic has ordered his forces to conduct an all-out campaign to put down the rebels despite warnings from Washington that what is needed is dialogue, and that Serbia could again become a pariah nation.
But such warnings present a quandary for Washington that recalls its deep initial ambivalence about getting too deeply involved in Bosnia. However much the Clinton Administration wants to see Kosovo's problems settled peacefully, it has made it clear that it also wants to see Kosovo remain part of Serbia -- if with more autonomy -- rather than set a precedent for further splintering the Balkans.
So even if Mr. Milosovic is facing a new round of sanctions, he may feel secure in the calculation that there is little more that Washington seems ready to do. Certainly, the ethnic Albanians would be hard put to stand up to his Interior Ministry's well-trained special police units, who have never shied away from wholesale slaughter.
But that is not the way many ethnic Albanians see it. For them, the guerrillas hold out their final hope for an independent state amid a bitter sense that the outside world betrayed them by ignoring the resistance movement when it was nonviolent. And there is the naive belief that because violence worked in Croatia and Bosnia it can work here.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Serbian police beat an ethnic Albanian last week during riots in Pristina, capital of the province of Kosovo. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Kosovo, Yugoslavia: United Nations Preventive Deployment Force (UNPREDEP) has a unit of 25 police, 470 troops (including 345 Americans) and 35 observers stationed in Skopje.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); ALBANIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); KOSOVO (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); TURKEY (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (88%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS PREVENTIVE DEPLOYMENT FORCE (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS PREVENTIVE DEPLOYMENT FORCE (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); ALBANIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); KOSOVO (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); TURKEY (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (88%); 

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); RELIGION (71%); ARMED FORCES (55%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



173 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Hero to U.S., Yawn to Russia

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
WHEN Russia's Prime Minister summed up his accomplishments for the past five years, he was a little weak on what former President George Bush liked to call the vision thing.
"If one considers what could have been done, and then what we did do over this long time, one can conclude that something was done," Viktor S. Chernomyrdin said. 
 This week the steady but uninspiring Mr. Chernomyrdin is to meet in Washington with Vice President Al Gore to discuss everything from foreign investment to arms control. But will Mr. Gore be meeting Russia's future president, as many American policymakers hope, or simply a gray and unelectable political survivor?
From Mikhail Gorbachev to Boris N. Yeltsin, the United States has a long history of pinning its hopes on Russian leaders even after their authority has begun to wane.
Mr. Chernomyrdin's power is growing. But Russia's second most important official looks very different through the prism of Washington politics than he does in Moscow. The Clinton Administration sees Mr. Chernomyrdin as a stabilizing figure to whom Washington can turn to smooth over the rough patches in the American-Russian relationship. He may not always deliver the answers Washington wants, but he is always there to take the call.
"He has been a steady Eddie," a senior Clinton Administration official said. "He has not been an outspoken proponent of reform but a lot of reform has moved forward under his authority. He has learned and grown a great deal."
 
A C-plus Student
But where Americans see stability, Russian reformers see stagnation. In Moscow, Mr. Chernomyrdin is viewed as a "C-plus" student whose principal talent is his ability to get along with seemingly everyone while avoiding tough decisions.
The Communists like him because he is amenable to compromise, even if it means agreeing to a budget that vastly exceeds any credible projection of revenue. Mr. Yeltsin likes him because he has demonstrated his loyality and is not a political threat.
Russia's bankers and energy barons have embraced him as their best hope of retaining their inside connections after Mr. Yeltsin leaves the scene.
"Chernomyrdin has been practically selected by the oligarchy as a successor to Yeltsin," said Andrei Piontkovsky, a Russian political analyst. "They choose him because he is ready to insure the status quo, the same incestuous relationship between power and money."
If Mr. Chernomyrdin can get along with Communists as well as energy barons, it is because he has been both. The son of a truck driver, the 59-year-old Mr. Chernomyrdin began as a compressor operator in central Russia.
Later, he worked for the local Communist Party in the city of Orsk, and became the minister of the Soviet gas industry in 1985. When the ministry was transformed into Gazprom, the huge and semi-privatized natural gas monopoly, Mr. Chernomyrdin became its first chairman.
His big political break came in 1992 when Yegor T. Gaidar, the pro-capitalist reformer, was ousted as prime minister. Mr. Chernomyrdin had assailed the "romantic" infatuation with the free market. But as a pragmatist, he now talks about the need for economic reform.
Because of his long connection to Gazprom, he is commonly viewed as one of Russia's wealthiest men. Mr. Chernomyrdin has reported an annual income of about $7,800, reflecting his annual salary, and an estate worth about $50,000, but no securities or shares in Gazprom, an income declaration virtually nobody in Russia takes at face value.
In a sense, Russia has had a preview of a Chernomyrdin Government. Mr. Yeltsin's drinking and poor health have meant that there have been long periods when Mr. Chernomyrdin has been the dominant figure, and when Mr. Chernomyrdin has held the reins, Russia has tended to drift. Mr. Chernomyrdin, however, is by no means the worst alternative. He showed flashes of conscience in resisting the war in Chechnya and is committed to constructive relations with the West.
 
Cozy With the Money Barons
Still, one of Russia's greatest challenges is to break the grip that the small cluster of financiers and industrialists have on the economy. And few think Mr. Chernomyrdin is up to it. If he decides to run in the 2000 election, he has some political strengths. For want of an alternative, much of Russia's business elite seem prepared to back him if Mr. Yeltsin does not run.
And Mr. Chernomyrdin has been cozying up to the financial barons and potential campaign contributors. When he blessed the merger that created Russia's largest oil company, he urged Russian companies to concentrate on competing with foreign interests abroad instead of each other at home, comments that did not fit easily with his boilerplate rhetoric about building a market economy.
Mr. Chernomyrdin has also proved himself a resilient bureaucratic infighter. He recently expanded his authority at the expense of Anatoly B. Chubais and Boris Nemtsov, the most reform-minded senior officials in the Yeltsin Government. They were left with such politically thankless tasks as compelling Russians to pay their taxes and phasing out housing subsidies.
What Mr. Chernomyrdin, however, has still not been able to do is make himself popular with the voters. His poll ratings are so low that the Russian media that support him tend not to report them.
The Prime Minister is constantly being ridiculed for his mixed metaphors, fractured grammatical constructions and gross insults to the Russian language.
It was Mr. Chernomyrdin who defended the gas and electrical monopolies as "the backbone of Russia's economy" and then added pointedly he would "defend this backbone as the pupil of an eye."
He appears to be calculating that the Kremlin political machine and the financiers' money will enable him to succeed, much as it helped Mr. Yeltsin reverse his disastrous ratings in the 1996 election. But Mr. Yeltsin had a spirit, lust for combat and even charisma that Mr. Chernomyrdin lacks.
To boost his image, Mr. Chernomyrdin is launching a new show on the RTR state television channel on which he will respond to questions from the public. But he is such a wooden speaker that it's not clear whether this will help or hurt his prospects.
"Chernomyrdin will be answering citizens' questions live on TV," quipped the newspaper Russky Telegraf. "Is this the first sign of the upcoming presidential election? Or maybe Yeltsin simply wants to ruin the Prime Minister's chances?

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin greets Vice President Al Gore in Moscow. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (60%); GAZP (RTS) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (60%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (60%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (60%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (60%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (60%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); TRENDS (73%); NATURAL GAS (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); BUDGETS (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (66%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (62%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: CHERNOMYRDIN, VIKTOR S (PRIME MIN); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); GORDON, MICHAEL R AL GORE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



174 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: The World: Living Dangerously;
Indonesian Faceoff: Drawing Blood Without Bombs

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
AS the United States geared up last month for an intensive bombing campaign over Iraq, the Clinton Administration weighed its chances of crippling Saddam Hussein's chemical and biological war-making abilities against the certainty that the attack would kill hundreds or thousands of Iraqis. Years of sanctions had already brought suffering to Iraqi civilians; the prospect of killing many more, on camera no less, eroded the international enthusiasm for a military solution.
Switch now to the other side of the globe and a less traditional crisis posing equally difficult choices. In Indonesia, the United States and its allies, working through the International Monetary Fund, are engaged in an increasingly high-stakes struggle to force radical change in a country run by an enigmatic 76-year-old who could teach Saddam a thing or two about the mean art of authoritarian control. Yet America vs. President Suharto is the kind of post-cold war conflict that doesn't yield the sort of vivid television images broadcast from the Persian Gulf. There's nothing more dramatic than watching pilots zoom off the flight deck of the carrier Independence, and nothing more sleep-inducing than watching Ph.D. economists at the I.M.F. launch their spreadsheets. 
 Sometimes, though, benign images can deceive. And behind the haze of economic jargon surrounding the Indonesia crisis -- the talk of currency boards and cartels, crony capitalism, rampant corruption and the exchange rate for the rupiah -- lies a calculus that both Mr. Suharto and Washington know is as brutal and real-life as any in Iraq.
Mr. Suharto is defying the economic mandates of the I.M.F. -- and the officials in Washington who influence it -- because he views the conditions they placed on a $43 billion bailout plan as a Western effort to diminish his power and undercut the sovereignty of the world's fourth most populous nation. But in the tradition of centuries of Javanese rulers, he is also a master strategist. And he is betting that Washington and the I.M.F., despite their clearly worded warnings last week, do not have the nerve to cut off his emergency aid.
 
Ugly Prospects
He may be right. If the I.M.F. pulls out, there is every likelihood that the result could be very bloody: rising prices that spark more food riots and more violence directed at the country's wealthy ethnic Chinese minority, and potential for major political upheaval. None of that is a certainty, of course, and many fear unrest even if the I.M.F. continues its loans to Jakarta. But the human toll could be as ugly as lobbing smart bombs at Baghdad.
Henry Kissinger cut to the heart of the issue last week in a talk that dwelled at length on a place he came to know when domino theory described countries threatened by Communism, not cronyism. This time, he said, it was the West looking to change the region. "If the definition of a revolution is fundamental change in the economic and political system," he said in a talk at the Brookings Institution, "then what we are trying to engineer in some of these countries is clearly a revolution."
Nobody in official Washington, least of all Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, who has been overseeing the confrontation with Mr. Suharto since Indonesia's economic meltdown began in October, would use a word like "revolution." Washington's most famous former Wall Street trader is clearly uncomfortable when the subject turns to the huge political upheavals implicit in the I.M.F. plan. Instead, Mr. Rubin prefers the seemingly apolitical language of the financial world, talking about the need to "restore market confidence" and for "transparency" in Indonesian decisions.
 
Undercutting Suharto
But make no mistake about it: Letting the I.M.F. work its will in Indonesia threatens Mr. Suharto's control over the country as surely as letting arms inspectors into Iraq threatens Mr. Hussein's. Though worded more politely, the face-off with Mr. Suharto is now a political as well as an economic struggle. Just look at who is crowding the daily meetings on Indonesia at the White House -- not only Mr. Rubin and his financial experts but top State Department officials, C.I.A. analysts, Pentagon brass and national security aides.
When President Clinton needed a personal envoy to take his message to President Suharto face to face, he chose a political heavyweight: former Vice President Walter F. Mondale. Mr. Mondale spent an hour with Mr. Suharto and his aides talking economics, followed by a private conversation to discuss political realities. The markets, Mr. Mondale said, would vote with their dollars when Mr. Suharto chooses his next economic team. Translation: Install a bunch of I.M.F.-bashing cronies and your economy will be washed into the South China Sea.
The White House called it a fruitful exchange of views, but one official warned: "You have to remember that we were dealing with the Javanese answer to Machiavelli. No one knows what Suharto is really planning, and no one has known for 30 years."
What they do know is that Mr. Suharto is a survivor extraordinaire. His economy may be collapsing around him, the I.M.F. may be attacking his relatives' and cronies' enterprises, riots may be breaking out across the country, but his grip on Indonesia seems stronger than ever. On Wednesday his handpicked legislature is expected to rubber-stamp another five-year term. And his choice for vice president -- his possible successor should he not serve out his next term -- has Washington worried: B. J. Habibie is the very model of the modern crony capitalist, the driving force in a giant national aircraft project that the I.M.F. is attempting to junk.
So why is Washington going to all this trouble? After all, Indonesia is no Japan, even if it is the world's biggest Muslim nation and nearly 10 times more populous than Iraq. And Mr. Suharto isn't hoarding anthrax or threatening to invade Australia.
Part of the answer is that Indonesia is a major test of the world's ability to fight the kind of virulent economic contagion that took the world by surprise last fall. Other countries have largely abided by the I.M.F.'s conditions even if they thought parts were Draconian or, as many economists argue, just wrongheaded. Mr. Suharto is the first to fight back.
So the Administration is torn. On the one hand, Mr. Rubin and others worry that if Mr. Suharto is allowed to defy the I.M.F., other nations around the world will do the same. It is a parallel argument to the one heard last month about Iraq.
 
Credibility at Stake
"In both situations you have cases where establishing credibility is very important," said an Administration official who has been shuttling from Iraq meetings to Indonesia meetings. If the I.M.F. loses this test of wills, he argued, it is virtually out of business; its bailout money would end up being wasted. In the Treasury, this is known as the rathole problem, as in the place where money is poured and lost.
But in the case of Indonesia, fiscal prudence is coming into direct conflict with the risk of national upheaval. Many believe Mr. Suharto is using the specter of more civil unrest to keep the I.M.F. money flowing on his terms.
The State Department is haunted by the knowledge that as Mr. Suharto came to power 32 years ago, after a coup attempt that turned into an anti-Communist witch hunt, half a million Indonesians died, many at the hands of the military. No one is predicting a replay. Still, a stable Indonesia is as critical to regional stability in Asia as a contained Iraq is to a peaceful Middle East. That's why the Administration prefers to spar with the authoritarian they know rather than a new general they never met.
But now America has to choose between giving Mr. Suharto a pass on reform or looking, again, like the bully of Asia. The dilemma irks Mr. Kissinger. "Why is it that the United States has to go around the world beating up on everyone to reform?" he asked. "Where are the Europeans? Where is Japan?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: In panic buying during Indonesia's economic crisis, people in Jakarta pressed forward for cooking oil in January. (Associated Press)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); INDONESIA (96%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (77%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (72%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; UNITED STATES (97%); INDONESIA (96%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (73%); INDIAN OCEAN (77%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (72%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CURRENCIES (70%); CARTELS (69%); EXCHANGE RATES (65%); RIOTS (60%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: SUHARTO (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



175 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:

MARKETS
Exuberance Dashed, Exuberance Regained
Intel sneezed and the stock market caught a cold, or was it pneumonia? Neither, it seems. Just a one-day panic attack. The Dow industrials, which had been rising at a torrid rate lately, skidded 1.11 percent on Thursday, reacting to Intel's announcement late Wednesday that its earnings would not meet analysts' expectations. Intel's shares tumbled 12.5 percent, but they gained more than 3 percent on Friday to end the week at $78.125. The selling pressure moved first through the technology sector and then to the broader market. But on Friday, traders were more optimistic, with the Dow industrials ending the week at 8,569.39, up 23.67. The Nasdaq composite, however, slipped 17.02 for the week, closing at 1,753.49. 

THE ECONOMY
Strength Upon Strength
The yield of the 30-year Treasury bond climbed above 6 percent for the first time this year, ending at 6.02 percent on Friday. Strong economic reports reignited traders' fears that the Fed would push up rates to avert inflation -- even though none of the reports showed higher inflation at hand. Job growth was robust in February, pushing the unemployment rate down to 4.6 percent, the same as in November, when it was the lowest since October 1973. Also, the National Association of Purchasing Management said the nation's manufacturing sector grew faster than expected last month, and the Commerce Department reported that Americans' personal income climbed 0.6 percent in January, while sales of new homes surged 10.3 percent to an unexpectedly strong, seasonally adjusted annual rate of 877,000 units. The supply of unsold homes fell to a record low.
 
MICROSOFT
High-Tech Hegemony?
William H. Gates offered a spirited defense of his company's business practices at hearings called by the Senate Judiciary Committee. The hearings were intended to explore, in the words of its chairman, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, "how market power works in the software industry and whether Microsoft is abusing its market power." Mr. Gates, bottom left, who at 42 is the nation's richest person, predicted that the United States would "continue its breathtaking technological advances," provided "innovation is not restricted by government." But two industry competitors, James L. Barksdale, top, president of Netscape, and Scott McNealy, center, chairman of Sun Microsystems, contended that Microsoft was smothering its competition.
 
PRUDENTIAL
The Rock Slips
The Prudential Insurance Company of America reported a 43.4 percent drop in profits for 1997, as sales of its main product, life insurance, plunged 27 percent in the United States. The company set aside more than $1.6 billion to pay millions of policyholders who contend that they were deceptively sold insurance they did not need. Prudential, still the nation's largest life insurer, sold 296,222 new life insurance policies in 1997, down from 405,800 the previous year. The company reported net profits for 1997 of $610 million, down from $1.078 billion for 1996.
 
BITTER PILLS
Drug Mergers Blocked
The F.T.C. voted 3 to 1 to block two proposed mergers among the nation's four largest drug wholesalers. The deals would have created two of the most dominant companies in any industry. The commission said McKesson's $1.72 billion acquisition of Amerisource Health and Cardinal Health's $2.41 billion takeover of Bergen Brunswig would violate antitrust laws. In another dashed deal, Computer Associates backed away from its hostile $9.8 billion bid to buy Computer Sciences, for which Goldman, Sachs ran a textbook-perfect defense against an unwanted takeover.
 
ACQUISITIONS
The Boom Goes On
Despite those setbacks, mergers and acquisitions continue at a record pace this year, especially in financial services, telecommunications, pharmaceuticals, machinery and technology. Among last week's deals: Sunbeam, the consumer appliance manufacturer, announced three takeovers that will more than double its size. It will pay $1.8 billion in stock and cash and assume about $700 million in debt to acquire the Coleman Company and the makers of Mr. Coffee machines and First Alert smoke alarms. Wang Laboratories will acquire Olivetti's computer services subsidiary for cash and securities worth more than $395 million. First Union said it would acquire Money Store Inc. in a $2.1 billion stock swap that would create the nation's largest home-equity lender. And Corning agreed to sell 92 percent of its Corning cookware business to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company for $583 million.
 
AUTOS
Sales Off at G.M.
Auto sales dipped 0.7 percent in the United States last month. General Motors, which commands nearly a third of the market, recorded a 7 percent slide, as a 2.5 percent increase in sales of sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and mini-vans failed to offset a 14.1 percent plunge in car sales. Even at Saturn, once a bright spot for G.M., sales are plunging and workers are growing worried. Chrysler, however, reported a gain of 3.1 percent. And two South Korean auto makers, Kia and Hyundai, which offered substantial rebates and other deals on small cars, had big gains, of 145 percent and 60.3 percent respectively. Ford's sales edged down by half a percentage point.
 
HARASSMENT
High Court Widens Claims
The Supreme Court ruled that Federal law protects employees from being sexually harassed in the workplace by people of the same sex. The unanimous decision carried the law of sexual harassment -- itself largely a creation of Supreme Court rulings over the last 12 years -- beyond the classic male-female context. Justice Antonin Scalia said it was the conduct itself, not the sex or motivation of the people involved, that determined whether sexual harassment amounted to "discrimination because of sex" within the meaning of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. In the case before the Court, a worker on a Louisiana oil rig said he had been harassed by other men on the job.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times; Dan Loftin for The New York Times)
 
Graph shows total construction spending since Aug. 1996. (Source: Commerce Department); Chart shows the combined market share of two proposed drug mergers blocked by the Federal Trade Commission. (Source: Hoover's Handbook)
 
Drawing (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (61%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (94%); PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (61%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); REAL ESTATE (79%); BOND MARKETS (79%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BONDS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); INFLATION (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (63%); INSURANCE POLICIES (63%); 

PERSON: ORRIN HATCH (50%); BILL GATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



176 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Duke to Adopt a Code to Prevent Apparel From Being Made in Sweatshops

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
With the Duke basketball team riding high and consumers snapping up apparel bearing the university's name, Duke plans to announce a far-reaching code of conduct tomorrow to insure that products bearing its name are not made in sweatshops.
Duke students and anti-sweatshop groups applauded the code because it goes further than any other university code and will likely be copied by other colleges. Duke has one of the most popular names on sports gear and has 700 licensees that make apparel at hundreds of plants in the United States and in more than 10 other countries. 
 Duke's code bars licensees from using forced or child labor and requires them to maintain a safe workplace, pay at least the minimum wage and recognize the right to form unions. Then, in a move that makes it the first university to adopt a tough enforcement mechanism, Duke's code requires licensees to identify all factories making products with Duke's name and to allow unimpeded visits by independent monitors.
"We're doing it because it's the right thing to do," said Jim Wilkerson, Duke's director of trademark licensing. "We cannot tolerate having the sweat and tears of abused and exploited workers mixed with the fabric of the products which bear our marks."
University officials said products bearing Duke's name included basketball shirts, T-shirts, sweatshirts, jackets, gym bags, bumper stickers and even software and hand-held electronic games. About $20 million worth of goods carrying the Duke name are sold every year.
Under the code, if Duke's monitors uncover violations, the university reserves the right to drop any licensee that fails to comply, although the code gives licensees an opportunity to take corrective action.
In shaping its new policy, Duke built on codes adopted by the University of Notre Dame, Nike and the National Basketball Association and on guidelines adopted by President Clinton's Apparel Industry Partnership, a group of companies, unions and human rights organizations that is seeking to combat sweatshops.
Mr. Wilkerson said the university was likely to use professional firms, perhaps accounting firms, to inspect factories. The code calls for the monitors to meet with workers so they can voice their concerns and to consult with nongovernment organizations, like human rights groups, that are trusted by workers and familiar with factory conditions.
"This is groundbreaking and very exciting," said Ginny Coughlin, director of the anti-sweatshop campaign for the nation's largest apparel union, the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees. "This code of conduct is going to mean real changes, real improvements in the lives of garment workers. It means that a major institution in our society, a university with all of its moral and political weight, is putting economic pressure on companies to produce apparel under decent conditions."
Rick Van Brimmer, assistant director of licensing at Ohio State University and president of the Association of Collegiate Licensing Administrators, which represents more than 160 colleges, applauded Duke's plan. "This code can serve as a model for the collegiate licensing industry," he said.
Mr. Wilkerson said he began thinking about developing the code last May after he read news reports about conditions at some sweatshops. He said that a campus group, Students Against Sweatshops, began prodding the university in September to adopt such a code.
Tico Almeida, a leader of Students Against Sweatshops, said the most significant aspect of the code was its call for independent monitors to inspect factories. "This is the only way to be sure that the standards are being met," he said.
Vada Manager, a spokesman for Nike, which makes shirts, jackets and other gear with Duke's name, praised the code and said Duke had consulted with Nike before finalizing its policy. "Ending child labor and achieving safe working conditions are shared values between Nike and Duke," he said.
Industry officials said one problem area was that while the code bars licensees from using factories where workers are not free to form unions, licensees that make apparel with Duke's name often use factories in China and Indonesia, two countries that severely restrict unions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316219 OTHER FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS316211 RUBBER AND PLASTICS FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS315239 WOMEN'S AND GIRLS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS315228 MEN'S AND BOYS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (53%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (53%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (53%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: DUKE UNIVERSITY NIKE INC (53%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; SWEATSHOPS; LABOR; UNIFORMS; BASKETBALL SWEATSHOPS (91%); BASKETBALL (90%); ETHICS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); APPAREL MFG (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TEXTILES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CHILD LABOR (72%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (68%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (66%); TOYS & GAMES (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (61%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (60%); TRADEMARK LAW (51%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



177 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
The Dark Side of Optimism

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
ONE of the things that is supposed to be so wonderful about the economic expansion of the 1990's is that it has made people feel so good about themselves. Remember the pitiful, helpless American giant of the 1980's, with its butterfingered, inept work force? That is not the national self-image anymore. Now America's triumphant economy breeds the sort of optimism that even has some people saying there can't be hard times again.
But optimism has its dark side. The very confidence that helps lift the economy also breeds excesses -- in stock prices, home sales, employment growth and consumer debt -- that can make the next downturn sharper than it otherwise might have been. And when optimism gives way suddenly to pessimism, the alarm and worry that accompany the abrupt transition can make people too cautious. Like penitents, they pass up legitimate opportunities to spend, borrow and invest. That can prolong a downturn. 
 This manic-depressive pattern is clearly described in economic theory. There is even a rule-of-thumb calculation. During the manic stage, people spend 5 cents of every dollar of new wealth that falls into their hands as a result of, say, rising stock prices. But when the downturn comes and pessimism sets in, people cut back their spending by more than 5 cents for every dollar of wealth that disappears. "The behavior is not symmetric," said Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Company.
Still, most Americans appear to be aware that they are in a manic stage. That is evident in public opinion polls. And everyone seems to nod in agreement when Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, says that stock prices may have been driven up by irrational exuberance and that the nation's lenders, in their optimism, may have become "too complacent about evaluating repayment risks."
But the optimism is tenacious. It expresses itself in the soothing belief that the seven-year economic expansion will continue for at least another year, and probably longer. Sure, there will be a downturn, but off in the future, and even then not a very severe one.
"People keep telling themselves, and others, that next year won't be so good, but they don't expect it to be a down year, either," said Richard T. Curtin, director of Consumer Surveys at the University of Michigan. "Half of the people we survey think the economic expansion will last another five years. They even shrug off Asia."
 
What Goes Up . . .
In that frame of mind, optimism breeds trouble. Dips in the stock market become opportunities to buy more stock and push up prices further, although corporate profits no longer seem to be growing quickly enough to justify a rising market. Indeed, American households have more of their accumulated wealth invested in stocks than at any time since World War II.
A similar hubris prevailed in the late 60's and early 70's, when financing both the Vietnam War and President Johnson's social programs seemed possible.
That confidence also drove up stock prices, and when the downfall finally came -- along with the oil embargo -- the Dow Jones industrial average lost nearly 40 percent of its value over two years. Not since the Depression had there been such a plunge. The higher stocks went, the further they fell, and the more they fell, the more damage the market inflicted on the economy, which went through a severe recession in the mid-70's.
"People don't know the dangers of their optimism," said Barton Briggs, chief investment strategist at Morgan Stanley.
In the current euphoria, debt also seems unthreatening to many Americans. Jobs and income will be there to cover installment payments, the thinking goes, or stock can be sold to pay debt. While corporate America has not borrowed all that much (healthy profits in the last few years have generated sufficient spending money), individual Americans are big debtors today. Consumer debt, run up mainly on credit cards, has risen to an unusually high 21 percent of the income available to pay it off.
In their optimism, people "may shrink the margins of safety that they otherwise might maintain," said Lawrence Meyer, a Federal Reserve Board governor. "Liquid assets -- cash -- are a cushion in a downturn, and if you eliminate that cushion, the downturn is harder."
Homeowners increasingly take out mortgages equal to more than 90 percent of the selling price of their homes, and often more than a home's entire value. Banks and other mortgage lenders, caught up in the optimism, encourage the borrowing. After all, home prices are rising in every region of the country for the first time in years.
A downturn in the economy, and a drop in home prices, would suddenly expose both borrowers and lenders to much greater risk. Homes could no longer be sold by either party for enough to repay the loans, adding to the downward pressure on home prices -- particularly if an owner loses a job or fails to get an expected bonus and defaults on the loan.
"You would expect mortgage delinquency rates to trend down in good economic times," said David Lereah, chief economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association. "But they are hovering a little above normal, and that is worrisome."
 
Valuable Lessons
Debt troubles in general are worrisome in the midst of so much optimism. Beyond mortgage delinquencies, personal bankruptcies are at an all-time high, suggesting that many people are quietly hard pressed even without a downturn.
That injection of realism helps explain why Mr. Curtin at the University of Michigan and Daniel Yankelovich at DYG Inc., another public opinion pollster, argue that the worst may not come to pass. Sure, there will be a downturn, they say -- most likely triggered by some outside, unexpected event, like a war, an oil shock, a major corporate bankruptcy or the Asian crisis. But the national optimism is probably not so out of touch with reality as to make a downturn worse.
"My position has been that the unrealistic euphoria of the late 1960's won't happen again and won't do us in," Mr. Yankelovich said. "People have seen too many ups and downs. With all their optimism, they are more realistic today about living in a dangerous world."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Feeling Flush"
Americans are feeling more confident about the economy than at any time since 1952, when the University of Michigan began its Index of Consumer Sentiment. Graph tracks the index since 1952. Shaded areas indicate recessions. (Source: Survey Research Center, University of Michigan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (66%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PUBLIC OPINION; STOCKS AND BONDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (69%); BONDS (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (67%); MARKETING SURVEYS (55%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



178 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: The Microsoft We Deserve

BYLINE: By Edward Tenner; Edward Tenner, a visiting researcher in the geosciences department at Princeton, is the author of "Why Things Bite Back: Technology and the Revenge of Unintended Consequences."

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J.

 BODY:
The world's strongest government is fighting its most formidable corporation in a spectacle enthralling to a citizenry unaccustomed to such superpower confrontations.
We have mixed feelings about Federal might and private hegemony. We sense that the Justice Department's lawsuit against Microsoft is serious indeed, yet we also aren't so sure which side to root for. 
 Detached fascination seems as common as partisanship. Would a decision against Microsoft help slash the costs of owning a computer? Or would greater diversity of operating systems and basic applications software create headaches for computer owners who would be forced to choose among incompatible programs? (Already some E-mail programs are barely on speaking terms.) On the other hand, which knowledge-based industry would be safe from the expansion of a victorious Microsoft?
Bill Gates defends his business practices by saying that he's only responding to consumer demand. "If we can't innovate in our products, then you know we can be replaced," he said in a Washington Post interview last week.
Competitors insist that Microsoft acts ruthlessly to reduce consumer choice. The trial may let them prove it. A Microsoft near-monopoly on basic software like word processing programs and spreadsheets would be a disaster. Like many other users, I fear it.
But we consumers also share responsibility for Microsoft's rise. We want two different things. We want comforting uniform standards, which paternalistic monopolies provide, but we also want choice. Indeed, if anything, Microsoft is the creation of the contradictory desires of the American consumer -- a monopoly that gives us too many choices.
Microsoft is not the first dominant, standard-setting giant corporation, as profitable and irresistible as it has seemed. The Federal Government once created these powerful forces. As the historian Richard R. John has shown in "Spreading the News," the Post Office Act of 1792 created America's original network of information and commerce. The great railroad and telegraph companies later extended it.
Yesterday's giants were to some degree allies and even instruments of the Federal Government. Herman Hollerith developed the punch card to process data for the 1890 census, laying the foundation of the future the I.B.M. Corporation.
AT&T and I.B.M. worked closely with Government agencies. The Bell System, often resented for its monopoly of service and manufacturing, was proud of the quasi-public role it claimed. Americans returning from European tours confirmed the claims that the United States had the world's best and cheapest service.
These corporations had a different approach to technological change. AT&T and I.B.M. not only dominated the market, they also believed in gradual, planned innovations grounded in years of research, and as monopolies, they could afford to make changes slowly. They prized standards. Their laboratories hired not only leading physicists, mathematicians and engineers, but also specialists in subjects like keyboard response.
Outside contractors were equally meticulous. Teams of professionals at Henry Dreyfuss Associates created sculptural but functional telephones for Bell Laboratories, which was part of AT&T. You didn't have to attend last year's superb retrospective on Dreyfuss at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum to admire the phones. Millions of the 1968 Trimline and the 1949 Model 500 are still in use thanks to their stoic ruggedness.
But consumers, however nostalgic for paternalistic monopolies, quickly embraced the freedom offered by the breakup of AT&T in 1984. They celebrated their emancipation by returning their familiar museum-quality masterpieces and buying cheap handsets and costlier "designer" novelties built to last a year or two rather than a generation. Dreyfuss and the old AT&T had stood for high-quality uniformity. But Americans wanted change, variety and choice.
 Microsoft flourished by rejecting Dreyfuss's focus on the typical people he called Joe, Josephine and Joe Jr. Microsoft's operating system and other programs are outstanding not for visionary elegance but for the freedom they give us to customize, modify and tinker -- to change the screen background and do the same thing in a half dozen ways.
Microsoft still does not match the basic science and mathematics strengths of the laboratories of AT&T and I.B.M. in the glorious postwar years. But it has lots of brilliant, energetic young workers who will do their best to please you with the next release, or the one after that. Instead of offering you the one perfect operating system, the company asks you to accept as "upgrading" what in the days of the mainframe was derided as "forced migration." As Mr. Gates testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee last week, the company spends $2.6 billion a year on research and development.
Microsoft has triumphed because it has given us what we asked for: constant novelty coupled with acceptable stability, rather than the other way around. Microsoft encouraged our impulses to embrace fashion, affirm conformity, love planned obsolescence. People talk simplicity but buy features and pay the consequences. Complex features multiply hidden costs and erode both efficiency and simplicity. There is no such thing as a free menu.
The Government cannot avoid refereeing the wars between Microsoft and its competitors -- if only by doing nothing and letting markets take their course. Some analysts believe that the Government's prolonged antitrust proceedings against I.B.M. a generation ago paradoxically induced the hardware giant to grant fatefully generous terms to its infant contractor, Microsoft, in licensing the original PC-DOS operating system.
Microsoft grew fabulously important because it was originally so unimportant. The very success of this strategy leads to the new problems -- including gargantuan litigation. The plummeting price of computer hardware would tend to increase the relative cost of Microsoft's software even if it kept its prices to manufacturers steady or even lowered them. And then there is the cost of periodic revisions of operating system and software.
There is only one way to change this strange set of economic circumstances. Consumers should demand simpler, more usable software. They say they want it. Experts say they should have it. But they vote with their dollars and buy software with endless gadgets. And that's what Microsoft produces.
While the days of the New York Central and the Bell System are gone forever, we can still learn from the simplicity of the Dreyfuss phone.
I recently visited the Web site of one of the hottest young media scholars and designers and could not read his mailing address. The stylish color arrangement had rendered it illegible on my state-of-the-art Windows NT screen.
Like all the parties in the present Microsoft case, he would do well to find a Trimline.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP; AT&T CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MICROSOFT CORP (90%); M CORP (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP; AT&T CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; SUITS AND LITIGATION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); LITIGATION (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); MONOPOLIZATION (77%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (70%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (69%); HISTORY (62%); PHYSICS (60%); 

PERSON: TENNER, EDWARD BILL GATES (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



179 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Repairs in Florida May Be Delayed as Labor Market Tightens

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., March 7

 BODY:
Shortages of construction workers, particularly roofers, could slow the rebuilding and repair of the 1,600 homes and apartments ravaged by a series of tornadoes that ripped through central Florida last week.
Government and insurance officials estimate damage from the tornados at more than $100 million. Forty-one people were killed in the storms that struck on Feb. 23 and more than 260 people were injured. 
 While several contractors conceded that there had been a tight labor market for several months -- accentuated by the construction of Disney World's Animal Kingdom and the expansion of Sea World -- public officials said they were confident that enough workers could be found.
"My gut feeling is we should be O.K.," Mayor Frank Atkinson of Kissimmee said. "It's tight but manageable." He said he hoped that completion of the two theme park projects would free workers needed for the storm repairs.
But Mayor Atkinson said it could take as long as a year to rebuild the damaged areas, including some malls, because of the shortage.
Ron Utterback, president of the Homebuilders Association of Mid-Florida, acknowledged that "there are some trade labor shortages," adding that the storm damage "is probably going to irritate it some more."
There are 41,900 construction workers in central Florida, and the overall unemployment rate is 3 percent. "Contractors tell me they have difficulty in finding the labor they need, and the difficulty seems to be continuing," said Kevin Birckey, an economist with the Florida Department of Labor.
Tom Lagomarsino, executive director of the homebuilders association, said, "If you want the labor, in some cases you may have to pay a premium." The going rate for laying cement block is $1 a block, he said. Some contractors may have to pay $1.10 to get the job done.
The pay for carpenters in central Florida averages $13 an hour and can rise to $24 an hour; general construction workers start at $5, with a maximum of $15. Plumbers average $19.75; electricians $21.50, and painters and paperhangers $11.50.
Mr. Lagomarsino's group has compiled a list for property owners of licensed contractors who are willing to shift their crews to tornado-damaged areas. "Some of my people can't take on any more work right now," Mr. Lagomarsino said.
Steve Smith, a contractor, worries about getting enough roofers. "Roofers are very, very scarce," Mr. Smith said, "and they have been backed up since November and December because of all the rain we've had."
Michelle Middletoon, manager for Insurance General Contractors, said that not only was she concerned about finding qualified workers, but she was also worried about getting enough materials for rebuilding. "My primary concern is getting all our orders in now to try to speed up the process so we don't get backlogged," Ms. Middletoon said.
Home Depot, which has 62 stores in Florida and is a major source of building supplies there, moved a half-dozen tractor-trailer loads of building materials to the Orlando area after the tornados.
Jeff Devoer, an official in Osceola County, south of Orlando, the area hardest hit by the tornadoes, estimated that the reconstruction would take six to nine months. Commercial buildings wrecked by the storm could take as long as a year to rebuild, officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (97%); FLORIDA, USA (97%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TORNADOES; HOUSING; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); LABOR; SHORTAGES LABOR SHORTAGES (91%); TORNADOES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PAINT & WALLPAPER CONTRACTORS (78%); WEATHER (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (56%); 

PERSON: TOM LAGOMARSINO (70%); STEVE SMITH (64%); MICHELLE MIDDLETOON (59%); FRANK ATKINSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



180 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Ousted Union Chief's Theft Trial Centers on Lavish Life Style

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB 

 BODY:
In his teens, Frederick W. Devine dropped out of high school and landed a rough-and-tumble job building and repairing docks on the city's waterfront. A union activist, he ultimately rose to become the $410,000-a-year head of the nation's largest regional carpenters' union and a powerful labor official whose support was courted by city and state politicians.
But Mr. Devine, who portrayed himself in union elections as an anti-corruption reformer, listened stone-faced on Friday as his trial began in Manhattan on state charges that he had stole about $200,000 from a union fund set up to create jobs for unemployed carpenters. 
 In his opening statement to the jury, a prosecutor, Michael Bixon, accused Mr. Devine of siphoning the money to pay for lavish vacations in Florida for his relatives and a woman with whom he had "an intimate and personal" relationship, and to charter private jets to visit another female companion in Rochester.
Mr. Bixon asserted that Mr. Devine had spent $9,000 for two trips by private jet; $1,500 on dinners for relatives and friends; $6,000 a night on separate luxury hotel suites for Mr. Devine, his wife and one of the female companions while they vacationed together in Fort Lauderdale; $1,300 for golf parties, and thousands of dollars on limousine rentals for relatives and cronies.
The spending spree, Mr. Bixon said, occurred from 1993 to 1996 when Mr. Devine was the president of the District Council of Carpenters and Joiners of New York City and Vicinity. Mr. Devine, 58, is accused of defrauding and stealing the money from a fund that was created by the union and contractors to help create union jobs. As many as 25 percent of the union's 25,000 members have been unemployed in recent years.
In his opening statement, Paul Victor, Mr. Devine's chief lawyer, described the charges as "an unconscionable indictment." He said the accusations were brought by prosecutors in the Manhattan District Attorney's office "who are seeking to regulate the labor movement by twisting the penal laws."
Mr. Victor maintained that Mr. Devine had the legal authority to authorize the expenditures in Florida at annual midwinter union conventions and at overlapping conferences between union leaders and construction contractors.
"These were informal gatherings and meetings," Mr. Victor said. "Everyone gets together to schmooze and promote their interests."
Mr. Devine, who lives in Cliffside Park, N.J., was elected president of the district council in 1991, with a salary of $235,000 a year. In 1993, he was instrumental in forming the Labor-Management Cooperation Trust Fund to promote more union jobs in the carpentry industry. Employers contributed about $1 million a year to maintain the fund. As one of two trustees and the administrator of the fund, Mr. Devine was paid $175,000 a year.
He was ousted from his posts in June 1996 by the carpenters' national union on allegations of corruption and of helping mobsters get lucrative jobs at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.
At the trial in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, Mr. Bixon disclosed that a major witness against Mr. Devine would be Raymond O'Kane, Mr. Devine's former executive assistant in the district council. The prosecutor said that Mr. O'Kane had pleaded guilty to unspecified charges and had been granted immunity from further prosecution in the case.
"Ray O'Kane will provide valuable insight," Mr. Bixon told the jury. Pointing at the defendant, the prosecutor said that when Mr. Devine ordered the improper expenditures, "Ray O'Kane took care of the details."
Mr. Bixon said that the evidence would involve "intimate and personal relationships" that Mr. Devine had with Jonni Clause-Stanton, a pro golfer who was a consultant to the fund, and Luci Virginia, a carpenters' union official in Rochester.
Ms. Clause-Stanton, who the prosecution says accompanied Mr. Devine on his trips to Florida, is awaiting trial on charges of stealing $15,000 from the fund and of falsifying business records.
"Don't get sidetracked by these issues," Mr. Victor, the defense lawyer, said, referring to the prosecution's remarks about Mr. Devine's relationships with the women. Mr. Victor said that Ms. Clause-Stanton had been hired as a consultant by Mr. Devine "to clean up the mess left by Ray O'Kane."
The trips to Rochester by Mr. Devine, Mr. Victor said, were part of his job as a labor leader. "He's not accused of taking the money and running to Brazil," Mr. Victor said of Mr. Devine. "The expenditures were made in connection with his duties."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: DISTRICT COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS

ORGANIZATION: DISTRICT COUNCIL OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: CARPENTRY AND CARPENTERS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; EMBEZZLEMENT FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (85%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); POLITICS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); JURY TRIALS (75%); EMBEZZLEMENT (75%); INDICTMENTS (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); CRIMINAL LAW (69%); 

PERSON: RAAB, SELWYN; DEVINE, FREDERICK W; BIXON, MICHAEL FREDERICK W DEVINE (98%); PAUL VICTOR (90%); MICHAEL BIXON (84%); RAY O'KANE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



181 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Court to Examine Sex Harassment

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7

 BODY:
The Supreme Court's ruling this week that Federal discrimination law covers sexual harassment between people of the same sex was only the start of a wide-ranging examination of sexual harassment law now under way at the Court.
Before the current term ends in early summer, the Justices will decide three more sexual harassment cases -- a very high number for a term that will produce only about 90 decisions across the entire range of the Court's jurisdiction. 
 The remaining cases will essentially fill in the blanks of the broad outlines the Court has drawn in its previous rulings in this area. While hugely important in identifying sexual harassment in the workplace as a form of employment discrimination, those initial rulings did not go much further than to state general principles, leaving the lower Federal courts in considerable disarray on how to proceed with real cases.
One of the cases now before the Court, for example, produced eight separate opinions among the 12 judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, as well as an unusual unsigned plea, issued in the name of the entire Chicago-based appeals court, for the Supreme Court to "bring order to the chaotic case law in this important field of practice."
As that statement indicates, at stake in the remaining cases is, to a large degree, how the law against sexual harassment is going to work -- in the courtroom and in the workplace. According to lawyers who represent plaintiffs in sexual harassment cases, those two locales are intertwined because the availability of redress in the courts provides the strongest motivation for employers to issue and enforce effective policies against sexual harassment.
"We're looking for a Supreme Court decision that there is a price tag on sexual harassment," said William R. Amlong, an employment lawyer in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., who will argue in the Court later this month for a legal standard that holds employers responsible when supervisory employees exploit their authority by harassing lower-level employees.
One reason for the surge in sexual harassment cases, in fact, is that in 1991, Congress made compensatory and punitive damages available for the first time under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the law at issue in most sexual harassment cases. Complaints filed with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, as a prelude to bringing suit, have more than doubled since the 1991 amendment, to 15,889 cases last year.
Mr. Amlong, as co-counsel with the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund, represents Beth Ann Faragher, a former lifeguard for the city of Boca Raton. Ms. Faragher, who later went to law school and now works as a public defender in Denver, sued the city on the ground that it was responsible for the "hostile work environment" created by the harassing behavior of two supervisory lifeguards.
Boca Raton eventually disciplined the two men, whose actions -- vulgar and demeaning remarks and unwanted touching over five years -- are not in dispute. Rather, the issue in Faragher v. Boca Raton, No. 97-282, is the city's own liability, one of the main unresolved issues in sexual harassment law.
The question has been waiting for an answer ever since the Supreme Court indicated in its first sexual harassment case, Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson, that employers should not be held automatically liable for harassment by supervisors. What the rules for affixing liability should be was suggested only in general terms by the Court's 1986 decision.
The same legal uncertainty exists under an analogous law, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which prohibits sex discrimination in schools that receive Federal money. On March 25, the Court will hear arguments both in the Faragher case and in a case near Austin, Tex., Gebser v. Lago Vista Independent School District, No. 96-1866, which poses the related question of when to hold a school district liable for a teacher's harassment of a student.
The lower courts in both cases set standards making it difficult for plaintiffs to establish liability on the part of the employer or the school. In fact, Ms. Faragher initially won her case against Boca Raton at trial. But the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta, overturned the judgment in a 7-to-5 decision last year.
The majority cited two main grounds for its decision against holding the city liable: that the two lifeguard supervisors were simply "seeking to further personal ends" through their behavior, and were not acting on the city's behalf; and that despite Ms. Faragher's complaint to a third supervisor, the city could not be held accountable for that man's knowledge of the problem because he was not a high-ranking manager and had never passed the information along the chain of command.
Ms. Faragher's appeal argues that, to the contrary, the supervisors abused their official authority, and the city should be deemed to have known about it. "The record of this case is a textbook example of agents using what power they had in the circumstances to sexually harass those who work for them," her brief asserts.
In the school harassment case, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, erected an even higher barrier to institutional liability for a teacher's harassment. School districts cannot be held liable, the appeals court said, unless a school official with supervisory authority over the teacher "actually knew of the abuse, had the power to end the abuse and failed to do so."
Lawyers for the 15-year-old plaintiff, whose teacher forced her into a yearlong affair during which she was afraid to complain to anyone, are arguing that this "actual knowledge" standard would have the effect of insulating school districts from liability because teachers who prey on students often make their victims comply with the secrecy surrounding the affair.
Under regulations issued last year by the United States Department of Education, which administers the Title IX anti-discrimination law, school districts should be held responsible for harassment by teachers if the harasser "was aided in carrying out the sexual harassment of students by his or her position of authority with the institution," such as authority to assign grades or require students to stay after class.
In April, the Court will hear the third of the three, Burlington Industries v. Ellerth, No. 97-569, the case that splintered the Seventh Circuit. It raises a definitional question of sexual harassment rather than the question of where to assign liability. The issue is whether an employee who has refused a supervisor's sexual advances, and who has remained on the job without suffering adverse economic consequences, nonetheless can have a valid sexual harassment claim.
A majority of the appeals court's judges said yes. The employer is arguing that this standard in effect adopts the automatic liability test the Supreme Court found inappropriate in its 1986 decision.
In its sexual harassment decisions so far, including the same-sex harassment decision this week, the Supreme Court has displayed a striking unanimity and lack of doubt as it has propelled the law forward. Now that the Court is faced with these second-generation cases, requiring the drawing of lines and setting of standards, one question the remainder of the term will answer is whether that unanimity and apparent ease of decision will last.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; SEXUAL HARASSMENT SEXUAL HARASSMENT (94%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); LAWYERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (89%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPEALS (78%); JURISDICTION (78%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); DAMAGES (64%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



182 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Women See Key Gains Since Talks In Beijing

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, March 6

 BODY:
Two and a half years after the United Nations international conference on women in Beijing put forward proposals for government action on women's rights, representatives of organizations from around the world are meeting here for two weeks to take stock of progress.
Even skeptics say they are impressed at the extent to which many governments have followed through on their pledges. They attributed this largely to pressure from increasingly strong local and international women's organizations. 
 In a report published this week, the New York-based Women's Environment and Development Organization says 70 percent of 187 national governments have drawn up plans to improve women's rights. Around the world, 66 countries have established national offices for women's affairs, and 34 of these have the power to propose legislation.
In countries as diverse as Mexico, Germany, China and New Zealand, laws have been passed to curb and punish domestic violence. Some progress has been made on securing property rights for women in Africa and Asia, and laws have been tightened on trafficking in girls and women, according to the new report, "Mapping Progress: Assessing Implementation of the Beijing Platform 1998."
In Britain, a new Women's National Commission has drawn up an agenda for the Government based on 12 areas of action agreed on in Beijing, said Elizabeth Sidney, a commission member.
"Since Beijing," she said, "the Government reports annually to us on these 12 points, which is a phenomenal change." The Government has made better child care and employment opportunities its priorities. Ms. Sidney is among those campaigning for changes in laws and regulations governing taxes and benefits to give women economic independence throughout life.
"What's happened here could not have happened without Beijing," said Charlotte Bunch, executive director of the Center for Women's Global Leadership at Rutgers University. "The energy, the activity of Beijing, has not gone away."
Ms. Bunch and others gathered here for the session of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women said the increased involvement of private groups of all kinds had been the key to the success of the Beijing conference, and of a parallel informal convention of nongovernmental organizations.
Louise Frechette, the new United Nations Deputy Secretary General, said in a speech this week that relationships between private organizations and governments had improved in many countries since the 1993 international conference on human rights in Vienna and the 1995 women's conference in Beijing.
Many delegates went to Beijing from grass-roots organizations on money raised locally through painfully small donations -- a change from the officially sponsored delegations of the past. When they returned, women said this week, they set to work lobbying governments and building networks for political action.
"The movement for women's rights has been one of the most momentous in the history of humankind," Ms. Frechette said. "Crucial to its birth and its subsequent achievements was the extraordinary courage of women's groups." She added that new partnerships between private groups and governments had "come alive" in Vienna and Beijing.
Women from every region acknowledged this week that despite the accomplishments, much remains to be done. The focus in this session of the women's commission has been on violence -- at home, in refugee situations and in civil wars, which kill more civilians than combatants.
Informally, women's groups are continuing to criticize international lending organizations for policies whose bad effects they say have fallen hardest on women, those often marginal in national economies. Hei Soo Shin, a South Korean university professor, said she had been among those calling for special programs for unemployed women. The Korean Government provides such services -- recently expanded during the financial crisis -- only for men.
Jocelyn Dow, a women's rights leader in Guyana, joining an informal meeting this week, said that women had nonetheless found some new economic allies in unlikely places. James D. Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank, is one of them. Women who attended the Beijing meetings said he was the only head of a major international financial institution to meet with unofficial delegations in China.
"A thousand women attacked him," Ms. Dow said. She added that Mr. Wolfensohn had later established or strengthened programs to monitor the impact of policies on women, exploring ways for the World Bank to channel money to projects to help them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); WOMEN'S ENVIRONMENT & DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION (57%); WOMEN'S AFFAIRS (56%); WOMEN'S AFFAIRS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); WOMEN'S ENVIRONMENT & DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION (57%); WOMEN'S AFFAIRS (56%); WOMEN'S AFFAIRS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES WOMEN (95%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); LOBBYING (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); EXECUTIVES (62%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (53%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (52%); EMPLOYMENT (51%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



183 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3536 words

HEADLINE: New Prosperity Brings New Conflict to Indian Country

SERIES: PARALLEL NATIONS -- First of two articles.

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: SKULL VALLEY, Utah

 BODY:
Not long after the Goshute Indians stopped resisting the Mormons who had poured into the sun-cracked bowl of the Great Basin, the tribe seemed to disappear, gone like most natives into sepia tones of the past, their poses ever frozen -- noble, doomed, vanquished.
But then, nearly a century and a half after the first state lines were stamped on an area once known as the Great American Desert, the Goshutes reappeared. Suddenly, last year, the most powerful politicians in the West became deeply concerned about the actions of a tiny tribe that had been left in the alkaline dust of central Utah. 
 With barely 100 members, the Skull Valley Band of Goshutes declared what few people outside the reservation had taken seriously: that they were a sovereign nation. As such, the Goshutes -- looking for a multimillion-dollar infusion -- have offered to lease part of their reservation as the temporary storage ground for high-level civilian nuclear waste. Utah's Governor and Congressional representatives are outraged, vowing to block the border of Indian country to any shipments.
The Goshute proposal is a very un-Indian-like thing to do, critics say; native people are supposed to be keepers of the earth, not protectors of its poisons.
But in fact, the Goshutes say that what they are doing is the most characteristic action a tribe can take in the modern era -- asserting itself to be a nation within a nation, free to make its own decisions.
The clash in a forgotten valley of the unwatered West is but one awakening of sovereignty by hundreds of American Indian tribes. From the smallest bands in the desert to groups that govern from glass towers in the East, native tribes are actively shoring up the bonds of nationhood.
What is happening in Indian country, an archipelago of 554 nations within the boundaries of the United States, goes far beyond the popular image of modern tribes.
Between two extremes of Indian life -- the poverty of the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota, which includes the poorest county in America, and the gambling gusher at the Foxwoods Casino in Connecticut, where Mashantucket Pequots are running the biggest casino in the country -- is a forceful drive for independence from the states.
"Some people think we're living in teepees out here," said Leon Bear, the Goshute tribal chairman. "They come up to my house and see a satellite dish and a big color TV, it surprises them. We are alive and well and a sovereign nation. And we're using that sovereignty to attract the only business you can get to come here."
A new generation of Indian leaders, schooled in the nascent sovereignty movement of the 1970's, has come to power at the same time that many tribes are getting their first taste of prosperity, through tribal casinos. Now, there is a convergence of economic strength, legal muscle and political will.
The number of Indian lawyers has increased more than ten-fold to about 1,000 in the last 20 years, and there has been a four-fold increase to just over 300 in the number of tribal courts.
"What we've seen is simply the civil rights movement for Native Americans," said John Echohawk, executive director of the Native American Rights Fund, a nonprofit legal defense group based in Boulder, Colo. "Tribal rights are finally being enforced because more and more tribes have the resources to have their own lawyers."
On Wednesday, Congress is set to hold hearings on tribal sovereignty, pushed by some lawmakers who are alarmed by tribal assertions of nationhood. While the tribes fear that the hearings will be a platform to attack Indians, others see the hearings as a chance to make the case that Indian sovereignty is "un-American," as some members of Congress have called it.
The tribes have never had a stronger presence in Washington, donating a record amount in the last Federal election. They share legal resources, under the mantra that a threat to one Indian tribe is a threat to all.
Though some tribes fight each other over casino locations -- and seldom share the spoils with poorer tribes -- they say they are more united than ever behind the idea that sovereignty equals survival. And they are using this sustaining idea for a mix of cross purposes. Some of it is nakedly commercial, some is based purely on principle.
In Idaho, the Coeur d'Alene tribe has just started an international on-line lottery, offering the chance at million-dollar jackpots to anyone on earth with access to a modem.
In Montana, the Assiniboine and the Gros Ventre tribes have held up expansion of a major gold mine, using their sovereign status to protect the water and land that borders the mine, even if it deprives a neighboring small town of needed jobs.
In New Mexico, the Isleta Pueblo, acting as a separate government, is forcing the City of Albuquerque to spend $300 million to clean up the Rio Grande before it flows downstream through Indian land.
"What most people don't understand is that we are governments first, and racial entities second," said Anthony Pico, chairman of the Viejas Band of Kumeyaay Indians in Southern California.
People who have rarely given a second thought to the natives in their midst suddenly find there really are four major levels of government in America: Federal, state, local and tribal. Until recently, one of them was nearly always invisible.
 
A Power Restored
Decreeing Nations Within Nations
On a visit to Pueblo communities in New Mexico last month, Speaker Newt Gingrich told Indian leaders that he had trouble understanding the concept of tribal sovereignty. He was surrounded by Apaches, Navajos and numerous Pueblo tribes whose people have lived in well-ordered communities along the Rio Grande for nearly a thousand years.
The president of the Navajo Nation, Albert Hale, offered Mr. Gingrich an explanation, telling him how an Indian leader would prefer to be treated.
"When I come to Washington, you don't send me to the Bureau of Indian Affairs," said Mr. Hale, leader of a tribe with nearly a quarter-million members. "You have a state dinner for me."
A week after the visit, Mr. Hale announced that the Navajo might block all roads for one day into their vast reservation, an area the size of West Virginia, as a demonstration of sovereignty. Three states overlap Navajo lands, and Mr. Hale's suggestion set off harsh criticism by members of his own tribe as well as neighboring communities.
Local talk radio in the Southwest went aflame with anti-Indian talk, with people volunteering to arm themselves and storm past roadblocks. Mr. Hale has since resigned, under pressure over financial and personal improprieties, and the roadblock idea has yet to be revived.
When Indians were held up mainly as icons, or poverty-crippled examples of failed policy, it was rare for any action in Indian country to become talk radio fodder. They were considered largely powerless.
But in fact, the power was nearly always there, imbedded in Article VI of the Constitution, which holds treaties backed by Congress to be "the supreme law of the land."
Congress ratified 371 treaties with native people, the first in 1778 with the Delaware, the last in 1871 with the Nez Perce. In most cases, Indians were forced to give up land in return for self-governing rights and a tribal homeland. But those rights were often ignored, and the homelands, or reservations, were sliced up or overrun.
When Georgia declared Indian laws on designated Indian land within the state to be null and void, the Cherokees sued -- and won. Writing in 1830, Chief Justice John Marshall held that the Cherokees were "a distinct political society, separated from others, capable of managing its own affairs and governing itself."
It was one of three Supreme Court decisions in the 1830's that established the right of American Indian tribes to be free from state control, while they remained subordinate to the will of Congress. A century and a half later, this remains the governing framework.
Indian nations were not judged to be stand-alone countries. Instead, the Supreme Court defined them as "domestic, dependent nations" -- a unique status that is still subject to much contention. Indian country is an evolving political experiment, trying to live the oxymoron of being nations that are still subject to a greater political power.
For more than a hundred years after the last treaty, virtually every census found Indian lands to be islands of squalor and poverty, with chronic unemployment and rates of disease and early death unmatched in the country.
Then came the "new buffalo" -- gambling operations on Indian land, approved by Congress in 1988. A third of all tribes now operate some form of gambling enterprise, and though the windfall is unevenly spread, it generates more than $6 billion a year.
"The Indians in California have been poverty stricken for 150 years," Mr. Pico said of the Viejas band. "We've never been to a point where we could exercise our rights. Now we have an economic base, and suddenly we're on people's radar screens."
Indian country came alive, in ways both unintended and planned, with gambling. Suddenly, little patches of long-forgotten ground blossomed into cash centers in neon, which gave rise to cultural programs, language revival, scholarships, better schools.
The venture into gambling also changed the average American's view of Indians, prompting talk of "rich Indians," even though an overwhelming majority of the tribes have seen no windfall from gambling.
The tribes with money started to buy into the political process, giving more than $2 million in campaign contributions, mostly to Democrats, in the 1996 election.
But even the tribes without money have seen their sons and daughters -- educated at law schools from Stanford to Dartmouth -- return to the reservations. They are well-versed in court rulings, treaties and laws passed in the 1970's and 1980's that gave the tribes more independence.
More than ever, the tribes are acting like states and counties, levying their own taxes, enforcing their own land use regulations, building codes and criminal statutes. Some tribes are thinking of issuing their own driver's licenses.
"I remember my dad used to take me out in a pickup truck, and he'd say, 'This is our land, only the people around us have changed,' " said Roy Bernal, chairman of the All-Indian Pueblo Council, which represents tribes in New Mexico. "Over the years, we have had sovereign recognition from Spain, from Mexico and the United States."
But just as the full consequence of the nation-within-a-nation architecture designed by the Supreme Court is being realized, the sovereignty movement is bumping into a wall of opposition.
Members of Congress from California, Utah, Washington and Montana, alarmed by the latest assertions of Indian nationhood within their states, ask: What right does a small minority have to ignore their neighbors' concerns?
"I don't think this is what the Founding Fathers had in mind," said Representative Merrill Cook, Republican of Utah, referring to new tribal ventures like casinos and nuclear storage proposals. "It's just not right, this use of sovereignty. The implications are frightening for us as a nation."
Nearly half the American states have no Indian tribes or reservations within their borders. But elsewhere, tribal land is etched in shades all over the national map, most of it in the West.
Indian country today is 56 million acres, 314 reservations and about 1.4 million people living on or near tribal land -- less than 1 percent of the overall population of the United States spread over a bit more than 2 percent of the land. An additional 500,000 or so people who listed themselves as Indian in the last census live mostly in urban areas.
The Government was supposed to hold tribal lands in trust, acting as guardian to the nations it had warred against. But instead Congress opened up tribal lands to sale, trying to make commercial landowners out of individual Indians. From the 1880's to the 1930's, the reservations lost more than 90 million acres -- nearly two-thirds of the land base -- as big pieces of Indian country were sold to non-Indians.
The low point, for many tribes, was in the 1950's, when more than 100 Indian governments were dismantled under an Eisenhower Administration policy known as termination. Erased from official recognition in exchange for cash, many tribes simply ceased to exist.
 
Flash Points
When Tribal Law And Others Collide
But in the last quarter century, there has been a strong rebound, as Indians have defiantly rejected assimilation. There are now 554 tribes, each recognized by the Federal Government as a sovereign entity with varying degrees of power.
"Sovereignty sounds like something from the King of England, but all it really boils down to is the right to make your own laws and be ruled by them," said Kevin Gover, a Pawnee who is the new Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Indian Affairs.
By any measure, Indian country is deep in social problems. Unemployment is more than 30 percent. Among people who have jobs, nearly a third earned less than $10,000 a year in 1995 -- the last full year surveyed.
Indians have the highest rates of alcoholism, suicide and child abuse in the country, though some progress is being made.
More than 250 languages are spoken in Indian country. There are courts and statutes that are grounded more in tribal and family customs than English common law, but basic American Constitutional rights supersede. In 1924, Congress declared that all Indians were American citizens, though many reject the label.
"I don't belong to two nations," Mr. Bear said, strolling on Goshute land in central Utah. "I belong to one -- the Skull Valley Goshute Nation."
Today, governments collide with greater frequency, particularly where Indian country rubs up against major urban areas. And tribes are doing what any corporation or government with something to protect has done: they have hired top-tier lobbyists, publicists and legal talent to make their case.
A scholarship fund, started more than 20 years ago by the Federal Government but now guided by private donations, has allowed any Indian with the grades to go to law school.
"We started cranking out 20 to 30 graduates a year back in the 1970's," Mr. Echohawk said. His group, the Native American Rights Fund, recently argued a case before the Supreme Court that would have expanded Indian country through much of Alaska. In February, the Court ruled against the Indians, saying that the native lands in that state would not fall under tribal jurisdiction.
The Alaska fight was about traditional native concerns: fish, game and culture. In Washington state, the conflict is how a modern Indian nation can coexist in a big city. A plan by a historically poor tribe to build an amphitheater has engaged everyone from President Clinton to leaders of Congress.
The Muckleshoots, once a fishing tribe, were all but swept away by the growth of metropolitan Seattle. The tribe has held to a patch of land granted them by treaty in 1854. Just under 3,500 acres between Seattle and Tacoma, this land has become increasingly valuable as the suburbs marched south and north. Now they are using that land, and the ability to make their laws regardless of state and county concerns, to prosper.
Several years ago, the Muckleshoots built a casino -- the closest to Seattle. It has become one of the most successful tribal gambling ventures in the country. Just as the Goshutes view a nuclear waste storage site as a chance for full employment, the Muckleshoots say the amphitheater would be a major step toward economic self-sufficiency, coupled with the jobs tied to the casino.
But the tribe has attracted powerful opponents. In a recent letter to President Clinton, Representative Jennifer Dunn, Republican of Washington, characterized the amphitheater as an outlaw project, rising without environmental review or state and county building permits. A group of non-Indians who live near the project has just filed suit, making the same point.
The Muckleshoots say Ms. Dunn never raised any concern when the latest non-Indian shopping mall rose on wetlands south of Seattle. In her home state, she is not known as a friend of the environmental movement.
As the dispute heats up, Indian children are being taunted as they wait for school buses, and in some cases fruit has been thrown at them, tribal members say. It was much easier to like the Indians, the Muckleshoots note, when they were visible only at annual salmon ceremonies.
More than 8,000 people signed petitions urging the local government to block the amphitheater. The issue is not about Indians, they say, but about a project that would destroy the rural way of life. But a majority of the King County Council concluded in a recent vote that there is little they can do, unless Congress wants to intervene.
Congress has been sending conflicting signals -- on the one hand pushing for greater autonomy and self-determination, on the other warning that assertive tribal governments are going too far.
More than a decade ago, in amending the Clean Water Act, Congress gave Indian tribes the same authority as states to set water pollution standards.
The Isleta Pueblo, living along the river just south of Albuquerque, took Congress up on the offer, setting water standards that were much stricter than New Mexico's. The tribe wanted clean water not just for health, but for religious purposes.
The city fought the tribe, saying it would cost $300 million to meet the Indian clean water standards. Albuquerque officials appealed all the way up to the Supreme Court, but were rebuffed last fall.
To the tribes along the Rio Grande, the court victories on behalf of clean water are part of a logical extension of their power, even though most of them have no treaties with the United States.
What they do have is a long attachment to the land. The Pueblos often show outsiders the silver-tipped canes given them by President Abraham Lincoln. It was Lincoln's way of rewarding people in this part of Indian country for standing by the Union in the Civil War. The canes are stronger symbols of sovereignty, they say, than anything written.
 
The Future
Collision Ahead Over Sovereignty
In Skull Valley, cattle sleep in the middle of the main road and Navy fighter jets scream overhead. Petroglyphs older than the United States are etched in the rocks. The few people who stumble upon the Goshutes wonder why the only real tribal businesses are a money-losing mini-mart and a sliver of dry land leased to a rocket-testing company.
The curious often follow the ghost trails that border the Goshutes -- the Pony Express route to the south, the Donner Party Trail to the north.
"They want us to be traditional," Leon Bear said. "Sure, we'd like to be traditional. But you can't eat wild rice anymore because those lands are polluted. And you can't hunt around here -- they've poisoned the watering holes up in those mountains." He motioned toward a range with two commercial toxic waste dumps.
In Salt Lake City, Mr. Cook, the Congressman whose district borders Skull Valley, sees a collision ahead. Nobody wants the nuclear waste site but a handful of Indians trying to get rich, he says. Plus, parts of Utah may be Indian country, but it is also earthquake country -- a potential safety problem, he says.
"Something is dead wrong when a small group of people can ignore the will of 90 percent of our state," Mr. Cook said.
It is possible, Mr. Cook said, that parallel nations may never work, a feeling shared by some experts. The sovereignty movement "is creating a hodgepodge of economically and perhaps politically unviable states whose role in the United States is glaringly undefined in the United States constitution," Fergus M. Bordewich wrote in a recent book, "Killing the White Man's Indian," (Anchor, 1997; Doubleday, 1996).
Mr. Bordewich took a journalistic tour of Indian country and came away greatly worried. He imagines a future where nearly every major city has a tribal casino, and passports are needed to travel from one area to the next.
The Indians scoff at such suggestions. For more than two centuries, the tribes have been in retreat. They once had a peak population of perhaps as high as 10 million people living 500 years ago in what is now the United States, according to the estimates of some historians. The population fell to barely 300,000 by the 1920's.
"I believe we will be here as long as the United States will exist," Mr. Gover said. "By sheer tenacity, we have held on." The grip of life, he said, is the very sovereignty movement that scares non-Indians.
But what about this nuclear waste site, these casinos and amphitheaters? What do these have to do with being an Indian, with living the old way? Leon Bear and other Indians have a ready reply.
"We have our traditional values," he said, sorting through an application to bring 4,000 casks of nuclear waste to the leathery ground of the Goshutes. "Sovereignty -- that's what we've held onto."
Next: The backlash against Indian sovereignty.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Utah, Leon Bear leads the Goshute Indian tribe, which is trying to assert its rights as a sovereign nation. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Navajo Nation Council met in a special session in Window Rock, Ariz., last month to express opposition to a suggestion that Navajo roads be closed for a day in a demonstration of sovereignty. The Indian country site for nuclear waste storage is also in earthquake country. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. 24)
 
Chart/Map: "Indian Country"
Two centuries ago, Indians controlled three-quarters of the United States' eventual land mass. That has shrunk to just 2 percent, on 314 scattered reservations. But now, on reservations like Skull Valley in Utah, Indians are reasserting their sovereignty. Maps show Indian-controlled land today, in 1880, in 1860, and in 1790. (Sources: Bureau of Indian Affairs; Smithsonian Institution)(pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (59%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (59%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTERN STATES (US); EASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (96%); UTAH, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; GAMBLING; SURVEYS AND SERIES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATES (US) NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); DESERTS (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); CASINOS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (88%); POLITICS (75%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (73%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



184 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Albright Warns Serbs on Kosovo Violence

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: ROME, March 7

 BODY:
Blaming President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia for the bloodshed in Kosovo, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said today that the United States is "not going to stand by and watch" Serbian authorities crush political freedoms in the province.
Ms. Albright is to attend a meeting on Monday in London of the group of six countries monitoring developments in the former Yugoslavia. She said she wants the so-called Contact Group to insure that "Serbia pays a price" for its actions in Kosovo, the southern Serbian province where Belgrade is attempting to crush an independence movement led by ethnic Albanians. 
 "We are not going to stand by and watch the Serbian authorities do in Kosovo what they can no longer get away with doing in Bosnia," Ms. Albright said.
A senior American official said Ms. Albright would propose that the six nations take "strong measures that would signal the disapproval and condemnation of the international community for this crackdown," in which at least 45 Albanians and 6 Serbian policemen have been killed in recent days.
The "strong measures" that she will propose are largely economic and meant to be punitive, but American officials acknowledge that some members of the Contact Group -- which includes France, Russia, Germany, Britain and Italy -- are less enamored of a stiff response.
"There may be some governments that need some reminding of what happened last time," a senior American official said, referring to the horrors of the 1992-95 civil war in Bosnia. "It's important to have a firm response now," the official said.
Ms. Albright said of President Milosevic, "Unfortunately, the one thing he truly understands is decisive and firm action on the part of the international community."
But Russia has opposed sanctions over Kosovo, and other nations, including France and Italy, are understood to be less than enthusiastic about another confrontation with Serbia. The Americans have already taken some small steps in response to the violence in Kosovo, lifting modest economic concessions granted Belgrade only a week ago in response to Mr. Milosevic's support for Milorad Dodik, the new, more moderate Prime Minister of the Serbian republic in Bosnia.
The Americans had also granted landing rights for charter flights of JAT, Yugoslavia's national airline, and permission to open a new consulate and to add staff members at the Yugoslav Mission to the United Nations in New York.
"By his actions, Slobodan Milosevic has made it clear he is spurning the incentives that the United States and others have offered him in recent weeks," Ms. Albright said. "We have already taken steps to insure that Serbia pays the price for its conduct in Kosovo and we urge our allies to follow suit."
American officials have always regarded Kosovo as the main threat to continued stability in the region after the 1995 Dayton accords ended the war in Bosnia. Ms. Albright said Washington believes that "it is important that there be a peaceful pursuit of the legitimate political rights of the people of Kosovo."
Italy's Foreign Minister, Lamberto Dini, for his part, expressed "extreme concern" over Kosovo and condemned Serbia for the "violence and brutality" of its forces there.
Mr. Dini returned this week from a trip to Iran, the first by a European Foreign Minister since the European Union lifted its ban on high-level visits there. He said that "the changes under way in Iran are substantial and significant," and that "this process is likely to continue" under Iran's new President, Mohammad Khatami.
Mr. Dini said he and Ms. Albright agreed that Mr. Khatami's policies "deserve encouragement, but at the same time we need to understand that deeds must follow."
Ms. Albright was more cautious, saying, "In our effort to encourage change, declaring success prematurely is the surest way to delay success indefinitely."
She said Washington is looking for "a pattern of action" that would demonstrate, over time, that Iran is moderating its behavior on three main points: the pursuit of weapons of mass destruction, support for terrorism and opposition to the Middle East peace effort.
She said the United States and the Europeans agreed on their aims in Iran, but "might have some difference in pacing and tactics."
Ms. Albright also met with Pope John Paul II at the Vatican for 30 minutes, a meeting that focused on his visit to Cuba in January.
The Pope clearly wanted to discuss Cuba with Ms. Albright, and has suggested using Cuba's promises of increasing religious freedoms as a way for Washington to measure political changes that could lead to a loosening of the American economic embargo. The Vatican opposes the sanctions.
Ms. Albright's spokesman, James P. Rubin, said that in the meeting with the Pope, she "stressed America's desire to find ways to help the Cuban people without strengthening their repressive Government."
An American official said later that Ms. Albright told the Pope that his visit to the island could be a "point of departure" for eventual political change in Cuba.
A Vatican statement said the two discussed Washington's "responsibilities on the world stage" and problems like the Middle East, Kosovo, ethnic clashes in Africa and the promotion of religious freedom in China. They had "a useful exchange of opinions," the Vatican said, a formulation implying that the two did not always agree.
The Vatican statement said the Pope and Ms. Albright devoted particular attention to "the future of Cuba following the Pope's recent visit to that country." After he returned, the Pope said he hoped the island would see the same type of democratic changes that took place in his native Poland after his first trip there as Pope in 1979.
An American official said Ms. Albright told the Pope that his visit to Poland "was crucial to the collapse of Communism there." Although Cuba and Poland were different, she said, his visit could have a similar impact.
A senior American official expressed hope that Cuba would follow up by allowing the kind of religious and political freedom "that one saw a signal of during the Pope's visit.". If such moves were "sustained and concrete," he said, "we would respond appropriately."
But he said it was too early to define what "appropriately" might mean, saying Ms. Albright was in "an assessment stage."
While reporters were in the Pope's private study, the Pope told Ms. Albright, "I shall do what you said." But officials did not explain the Pope's reference.
Ms. Albright began her conversation with the Pope in his native Polish, and then the two switched briefly to her native Czech. But they soon decided to continue in English, Vatican officials said.
As reporters left the frescoed library, the Pope asked Ms. Albright if she still has family in Prague. "Not anymore," she said, and then added, "I have a cousin there."
Ms. Albright gave the Pope a old, leather-bound book about the first Polish immigrants to the United States, while he gave her and her party rosaries and commemorative medals of his pontificate.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, on an official two-day visit to Italy, met for 30 minutes yesterday at the Vatican with Pope John Paul II. Officials said their talk focused largely on the pontiff's recent visit to Cuba. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (97%); KOSOVO (94%); ITALY (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); ALBANIA (92%); FRANCE (90%); CUBA (86%); HOLY SEE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); ROME, ITALY (79%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); ITALY; CUBA; IRAN; SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (97%); KOSOVO (94%); ITALY (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); ALBANIA (92%); FRANCE (90%); CUBA (86%); HOLY SEE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (69%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); ROME, ITALY (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); AIRLINES (64%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); POPE (JOHN PAUL II) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (74%); POPE JOHN PAUL II (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



185 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: From Swagger to Statecraft: Hussein's Newfound Elan

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM 

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, March 6

 BODY:
From the onset of the latest gulf crisis, Iraq has had four goals: avoiding a military attack; casting doubt on the objectivity of Richard Butler, the Australian who heads the United Nations special commission charged with weapons inspections; drawing the United Nations into more active involvement, and insuring that the principle of easing economic sanctions on Iraq be accepted before President Saddam Hussein cooperates with inspections.
In conversations over the last three weeks in Baghdad and Amman with a score of Iraqi, Jordanian and United Nations officials and foreign diplomats, a consensus has emerged that Iraq has by and large come closer to achieving these goals. 
 "If the aim of the United States is to keep Saddam in a box," said an Asian ambassador in Baghdad who has extensive experience in Middle East affairs, "he is out of this box. He has received considerable sympathy from most of his neighbors. In addition, the person who built him a bridge was none less than the Secretary General of the United Nations, acting in the name of the international community."
It is not unrelated that in the last three weeks, at least six planeloads of medicine and food from the United Arab Emirates, Morocco, Qatar and Egypt have arrived at Baghdad's airport -- even though the sanctions prohibit flights except for those carrying inspectors. There have also, of course, been the flights bringing Russian officials and reporters covering the visit of Kofi Annan, the United Nations Secretary General.
The sanctions imposed after the 1990 invasion of Kuwait are to remain in place until Iraq is judged in full compliance with the terms ending the 1991 gulf war. But at Iraq's borders, these strictures are clearly fraying.
Commercial shopping malls in Baghdad are filled with smuggled goods from Syria, Turkey and Iran -- and legal ones from Jordan, which buys a limited amount of Iraqi oil under a United Nations exemption to the embargo.
Many experts say President Hussein, having achieved some of his aims, is likely to give his diplomatic establishment, headed by Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz, greater license to continue managing the situation.
The team includes Foreign Minister Mohammad Said al-Sahhaf and his deputy, Riyadh al-Qaysi; Iraq's United Nations representqtive, Nizar Hamdoon, and the representative to UNESCO in Paris, Abdelamir al-Anbari.
There are also two senior Information Ministry officials who, against the advice of Iraq's security establishment, opened the door to foreign journalists -- some 2,000 of whom have poured into Baghdad.
For now, hard-line members of the Revolutionary Command Council, including Taha Yassin Ramadan, the council's vice chairman, and senior family members like President Hussein's son Uday, appear to have been eclipsed.
"The strategy was to turn this from a military confrontation to a political one," said Saad Nagi Jewad, a political scientist at the University of Baghdad. "Undoubtedly the palpable sympathy with Iraq this time around, particularly in the Arab world, and the clear opposition to a strike by Russia, France and China in the Security Council, played a role."
Some Iraqi officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, concede that they were surprised by the scale of the American military buildup.
And the Asian ambassador said President Hussein might have become convinced that any attack would be heavy and directed against him and his entourage.
But the experts also point out that, as one put it, the "style and manner" in which Mr. Annan approached President Hussein made a big difference.
"Now," one of the Iraqis said, "the concept of preserving the dignity of Iraq is there in writing."
This issue of respect is of paramount importance in Iraq's fiercely tribal and clannish society.
Four years after the end of the gulf war, a Central Intelligence Agency officer stationed in Amman mused in a long conversation about the American plan to bring down Mr. Hussein.
It was, he said, premised on "usurping" the President's authority in the eyes of his people, through food-distribution programs and a permanent system of monitoring entirely controlled by foreigners. The idea was to chip away at the edifice of leadership.
This policy proved successful episodically, provoking the kind of impetuous reactions from which the Iraqi leadership had to back down or be punished with military attacks or more sanctions.
But in the latest instance, things played out differently.
Those interviewed in Jordan and Iraq nearly unanimously said the new Iraqi style stressing cooperation and diplomacy is likely to persist over the next few weeks. This, they add, will offset the mood in the United States which, under pressure from Congress and the public, seems confrontational.
"We were surprised by how agile Tariq Aziz has been," said a senior adviser to King Hussein of Jordan who has managed several aspects of the Jordanian-Iraqi relationship over the last decade.
If Mr. Aziz did not have carte blanche from Mr. Hussein, the adviser added, "if you know Iraq well, you know he could not respond to each criticism from the United States on CNN and other media as swiftly and broadly as he was doing." The official said it was obvious that Mr. Aziz no longer needed to clear every statement with President Hussein. "This is not the Iraq I know," he added.
He also said Iraq's greatest challenge would be resisting the temptation to react to what he called "provocative behavior" by United Nations weapons inspectors.
But, he noted, this time there will be other "witnesses" from the United Nations. In fact the new agreement requires that the inspectors in locations like presidential palaces be accompanied by diplomats.
Regardless of the reasons, Iraq has seemed more open to foreigners in the last few weeks than in the preceding decade.
There is West European support for the conviction that Baghdad's new diplomatic approach will help Mr. Hussein make further inroads. A few days ago Gunter Verheugen, a foreign policy spokesman for Germany's opposition Social Democrats, said world opinion would require that the new agreement be accepted. He added, "The Americans would find themselves in dangerous isolation if, pointing to some trifling detail or another, they insisted on a military strike."
The French Defense Minister, Alain Richard, said that if Iraq abided by the terms of the agreement, and United Nations weapons inspections showed that Iraq no longer had any nuclear, biological or chemical weapons capability, economic sanctions should be lifted. This, French officials say, is the only long-term incentive for Mr. Hussein to comply with the arms agreements.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); JORDAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); QATAR (79%); KUWAIT (79%); MOROCCO (79%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%); AMMAN, JORDAN (90%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (96%); JORDAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); QATAR (79%); KUWAIT (79%); MOROCCO (79%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%); AMMAN, JORDAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); SMUGGLING (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); JOURNALISM (69%); WRITERS (64%); RETAILERS (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN) SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



186 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Questions Following a Former Mayor

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: EAST ORANGE, N.J., March 4

 BODY:
Two years ago, East Orange awarded about $300,000 in Federal housing money to a small nonprofit group to buy five rundown buildings. Last year, Federal officials found that the group had failed to properly account for the money, and ordered the city to repay it.
The matter -- like dozens of others handled each year by the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development -- might have been quietly resolved but for one thing: the Mayor of East Orange at the time was Cardell Cooper. And Mr. Cooper, who chose not to seek re-election, is now being considered by the White House for a top job at HUD. 
 While no one is suggesting that this could derail Mr. Cooper's expected nomination as assistant secretary for community planning and development, officials of the Clinton Administration said privately that it had become part of the "vetting process" that all potential nominees go through.
Regional HUD officials referred all questions about their review of the grant money to the White House. Officials at the White House would not comment, nor would they make Mr. Cooper available to respond to questions.
News of the review also comes as the State Attorney General is investigating East Orange's Water Commission and as the city continues to search for $10 million in revenues to balance its budget.
Mr. Cooper, a 16-year veteran of New Jersey politics, served as a New Jersey coordinator of the Clinton re-election campaign in 1996. The housing department job, in which he would oversee the Community Development Block Grant program, homeless shelter assistance and enterprise communities, is not the first administration post for which he has been mentioned. There were reports last year that he was being considered to run the Superfund program in the Environmental Protection Administration until some Republican senators who would have to vote to confirm him for the post raised questions about his qualifications. He is now a $455-a-day consultant to the environmental agency.
Many of Mr. Cooper's supporters suggested that the issue over the HUD review was the result of the fractious local politics of the city and the desire of some of Mr. Cooper's longtime opponents to embarrass him.
"We have complete confidence that when the process is complete Cardell Cooper will be nominated," said Jamie Fox, a spokesman for Senator Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey, one of Mr. Cooper's main backers for the housing post.
One of Cooper's opponents is the current Mayor of East Orange, Robert Bowser. Mr. Bowser, a Democrat who defeated a candidate supported by Mr. Cooper in last year's Democratic primary, denied that he was trying to politically embarrass his predecessor. But he said that he had been troubled by the "laxness" he found upon taking over City Hall in January.
Mr. Bowser said that Mr. Cooper had left him with an unapproved budget with a funding gap of $10 million, largely due to unrealistic revenue estimates. In addition, the State Attorney General is investigating a decision by the city's water commissioners, all of whom were appointed by Mayor Cooper, to allow the top engineer in the Water Department to resign and take with him six of his assistants. The engineer and his assistants formed a private company that was then hired by the Water Commission to manage the city's water system and the water systems of at least six other towns, two of which had previously contracted with the city.
"We haven't been able to send out tax bills because we don't have a budget," Mr. Bowser said. He added that questions raised by the Attorney General's investigation had for the time being closed off one source of money -- some Water Department revenues -- that could have balanced the city's budget. "We knew there were problems. They are just wider and deeper than we thought."
The Water Department arrangement has been challenged as anti-competitive in a civil lawsuit filed by a private water company as well as in proceedings before the state's Board of Public Utilities. And last week, said Mayor Bowser, the State Attorney General's office seized records concerning the transactions.
A spokesman for the Attorney General would not comment on any investigation. But Anthony Scillia, the former chief engineer of the Water Commission who now heads Utility Management and Engineering Inc., confirmed that state investigators had been looking into allegations that there was an ethics violation in the arrangement between his company and the commission.
"There is no conflict," said Mr. Scillia, adding that his company has made it possible for the local water agency to sell their billing and management expertise to other cities throughout the state under contracts that will bring East Orange a projected $99 million over the next 20 years. "Mayor Cooper was supportive of what the Water Commission had done because we were the only agency bringing in new revenue and creating tax relief."
Mr. Bowser said he is preparing a speech to East Orange residents next week detailing what he has found in his first 60 days in office and explaining some of the reasons for the city's plight.
"I will make it clear that where the problems began was with Cardell Cooper," he said. "We're not out to get him but this is not a problem that I created."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cardell Cooper, the former Mayor of East Orange, N.J., in 1995. (Frank Dougherty)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST ORANGE (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOUSING AUTHORITIES (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); SUPERFUND (62%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (51%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD; COOPER, CARDELL MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



187 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Fierce Bidding Expected on 2 Sites in Times Square

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The dilapidated storefronts and pornographic theaters in Times Square have given way in recent years to two musical theaters, a giant music and entertainment store, splashy theme restaurants, and soon, Madame Tussaud's Wax Museum and 50 movie screens.
Now, Prudential Insurance Company of America is selling control of the last two of four development sites in Times Square where the insurance company was supposed to build office towers. Bids are being taken on Wednesday in what promises to be a fierce battle among old-line real estate families and their new rivals, the financial operators and publicly traded real estate companies that emerged in recent years. Real estate executives and bankers expect the buyers to pay as much as $240 million and to build a pair of skyscrapers. 
 The parcels are particularly attractive because development sites are scarce in Manhattan and these properties are accompanied by extraordinary tax breaks.
"These are probably the best sites in the city available for development," said William Adamski, co-director of real estate banking at Credit Suisse First Boston, which is negotiating with several prospective bidders.
Real estate brokers and bankers expected the bidders to include George Klein, Prudential's former partner who is now teamed up with Blackstone Partners, and his rival, Douglas Durst, whose family once opposed the state's redevelopment of Times Square, as well as Steven C. Witkoff, Daniel Brodsky, Vornado Realty Trust, TrizecHahn Corporation; Mortimer Zuckerman, publisher of The Daily News and chairman of Boston Properties, and Jerry Speyer, chairman of Tishman Speyer Properties.
The first and perhaps more valuable site is at the southwest corner of 42d Street and Seventh Avenue, which is now occupied by the Disney Store. According to a sale document issued by Prudential, a builder would get property tax breaks worth $9.5 million a year, or $262.6 million over 20 years, on a planned 40-story office tower. The other parcel is across the street, a small block bound by Seventh Avenue and Broadway between 41st and 42d Streets, and has tax breaks valued at $236 million over 20 years for a proposed 49-story tower.
As the bidding date draws near, the developers also have been chasing potential tenants for the prospective towers. Disney wants to retain its retail store at the corner of Seventh Avenue and 42d Street and lease up to 100,000 square feet of office space, real estate executives said. Home Box Office, which occupies 650,000 square feet of space in Manhattan, has been looking for a new home in Times Square, as has ESPN, the cable sports station.
The sale of the two parcels would mark Prudential's exit from Times Square after a 12-year run. In the early 1980's, the city and the state selected the insurance company and the developer George Klein to build the four towers that were expected to transform Times Square. But after a series of delays and the recession in the early 1990's, Prudential lost its desire to be a developer.
Prudential wanted only to recover the $433 million it had spent on condemnation, land acquisition, architectural plans, theater renovation and the development of retail space. Ultimately, the revival of Times Square was led by media and entertainment companies, rather than office towers. The insurance company decided in 1996 to sell control of one site on the east side of Broadway, between 42d and 43d Streets, to Mr. Durst, who is building a 50-story tower. It sold the second site, on the west side of Seventh Avenue, between 42d and 43d Streets, to Reuters and the Rudin real estate family.
The plans for two more towers does not enthrall the Municipal Art Society, a civic group that has long opposed oversized projects in Times Square.
"The office towers only became possible after entertainment pulled Times Square out of the muck," Brendan Sexton, president of the Municipal Art Society, said. "We'll now get two big, blunt office towers on two scrawny sites. Given the level of public subsidies, New Yorkers should get some fabulous buildings, not just two towers like any others in Manhattan."

GRAPHIC: Map of Times Square showing Prudential sites to be sold: Some regard the two tower sites as the hottest still available in town.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (66%); BX (NYSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (72%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (66%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (66%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (66%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (72%); VORNADO REALTY TRUST (66%); TRIZECHAHN CORP (66%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); HOME BOX OFFICE INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE AND 42D STREET (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS REAL ESTATE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); THEME RESTAURANTS (78%); FILM (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FAMILY (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); PORNOGRAPHY (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (70%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V MORTIMER BENJAMIN ZUCKERMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



188 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: Africans Resentful as Asia Rakes In Aid

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast, March 7

 BODY:
There was a slightly forced quality to the smiles of officials from the International Monetary Fund and the Ivory Coast Government when they met here last month to sign a major pact on restructuring this country's ailing economy.
Ivory Coast had just been granted $2 billion in new loans. But to get there, the Government had negotiated for nine months, finally agreeing to stinging measures that gave the uncomfortable impression that economic policy would henceforth be made at the fund's headquarters in Washington. 
 Under the new "structural adjustment program," Ivory Coast must quickly complete a sell-off of state-owned companies under which everything from water and electricity to telephone service has already been auctioned to foreign investors. The Government must also freeze hiring and institute strict guidelines for promotion on merit.
And in perhaps the most politically painful measure, in a country that is the world's largest cocoa producer and seventh-largest exporter of coffee, the agreement stipulates that the Government must get out of commodity marketing altogether, removing the hand of politicians from the most lucrative game in the land.
Across Asia, similarly sweeping steps have been imposed by the International Monetary Fund and its affiliate, the World Bank, in recent weeks, provoking demonstrations against those institutions in South Korea and Thailand and riots against austerity measures in Indonesia.
But seen from Africa, where many countries like Ivory Coast have been following "adjustment" programs for two decades, the rush to help Asia's distressed economies with quick loan packages worth tens of billions of dollars looks more like a genuine rescue effort than what appears to many here to be a stingy and never-ending program of life-support for Africa.
"We have observed the speedy reaction to Asia, and seen the huge sums of money they have been able to come up with almost instantaneously, often bending the rules pretty freely," said Niamien Ngoran, Ivory Coast's Finance Minister. "When it comes to us, our negotiations can drag on for months while they split hairs and act very finicky. One can easily get the impression of a double standard."
World Bank and I.M.F. officials say the size and speed of their response to the crisis in Asian countries is justified by the importance of their economies to the global financial system. They also say that had more African countries embraced economic liberalization years ago when the first structural adjustment programs in Africa were begun, rather than resisting change, this continent would not find itself as marginalized as it is today.
"Africa has got to find a way to get more capital to flow here," said Shigeo Katsu, the World Bank's director for Ivory Coast. "Right now this continent represents a very small portion of world investment. If we had seen changes this sweeping 10 years ago, maybe that would be different now."
But critics of the World Bank and I.M.F. say that even those African countries that have been praised in the past as star "pupils" of the international institutions' reform programs have proved poor performers over time, calling into question the validity of the institutions' approach to the continent.
Zimbabwe and Ghana, for example, widely cited in the 1980's and early 1990's as World Bank success stories, are both in financial distress today. In Zimbabwe, gross domestic product is lower now than when its structural adjustment program began.
"If you go by World Bank projections, sub-Saharan Africa will be back to the levels of per-capita income that it had in the 1970's by the year 2005," said Kevin Watkins, a senior policy adviser at Oxfam International, the British relief advocacy group. "This is a very poor record, and whether you argue that the problem is with implementation or approach, the fact is that the World Bank's policies in Africa have not worked."
In the past, critics of World Bank and I.M.F. programs have said their reliance on austerity measures like higher interest rates has proved devastating to African countries where governments, however inefficient, typically account for most economic activity. Slashing government budgets in this context has often meant not just higher unemployment but also fewer vaccination programs or schools.
In response to these criticisms, the World Bank has slowed its lending for big projects like roads and dams, which often ended as costly failures, and stepped up its investment in "human capital."
In practice, this has meant providing more money for schools and health care. Still, according to World Bank data, Africa is the only continent where the percentage of school-age children who do not attend school is increasing, making it unlikely that it will be in a better position to compete in the future.
Where international financial institutions could arguably make the biggest impact in Africa is also where they have, in contrast to their swift reaction to Asia's crisis, moved slowly: writing off Africa's huge debt. In a fairly typical example, Tanzania spends six times as much paying off its debt -- most of which is owed to international financial institutions or to Western governments -- than it does for education.
A program of debt relief for Africa's most heavily indebted countries was worked out last year after years of discussion, but countries are not eligible until they have completed six years of stringently monitored structural adjustment.
"This is clearly an area where we have failed these countries," said a senior World Bank official with responsibility for African programs. "The political will to do better just did not exist."
The speed with which the international financial system has raced to reverse Asia's financial slide, and the huge amounts of money already committed to the effort, are not the only things that distinguish Africa's relationship to the World Bank and I.M.F. from that of Asia. There is also a huge difference in the reaction of the populations of both continents.
People in many Asian countries have begun to demonize the fund as a cruel institution that threatens their job security, or will allow foreigners to take over their companies. But in Africa, where political pluralism has begun to take hold in this decade, the institutions are no longer seen as ogres.
In recent years, few countries in Africa have seen the kinds of street demonstrations or denunciations of the I.M.F. that have become common in Asia. And where demonstrations against economic hardship have occurred, as in Zimbabwe recently, the Government, rather than some sinister foreign hand, has been the target.
Instead, opposition politicians and newspapers in many African countries have taken to prodding governments to respect the terms of their structural adjustment programs, and chiding those that do not.
For many, this change is less an expression of confidence that the formulas for economic restructuring imposed from Washington will work now, or indeed ever will, but rather a feeling that the scrutiny attached to multilateral lending helps limit corruption and increases government accountability.
"For years, under one-party rule, we were told that our difficult straits were due to the austerity imposed from abroad," said Diegou Bailly, editor of the Ivory Coast daily Le Jour. "In fact, the I.M.F. and others were lending money to us blindly, and it was being spent for purposes that had nothing to do with the reasons for the loans. Today, there is a new feeling of scrutiny, and even if there is still some waste, the population won't pay as dearly."

GRAPHIC: Map showing the location of Abidjan, Ivory Coast: An accord signed in Abidjan gives Ivory Coast $2 billion in loans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS; 

COUNTRY: COTE D'IVOIRE (97%); AFRICA (96%); ASIA (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: ABIDJAN, COTE D'LVOIRE (73%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; IVORY COAST; COTE D'IVOIRE (97%); AFRICA (96%); ASIA (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ABIDJAN, COTE D'LVOIRE (73%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); COMMODITIES TRADING (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); COFFEE MARKETS (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; NGORAN, NIAMIEN (MIN)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



189 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Little Rock Growing Weary Of the 4-Year Siege by Starr

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark., March 5

 BODY:
Skip Rutherford, one of this city's most faithful Friends of Bill, and William H. Kennedy 3d, a former associate White House counsel, were sharing lunch a few months ago at La Scala, an Italian restaurant in Little Rock's Hillcrest neighborhood, when an acquaintance stopped by their table.
"This guy walks over," Mr. Rutherford recalled, "and says, 'Are y'all just catching up?' And I said, 'Yeah, but unless you've been subpoenaed, you can't sit at this table.' " The man grinned at the quip and began to walk away, then spun around and returned to the table. "You know," he said, "I got mine yesterday." 
 As Little Rock has been transformed from the permanent home of Bill Clinton into the temporary home of Kenneth W. Starr, this intimate little town has increasingly taken on the feel of an occupied state. After four years of high-profile trials and endless rounds of grand jury testimony, Mr. Starr's investigation into the Whitewater land deal and its many offshoots has become so pervasive that few members of the city's political, legal and business elite have escaped its tentacles.
As Mr. Rutherford's story demonstrates, subpoenas have become as ubiquitous as Clinton-Gore bumper stickers in this city of 175,000 people. And the subpoenas, in turn, have created a cottage industry for the city's lawyers, some of whom have been retained by as many as six grand jury witnesses.
At the Little Rock Club the other day, William H. Bowen, the recently retired dean of the law school at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock, looked around the room at the lunching lawyers and ticked off name after name of those with Whitewater clients.
The investigations have profoundly changed the politics of the city and the state by bringing down a former municipal judge, David Hale, a former Mayor, Webster L. Hubbell, and a Governor, Jim Guy Tucker, a Democrat who was replaced by a Republican, Mike Huckabee.
They have created a strong campaign issue for Nate Coulter, a Democratic lawyer who is winning attention in his race for United States Senate this year by calling for strict limits on the powers of the independent counsel.
"All these people leading the investigation are from elsewhere," Mr. Coulter said, "and they've been led to believe that this is some sort of rogue state run by rogue people and that it was O.K. to come in here and treat everybody like criminals."
The investigations have touched hundreds of average residents, who now swap horror stories about the legal fees they have incurred or the inconveniences they have suffered while searching through voluminous records at the insistence of the independent counsel's office.
Susan Pfeifer, the owner of Design Center, a small shop in a stylish neighborhood known as the Heights, recalled that it took more than a week of looking to respond to a subpoena that requested records of all purchases made by Mr. Hubbell, who pleaded guilty in 1994 to charges stemming from the overbilling of legal clients.
"They wanted to know his buying habits, and so we were taking boxes of credit card receipts home at night," Ms. Pfeifer said.
"We came up with about $1,000 over five years. I was really outraged."
As when any community feels threatened by an outside force, Little Rock has responded to Mr. Starr's persistence with equal parts frustration, revulsion and fear.
Bumper stickers have cropped up around town urging: "Kenneth Starr -- Go Home." Others joke: "I Slept with Kenneth Starr."
"I'd like to tar and feather the man," said Lisa Matthews, who designed the "Go Home" stickers. "He's hurt a lot of people in our town, and to what end?"
But many here are far more circumspect, fearing that public pronouncements against Mr. Starr and his colleagues will simply buy them trouble, perhaps at great expense.
"People just want to lay low," said one prominent businessman, who insisted on anonymity. "There's a feeling that if you say too much there's no telling what these guys may do."
The independent counsel's office declined requests to be interviewed for this article.
The sense of siege here is reinforced by the compactness of the place, and the rapidity with which word travels, particularly among longtime allies of President Clinton. It is the kind of network that allows Mr. Rutherford, who serves Mr. Clinton in Little Rock as the Central Intelligence Agency does in Moscow, to revel playfully in his ability to know the constant whereabouts of every visiting reporter in town.
The notion that the city is under attack by outsiders is buttressed by the location of the independent counsel's office on the fringes of town in a three-story office building of dark glass and gray stone. It is about as distant as possible, both in miles and in character, from the establishment's downtown gathering spots, like the cozy bar at the grand old Capital Hotel and the well-appointed dining rooms of the Little Rock Club, which overlook the Arkansas River from the 30th floor of the First Commercial Bank building.
Mr. Starr, who is based in Washington, where another grand jury is impaneled, shuttles regularly to Little Rock to consult with the five prosecutors in his office here. The lawyers are assisted by a staff of five and a sizable contingent of F.B.I. agents.
The two worlds come together at the old stone Federal courthouse on West Capitol Street, where the Whitewater grand jury meets two or three times a week on the fourth floor.
The sidewalk outside the courthouse has become the site of a semipermanent news media encampment, nicknamed "the beach." Photographers lounge in folding chairs outside the main entrance, tossing away novels and grabbing their cameras whenever an unidentified person approaches the front door. As they are shooting, they ask the person whether he or she is a witness for the Whitewater grand jury. Some respond. Others do not.
Like airport police officers searching for drug couriers based on a universal profile, the photographers and television producers look for Whitewater witnesses by noticing their attire (a topcoat on a temperate day is a sure sign of an out-of-town witness) and their level of nervousness. Those who do not voluntarily give their names may have their license plates traced. "People are starting to take luggage tags off of briefcases, which I find very annoying," said Ron Blome, a freelance producer under contract for NBC News.
This week, The Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, Little Rock's morning newspaper, ran photographs of two unidentified men entering the courthouse, who, it turns out, were there for an unrelated case.
If there has been a silver lining for Little Rock, it has been that the constant presence of the national news gatherers has been good for business at hotels and restaurants. Many hotels are raising rates, demanding advance payments and imposing stiff cancellation fees for the Paula Corbin Jones trial, which is scheduled to begin on May 27. Ms. Jones's civil suit charges that Mr. Clinton made a crude sexual advance toward her in a Little Rock hotel room in 1991, when he was Governor and she was a state employee. Mr. Clinton has denied it.
Mayor Jim Dailey says he hasheard complaints of price gouging, and he has already killed a deal that would have allowed a local businessman to charge exorbitant rates to television networks wanting to set up camera positions on a sidewalk across the street from the Federal courthouse.
But any economic gain for city businesses, the Mayor suggested, has been far offset by his city's communal angst.
"It's become a very threatening force," Mayor Dailey said of the investigations. "The entanglements of this thing are just so pervasive now. They touch so many lives in our community. People are just asking how far does this have to go."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan Pfeifer, a shop owner who received a subpoena from Kenneth W. Starr, with a sticker that reflects the exasperation in Arkansas' capital. (Karen E. Segrave for The New York Times)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KGC (NYSE) (56%); K (TSX) (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (97%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: WHITEWATER DEVELOPMENT CO; MADISON GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN KINROSS GOLD CORP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITEWATER DEVELOPMENT CO; MADISON GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS; LITTLE ROCK (ARK); UNITED STATES (97%); ARKANSAS, USA (97%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: WHITEWATER CASE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT SUBPOENAS (92%); LAWYERS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); POLITICS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GRAND JURY (75%); TESTIMONY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MAYORS (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); JUDGES (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STARR, KENNETH W; SACK, KEVIN; HUBBELL, WEBSTER L; TUCKER, JIM GUY; HALE, DAVID; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM BILL CLINTON (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



190 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 2148 words

HEADLINE: Warily, Baseball Prepares to Make Murdoch Owner of the Dodgers

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
On Feb. 5, on the Fox studio lot in Los Angeles, three baseball executives, including the sport's acting commissioner, Bud Selig, conducted one of the more critical interviews the game had ever undertaken. The topic was the proposed $320 million sale of the Dodgers, one of the game's fabled franchises, to the buyer seated across the lunch table: Rupert Murdoch.
Baseball's wariness about Mr. Murdoch was deep. The prospective owner, Mr. Murdoch's Fox Group, has extraordinarily deep pockets, and the baseball executives feared its ability to spend without constraint could accelerate the payroll explosions that endanger the sport's finances. More important, however, was the influence of Mr. Murdoch's company over the local television rights to nearly two dozen baseball clubs; granting Fox the franchise, and with it access to the financial statements of all the 29 other clubs, could instantly make Mr. Murdoch the game's most powerful figure. 
 The baseball contingent emerged from the two-hour face-off impressed but still wary, and that apprehension suffuses the sport as its owners pore over an investigative report and financial documents trying to determine Mr. Murdoch's makeup and motives.
But interviews with club executives and baseball officials indicate that, absent a late bout of nerves, the sport will by March 19 formally approve the sale of the Dodgers -- the most expensive purchase of a sports franchise ever -- to an outfit run by an aggressive, continent-hopping dealmaker with no sentimental or historic attachment to the country's most tradition-bound sport.
If baseball does welcome Mr. Murdoch, though, it will do so with fingers crossed -- that rules governing revenue sharing or precluding outside licensing or sponsorship deals will not be broken and that, in short, Mr. Murdoch will not run roughshod over their game.
"I can't judge whether he would be a good or a bad owner," said Michael Eisner, the chairman of the Walt Disney Company, which owns the controlling stake in the Anaheim Angels.
"But I don't think he would not follow the rules."
In 1957, Walter O'Malley convulsed baseball's economics by moving the Dodgers from Brooklyn to California's virgin major league market, proving that even the most beloved team is a bottom-line business property to be exploited for its strategic value.
Now, Mr. O'Malley's son, Peter, who had grown disaffected with the sport's other owners in recent years, is about to unsettle baseball again -- leaving the sport with the disquieting parting gift of selling his legacy to a media powerhouse known for shaking up every business he acquires.
The deal for the Dodgers -- including Dodger Stadium and its 300 acres, the Dodgertown spring training site and minor league team in Vero Beach, Fla., and a training complex in the Dominican Republic -- closes an era when families like the Yawkeys and Griffiths and Stonehams made owning a baseball team their exclusive business. Soaring player salaries have routed them, and they have been replaced primarily by investors made wealthy elsewhere and giant corporations.
The Dodgers' prospective owner, the Fox Group, is part of Mr. Murdoch's publicly traded multinational media empire, The News Corpation, which has annual revenues exceeding $11 billion.
The opposition of five of the other 14 National League teams would block Fox's purchase of the Dodgers, but most baseball officials suspect that even such modest resistance will not materialize.
"Fox was the ideal successor to our family," Peter O'Malley said recently. "I'm at peace."
 
'A Big Load Of Influence'
With media interests on five continents, Rupert Murdoch comes to baseball with enormous financial clout.
He owns network television rights for baseball, the National Football League and the National Hockey League.
His FX and Fox Sports Net networks carry games for $43 million a year. His substantial investment in baseball, then, is seen either as a vote of confidence in the sport's recovery from labor strife or worrisome leverage over his future partners in ownership.
But it is Mr. Murdoch's consolidation of the once balkanized universe of regional sports networks into the Fox Sports Net that worries people.
Mr. Murdoch has parlayed alliances with Liberty Media, a unit of the cable television giant Tele-Communications Incorporated, and Cablevision Systems, into ownership stakes in 20 regional sports networks like Fox Sports West in Los Angeles, Fox Sports South in Atlanta and the MSG Network in New York.
In Los Angeles, the network, through its two Fox Sports West outlets, has the television rights to the Dodgers, Angels, Lakers, Clippers, Kings and Anaheim Mighty Ducks. In all, Mr. Murdoch pays at least $100 million a year for the local cable television rights of 22 baseball clubs.
No team owner with media interests possesses such influence. Disney owns 80 percent of ESPN, a national rights holder. Time Warner, the Atlanta Braves' owner, televises Braves game over its TBS cable network. The Tribune Company owns the Cubs and WGN-TV, which carries Cubs games, and five stations, like Channel 11 in New York, that televise the local games of six teams, like the Yankees.
"He's going to wield a big load of influence," said Tony Tavares, the Angels' president.
"Every team is supposed to have one vote, but can he influence more than one? If he pays enough for a team's rights, is it tantamount to his having a profit participation in another team?"
Baseball has long been suspicious of media companies' owning teams because they can offset club losses with profits from their main businesses.
Baseball was so concerned about the impact on local team revenues by the satellite delivery of Braves and Cubs games by the TBS and WGN superstations, respectively, that it imposed a separate fee structure for them. But now, entertainment goliaths like Fox, Time Warner, Tribune and Disney view baseball as essential assets.
"What are we in baseball if not programming and software for media companies?" said Eddie Einhorn, vice chairman of the Chicago White Sox.
"Sure, there's concern about their influence, but they've made the market for sports teams."

Tangled Holdings And Interests
Local baseball is good business for Fox. Ratings are stronger than they are nationally, so advertising is easy to sell. Underlying Fox's acquisition of the Dodgers is the guarantee that Dodger games will be the bulwark of Fox Sports West.
"We'll be a good owner, because we have such a big bet on baseball," said Chase Carey, chairman of Fox Television.
"We're already in a major partnership with baseball. We have good relationships with owners. We're part of the family."
Fox has won high marks from football and hockey officials. But Fox does not own teams in those sports, although an alliance with Cablevision brought Fox a 20 percent stake in the Knicks and Rangers.
"We respected the N.F.L. for what it was and brought new things to it," Mr. Carey said.
"The Dodgers are a unique franchise in a unique sport, and our goal is to bring new levels of excitement and to respect and enjoy what's there."
But some teams want Fox to stay in the television business.
Larry Lucchino, the Padres' president, said that "Fox's disproportionate influence on two dozen teams through its TV deals creates an opportunity to manipulate the arrangement for political purposes. Fox can say, 'If you don't vote for X, you'll have trouble on your TV deal.' "
The Padres and other teams worry that as an owner, Fox, controlled by Murdoch, will have access to their financial statements and use that knowledge at future television rights negotiations. Or, knowing how important local rights payments are, teams are concerned that Fox can influence the signing of free agents through well-timed extensions of cable rights deals.
Last year, Fox Sports Rocky Mountain extended its rights deal with the Colorado Avalanche hockey team just in time to help pay the team's star, Joe Sakic, a $15 million signing bonus and keep him from the Rangers. In that instance, the shared interests for Fox and the Rockies were benign. But it was an example of how, if circumstances were different, Fox's array of overlapping holdings and interests could affect critical decisions and even perhaps competitive balance.
Fox discounts any trepidation. "The teams have the business we need and can get rid of us for another competitor," said Jim Martin, executive vice president of the Fox/Liberty Networks.
"If we try to influence anybody's votes, the teams have other options and can tell us to go to hell."
Baseball's sense of Mr. Murdoch's full candor was shaken slightly when owners learned that T.C.I., one of Fox's television partners, had had an undisclosed option for half-ownership of the Dodgers, although T.C.I. waived it.
And Mr. Murdoch's audacious creation of a new rugby league in Australia made some baseball executives question whether he would ignore any rules that constrained him.
Three years ago, Mr. Murdoch launched his own rugby league by spending vast sums to poach 80 star players and several teams from the long-established Australian Rugby League. Rugby league, Australia's most popular sport, was deemed crucial programming for Mr. Murdoch's fledgling pay-TV service.
"It was viewed as treachery," said John Brady, a spokesman for the A.R.L., which has since merged with Mr. Murdoch's money-losing league. Now, Mr. Brady said, the old-line A.R.L. views Mr. Murdoch with grudging admiration for having the vision to sense the expanding popularity of professional rugby.
One baseball official summarized the concerns: "Let him into the club, he can cause problems. He does what he wants and he's litigious."
Fox has verbally agreed with baseball to abide by constraints on its behavior as an owner, including not beaming Dodger games to Japan on Mr. Murdoch's JSkyB TV satellite network. Baseball wants to insure those television revenues would be shared.

The Changing Face Of Dodger Stadium
Despite having a marquee team that drew three million customers a year, the family-owned Dodgers were increasingly an anachronism. Thus Mr. O'Malley had many reasons to sell the Dodgers: estate planning for his three children and his sister Terry Seidler's 10; $35 million in losses since 1994 and dissatisfaction that Los Angeles pulled its support for his plan to build a pro football stadium near Dodger Stadium.
But, Mr. O'Malley said, greater foresight might have kept the franchise his.
"The storms of the past four years caused central revenues to go down," he said, referring to money from networks and sponsors.
"I thought they'd come back earlier. I miscalculated. If I were accurate, we would have been fine."
But he is surrendering to modern sports finance -- and nearly pristine Dodger Stadium will sport advertising signs. This season, some field-level box seats will be removed for rotating signs that will cost 17 advertisers $200,000 each.
"Changes were coming with or without me," Mr. O'Malley said.
The planned luxury suites will be easier for Fox to finance.
Seventy-five to 80 suites should lease for at least $200,000 each, the peak price in baseball, the industry publication Team Marketing Report said.
Fox will modernize the stadium and add retailing, a hall of fame and an interactive entertainment center to compete with Disney's $110 million modernization of Anaheim Stadium.
"A lot can be done to create value that the Dodgers haven't done," said Mr. Carey, the Fox Television chairman. But he said Fox has no intention of selling Dodgertown and moving spring training west.
Mr. O'Malley speaks with a calm reserve, barely showing emotion as his Dodger epoch ends. But he is quietly adamant that he chose the right buyer.
"We checked them out," he said. "I talked to the N.F.L. I talked to people in baseball. Everybody without exception said Fox has done everything they said they would, and more. They've been an excellent partner."
Mr. O'Malley, who insists he has not succumbed to nostalgia, probably will not stay long to see the changes. He has no contract.
"I'm looking ahead," he said, in the final days of his 29-year tenure as the Dodgers' president and his family's 57-year connection to the Dodgers -- which began when his father became the team's lawyer.
"No, I'm not going to look back at my first day at Vero Beach or watching Dodger Stadium being constructed," he said. So there will be no warm memories of Koufax or Jackie or his days as a Dodgertown counselor.
Clark Griffith, whose family owned the Washington Senators and the Minnesota Twins, said, "I sense a great sadness in Peter that he has to sell."
Not so, Mr. O'Malley said. Maybe $320 million is sufficient balm against melancholy.
"I'm going to support this team," he said, "whether I'm here or not."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The O'Malley family has owned the Dodgers for nearly half a century. The current owner, Peter, at left with his son Brian, attended an exhibition game on Friday. Peter's father, Walter, hugged his manager, Walter Alston, at right, after the Dodgers won the 1955 World Series. (Susan Greenwood/The New York Times; Associated Press)(pg. 32)
 
Chart: "OVERVIEW: Extending His Reach"
The Fox Sports Net, which is part of Rupert Murdoch's TV sports empire, holds at least part of the local cable television rights to 22 of the 30 major league teams. This raises concern over the amount of influence he may wield as owner of the Los Angeles Dodgers.
 
AMERICAN LEAGUE
 
EAST
Detroit Tigers
New York Yankees
Baltimore Orioles
Tampa Bay Devil Rays
 
CENTRAL
Kansas City Royals
Chicago White Sox
Cleveland Indians
 
WEST
Texas Rangers
Anaheim Angels
Seattle Mariners
Oakland A's
 
NATIONAL LEAUGE
 
EAST
Atlanta Braves
New York Mets
Florida Marlins
 
CENTRAL
Houston Astros
Pittsburg Pirates
St. Louis Cardinals
Cincinnati Reds
 
WEST
Los Angeles Dodgers
Colorado Rockies
Arizona Diamondbacks
San Francisco Giants
 
(pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (81%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); COLORADO, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (74%); MISSOURI, USA (59%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (74%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (66%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (59%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (59%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: FOX GROUP WALT DISNEY CO (81%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (94%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (94%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (59%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK METS (59%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (59%); SEATTLE MARINERS (59%); OAKLAND A'S (59%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (59%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (59%); CINCINNATI REDS (59%); TEXAS RANGERS (59%); COLORADO ROCKIES (59%); TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (59%); HOUSTON ASTROS (59%); FLORIDA MARLINS (59%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (59%); DETROIT TIGERS (59%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (59%); COLORADO ROCKIES (59%); HOUSTON ASTROS (59%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); CINCINNATI REDS (59%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (59%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (59%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (59%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (59%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (59%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (59%); TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (59%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (59%); DETROIT TIGERS (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); FLORIDA MARLINS (59%); SEATTLE MARINERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOX GROUP LOS ANGELES DODGERS (94%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (94%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (59%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); NEW YORK METS (59%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (59%); SEATTLE MARINERS (59%); OAKLAND A'S (59%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (59%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (59%); CINCINNATI REDS (59%); TEXAS RANGERS (59%); COLORADO ROCKIES (59%); TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (59%); HOUSTON ASTROS (59%); FLORIDA MARLINS (59%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (59%); DETROIT TIGERS (59%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (59%); COLORADO ROCKIES (59%); HOUSTON ASTROS (59%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); CINCINNATI REDS (59%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (59%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (59%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (59%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (59%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (59%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (59%); TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (59%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (59%); DETROIT TIGERS (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); FLORIDA MARLINS (59%); SEATTLE MARINERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); COLORADO, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (74%); MISSOURI, USA (59%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (74%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (66%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (59%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (59%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TELEVISION BASEBALL (94%); INTERVIEWS (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD; MURDOCH, RUPERT; O'MALLEY FAMILY; O'MALLEY, WALTER; O'MALLEY, PETER G KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



191 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 8; Page 2; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
Same Old, Same Old For Two Top Teams

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
The French say it, "Plus ca change, plus c'est la meme chose." The Atlanta Braves and the Cleveland Indians might not be able to translate that saying into the language of balls and strikes, but it fits these two teams perfectly: the more they change, the more they stay the same.
Both teams made major changes last year, but both continued to dominate their divisions. The Indians reached the World Series; the Braves fell one step short. Now both have made significant changes again and await the outcome. 
 The Braves have turned over three-fourths of a veteran infield and have a new center fielder and leadoff hitter. The Indians have half of a new infield and a new center fielder.
Earlier in spring training, the Braves' general manager, John Schuerholz, said he talked at a staff meeting about the need to manage change effectively in the business that baseball has become.
"We're talking about managing change with the roster, managing change in the economic circumstances in the industry," he said. "Change is thrust upon us far more frequently than it used to be. That stability isn't there. There's a lot of roster flux. We have to make moves to move guys off so we can bring a guy in we want."
Just before the start of last season, the Braves and the Indians made a major trade. Center fielder Kenny Lofton went from Cleveland to Atlanta, and outfielders David Justice and Marquis Grissom moved to the Indians. Cleveland had previously acquired third baseman Matt Williams and let outfielder Albert Belle leave as a free agent.
This winter, Lofton, a free agent, returned to the Indians, who traded Grissom and swapped third basemen, Williams for Travis Fryman. They also added Geronimo Berroa as the designated hitter and Shawon Dunston to fill a hole at second base.
The Braves moved Andruw Jones to center to replace Lofton, but that was simple compared with their infield maneuvers. Andres Galarraga has replaced Fred McGriff at first base, Walt Weiss has taken over from Jeff Blauser at shortstop, and Tony Graffanino and Keith Lockhart are the platoon that has replaced Mark Lemke at second.
Schuerholz credited Manager Bobby Cox with doing a great job at incorporating new players.
"One of the things Bobby has done more effectively than anybody I've seen," Schuerholz said, "is to deal with the changes that come to a roster every year and assimilate an effective group of guys every year. He does it every year. We've changed our roster substantially over the years since we won our first pennant in 1991. Even the pitching has changed. It has remained stable, but we have different guys."
Cox, in his 16th year of managing in the major leagues, said, "It's easy to assimilate guys like Galarraga and Walt Weiss to your team." He added, "We've always lost good people, but we've always got good people in return."
The manager said he has never done anything to ingrain the Braves' system in the newcomers, but he acknowledged that he does talk to them more than the returning players. By design, Cox said, he talked to the new players individually before the exhibition schedule began. "I let them know their roles, what we expect, stuff like that," he said. "We do all that in a meeting as a whole team but not specifically what we expect from them personally. We try to work out the kinks real quick. If there's going to be a problem, we try to talk about it early at least. Some guys might get the feeling they're going to be everyday players or play more than other guys or whatever, but we try to lay it out immediately and see what happens."
Mike Hargrove has the responsibility of making John Hart's acquisitions work in Cleveland. Assimilating new players, he said, is a major part of the job today.
"A manager's job is to get them together, get them to feel good about each other and do it as quickly as possible," Hargrove said. "So far, so good. We have a system we believe in. We believe it works. We're able to plug in people in that system. So far it has perpetuated itself."
Melding the newcomers keeps Hargrove busy in spring training, especially in the early days.
"We make a point to try to talk to everybody during the day," he said. "You wouldn't think that would be hard to do, but it is. You have 55 guys out there. If you spend 10 minutes with each guy, that eats up your day. We at least try to say, 'Hi, how you doing, how's it going, getting enough swings?' We let them know we're in this together. We care about them."
Like Cox, Hargrove said his job is easier when the new players are veterans.
"When you trade Matt Williams for Travis Fryman, that's about as even a trade as you can get," he said. "We've been able to sustain the talent, as opposed to trading Matt Williams and we have to start a Russell Branyan at third. The kid's got a lot of talent, but he's a kid."
On the other hand, Hargrove said, sometimes it can be tougher to bring in veterans "because they can be used to doing things a certain way."
 
The New Lofton
For all of the success Bobby Cox and the Braves have had in meshing new players, Kenny Lofton proved to be an exception last year. Lofton, a talented center fielder in the American League, left his new teammates disillusioned by his play and his seemingly negative attitude.
His Atlanta teammates particularly noticed the way he played center and the way he ran the bases. His reputation for both in the A.L. had been impeccable. But as one member of the Braves said, "He was awful" and "he was overrated."
In the outfield, team members said, Lofton often failed to get a good jump on fly balls, and too often when he reached balls, he did not hold them or, in baseball parlance, he fought them. On the bases, he tried to score when he shouldn't have and didn't try to score when he should have.
In 1996, Lofton was successful stealing bases 75 of 92 times, an 82 percent success ratio. Last year, he was safe only 27 of 47 times, a 57 percent rate. No one in the major leagues was thrown out as many times. He did not endear himself to the team or to a new set of umpires by constantly complaining about umpires' out calls on his attempted steals and on called strikes. Lofton did suffer from a groin injury and missed six weeks around midseason, but even then he was disgruntled about the team's medical staff. And he did not win any friends when he was spotted dunking basketballs when he was supposedly hurt.
But Lofton is back with the Indians, and he apparently has responded to the friendly surroundings.
"It's obvious that he wasn't entirely happy over there," said Mike Hargrove, Cleveland's manager, "but he doesn't gripe and moan about it. He hasn't knocked anyone. I respect a person who doesn't do that."
Instead of being negative, Hargrove said, Lofton has worked as hard this spring as he has ever seen him work. "Kenny has always worked hard in certain areas, but there are other areas that Kenny might have taken for granted," Hargrove said. "I think Kenny took the health of his legs for granted for a number of years. I think last year showed him he's vulnerable just like everybody else."
Lofton, the manager said, worked with a personal trainer during the winter. "He's done a lot of work on his legs; that's obvious," Hargrove said. "He's running a lot right now. Kenny's also stepped up and is trying to assume a leadership role. It's the first time we've seen that. It's good that he's asserting himself."
 
Sign on Dotted Yankee Line
 After Ricardo Aramboles and Orlando Hernandez, can Guillermo Quiroz be far behind?
In the last two weeks, the Yankees have signed Aramboles, a 17-year-old Dominican pitcher, who had been declared a free agent because the commissioner's office ruled that he signed with the Florida Marlins before he was old enough, and Hernandez, who defected from Cuba.
Quiroz is a 16-year-old Venezuelan catcher who will be eligible to sign next July 2. He worked out for scouts at the Mets' camp at Port St. Lucie, Fla., last Thursday. The report of one scout who attended the workout: "He's well-developed for his age, he's a well-below-average runner, has below-average arm strength, shows power in batting practice." But, the scout added: "the way the business operates he will probably command a decent bonus. In that kind of atmosphere you create a competition where somebody is going to want to beat somebody else."
That somebody may well be the Yankees, who gave Aramboles a $1.52 million bonus to sign and Hernandez $6.6 million over four years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kenny Lofton returned to the Indians after a year with the Braves. (Andy Lyons/Allsport)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CLEV (NASDAQ) (76%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (90%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CLEVELAND INDIANS; ATLANTA BRAVES CLEVELAND INDIANS BASEBALL CO INC (76%); ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (94%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (94%); ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND INDIANS; ATLANTA BRAVES ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (94%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (94%); ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (91%); CHANGE MANAGEMENT (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); ATHLETES (68%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



192 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: A Bigger NATO Is Good for Europe

 BODY:

To the Editor:
You express doubts about expansion of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (editorials, March 1 and 5). If you truly believe that NATO's "core purpose, defense against the Soviet bloc, is obsolete," you should take the next step and propose that we disband the alliance altogether. But if you concede that in a dangerous world the United States still needs an alliance with Europe, you need to come up with a better rationale for closing NATO's doors to some of our closest European friends. 
 You rightly say that "East-West divisions are evaporating." Yet you do not ask what would happen to this trend if we told 200 million people in a dozen Central and Eastern European countries that they can never be part of Europe's pre-eminent security alliance just because of Russia's outdated suspicions.
You are right that the stability of Europe "depends heavily on whether Russia completes its transition to democracy and a market economy." But you forget that Russia will not become a modern European power if it continues to look upon Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic as a buffer zone that separates it from the rest of Europe.
You sell Russia short when you assume that Russian attitudes about Central Europe will never change. You ignore the progress Russia has made, with the United States, on arms control: from accelerating the destruction of weapons under the Start 1 treaty, to agreeing on the outlines of Start 2, to ratifying the Chemical Weapons Convention.
Your suggestion that the European Union will promote unity in a way that embraces rather than excludes Russia is also puzzling. Russia is not only excluded from the foreseeable course of E.U. enlargement, but the E.U. has also told likely entrants such as Poland and Hungary that they must put up new barriers to travel and trade with their eastern neighbors.
NATO enlargement, on the other hand, positively requires all aspiring allies to build closer ties with all their neighbors, particularly with those not likely to join the alliance soon.
 
JAMES P. RUBIN
Asst. Secy. for Public Affairs
Department of State
Washington, March 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); HUNGARY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); POLAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (78%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); HUNGARY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); POLAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (78%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); DISARMAMENT (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (64%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, JAMES P (ASST SEC)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



193 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 4; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: NOTICED;
A Benz for the Wrist

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
ON a Tuesday night last month, a Swiss watchmaker named Franck Muller held a party at the Plaza Athenee Hotel on East 64th Street to introduce his new line of timepieces to a group of about 50 nattily dressed watch enthusiasts -- pardon, horologists.
While Mr. Muller, who wore a Versace sweater and navy blue double-breasted blazer, passed around photographs of himself flanked by smiling women in bikinis at Hamptons parties last summer, his guests clustered in front of the bulletproof case at the end of the room. 
 A woman in a light blue Chanel suit leaned forward and scrutinized one watch, a gold timepiece fat as a granola bar, on a bright blue alligator strap.
"How much is it?" she asked, her lipsticked mouth in a quizzical moue, her champagne flute bearing a red splotch that looked like a map of the Mississippi Delta.
"Two hundred and thirty-three," a Franck Muller spokeswoman replied.
"Oh, well," the woman said, in the slightly exhausted tone New Yorkers use to camouflage utter astonishment, and flounced away.
Because Franck Muller's timepieces don't cost $233. (And one doesn't pronounce his first name as you would Sinatra's; it's "Fronk.") This one -- the limited edition 5850 RMT Minute Repeater Tourbillon -- costs $233,000.
People are buying, despite the fact that the average American home costs less than Mr. Muller's new watch. Manhattan jewelers report that sales of high-end watches have risen strikingly. Although not everyone is dropping six figures, sales of luxury Swiss watches -- in the trade, "luxury" means anything priced over a few thousand dollars -- have risen steadily for the last six years, said Joe Thompson, the editor of American Time magazine, a trade journal. Sales in the United States rose 13 percent in 1997, to $1.1 billion.
W E'VE got pretty much a boom market here," Mr. Thompson said. "Sales on the cheaper Swiss watches are declining and the luxury products are doing extremely well."
So long, Swatch. Hello, Patek Philippe, Vacheron Constantin, Cartier, Audemars Piguet, Rolex, Breguet and Blancpain.
The new watch buyers, mostly men in their late 20's to early 40's, are from all walks of moneyed Manhattan life: real estate, manufacturing, Wall Street.
Although it's possible to drop $90,000 on a Breguet or $300,000 on the highest-end Patek Philippe, luxury sales are most brisk in the $25,000 to $75,000 range. (Most of Mr. Muller's pieces, for example, are priced from $19,000 to $27,000.)
The cultural significance of the power watch has even snuck into the art world; a painting titled "The Romance of Conspicuous Consumption" currently hangs in the front window of the Magidson Fine Art gallery on Madison Avenue. It shows a love-struck man and woman, pointing at each other's watches; balloons coming out of their mouths say, "Love your watch!"
The watch boom is one of the latest, logical extensions of the champagne economy. Real estate moguls, manufacturing titans and mini-masters of the universe already have their duplexes, houses in the Hamptons, Porsche Boxsters and closets full of custom-made shirts.
"And now they need the watch," said Stewart Unger, the owner of the Madison Avenue watch store Time Will Tell and a co-author of "American Wristwatches: Five Decades of Design and Style" (Schiffer Publishing, 1988). "There are watch crazies out there. To these young guys, in their 20's and 30's, with large amounts of money, a watch is about owning a wonderful mechanism, and it is also a power thing. Because you can't go into a business meeting with a Mercedes-Benz or a Rolls-Royce on your wrist. You can go into a meeting with a Breguet."
In a marked shift from the 1980's, buyers are now looking for expensive but more subtle watches. What the color gold was to the 80's -- symbolic of luxury in all things from Giorgio perfume to credit cards -- platinum is to the 90's, a metal even more expensive than gold, but less ostentatious. A platinum watch can be mistaken for stainless steel to the untrained eye on the street, but never to the guys in the executive washroom. Today's buyers also go for more subtle designs: slim and curvy shapes over diamond-encrusted, squarish watch faces.
The new breed of buyer loves to talk shop, said Edward Faber, the owner of Aaron Faber Gallery jewelers on Fifth Avenue and the other author of "American Wristwatches." Back in the 80's, Mr. Faber's clients didn't know a minute repeater from a Movado, or a Swatch from a sub-dial. "Now, they ask technical questions," he said. "They do due diligence. 'Should I choose a Patek 1535 with a calendar or a second-hand Patek moon-phase? Will this appreciate? How much?' "
In part, the high-end watch boom is due to a bit of clever marketing on the part of manufacturers, jewelers say. In 1997, about 25 of the luxury watchmakers sold limited-edition timepieces, which quickly became coveted for their implied rarity and their hoped-for resale value.
Cartier, Patek Philippe, Breitling, Audemars Piguet and Harry Winston all issued popular limited-edition watches -- multipurpose machines that do everything from measure the owner's heart rate to correct the havoc wreaked upon the watch's timekeeping by gravity. Most of these timepieces sold during the last year have already appreciated, jewelers maintain.
One 30-something chief executive of a toy manufacturer owns about 30 high-end watches. His latest purchase was the Patek Philippe Pagoda, a limited edition available in platinum or gold; jewelers like Mr. Faber call it "the buzz watch." When the executive bought it last year, he paid about $24,000 for one of 150 Pagodas made in platinum; now it's worth $50,000 in New York and about $70,000 in Hong Kong, Mr. Faber said.
"If I'm in a meeting and the guy across from me is boring," said the executive, who agreed to talk only if he remained anonymous, "then I can gaze at my watch and daydream about it. It's a very personal, private relationship you have with your watch."
"Rarely does anyone say to me, 'Nice watch,' " he added. "Because I'm getting away from the flash and I'm into the classic. My platinum watch is not going to attract a whole lot of attention. It's not ostentatious. A $50,000 watch is something only you know about."
Not really, if two investment bankers in their late 20's at Club Macanudo on the Upper East Side of Manhattan were any testament. On a recent Thursday evening, the two men put down their single-malt Scotches, rolled up their sleeves and did point-by-point, my-watch-is-better-than-yours comparisons of their timepieces. One wore a Breguet, the other a Patek Philippe Pagoda in yellow gold -- a steal, said the owner, at $13,000, retail.
NEITHER man was disturbed by the fact that his timepiece cost as much as some people earn in a year.
"That's not relevant," said the owner of the Pagoda. He was more interested in the appreciated value of his purchase. "Now this watch is worth $20,000," he said. (Mr. Faber said the watch was actually worth about $14,500.)
"It's all about who has what," said Mr. Unger, the owner of Time Will Tell. "The friend sees his friend has a Pagoda, and these are people who have a certain intuitiveness; they know how much things cost. They ascertain what a guy's capability or monetary status is by looking at his watch. They know if he's a player. Or they think they know."
 
Become a Horologist: Terms to Know
 Ready to trade in that Timex and spend $10,000 or more on a watch? Here are some of the terms to know.
 
BEZEL -- The grooved ring that surrounds the face of the watch, to secure the crystal.
 
GUILLOCHE -- A type of engraving on the dial in which thin lines are interwoven, creating a patterned surface.
 
MINUTE REPEATER -- A device that chimes a different note for each hour, quarter-hour and minute. Some even chime the half quarter-hours (seven and a half minutes). The minute repeater was invented to accommodate people who wanted to know the time in the dark, before the advent of luminous paint.
 
MOON-PHASE INDICATOR -- A disk with depictions of the moon rotating underneath the dial to show the lunar phases. The phases can be seen through a guichet, or little window.
 
PULSIMETER -- A scale on the dial used to measure heart rate, calibrated on the basis of 15 or 30 heartbeats. Typically, the hand is started and continues until the 30th beat. It then shows the beats per minute.
 
TOURBILLION -- A mechanism that corrects errors in timekeeping due to the effect of the shifting of gravity as the watch changes position during ordinary use. The tourbillion, invented in 1795, compensates for such shifts by rotating the carriage of the watch once every minute.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 11, 1998, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A credit for an illustration in Sunday Styles this week with an article about luxury Swiss watches was omitted. The artist was Susan Saas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3873 WATCHES, CLOCKS, CLOCKWORK OPERATED DEVICES, & PARTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: PATEK PHILIPPE SA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: WATCHES AND CLOCKS; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) CLOCK & WATCH MFG (90%); FINE WATCHES (89%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); JEWELRY (74%); REAL ESTATE (72%); SALES FIGURES (69%); 

PERSON: MULLER, FRANCK; KUCZYNSKI, ALEX FRANCK MULLER (90%); EDWARD FABER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



194 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/70 Pine Street;
An Art Deco Tower With Double-Deck Elevators

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
THE American International Group is completing a multiyear restoration of the elevators in its 1932 skyscraper, at 70 Pine Street in downtown Manhattan. The cabs are dazzling, in the Art Deco style of the spectacular marble lobby. It seems unlikely anyone will notice, but the most unusual element is missing. Although they are now run conventionally, the originals were the first double-deck elevators, conceived as office developers squeezed the last square feet of space from the sky.
The 66-story building at 70 Pine was the accomplishment of a grade-school dropout, Henry L. Doherty. Born in 1870 in Ohio, Doherty left school at age 10 to sell newspapers in saloons. At 12 he was an office boy in a gas company office; he rose quickly as a manager and engineer, came to New York and at 40 founded the Cities Service Company, which both explored oil and gas fields and supplied local users. 
 Doherty lived on top of an office building at State and Liberty Streets -- where 1 Battery Park Plaza is now -- with a gym, squash court and motorized bed that slid out onto the terrace. He bought several downtown sites for redevelopment but was hindered by recurrent bouts of arthritis. Doherty almost died in 1927 from complications of the disease -- causing Cities Service stock to plunge -- but recovered with the help of a family friend, Grace Eames, whom he wed in December 1928. She was a widow; it was his first marriage.
In January 1929 Doherty assembled a good-sized plot on the east side of Pearl Street, from Pine to Cedar Streets. He did not file plans until May 1930, eight months after the stock market crash, for what became Wall Street's last jazz-age skyscraper.
Designed by Clinton & Russell, Holton & George, the new building took the street address 70 Pine Street but, by an aerial bridge connection with 60 Wall Street, initially took the name 60 Wall Tower for cachet.
For a 66-story building it was a tight plot, only 120 feet wide on Pearl. Engineers estimated that the economic height of the building was 48 stories -- beyond that the service core of plumbing, stairs and, especially, elevators, took up too much space relative to rentable area.
But in January 1930 D. L. Lundquist, chief engineer for Otis Elevator, had been interviewed by The New York Sun on the limiting factor for tall buildings, and had predicted that double-deck elevators -- two connected cabs using the same shaft -- could solve the problem.
Doherty adopted the Otis plan, and the resulting design provided 60 floors of rentable offices, plus six smaller floors, including a kitchen and a mechanical floor, in the tower served by a separate small elevator from the 60th floor.A 1932 article in Engineering News-Record stated that eight shafts with double-deck cabs saved $200,000 in construction costs over 14 regular elevators, and freed up 40,000 square feet. At the time $3.50 a square foot was a typical annual rent for such office space.
The slope of the site helped the double-deck plan -- people entering on Pearl Street were naturally drawn to the lower lobby, while those entering on Pine were drawn to the upper lobby. Elevators in one lobby served even floors, those in the other served odd floors, and starters directed foot traffic accordingly.
As soon as the doors of both cabs closed, the double cab went up, stopping at, for instance, the 29/30th floors, the 31st/32d floors, and so on to the 59th/60th floors. Double-deck service was restricted to peak periods; at other times half the cabs were closed and the elevators stopped on all floors.
Unless the cab stopped without opening its door -- a sign that the other cab was opening on another floor -- passengers were not particularly aware of the double-deck operation. Perhaps they were still recovering from the lobby, an eye-burning Art Deco symphony of figured marble in high colors and sinuous metalwork.
On the outside the architects created a tapering shaft of simple streamlined design with sophisticated touches -- in the corners at the upper floors, every third brick is rounded instead of squared, giving animation to the tower. The topmost floor, an observation deck, is a greenhouse-aerie, perhaps 30 by 20 feet square, with 360-degree views.
TO judge from period telephone listings, few tenants used the 60 Wall Street address -- 70 Pine Street was good enough -- and the building was widely known as the Cities Service Building. Doherty's company occupied many of the lower floors, and lawyers and financiers made up most of the other tenants. Emanuel Celler, a longtime Brooklyn Congressman, was an initial tenant, as was Adolf A. Berle Jr., the diplomat and lawyer.
In 1935 News-Week magazine, as it was then known, described Cities Service as a $1 billion company; Doherty's fortune was often reckoned at $25 million. Doherty died in 1939; Cities Service became Citgo in 1965, and later moved to Tulsa. In 1976 an insurance company, American International Group, bought the building, and in the last few years has cleaned and repointed the facade, installed new windows, and replaced the elevators.
Gerard Dengel, an executive at A.I.G., declined to provide information on the building renovation. The elevator project has been under way for five or six years, dealing with cabs that had been modernized in the 1960's, when double-deck service was eliminated. The current work has included an agreeable Art Deco design based on original photographs in Otis archives. Otis still takes care of the building's elevators. There are now about three dozen double-deck elevator installations worldwide, like those in the 88-story Petronas Towers project in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Otis has installed most of them.
No one considered rebuilding the double-deck service at 70 Pine. Passenger loads have changed from 70 years ago, with staggered arrival times and lower densities of office workers. People come and go through the upper lobby, and the lower lobby is a quiet place: a few phones, a bank, a few shops, and rows of intricate Art Deco elevator doors, pristine and calm.
Although parts of the lobby are open to the public, A.I.G., which occupies most of the building, requires passes for the floors above.
Robert Makla, a preservation and parks advocate and a partner at the law firm of D'Amato & Lynch, a tenant in the building since 1976, recently gave a visitor a tour of the building. On the upper floors the stair tower runs up an outside wall, zigzagging past small windows and doors leading out onto narrow parapets.
At the top, the former observation deck is closed to the public but in near-original shape, a glass jewel box at the top of the world. It has tiny outside balconies; a dizzying look down at 950 feet of upward streamlining can make one appreciate the view from street level.
Mr. Makla's office on the 41st floor is a Victorian thicket of high-wheel bicycles, subway maps and other memorabilia. It has a certain distinction; when the ceilings were lowered several years ago for air-conditioning Mr. Makla declined. He has the original 9-foot-high ceiling and streamlined incandescent fixtures. Air-conditioning? He just opens his windows.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 15, 1998, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
The Streetscapes column last Sunday, about the former Cities Service Building, referred incorrectly to the home of its developer, Henry Doherty. The building where he lived and worked, at 24 State Street, was at the corner of Bridge Street, not Liberty Street.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The tower at 70 Pine Street, known as the Cities Service Building, in 1938 (Museum of the City of New York) and its observation room in the early 30's (Museum of the City of New York). Bridge connecting the building with another, shown below right (Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times), initially gave 70 Pine a prestigious 60 Wall Tower address.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%); CITIES SERVICE CO (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; ELEVATORS AND ESCALATORS REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MFG (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); SQUASH (66%); MARRIAGE (64%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (63%); 

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1998



195 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 30; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: THE FLYING CAPITALIST; The Frequent-Flier Economy

BYLINE: By David Noonan; David Noonan last wrote for the Magazine in December about "Really Big Football Players."

 BODY:
Jeff Pollak doesn't spend much time in the air, but that hasn't stopped him from accumulating an impressive pile of frequent-flier miles. Pollak, 28, has earned about 600,000 miles in the last six years, 80 percent of them without leaving the ground. "A lot of people collect coins and stamps," says Pollak, who lives in Washington. "I collect frequent-flier miles." An equal opportunity deal-hunter, he now has 180,000 miles to his credit with British Airways, 60,000 with American, 25,000 with United and 10,000 with Alaska, though he has never flown on a revenue ticket with any of those airlines.
"I analyze information, and I see what's the best way to get the miles with as little effort as necessary without having to spend much money," says Pollak, whose current goal is to earn enough miles for a free trip to China on Singapore Airlines. "There's nothing more satisfying than calling up the elite line and punching in my frequent-flier number and finding out that I have over 100,000 miles in the account. I love collecting them more than I do spending them." 
 Pollak, an acquisitions analyst, estab-lished his reputation as a "mileage junkie" with a stunt he pulled a few years ago. He rented five cars at the cheapest available rate, about $20, on five different days from Budget to earn a free round-trip ticket anywhere in the United States on American Airlines. He kept each car for just five minutes, driving out of the parking lot and right back in again. When an attendant pushed to know what was wrong with one of the cars, Pollak confessed. "I'm just here for the miles," he said.
Introduced in 1981 as a marketing tool to secure the loyalty of 283,000 of American Airlines's best customers, frequent-flier miles have evolved beyond all expectations into the coin of the realm of a borderless, globe-spanning consumer technoland inhabited by more than 70 million people. The abstract form of currency -- minted out of the literally thin air that passenger planes fly through -- is the basis of a multibillion-dollar economy nearly as elaborate as the real thing.
While Jeff Pollak may be an extreme example of the type, the nonflying frequent flier is hardly rara avis these days. Forty percent of all the frequent-flier miles earned last year were earned on the ground, and that percentage is expected to increase as more nontravel businesses and services offer miles as a way to attract customers. Today more than 17,000 businesses in the United States are giving away miles. In 1994, the art collector Eli Broad earned 2.5 million miles when he used his American Express card to pay $2.5 million for the Roy Lichtenstein painting "I. . .I'm Sorry" during an auction at Sotheby's in New York. Using frequent-flier-tied credit cards to pay for big-ticket items, including college tuitions, has become standard practice among aficionados. Newer ways to earn miles without sweating through all those takeoffs and landings include being a good person -- some charities are giving miles in return for donations -- and surfing the Net. A San Francisco cyber-marketer called Netcentives has made deals with six airlines to award miles to people who are involved in Internet activities like purchasing products, downloading software and participating in surveys.
Frequent-flier programs were made possible by two things -- the deregulation of the airline industry in 1978 and the subsequent development of sophisticated data-processing systems by the airlines (which was driven in turn by advances in computer technology). Prior to deregulation, Federal law prohibited the airlines from giving anything of substance to distributors or ultimate users. Immediately upon their introduction, frequent-flier miles became the best thing about flying frequently, easily supplanting the little bags of peanuts and the tiny pillows. Worldwide, 70 airlines operate frequent-flier programs. Today 47 percent of the passengers on any given flight are earning frequent- flier miles; there are three trillion miles on the books.
The reason that securities firms, florists, flea-collar distributors and other earthbound entities can award miles to customers is simple -- they buy them from the airlines. Randy Petersen, editor of Inside Flyer, a magazine for frequent fliers, estimates that the airlines are generating about a billion and a half dollars a year "selling miles" to their "partners." At a going rate of about two cents apiece, that's a whole bunch of miles changing hands.
"Basically what all of these companies are purchasing is marketing," says Bruce Chemel, president of American's AAdvantage marketing program, which sells miles to 2,000 companies. "They are not purchasing air transportation. We are selling them AAdvantage miles, and in doing so, we are selling them the ability to market their product, to increase their market share, to retain their current customers, to generate awareness for a new product, whatever the normal marketing functions in a company are."
It's a great deal for the airlines, Petersen explains, since they can sell 25,000 miles to a partner for $500, and it costs them only about $20 to grant the award those miles represent. Such extraordinary profit margins are a function of the strict control the airlines maintain over the free tickets earned by their frequent fliers. While more than 11 million such tickets were redeemed last year, just 5 percent of them were completely free of restrictions. Using blackout dates and other controls, the airlines pursue a standard policy of never displacing a paying passenger with a passenger flying free.
Usually, the only costs to the airline of honoring a free ticket are the incremental ones of adding a single passenger to a flight -- additional fuel, insurance, a meal, peanuts. All together it works out to about $20.
This gap between the perceived value and the actual value of a free ticket is the reason the frequent-flier system works as well as it does.
Right from the start, the main appeal of frequent-flier programs was the idea that the consumer was getting something for nothing. In fact, the airlines were so successful in their marketing of frequent-flier miles as a valuable currency that they created a truly mind-boggling new source of revenue for themselves -- money generated by business travelers making unnecessary trips and pursuing other wasteful strategies to maximize their frequent-flier miles. A study by two professors from the University of Georgia estimates that at one point this form of frequent-flier-related "corporate waste" amounted to more than $4 billion a year.
With trillions of unredeemed miles on the books, the airlines might seem at risk of being overwhelmed by a sudden stampede of frequent fliers seeking free tickets. Yet in spite of the steady increase of the popularity of frequent-flier programs, the annual redemption rate has remained constant, averaging 200 billion redeemed miles a year.
While most of the people who redeem their miles for free tickets remain blissfully ignorant of the actual value of air travel, almost all of them know more than they want to know about the airlines' complicated rules for using award tickets. Difficulty getting the flights they want, when they want them, is the No. 1 complaint among members of frequent-flier programs. Unfortunately, given the underlying economics, the situation is not likely to change.
There are occasional victories for the masses, however. Just last month, United, under pressure from unhappy members of its Mileage Plus program, reversed a recent policy change and stopped requiring a Saturday night stay when booking its most basic award.
As in life, in the frequent-flier economy it's better to be rich. For the true frequent fliers, the high-mileage business travelers who make up the elite minority in these programs, blackout dates and Saturday night stays are not an issue. Their award tickets are usually unrestricted. Indeed, free air travel holds so little appeal for them that the airlines have had to cook up special promotions to maintain their enthusiasm and help them spend their vast stores of miles. Several airlines, for instance, have sponsored auctions. Caribbean cruises, trips to the Super Bowl, shopping sprees and celebrity encounters (a party with Arnold Schwarzenegger, a skating lesson from Nancy Kerrigan) are some of the things members have been invited to bid on with their miles.
New options for spending miles are available to the nonelite as well. In a trend that is expected to expand as the currency continues to take hold outside the travel world, miles can now be used to pay for hotel rooms, meals in restaurants and catalogue merchandise.
A good measure of just how entrenched frequent-flier miles have become in the culture and the larger economy is the recent attempt by the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund to freeze any frequent-flier miles earned by or credited to Randall Terry, the founder of the militant antiabortion group Operation Rescue.
The NOW lawyers got the idea from a previous case, in which a drug dealer forfeited his miles to the Government. Terry owes NOW more than $600,000 in court-ordered fines and fees. Though the organization has recovered just $6,000, Terry claims NOW has turned him into a "pauper." Yolanda Wu, staff counsel for the fund, says NOW's pursuit of Terry's miles is more than symbolic. The miles are a legitimate asset, Wu says, and NOW plans to use them for its own work. "Let them use my frequent-flier miles on their train ride into Hades," Terry said in response to the NOW action. While it might seem at first that Terry has his travel modes mixed up, Amtrak in fact does accept frequent-flier miles on one route, although Hades is not a scheduled stop.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C6L (SGX) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SINGAPORE (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SINGAPORE (79%); CHINA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Airlines and Airplanes FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (92%); AIRLINES (90%); COINS & COINAGE (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (76%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); CREDIT CARDS (70%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (70%); ART COLLECTING (66%); CURRENCIES (60%); 

PERSON: Noonan, David ELI BROAD (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



196 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 37; Column 2; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 2513 words

HEADLINE: The New Business Class

BYLINE: By Pico Iyer; Pico Iyer, who writes frequently on cultural affairs, is completing a book on the global soul.

 BODY:
In Hong Kong recently, I spent a layover with one of my closest friends from school in England. The guest room in his modest, functional apartment was furnished almost entirely with suitcases. On the desk sat a Hewlett-Packard Desk Jet printer, a box of Chinese Standard Version 3.2 diskettes and some personalized stationery (for someone I'd never heard of) from the Oberoi hotel, Bombay. Against the wall were a travel iron, a worldwide power adapter and a timetable for Dragonair Systems, a Hong Kong airline. In the bathroom I found a bottle of Thai Air hair treatment, a Delta Airlines business-class toilet kit and a British Airways towelette. Some toothpaste from an Imperial Hotel, a bottle of conditioner from the Westin Tai Ping Yang, Shanghai, and some Princess Cruises French formula shampoo. Otherwise, nothing.
The apartment was part of a four-story shopping complex (called simply -- definitively -- the Mall) linked to three luxury 500-room hotels; it had a Cathay Pacific check-in counter downstairs and 97 high-fashion boutiques farther down. Two other guests, who had just flown in for the weekend from L.A., on our host's unused frequent-flier awards, now consulted a room-service menu. 
 "It's an odd life you lead here," I told my friend, Richard Rawlinson, whom I habitually think of as a Victorian district officer transferred to a digital age.
"It is," he said. "Look at this" -- and he opened out his wallet to display a rainbow spread of cards: for the Red Carpet Club and Passages membership, for Marriott Miles and Singapore Airlines. He had a Europlus card and a Priority Passenger Service card, as well as 12 different telephone cards, "and, of course, an E.T.I. -- you know, Executive Telephone International -- and a G.S.M. phone with two S.I.M. cards." (He pulled out a mobile phone to demonstrate how the card could be slipped in or out, depending on whether he was in Asia or Europe.) All the cards were linked to a credit card for which he got miles -- miles enough, in fact, to send his wife around the world every month free.
I was still taking in the S.I.M. (subscriber identity module) cards when Richard began pulling out envelopes from his briefcase -- I counted 27 in all -- thick with bus tokens, coins and bank notes for the 27 countries he was likeliest to find himself in the next day. Then he began extracting a stash of crumpled, half-used plane tickets for Hong Kong-London, Hong Kong-Madrid, Boston-Tokyo and all his other regular itineraries. He actually had to petition the Foreign Office to get permission to carry two passports simultaneously -- he went through their pages so quickly -- and in the previous year alone (he checked his laptop) he crossed borders -- let's see --139 times.
The thing to stress here is that Richard is not extravagantly rich, and certainly no captive to luxury or ambition; he's just an extremely hard-working management consultant in his late 30's who lives and works in a global marketplace that asks him to move as fast as it does. He flies more than most flight attendants do, and courted his wife while she was at business school by flying around the world -- London-San Francisco-Tokyo-London -- almost every weekend for two years. He could be reached, he assured me, at 14 numbers on three continents, and when we went for a walk in the hills, he pulled out a cell phone and asked his secretary to fix up an appointment for breakfast with his wife. He would, after all, be in 13 different countries in the next 13 days.
Richard is, as it happens, one of the most settled and loyal people I know, but all around us are tens of thousands of other members of a new floating class who may be very much up in the air. The "borderless economy" we hear trumpeted so often means that today's businessmen and women have to live everywhere at once, and the speed of global communications means that they can be anywhere tomorrow. Frequent Business Travelers (or F.B.T.'s) are the new breed for whom "globalization" takes root in the stomach and the heart.
Everyone and everything is moving more than ever, of course; in San Francisco International Airport last year I came upon an exhibition on the history of airports -- wheels within wheels. It informed me that in 1932, Berlin's Tempelhof, then the busiest air facility in the world, processed 34,000 passengers a year. Now Chicago's O'Hare sees that many in three hours. And F.B.T.'s could, therefore, be seen as just the traveling salesmen of a multinational age, aero-commuters carrying their personal digital assistants and laptops to intercontinental meetings and clients in Turkmenistan. Not the movie-star checking in 40 pieces of luggage to first class, but, equally, not the man in coach, holding his daughter's hand.
Yet I suspect that they are something more than just supersonic versions of the Phoenician traders or Bedouin merchants of old, and are separated from Willy Loman by differences of kind as much as of degree. For one thing, these new ungrounded bodies operate in a world where many companies are richer than most countries, and the very notion of the nation-state -- like loyalty -- has been privatized. In a post-ideological world, they cannot know, as easily as the encyclopedia salesman surely did, exactly where they stand. And flying from winter to summer in an afternoon -- or waking up alone in 14th-century Nepal and sitting down for dinner that night with the family in Century City -- they face, and are forced to find new answers for, the most basic human questions: Where do they belong, what is their community and to whom are they most responsible ?
The business-class world affects us all, moreover, because it exists as much on the ground as in the air. My friend in Hong Kong, for example, has no car and no real office (save for a tiny desk jammed against a window); his service apartment allows him to function as if he were in a semi-permanent hotel (on the rare days when he's not orbiting the globe). And more and more of us are apt to find ourselves, in Robert Kaplan's pregnant phrase, "resident expatriates," living as if we were abroad even when we're at home, in gated communities, with hired housewives, enjoying the quality services of a "concierge lifestyle." For expat traders at least, a city like Hong Kong is a business class writ large, a huge convenience-store-cum-stock-exchange-cum-conference-center, here the lingua franca is the dollar, there are few taxes and no government and you can do business round the clock. From my friend's $7,000-a-month apartment, it was hard to recall that the place is 98 percent Chinese.
I describe these decentered souls as "they" because it's easier than saying "we." I choose to fly economy even when I'm on business trips, and in any case I hardly leave my apartment for months on end; as a writer, I am free to stay in the middle of the Japanese countryside with nothing more complex than pen, desk and paper. Yet after I visited Richard, I realized, with a shock, how many symptoms of Global Man I share. On a superficial level, I find myself reflexively checking for Cirrus signs and hunting for lunch, all too often, at 4 A.M. Larry King is the only American newsman I know because CNN is the only English-language station available in the hotel rooms of Havana and Hanoi. At a deeper level, I realize that I live in a country where I've never had a job, and rely, often, on World Phones to keep me in touch with a partner 17 time zones away. When I need to see a dentist, I get on an 11-hour flight; when asked to identify myself, sometimes, I key in a 16-digit number.
Some time ago, when I realized that I had accumulated 1.2 million miles on one airline alone, and was paying $823 for just one of my monthly telephone bills, I decided to take concrete measures to remind myself of silence and stillness and space -- all the steadying essentials obscured in the F.B.T. rush. Nowadays, like more and more people, I retreat several times a year to a monastery. But even for those of us who try to resist the accelerating pressures of the age, the very conveniences that make our ease and even our quiet possible propel us into the fast-forward orbit of the World Perks being. Flying into Hong Kong this year, I noticed that even in economy class there was a video monitor on my armrest, and the Entertainment Guide outlining my options for the three-hour flight was a 64-page glossy magazine. I could send faxes from the plane, receive calls, even draw cash from an A.T.M. machine. And when I opened the in-flight magazine I felt, as I do more and more often these days, as if I were an alien in need of a new kind of dictionary. The ads sang of Skytel alphanumeric paging services, and videophones, voice-file portable I.C. chip recorders and digital cameras with "built-in pc cards."
At my friend's breakfast table, I picked up the daily newspaper and read that British Airways offered 282 flights to Europe. There is a putting green in Palm Springs Airport, the international paper told me, and a casino in Amsterdam's Schiphol. You can go bowling in Frankfurt Airport, or do your dry cleaning, or take in a racy movie. A small guidebook has been written on how to live while between planes at O'Hare. We're almost accustomed now to the fact that airports, with their discos, dental clinics, in-house wineries and 120-store Sky Malls, are often as compendious as cities. (Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport is larger than Manhattan.) But that sometimes obscures how many cities, set up for speed and convenience, and catering to a swirl of tongues and tribes from somewhere very distant, now look more and more like airports, with their food courts, chain stores and signs for Pizza Hut Express. The practical assumption is that everyone's passing through.
The irony of all this, of course, is that so much of our technology -- fax machines, modems, E-mail, video-conferencing -- is designed to help us get around the distances of space: I can sit here in Japan and transmit this article to editors 6,000 miles away with an ease almost unimaginable even a decade ago. Yet somehow all our new opportunities seem to run ahead of our understanding of them. We spend more and more time fixing timesaving devices, and our communications facilities are adept at communicating communications glitches. The very efficiency with which we've eliminated the need to meet face to face has made "the human touch" all the more precious. Study after study shows that now that we can get from Hong Kong to New York in 14 hours, instead of 21 days, we're not using those extra 20 days for doing something useful; we're just moving back and forth more, and recovering from the flights.
If the first rule of technology is that nothing, once discovered, can be undiscovered, the second, more troubling, is that no device, once created, will go unused. We fall captive to our implements in much the same way that frequent fliers will pay $400 more for a ticket in the hope that, if they do so often enough, they will ultimately get a $300 ticket free (or, if the company is paying, will route themselves from New York to Boston via Chicago, with an imaginary stop in Atlanta). Doctors warn us that frequent flying can lead to severe back injuries and hearing loss, to moodiness and divorce. But the moral and emotional effects of jet lag haven't yet been gauged, or don't show up on the screen. Even Marshall McLuhan, the John the Baptist of the wired universe, remarked, "You get moving very quickly and you end up in the wrong place."
It's no coincidence, surely, that last year's audaciously heartless independent movie "In the Company of Men" began in some Nowhere International late at night -- that fluorescent limbo of garment bags and monitors -- with two departure-lounge lizards off on an out-of-town assignment, and deciding, in the terminal emptiness, to leave their humanity at home. The film's most chilling moment of inhumanity is executed, fittingly, in a borrowed hotel room. The very language of flight -- the notion of flight -- seems made for tricky liberties: red-eye, fly-by-night, transit-lounge, duty-free.
We're not ourselves when we're up high, we often say, and it's easy to feel that the F.B.T., serene in his half-real world five miles above the earth, strapped into his headphones, with his four-course meal brought to him in the comfort of his seat, is subject to no regulations save those of the International Air Transport Association. And it's easy to suspect that in this zone of privilege -- all rights and few responsibilities -- this new kind of being has all his needs taken care of, except the ones that really matter. When Richard's wife and I waited for him to come home for dinner, we had to turn on the TV set. (International Arrivals were shown on Channel 6.) The trouble was, neither of us knew which country he'd be coming from.
The brave new world of F.B.T.'s represents, of course, only a tiny fraction of a planet in which something like half of all people have never used a telephone. But it's a highly visible and influential fraction that is in a position to design a world according to its needs. Global technology has already doubled the gap between the richest and the poorest in the past 30 years. And the very point of business class is that it allows you to be screened off from the world at large, behind a curtain; we will pay -- or, better yet, let the company pay -- $1,800 extra for just six hours free from the clamoring riffraff (with a different counter at which to check in, a separate lounge in which to wait). That such divisions are increasingly popular in a world where other borders are collapsing is evident from the fact that connoisseur class services are booming, and have spun off cousins in hotels (with their executive floors) and car-rental agencies (with their gold card lines). Virgin Atlantic, incorrigibly cheeky, calls its top-deck and front-of-the-plane seats "upper class."
Business class belongs, I suspect, to a globe in which, in many cities from Addis Ababa to Port-au-Prince, air passengers are literally separated from the less fortunate by huge barbed-wire fences and armed guards. And if its driving truth is the line delivered by a Russian en route to Kazakhstan at the end of Don DeLillo's "Underworld" -- "Geography has moved inward and smallward" -- its consequence is given voice by DeLillo's literary cousin, Haruki Murakami, in "The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle," in which the out-of-body narrator amiably reports, "My reality seemed to have left me and now was wandering around nearby."
"Perhaps the strangest thing," Richard told me just before I left Hong Kong, "is when I'm sitting here next to my wife, and I'll call up her voice mail in Massachusetts to leave a message."
"Because she can listen to it repeatedly, and take down all the details ?"
"Yes," he said, sounding almost as bemused as I was.
What a terrifying thought, I reflected -- until, a few weeks later, I found myself doing exactly the same thing.

GRAPHIC: Photos: FRI., 3:05 P.M., NEW YORK: Mike hits the road. He's off to see clients and attend a trade show. FRI., 4 P.M. NEW YORK: Mike checks his luggage curbside. 4:20 P.M.: Any messages? 5:15 P.M., AIRBORNE: Switching over to Dallas time. 5:45 P.M.: First-class fare. 8:10 P.M., DALLAS: Scoring a blue Chevy at the rent-a-car counter. SAT., 9 A.M.: Home away from home, the Melrose Hotel. 10:15 A.M.: First order of business -- face time with an important client. SAT., 2:30 P.M., DALLAS: Mike takes in a hockey game with a client.; Meet Mike Mike Petrillo (above) logs some 150,000 miles a year as V.P. for sales and marketing for Lifecodes Corporation, a biotechnology company. We joined him in early February as he took off for a five-day, five-city business trip, wending his way from New York to San Francisco. His journey is chronicled in the upper-left-hand corners of pages throughout this issue. (Photographs by Jake Chessum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (58%); DAL (NYSE) (57%); C6L (SGX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (78%); ENGLAND (73%); EUROPE (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (57%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (78%); ENGLAND (73%); EUROPE (71%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: Travel and Vacations; Executives and Management AIRLINES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); GLOBAL SYSTEM FOR MOBILE COMMUNICATION (77%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (75%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (75%); LOYALTY MARKETING (71%); TRAVEL TICKETS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (52%); 

PERSON: Iyer, Pico; Petrillo, Mike ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



197 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 40; Column 2; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Is There a Doctor On the Plane?

BYLINE: By Brian Alexander; Brian Alexander writes frequently about travel and health.

 BODY:
William Abranowicz, a photographer who racks up around 200,000 miles on airplanes every year, is living proof that frequent fliers face other dangers than plane crashes and the American Airlines dinner calzone: "I can get off a plane and have giant red marks on each side of my nose, develop a dry scalp, my skin will be inflamed. My skin freaks out."
Yikes! It turns out that very frequent fliers might be earning more than platinum status. They could be collecting conditions like "economy-class syndrome," and suffering symptoms ranging from flatulence to death. 
 "We see lots of passengers," says Dr. John Dellorso, medical director for Kennedy Medical Offices at Kennedy airport in New York. Chest pain and heart attacks account for most medical incidents, followed by food-borne diseases, gastric upsets, ear problems and dehydration. "We've also had our share of deaths. I'd say we get inbound flights with dead bodies on them between 5 and 10 times per year." When the World Bank studied its employees' insurance claims in 1993, it discovered that frequent international travelers made claims much more often -- 80 percent more often for men and 18 percent more for women -- and concluded that "sudden changes in climate, environment and time zones and the related physical and psychological stress associated with travel" pose a hazard in and of themselves.
The Aerospace Medical Association publishes "Medical Guidelines for Airline Travel" for doctors, but much remains unknown. Airlines are not required to report medical incidents to the Government, though over the years studies have been done for isolated time periods. In January, for example, the industry's Air Transport Association said that there were 10,471 medical incidents on the nine largest U.S. airlines during 1996. In the context of millions of passengers, that number seems small, but Mark Rosekind -- president of Alertness Solutions, a company that specializes in problems concerning fatigue on the job -- thinks the real damage might be hidden.
"There will be long-term effects," he says. "We just don't know what they are yet. You cannot do this to people over a long time and not have some effects." Which might cause passengers to ask how many frequent-flier miles a bad back is worth.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Injuries caused by objects tumbling from overhead bins result in a significant number of accidents, says Jane Goodman, a spokeswoman for the Association of Flight Attendants. At the group's November conference, an orthopedic surgeon reported 462 injuries on one airline over a three-year period, more than 90 percent of which were head injuries -- mainly to those seated in aisle seats -- and 160 of which required medical attention.; Of the 10,471 medical incidents reported by the Air Transport Association for 1996, the single largest diagnosis group was syncope/dizziness. These symptoms can be caused by hypoxemia, or low oxygen levels in the blood, a result of relatively low oxygen in the cabin air.; Psychological problems soared for frequent travelers in a World Bank study of its employees' insurance claims. The research indicated that workload and separation from family and friends were important factors. "We occasionally see panic attacks, anxiety and depression cases," says Dr. Evan Berman of Kennedy airport's medical offices. "It's people who have been traveling a long time -- they are sleep-deprived and they sort of wig out."; Aerotitus media (trauma to the middle ear) and barosinusitis (trauma with pain and bleeding) can occur if ear- or sinus-pressure equalization fails. In very rare cases, flying with sinusitis could cause the disease to spread to the central nervous system. Passengers with even mild ear infections can suffer tympanic membrane ruptures (imploded ear drums) during descent.; Heart attacks are the leading cause of death during air travel. The heart muscle becomes stressed by the anxiety of travel, by sprints through the airport, by cabin air that can create up to a 10 percent drop in blood-oxygen-saturation levels and by a relative humidity as low as 10 percent.; The air-sickness bags are there for a reason. Nausea -- caused by motion sickness and airline food -- is the single largest passenger complaint.; Infectious diseases spread on airplanes. "You do have an increased risk," says Dr. Lucy Tompkins, a Stanford University professor of infectious disease. Tuberculosis, for example, has been transmitted in airplane cabins thanks to coughing passengers and close quarters.; Back injuries were a significant complaint of travelers in the World Bank study. "Fractures, sprains and strains" were nearly 80 percent greater for male travelers than for male nontravelers -- probably a result of carrying heavy luggage and sitting for long hours on flights. But travelers should be wary of aid for backaches. According to the journal Aviation, Space and Environmental Medicine, one flight attendant treated a passenger's lumbar injury with a cold pack of dry ice, causing third-degree frostbite.; Beware "economy-class syndrome": deep vein thrombosis (D.V.T.), which can develop even in young, healthy passengers from long periods of immobilization in cramped seats under very low humidity. A thrombus, or clot, can form in the lower leg, and if a piece of it breaks off and makes its way to the lungs, it becomes a pulmonary embolism. In rare cases, the embolism can cause respiratory failure. (Photograph by Davies & Starr)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (53%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Airlines and Airplanes; Medicine and Health; Research AVIATION INSURANCE (90%); AIRLINES (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); BONE FRACTURES (75%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (70%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); HEART DISEASE (69%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (66%); CLIMATE CHANGE (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (52%); 

PERSON: Alexander, Brian

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



198 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 52; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1825 words

HEADLINE: Very Risky Business

BYLINE: By Sebastian Junger; Sebastian Junger is the author of "The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea."

 BODY:
The last phone call Peter Zarate, an ex-Navy SEAL from California, made was to his wife. A commercial real-estate broker working in Mexico City, Zarate stayed late at the office one night in mid-December to close several big deals. Around 8 o'clock, he picked up his cell phone, called his wife and told her that he would be home soon. Ten minutes later, carrying a briefcase and dressed in a dark blue pin-stripe suit, he walked out of the three-story building on Galileo Street where his employer, the American company Cushman & Wakefield, has its offices.
Apparently Zarate had trouble getting a cab, because around 8:20 he called his wife again and said that he was going to walk to a taxi stand down the street. These would be "sitio" cabs -- meaning they had license plates and were registered with the Government -- and so would be more or less safe. Unlicensed gypsy cabs have become infamous in Mexico City for elaborate mugging and kidnapping schemes, and in fact, a few days earlier an American had been savagely beaten in the back of one. The United States Embassy has issued strong warnings against taking them. 
 According to the account of a friend who was later involved in the police investigation, Zarate never made it to the taxi stand. He may have been shoved into a gypsy cab or he may have just gotten into one. At any rate, he found himself held at gunpoint by at least two men and tailed by several more in another gypsy cab. First they beat him -- beat him so badly that the friend, who identified the body, thought Zarate had been shot in the head. And then they did what robbers in most gypsy cab holdups do: they drove him around from one automatic teller to another, taking out cash. The problem was that Zarate's bank account limited the amount of cash he could withdraw to around $200, and he wasn't even wearing any expensive jewelry. But the robbers looked in his briefcase and there they struck gold. They found papers that told them where he lived.
The collapse of the peso in 1994 has spawned a crime wave of unprecedented brutality in Mexico, and kidnappings of both Mexicans and visitors have become a particular specialty. In a high-profile case late last year, nine heavily armed men in Federal police uniforms kidnapped an American businessman in Acapulco, killing a local police officer and seriously wounding another. As of 1996, murders in Mexico City had risen to three a day, and last year there were hundreds of violent crimes every day.
Zarate would have known all this, and he also would have known that his wife and four children were home alone. Three blocks away from his house, on Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra street, the two taxis slowed down for a speed bump and Zarate made his move. He apparently hit Recall and Send on his cell phone, and then leapt out of the car.
Presumably he was trying to buy enough time to tell his wife to call for help, but it didn't work. The phone rang at his house, but when his wife answered, the line was dead. And Zarate himself only made it a couple of steps before he was shot with a .380-caliber handgun, loaded with a large, slow bullet that ricocheted around inside of him rather than passing through him. It tore through his rib cage and abdomen and killed him within minutes. The robbers fled in their cars, and the first policeman who arrived on the scene found Zarate dead in the street with the cell phone still in his hand.
As international trade barriers fall, Americans are increasingly going abroad to do business, often in crime-ridden developing countries where personal safety is an everyday concern. Mexico City, along with Moscow, Johannesburg and Karachi, is considered one of the most dangerous cities in the world for American businessmen, according to Kroll Associates, the international security company. But with the risks come irresistible rewards. There is no better example of this than Mexico, where a 7 percent growth rate and near-doubling of trade with the United States in the past five years have produced tremendous financial opportunities, even though doing business there means putting up with a wary, nearly paranoid existence.
"Everyone who comes in here has a story," says Grant Lussier, managing director of the headhunting firm of Spencer Stuart, sweeping a hand at his wood-paneled office. "Nightmarish stories, like waiting at a green light and all of a sudden three guys get into your car with guns and say, 'O.K., let's go to your house.' This is a hugely fertile environment for American companies, but the lack of security is a real detriment to the people who come down with their families. You can imagine the wives: 'What are we doing here? We have a house in Greenwich -- let's go back."'
The danger to American businessmen like Zarate is mainly random crime -- carjackings, muggings, taxicab holdups. A whole other level of threat is directed at high-profile executives. Dupont, Xerox, Citibank, Goodyear, I.B.M. -- the list of American companies in Mexico goes on and on, and their top managers are all prime targets for kidnapping. In 1996, a Japanese Sanyo executive was taken hostage and only released after a $2 million ransom was paid, and since then, foreign executives have become an enormous liability for their employers. According to American International Group, an insurer, United States companies pay fat premiums for kidnapping insurance for their executives in Mexico. And many top American businessmen live as virtual prisoners of their own security.
The American business community in Mexico seems to be divided into two groups: those who are in the country temporarily to seize an opportunity and those who plan to stay. The residents share a belief that the crime wave will abate and that Mexico -- America's second-largest trading partner, thanks to the 1994 Nafta accords -- will eventually pull itself out of poverty and corruption. Peter Zarate was a member of this group; he had been in Mexico for four years and had no plans to leave. The others -- who tend to have more security and less freedom -- are here for a few years before they move back to their home offices.
If you're ambitious enough, the benefits apparently outweigh the risks. "I have several armored cars, guards armed with pistols and drivers trained in evasive driving," says the C.E.O. of an American company that does more than $1 billion worth of business in Mexico every year. "I don't go out too much; I have no extracurricular activities. When I want to buy something, I pick up the phone, order it and pick it up the next time I get to the States. But now what am I losing? I'm not losing that much. When I get back to the States, I'll be able to do whatever I want."
This man, who lives in a suburb of Mexico City with his wife and children, doesn't walk to the corner store without an armed escort. Every morning, he takes a different route to work, and he always has at least one guard in the back seat. "You deal with it by knowing that one day you're going to leave," he says. "My employer knows that if something were to happen, I can simply pick up the phone and say, 'The moment has come.' I'm a person who's going to leave one day. I don't have to put my life on the line."
The fear of violent crime has prompted a rapidly growing security industry. In front of any expensive restaurant in Mexico City, groups of private gunmen in cheap suits can be seen keeping vigil while their bosses -- important American and Mexican businessmen -- have lunch inside.
Twenty car-armoring outfits have sprung up in the city, and there are several international security firms who do risk analysis and give safety courses. A typical traveling arrangement for upper-level executives is to have an armored Jeep Cherokee with a driver and another car following with three armed guards. If the executive has children, he might assign guards to take them to school in the morning, wait outside all day and take them home in the afternoon. Guards carry semiautomatic pistols and many have gone through training courses. Like the police, they are generally not well educated, and they are never let into the house of a client they are hired to protect.
"Every person I know, middle-class or better, will talk to you about a security problem they've had in the past year," says a Mexican executive who works for a large American company in Mexico City. "We ride armored cars -- my wife has a Jetta and I have a BMW. They're designed for random attacks, nothing else. And I have a guard, just because if you're riding with someone else, it lowers the probability of being attacked."
One recent morning, a visit to this man's house in an exclusive suburb in the hills above the city found his bodyguard inspecting two cars that were to be used on the drive to work that day. It's a neighborhood where cobblestone streets run between high garden walls, and men in commando outfits stand in front of compound gates, holding attack dogs on chains.
The bodyguard, a big-shouldered man with a bulging stomach and jet-black hair slicked back, said that ideally it takes four guards to protect someone, all of them armed. The driver almost never leaves the car. When he drops a client off, his job is to step out, close the door behind him and assess the situation on the street. A second guard walks well in advance of the client and scouts out the area, and the two others walk immediately in front of and behind him. In the event of an attack, the closest bodyguard grabs the client by the hand and leads him to safety while the other two provide protection.
This executive, however, chooses to have only one bodyguard and prefers to drive his own car to work. At about 10 A.M., the executive emerged from his house and got into his BMW. He backed it out of the courtyard, through an electrically controlled front gate and onto the narrow street. His guard climbed into a Jeep Cherokee and followed closely behind, cutting off cars on the highway and running red lights to keep up. After about a half-hour drive, they pulled into a secured parking garage in the basement of the executive's office building and took an elevator to the third floor. The guard stayed right beside his charge, eyes sweeping the area.
As it happens, the office building was in Polanco, a neighborhood blocks away from where Peter Zarate was killed. It's a wealthy area filled with glittering boutiques and hotels, most guarded by uniformed men carrying weapons -- a place where you can get just about anything you want, except a basic sense of safety and freedom.
The American C.E.O. who prefers to do his shopping in the United States recalls a previous posting, in a city where he was also accompanied everywhere he went by a guard and a chauffeur. "When I got back to the States, I bought myself a sports car because I just wanted to be alone. There was" -- he shook his head in amazement -- "no back seat."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An ever-ready security guard outside an office building in Mexico City.; The vehicles used by bodyguards to ferry their clients around Mexico City are often modified to provide maximum protection -- for example, limited access through a window.; MON., 9:27 A.M., L.A.: At his hotel, Mike calls a client. (Photographs by Pablo Ortiz Monsaterio)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (57%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: Mexico ; MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

SUBJECT: Crime and Criminals; Economic Conditions and Trends; Kidnapping; Executives and Management REAL ESTATE (90%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); ROBBERY (87%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); TRENDS (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); MURDER (72%); VIOLENT CRIME (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (68%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (67%); SHOOTINGS (63%); HEAD INJURIES (63%); FINE JEWELRY (61%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (51%); 

PERSON: Junger, Sebastian PETER ZARATE (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



199 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 74; Column 2; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Airheads

BYLINE: By Walter Kirn; Walter Kirn is the author of "She Needed Me," a novel.

 BODY:
Maybe it's the depleted oxygen ration, maybe it's the sense of anonymity or maybe it's a side effect of eating too many salted almonds, but there is something about airline travel that causes otherwise discerning readers to lower their standards and binge on pulp. Like literary adulterers, even the snobbiest readers, once airborne, will abandon their beloved classics and embrace the cheap and easy.
Or maybe it's the crowds. The culture of air travel in America is a mass culture, dissolving independence and eccentricity in a lukewarm plasma of uniformity. Esperanto only spoken here. Local color, where it exists at all, is a matter of airport souvenir shops selling the local pro sports teams' caps and jerseys, of snack bars peddling regional variations on the chocolate chip cookie and the cinnamon roll. 
 It's the same in airport bookstores, where the lowest common denominator rules. Consider the best-seller list of Benjamin Company, a national chain with stores in La Guardia, Dulles International, Atlanta Hartsfield and other hubs: at No. 1, "The Partner," by John Grisham, a legal mystery. At No. 5, "Total Control," by David Baldacci, a mystery about a missing businessman. Here and there a novel of quality surfaces ("Cold Mountain," by Charles Frazier, is No. 16), but mostly if it has already gone double-platinum in the world at large. Like fifth graders, hard-line Communists and wolves, airborne readers prefer to run in packs, showing their devotion to the group by inhibiting any urge to wander into untracked cultural territory.
For the business-class traveler, the paradigmatic escapist read is surely "Total Control," a thriller featuring the sort of people one might meet over cocktails in an airport clubroom. The heroine, Sidney Archer, is a crackerjack Washington lawyer whose husband, Jason, a computer whiz, is in a suspicious plane crash that happens to kill the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board.
"Total Control" is, at bottom, a fantasy of upper-middle-class competence -- an extended fictional celebration of "The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People." Sid deftly manipulates cell phones, paging devices, laptop computers and other high-tech tools in pursuit of truth and justice. As if life itself were a business trip, everything hinges on problem-solving skills. The values are traditional and practical, straight from Ben Franklin and the Boy Scout handbook. Irony is the enemy of the action. And when hard-working, quick-thinking Sid finally triumphs, her reward is not spiritual but monetary. For saving the world's economy, Sid gets a check from the Government.
No doubt what's really at the root of this taste for trash is anxiety. No matter how plush the first-class seat, it's still a long way down if trouble strikes. Fear of falling, philosophically speaking, is jet travel's existential bottom line, and stories of suspense and death address that sense of peril more directly than do textured coming-of-age tales or elegant satires of social mores.
The anxiety thesis is further borne out by the presence on Benjamin's Top 20 list of not one but three other books concerning air disasters: "Airframe," by Michael Crichton (about a possible design flaw in a fleet of airliners), "Mayday," by Nelson Demille and Thomas Block (about a missile attack on a supersonic jet), and "Sole Survivor," by Dean Koontz (about a family wiped out in a crash). The only imaginable reason for a traveler to read such stories at 30,000 feet would be to inoculate a troubled mind with a homeopathic dose of angst. Or maybe it's magical thinking that's at work here: an illogical belief that the likelihood of a fiery plunge to earth is somehow reduced by holding on one's lap a fictional description of one.
If there's an exception that proves the rule on Benjamin's list, it's "Don't Sweat the Small Stuff . . . and It's All Small Stuff," coming in at No. 2. Don't worry, be happy, it teaches. At this moment, high above Nebraska, miniature bottle of Cabernet in hand, salted almond melting on your tongue, you're alive and conscious, so make the most of it. In an hour or two a missile might hit.
Personally, I can't read books on airplanes, books of any kind. The nature of my anxiety is such that I'm afraid to become absorbed in anything that might interrupt my vigilant back-seat piloting. At least once a minute, I check the flaps, the engine sounds, the expressions on the faces of the flight attendants. The more people I see around me reading, absorbed in lurid paperback fantasies and thus unable to do the vital work of mentally keeping the plane aloft, the more obligated I feel to keep my head up.
Once in a while, I can read a magazine on an airplane, but only if it's published by the airline and has on its final page a diagram of the emergency exits. Unlike my fellow fliers with their tales of murder and midair tragedy, I just have to face the window to be on the edge of my seat.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Top 10: The titles currently flying out of airport bookstores, according to Benjamin Company, a national chain. Tried-and-true pulpists (Grisham, Clancy, Crichton) fare well, as do books about plane disasters ("Total Control," "Airframe"), perhaps because air travelers think an escapist version of tragedy can somehow ward off the real thing.; TUES., 12 P.M., ALAMEDA, CALIF.: Mike leaves the meeting cautiously optimistic; more discussions will follow. (Bill Steele for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BENJAMIN CO INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Books and Literature; Airlines and Airplanes; Accidents and Safety AIRLINES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (77%); BESTSELLERS (77%); BOOKSTORES (74%); LAWYERS (68%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (65%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (64%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); SPORTS (54%); SPORTS & RECREATION (54%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: Kirn, Walter JOHN GRISHAM (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004



200 of 725 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 62; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1806 words

HEADLINE: Vendorville

BYLINE: By Jim Yardley; Jim Yardley is a reporter for the Metro section of The Times.

 BODY:
In late January, Chris Burch hopped a commuter plane from Dallas to Bentonville, Ark. -- or, more precisely, to Fayetteville, since Bentonville doesn't have a movie theater, much less an airport. Although the flight covers only 269 miles, it costs nearly $500, and Burch complains that he can fly to London for less. But Wal-Mart isn't in London; it's in Bentonville, which explains why Burch has visited about 200 times. And to do business with Wal-Mart, first you have to get there. Just when Burch's flight should have been touching down, the pilot pulled into a sudden climb. It had been so foggy that Burch couldn't see the runway. Neither, apparently, could the pilot. "After the third miss," Burch says the flight attendant told him, "we go back to Dallas." Fortunately, the plane landed safely, averting not only a crash but also another unpleasant possibility -- that Burch would miss his morning appointment.
Burch is a vendor, Wal-Mart-speak for one of three groups in Bentonville, population 17,000 and rising. The vendors are the estimated 7,000 salespeople who call on Wal-Mart every month. Then there are "associates," the 7,000 people who work for Wal-Mart locally. And then there's everyone else. You could call them support staff. 
 You almost expect to find Wal-Mart's stock price posted on the city-limits sign in Bentonville, hometown of the world's largest retailer. Located in the Ozark Mountains of northwest Arkansas, Bentonville is 60 miles from the nearest Interstate. The nearest airport, Drake Field in Fayetteville, does not offer jet service, because the runway is too short. And because fog often means canceled or rerouted flights, a trip to Bentonville can be a parody of business travel. Maybe you'll get there, or maybe you'll discover the joys of Tulsa.
Bentonville is about as convenient to corporate America as excise taxes. Of course, inconvenience is practically a corporate philosophy with Wal-Mart. What other company has built an empire by erecting stores in such obscure places? Why should a trip to the corporate HQ be any different? "It's like another world," says Burch, a 46-year-old apparel executive, whose white blond hair and winter tan give him the look of an aging lifeguard. "It's so weird."
Weirder still is that in this cellular era, this remote little town has become an international business center. If you want to do business with Kmart or Sears, you visit their offices in suburban Detroit and Chicago. You can stay in a five-star hotel. Eat at a five-star restaurant. If you want to do business with Wal-Mart, you look for the stars in the Arkansas sky, depending on the fog.
It's tempting to laugh when the Chamber of Commerce president, Curt Loyd, describes Bentonville and outlying towns like Rogers and Springdale as a "metroplex. Maybe he's counting livestock and people. Or maybe he's right. More than 100 Wal-Mart suppliers, including corporate giants like Hewlett-Packard, Clorox and Nabisco, have opened satellite offices. Tyson Foods, the world's largest chicken processor, is located in Springdale. Bentonville's service industry used to consist of the local Farm Bureau. Now you can get a $75 facial and a massage at a local strip-mall spa.
Once, it took a prime ocean port or a choice river location for a business hub like Boston or St. Louis to be born. In Bentonville, it took a shopkeeper named Sam Walton. He parlayed his five-and-ten into an empire of 3,359 stores in nine countries with annual sales exceeding $118 billion. "Vendorville," says Tom Jensen, who holds the Wal-Mart lectureship in retailing at the University of Arkansas at Fayetteville. That's what we call it."
When Burch began working as a salesman 22 years ago, he sold wide-flare Landlubber jeans out of the trunk of a humpbacked, baby blue Gran Torino. He barnstormed the Southwest, stopping at every dusty town with a department store. Nearly all those local stores are gone now, either driven out of business by discounters like Wal-Mart or gobbled up by other national chains. And because Wal-Mart is so huge, it is now virtually Burch's sole customer.
He makes his sales pitches in the main office of Wal-Mart Stores, a sprawling, unpretentious brick building that looks more like a textile mill than a corporate headquarters. Each vendor is given a badge and sits in an enormous waiting area until a guard ushers him to his appointment. On any given weekday, Burch is one of hundreds of salespeople awaiting entrance to vendor row, a long blue-and-gray hallway with plain linoleum floors. In small, bare rooms decorated only with copies of the company's Gifts & Gratuities policy, vendors sit at folding tables and pitch their lines to Wal-Mart's harried buyers.
"These people are the million-pound gorilla," Burch says with reverence. "They don't want you to come in here with your $1,800 suit and your limousine. They want you to come in and tell how low you can go. And then they want you to be under that."
The Spartan nature of this no-frills capitalism fits in easily with Bentonville. The town closes by about 9 P.M. Though private clubs can sell alcohol, Benton County is dry. On past business trips to Los Angeles, Burch has spent as much as $1,000 entertaining clients at dinner. In Bentonville, his main entertainment is spending $5 to work out at a local gym. He usually eats alone, reading Road & Track magazine. Because Wal-Mart prohibits its employees from accepting gratuities, restaurants like Fred's Hickory Inn, a local landmark with $4.50 barbecue sandwiches and $23 steaks, will happily divide a lunch bill 20 ways.
"You come here, you have your meeting and you leave," Burch says. "That's it. The culture is different."
It's hard to find Bentonville, even when you're there. "Downtown? asks Burch, who has come here for 10 years. Is there one? There may be a nice little downtown square here. I don't know if there is or not. Isn't that wild?"
There is, in fact, a town square with a Confederate statue and a courthouse, just like those in hundreds of other small Southern towns, though many of those towns are waiting to die. There are lakes and fine hunting and good schools and gracious people who attend church and wave to strangers. But the real action in Bentonville is on Highway 71B, dutifully named Walton Boulevard, where a second city is rising, a sprawling strip dedicated to serving Wal-Mart with the charmless efficiency of a convenience store. This is Vendorville.
Not too many years ago, there was almost nothing along the old bypass except cow pastures and chicken coops. "If a dignitary came to Bentonville," recalls Keith Dowell, a local businessman, "we could feed him in the high-school cafeteria, but we had to send him to Rogers for a place to sleep."
Now vendors like Burch can choose among a Courtyard by Marriott, two Ramadas, a Holiday Inn Express, a Best Western or a Comfort Inn. Two other hotels are under construction. Where once Fred's Hickory Inn was about the only restaurant in town, now nearly every fast-food joint imaginable is there, as well as chains like Applebee's.
It is the same sort of placeless, ready-to-order edge city found near Atlanta or Dallas or Denver, only on a smaller scale. A new regional airport offering jet service is under construction. There are secretarial pools available for out-of-town executives, and there are office parks named Beau Terre and Raintree that look like corporate Quonset huts.
There are still plenty of pickup trucks, but the rush hour on Walton Boulevard -- and there is a rush hour -- is also crowded with sport-utility vehicles and luxury sedans, symbols of the sort of conspicuous consumption frowned upon by Sam Walton before he died in 1992.
Looking to sample some local fare, Brenda Smith and Ross Gluck, vendors for Solo Cup in Chicago, fell for the dessert pies -- called tall pies because of their layers of meringue -- served at Marty's Cafe. Otherwise, Bentonville was a hard sell. A Chicago native who craved a good slice of pizza, Gluck once asked for a recommendation of the best local joint. "They said Little Caesars," he recalls. They learned Arkansas jokes (How do you know the toothbrush was invented in Arkansas? Otherwise, it would have been named the teethbrush), and eventually Bentonville's homey charms grew on them just enough that they no longer hated it. "When you hear for the first time that you're going to Bentonville, Ark., you get the feeling that you're going to the most backward place," Gluck says. "You have the worst image possible. But it's really not that bad."
It's fortunate that Billy Melton is a peaceable man. A few miles south of Walton Boulevard, a large gated subdivision of expensive new homes called the Pinnacle Country Club spreads over acres of former farmland. Across a two-lane road, Champions Estates, another subdivision for the newly rich, continues to rise. Blink and you could be on the outskirts of Dallas. But like a tiny island in an ocean sits Melton's modest frame house on a single acre. He bought the land six years ago, along with chickens and rabbits, so he could raise his family in the country. In the evenings the sunset burned an orange sky.
The chickens and rabbits are still there, but now Melton is surrounded by a gated community. Champions Estates has built a white hard-plastic wall around his property line, high enough to block the sunset.
"They did that to kind of hide our place," says Melton, a factory worker. "It didn't go with what they're doing. They just boxed us off."
This is not the best example of the neighborliness or the classless society that Bentonville prides itself on. Melton admits that he now wouldn't mind selling to a developer. He says they've shown little interest so far. Perhaps he'll buy some more chickens -- the odor might deliver the appropriate message. Nonetheless, Melton says he isn't angry. We take this all in stride," he says. It's just part of progress."
Progress is, of course, the steroids of Vendorville. It is hard to argue with 2 percent unemployment and a Wal-Mart stock plan that has spawned a good number of country millionaires. "Every business in this city recognizes that Wal-Mart butters our bread," says Skip McHardy, managing partner of Fred's. "If Wal-Mart ever has problems, I hope I'd have sold out the week before."
Civic leaders say that more chain restaurants are coming; what better sign of progress is there? When the new airport opens, jet service is expected to bring Bentonville travel into the modern era. There's a renewed push to promote Ozarks tourism -- all those new hotel rooms are empty on weekends, when the vendors have left. There's also a plan to spruce up the old town square, perhaps redirect traffic and make it more efficient. Maybe people will even be able to find it.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ozarks Capitalism. Top: Rolling up Highway 71 to HQ; a roadside church; budget-minded lodgings and food. Bottom: A road to the center of Bentonville; Champions Drive; a highway beacon; Walton Boulevard, the main drag of the "metroplex."; MON., 1 P.M., Los Angeles: Mike sets off for the airport yet again.; MON., 3:15 P.M., Los Angeles: Mike, at LAX, rushes to make his 3:30 flight. (Photographs by Bobby Fisher)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (75%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (75%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (75%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: Wal-Mart WAL-MART STORES INC (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart

GEOGRAPHIC: Bentonville (Ark) ; UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: Salesmen; Roads and Traffic; Airlines and Airplanes; Fog AIRPORTS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (89%); AIRLINES (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (75%); EXCISE TAX (73%); RETAILERS (72%); MOUNTAINS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); RESTAURANTS (63%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%); 

PERSON: Yardley, Jim CHRIS BURCH (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004

 
