

801 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; UNITED TASTES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: Taking Masa To Heart

BYLINE: By JOHN T. EDGE

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES
ON a dark, lonely street corner, a man in sunglasses leans against his car and waits.
''It's 'bout to go down,'' he says to his cellphone, as an ember-red Chevy Monte Carlo with cattle horns on the hood pulls up. Out steps a menacing-looking fellow in ostrich skin boots and a black Stetson.
''Senor Bling,'' says the man who was waiting. ''The streets is fiendin' for it.''
Up pops the car's neon-rimmed trunk to reveal foil-wrapped packages of ''it.'' Bricks of marijuana? Kilos of cocaine? No, tamales plastered with the logo of the Mexican-American rapper Chingo Bling. 
Tamales and masa, their cornmeal base, may not have the street cred of drugs, but Chingo Bling has tried to do for them what Tony Montana did for cocaine. In songs like ''Walk Like Cleto,'' whose video opened with the street corner scene above, he mockingly uses hip-hop's swagger to urge respect for the hard work and home cooking that help Latin American immigrants survive in a hostile world.
Before a recent show near here at the Key Club, the man who styles himself as the Ghetto Vaquero and the Masa Messiah peered from beneath the brim of that black cowboy hat and made clear his intent: ''I'm trying to stay current in hip-hop. Lil Wayne has a style, and so does Jay-Z. But I'm not a gangster, I've never sold crack.''
''I'm Mexican-American,'' he said between bites of chorizo, scrambled eggs and corn tortillas at Pann's Restaurant and Coffee Shop. ''Don't pay any attention to the stereotypes. Our real hustle is selling tamales, our white powder is masa. I just try to represent that.''
His message is gaining a wider audience. El Real, the new Tex-Mex restaurant in Houston, displays a series of movie-style posters, framed in shadowboxes. Along with Tex-Mex music heroes like Flaco Jimenez and Freddy Fender, the Masa Messiah gets his due. ''He's a rapper,'' said Bryan Caswell, one of the restaurant's owners. ''But he raps about Tex-Mex issues, about Tex-Mex ideals. His subjects are the family that gets together in the kitchen to make tamales to make extra money. His stuff is funny. But he uses humor to make serious points.''
Chingo Bling is the stage name of Pedro Herrera, a native of Houston whose parents came from the northern Mexican state of Tamaulipas.
Mr. Herrera conceived the persona in the late 1990s, while studying at Trinity University in San Antonio and working as a D.J. for fraternity parties and radio shows. By 2001, soon after he graduated with a marketing degree, he had begun recording what he calls Mextapes -- compilations of Spanglish rap spoofs and raunchy Cheech & Chong-inspired skits -- which he sold from the trunk of his car at flea markets.
He found his first audience at those flea markets, before moving on to car shows popular with low-rider enthusiasts, mom-and-pop record stores and bodegas in African-American and Mexican-American areas of Houston. (Mr. Herrera calls this the taco circuit, a reference to the chitlin' circuit that African-American musicians played before clubs and theaters integrated.)
He put his marketing lessons to work. In addition to peddling self-produced CDs at shows and on his Web site, he began selling T-shirts, coloring books and bobbleheads. In time, he added bottles of habanero-fortified salsa, emblazoned with a photo of himself, in character, wearing a T-shirt that shows him holding one of his own bobbleheads.
''50 Cent wouldn't sell hot sauce,'' he said later as he scribbled lyrics on a napkin while preparing for a lip-sync performance on ''Lanzate,'' a morning variety show on the Univision network. ''It's not his thing, but I had to.''
As his music evolved, Mr. Herrera continued to use food imagery as he began to write about identity and immigration. On the song ''Like This and Like That,'' from his 2007 album, ''They Can't Deport Us All,'' he sings, over a percussive backbeat, of immigrants' fear of deportation and their hopes of salvation through the underground economy, where it's possible to earn rent money by selling tamales. ''Making paper stacks/ making paper stacks/ slinging masa like crack,'' he raps.
Before that, Mr. Herrera -- who usually steps on stage wearing a golden pendant that depicts a man, woman and chicken running across the border -- had already released a 2004 album, ''The Tamale Kingpin,'' on his own Big Chile label. On the track ''Masa & Da Flour'' he does a send-up of ''Money and the Power'' by the Houston rapper Scarface. On ''Walk Like Cleto,'' an homage to Mr. Herrera's pet rooster (and frequent taco circuit co-star), recorded in a hyperkinetic style that owes a sonic debt to New Orleans bounce music, he rejects stereotypes. ''We're lawn people,'' he said. ''Or we're lazy Mexicans.''
Mr. Herrera prefers to tell the story another way. ''We're all hustlers,'' he said as he navigated Los Angeles traffic to an afternoon meeting at a Chipotle Grill in Beverly Hills where he would confirm plans for a summer tour with Molotov, a band his agent called the Motorhead of Mexico. ''That's what it takes to make it in America.''
''I admire the hustle,'' he continued. ''The hustle is American. And so are those tamale ladies who work the parking lots at Wal-Mart, who keep their kids in the back seat of their cars, next to the coolers of tamales they made this morning, and whisper -- 'tamales, tamales, tamales' -- as you walk by.''
''Some of those ladies move big product,'' he said, slipping into a lingo more often associated with drug dealers. ''Back home, you hear people talk about this one lady. You hear people say, 'She moved 20k last month.' You hear them say, 'I heard she split for Cancun with 50 large.' They respect her. And so do I.''
Mr. Herrera's love of tamales is visceral. In the '70s, his mother, Dora Gauna, made tamales for his father, Pedro Herrera, to sell to his co-workers at the body shop of a Houston car dealership, where he pulled dents from Pontiacs.
But his food references are likely to be more metaphoric than literal. And in the past Mr. Herrera pushed those metaphors to off-color extremes.
This was back when reviewers commonly referred to him as the Mexican Weird Al Yankovic, a title he earned by shooting music videos like ''Taco Shop.'' In that parody of 50 Cent's ''Candy Shop,'' Mr. Herrera transformed a bikini-clad woman, reclining in a bathtub full of shredded lettuce, into a human taco, as he dribbled her with salsa and strewed her with grated Cheddar.
That kind of routine is behind him now, Mr. Herrera said, before he took the stage at the Key Club in West Hollywood, for a show he would headline, with the Beatnuts, a Latino rap duo from Queens. Over tacos al carbon, which he ate in a derelict bus in an alley that the club uses as a green room, he tried to dispel the notion that his music revolved around food. ''I don't sing about food,'' he said. ''I sing about my people.''
Like Notorious MSG, the rap group from New York City's Chinatown that has won a reputation for songs like ''Dim Sum Girl'' and, in the process, started conversations about the conditions under which immigrants labor, Mr. Herrera has honed a persona that lets him move effortlessly from what he calls ''Mexploitation messaging'' to pointed commentaries about political issues like immigration reform.
As he reached for a second taco, he talked about the work ethic of his parents. And he talked about how songs like ''Don't Stop Believin' '' the power rock anthem by Journey, resonate with Mexican-American audiences.
Such talk brought him right back to tamales. ''They're a resource, a reservoir that almost anybody can tap into,'' he said as his band mates tuned their instruments, and well-wishers crowded the bus. ''If you can roll tamales, you have a revenue stream.''
''I respect that labor,'' Mr. Herrera continued as he tossed his mouth grill, inset with Mexican-flag-inspired semi-precious stones, back and forth in his hands. ''It's like those ladies who make tamales are earning their citizenship through sweat equity.''
UNITED TASTES: This is one of a series of articles exploring American cuisine and its evolution.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ALTER EGO: Pedro Herrera sings about food to deliver a bigger message. (D1)
 FIRST, TACOS: Before a performance at the Key Club in West Hollywood, Calif., right, the Mexican-American rapper Chingo Bling ate tacos in a derelict bus that the club uses as a green room. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AXEL KOESTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); COCAINE (88%); MAMMALS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); CANNABIS (69%)

PERSON: LIL WAYNE (53%); JAY-Z (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (89%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (91%); LATIN AMERICA (56%); MEXICO (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



802 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Lessons From Tahrir Sq.

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Cairo
Being back in Cairo reminds me that there are two parties in this region that have been untouched by the Arab Spring: the Israelis and the Palestinians. Too bad, because when it comes to ossified, unimaginative, oxygen-deprived governments, the Israelis and Palestinians are right up there with pre-revolutionary Egypt and Tunisia. I mean, is there anything less relevant than the prime minister of Israel going to the U.S. Congress for applause and the leader of the Palestinians going to the U.N. -- instead of to each other?
Both could actually learn something from Tahrir Square. To the Palestinians I would say: You believe the Israelis are stiffing you because they think they have you in box. If you resort to violence, they will brand you terrorists. And if you don't resort to violence, the Israelis will just pocket the peace and quiet and build more settlements. Your dilemma is how to move Israel in a way that won't blow up in your face or require total surrender. 
You have to start with the iron law of Israeli-Arab peace: whichever party has the Israeli silent majority on its side wins. Anwar Sadat brought the Israeli majority over to his side when he went to Israel, and he got everything he wanted. Yasir Arafat momentarily did the same with the Oslo peace accords. How could Palestinians do that again today? I can tell you how not to do it. Having the U.N. General Assembly pass a resolution recognizing an independent Palestinian state will only rally Israelis around Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu, giving him another excuse not to talk.
May I suggest a Tahrir Square alternative? Announce that every Friday from today forward will be ''Peace Day,'' and have thousands of West Bank Palestinians march nonviolently to Jerusalem, carrying two things -- an olive branch in one hand and a sign in Hebrew and Arabic in the other. The sign should say: ''Two states for two peoples. We, the Palestinian people, offer the Jewish people a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders -- with mutually agreed adjustments -- including Jerusalem, where the Arabs will control their neighborhoods and the Jews theirs.''
If Palestinians peacefully march to Jerusalem by the thousands every Friday with a clear peace message, it would become a global news event. Every network in the world would be there. Trust me, it would stimulate a real peace debate within Israel -- especially if Palestinians invited youth delegations from around the Arab world to join the marches, carrying the Saudi peace initiative in Hebrew and Arabic. Israeli Jews and Arabs should be invited to march as well. Together, the marchers could draw up their own peace maps and upload them onto YouTube as a way of telling their leaders what Egyptian youth said to President Hosni Mubarak: ''We're not going to let you waste another day of our lives with your tired mantras and maneuvering.''
Crazy, I know. Bibi is reading this and laughing: ''The Palestinians will never do that. They could never get Hamas to adopt nonviolence. It's not who the Palestinians are.''
That is exactly what Mubarak said about the Egyptian people: ''They are not capable of being anything but what they are: docile and willing to eat whatever low expectations I feed them.'' But then Egyptians surprised him. How about you, Palestinians, especially Hamas? Do you have any surprise in you? Is Bibi right about you, or not?
As for Bibi, his Tahrir lesson is obvious: Sir, you are well on your way to becoming the Hosni Mubarak of the peace process. The time to make big decisions in life is when you have all the leverage on your side. For 30 years, Mubarak had all the leverage on his side to gradually move Egypt toward democracy -- and he never used it. Then, when Mubarak's people rose up, he tried to do it all in six days. But it was too late. No one believed him. So his tenure ended in ruin.
Israel today still has enormous leverage. It is vastly superior militarily and economically to the Palestinians, and it has the U.S. on its side. If Netanyahu actually put a credible, specific two-state peace map on the table -- not just the same old vague promises about ''painful compromises'' -- he could get the Americans and Europeans to toss in anything Israel wanted, including the newest weapons, NATO membership, maybe even European Union membership. It could be a security windfall for Israel. Does Bibi have any surprise in him or do the Palestinians have him right: a big faker, hiding a nationalist-religious agenda under a cloak of security?
It may be that Israeli and Palestinian leaders are incapable of surprising anyone anymore, in which case the logic on the ground will prevail: Israel will gradually absorb the whole West Bank, so, together with Israel proper, a Jewish minority will be ruling over an Arab majority. Israel's enemies will refer to it as ''the Jewish apartheid state.'' America, Israel's only true friend, will find itself having to defend an Israel whose policies it does not believe in and whose leaders it does not respect -- and the tensions between the U.S. and Israel displayed in Washington last week will seem quaint by comparison.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); TERRORISM (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); HOSNI MUBARAK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); CAIRO, EGYPT (91%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



803 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Suit Sees Manipulation of Oil Trades in 2008

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY; Clifford Krauss contributed reporting.

 BODY:
After oil prices surged past $100 a barrel in 2008, suspicions that traders had manipulated the market led to Congressional hearings and regulatory investigations. But they produced no solid cases in the record run-up in gasoline prices.
But on Tuesday, federal commodities regulators filed a civil lawsuit against two obscure traders in Australia and California and three American and international firms.
The suit says that in early 2008 they tried to hoard nearly two-thirds of the available supply of a crucial American market for crude oil, then abruptly dumped it and improperly pocketed $50 million. 
The regulators from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission would not say whether the agency was conducting any other investigations into oil speculation. With oil prices climbing again this year, President Obama has asked Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. to set up a working group to look into fraud in oil and gas markets and ''safeguard against unlawful consumer harm.''
In the case filed Tuesday, the defendants -- James T. Dyer of Australia, Nicholas J. Wildgoose of Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., and three related companies, Parnon Energy of California, Arcadia Petroleum of Britain and Arcadia Energy, a Swiss company -- have told regulators they deny they manipulated the market.
If the United States proves the claims, the defendants may give up $50 million in profits that were believed to be made as a result of the manipulation and also pay a penalty of up to $150 million.
The commodities agency says the case involves a complex scheme that relied on the close relationship between physical oil prices and the prices of financial futures, which move in parallel.
In a matter of a few weeks in January 2008, the defendants built up large positions in the oil futures market on exchanges in New York and London, according to the suit, filed in the Federal Court in the Southern District of New York.
At the same time, they bought millions of barrels of physical crude oil at Cushing, Okla., one of the main delivery sites for West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark for American oil, the suit says. They bought the oil even though they had no commercial need for it, giving the market the impression of a shortage, the complaint says.
At one point they had such a dominant position that they owned about 4.6 million barrels of crude oil, estimating that this represented two-thirds of the seven million barrels of excess oil then available at Cushing, according to lawsuits.
This type of oil is also the main driver of prices of the futures contracts, and their actions caused futures prices to rise, the authorities say. ''They wanted to lull market participants into believing that supply would remain tight,'' the agency said. ''They knew that as long as the market believed that supply was tight and getting even tighter, there would be upward pressure on the prices of W.T.I. for February delivery relative to March delivery, which was their goal.''
The traders in mid-January cashed out their futures position, and then a few days later began to bet on a decline in oil futures, with Mr. Wildgoose remarking in an e-mail about the ''inevitable puking'' of their position on an unsuspecting market, the federal lawsuit says.
In one day, Jan. 25, they then dumped most of their holdings of West Texas Intermediate oil, and profited by the drop in futures.
The traders repeated the buying and selling in March 2008, and were preparing to do it again in April but stopped when investigators contacted them for information, the suit says.
Between January and April, average gas prices rose roughly to $3.50 a gallon, from $3. It was not until later in 2008, after the defendants had ceased their reported actions, that oil prices soared higher -- reaching $145 that July. By the end of the year, prices had fallen to about $44. The Texas oil is now around $100.
Many other factors were at work, including tight oil supplies in the Middle East and fears that a growing global economy would consume more oil. Yet the enforcement action by the commodities regulator was the first credible evidence that a small group of traders also played a role in manipulating prices.
''This will help to satisfy the desire to find a culprit and throw them under the wheels of justice,'' said Michael Lynch, an oil market specialist at Strategic Energy and Economic Research, a consulting firm.
Calls to Arcadia Petroleum in London were not immediately returned. A person who answered the phone at Arcadia Energy in Switzerland said that he was unaware of the complaints and that Mr. Dyer and Mr. Wildgoose were on vacation and unavailable for comment.
In the last few years, the commission has settled a handful of cases of manipulation in the natural gas market.
In 2007, it settled charges for $1 million against the Marathon Petroleum Company for trying to manipulate West Texas Intermediate crude oil in 2003.
The agency brought an action similar to its latest case in 2008, asserting that Optiver Holding, a proprietary trading fund based in the Netherlands with a Chicago affiliate, used a trading program in 2007 to issue orders to manipulate the crude oil market. The case is pending. It involved claims of manipulation of futures contracts for light sweet crude, New York Harbor heating oil and New York Harbor gasoline.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Cushing Terminal in Oklahoma, a main delivery site for a benchmark American oil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANE BEVEL/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) CHART: Difference in price between February and March 2008 oil futures contracts: During January 2008, traders allegedly created artificial peaks and troughs in the oil futures market, making millions in profits. (Source: Bloomberg) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); FUTURES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); ERIC HOLDER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



804 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Infusion From China for Toledo, Ohio

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

 BODY:
TOLEDO, Ohio -- Before it became known as the Marina District, the 128 acres of tall grass and dirt piles on the Maumee River here was home to one of the city's most prominent eyesores, the Acme coal-fired power plant, which was decommissioned in 1994.
Adjoining the riverfront parcel is the Docks, a 69,550-square-foot formerly city-owned dining and entertainment complex that for years after it was built in 1996 was among Toledo's most popular destinations. But the recent recession hit Toledo hard, and two of the five restaurants closed this year, leaving hundreds of thousands of dollars in unpaid rent and lost tax revenue. 
The open space along the east bank of the Maumee, bounded by Front Street, Main Street and Interstate 280, appeared to be another big development challenge in one of the regions of the country hardest hit by the recession. But last fall two real estate developers from China, personally recruited by Mayor Michael P. Bell and his staff, took a look during a reciprocal visit to this city of 287,000 residents and saw an opportunity.
On March 18, the two investors, Yuan Xiaohona and Wu Kin Hung, closed on the $2.15 million purchase of the Docks and the adjacent five acres of parking lots. In an interview, Mayor Bell, a 56-year-old independent elected in 2009, said he and other city leaders thought the deal would eventually lead to a much larger project: the sale of the adjoining 69 acres to Ms. Yuan and Mr. Wu, who said in a signed memorandum in February that they intended to build a new riverfront residential, office, retail and entertainment district.
''They've moved forward to say what they are going to do,'' said Mr. Bell, an outsize bachelor who played linebacker at the University of Toledo, rides a Harley and favors pink ostrich cowboy boots and matching pink ties. ''A huge portion of what is happening and will happen is based on the trust we've developed. The purchase of the Docks is Step 1. It shows we have energy, and we have direction.''
R. Scott Prephan, a real estate consultant who introduced Mayor Bell to Ms. Yuan and Mr. Wu during a trip to China in September, said engineering studies had started. He showed a reporter some of the first architectural drawings, which envisioned a low-rise assembly of modern multi- and single-family residences, office buildings and retail spaces surrounded by parks and the Maumee waterfront. The intent of the development, he said, is to serve as a kind of staging area for international executives to conduct business in the Midwest, a lively urban neighborhood for their spouses and children, and a destination for shopping and dining for residents of the Toledo region.
''The concept is very strong,'' Mr. Prephan said, ''and the market will support this kind of idea.''
Ms. Yuan and Mr. Wu, the principals in their newly organized Dashing Pacific Group, have expressed ardent enthusiasm for the project. Ms. Yuan wrote in the February memorandum, signed by her and Mr. Bell, that the company's goal was to ''work diligently to prepare an offer to purchase the Marina District and share with you our vision for its development.''
Ms. Yuan, who was not available for an interview, has visited Toledo twice, most recently in late March when she met newly elected Gov. John Kasich, a Republican, who said he supported the project. Mr. Wu visited Toledo in October and sent Jimmy Wu, his son who lives in New York, to the meeting with Mr. Kasich.
Real estate professionals here estimated that the investment by Ms. Yuan and Mr. Wu could total $200 million to $300 million. That would make it one of the largest real estate investments in the United States by Chinese developers, and part of a steadily growing number of Chinese-financed projects in small urban American markets.
According to the research company Real Capital Analytics, aside from two big office building investments in New York for $900 million, the largest Chinese investment last year was the $90 million purchase of the Sheraton Universal hotel in North Hollywood, Calif., by the Shenzhen New World Group. The largest real estate purchase in the Midwest last year by Chinese investors, according to Real Capital Analytics, was the $7.2 million that the Shenzhen BRC Development Company paid for a 120,500-square-foot mall in South Bend, Ind. The companies are not related.
''What's remarkable in a good way about the Toledo deal is historically when people think about investors from China, they focused on the major markets -- New York, San Francisco, Los Angeles,'' said Spencer Levy, the executive managing director of CB Richard Ellis Capital Markets, who is based in Washington. ''But we're starting to find significant interest from China in what people would consider secondary markets, and in asset classes that are not stable and do not have long-term leases.''
The plan for the Marina District and the sale of the Docks set off a small xenophobic response from some Toledo residents. ''There were a few letters and a few blogs that took issue with our selling riverfront property to the Chinese or any foreign investor,'' said Thomas S. Crothers, the deputy mayor for external relations. ''Our job, though, is to bring investment from domestic or foreign sources to revitalize our community.''
Still, many business executives here praised the deal. ''Business people have been very supportive,'' said Ford Weber, the president and chief executive of the Lucas County Improvement Corporation, an economic development group. ''It's an opportunity to take a vacant, tax-dead property and make it a contributor to a better quality of life, a stronger economy and a broader tax base.''
The city has been trying for years to develop the Marina District, the site of a $42 million toxic waste cleanup that was completed in 2007. The city also spent four years marketing the Docks to retire a $1.66 million bond and bring in revenue to help reduce a budget deficit that this year will reach $4.85 million. The $2.15 million that Dashing Pacific Group paid for the restaurant complex will net Toledo about $300,000, city officials said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Dean Monske of Regional Growth Partnership, Mayor Michael Bell and Scott Prephan of Prephan Enterprises. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J.D. POOLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: A tract along the Maumee River is set for development. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (93%) OHIO, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



805 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: Power vs. Profit

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Michael Wines contributed reporting from Wenzhou, China, and Jonathan Kaiman contributed research from Beijing.

 BODY:
YIYANG, China -- It is a power struggle that is causing a power shortage -- one that has begun to slow China's mighty economic growth engine.
Balking at the high price of coal that fuels much of China's electricity grid, the nation's state-owned utility companies are defying government economic planners by deliberately reducing the amount of electricity they produce.
The power companies say they face financial ruin if the government continues to tightly limit the prices they can charge customers, even as strong demand is sending coal prices to record levels. The chairwoman of one giant utility, China Power International, recently warned that one-fifth of China's 436 coal-fired power plants could face bankruptcy if the utilities cannot raise rates.
The utilities' go-slow tactics include curtailing the planned expansion and construction of power plants, and running plants for fewer hours a day. And in a notable act of passive defiance, the power companies have scheduled an unusually large number of plants to close for maintenance this summer -- right when air-conditioning season will reach its peak. 
So far there have been no public confrontations between Beijing officials and utility executives. But the dispute indicates that China's unique marriage of market competition and government oversight may be starting to fray after three decades of phenomenal economic success.
''The Chinese electricity companies are firing a shot across the bow, and essentially saying they're not going to just sit there and take massive losses,'' said Jeremy C. Carl, a Stanford University researcher on Chinese energy issues. ''It's almost the equivalent of a corporate sick-out.''
The official Xinhua news agency reported late Monday that the country's main electricity distribution company, the State Grid, had warned that power shortages this year could be worse than in 2004, when China had its worst blackouts in decades. That year, the problem involved railroad bottlenecks in getting coal to power plants -- an issue largely resolved with the subsequent investments in more rail lines.
This time, the impasse between government and industry is not the only cause of China's electricity shortages. Surging electricity demand is also a factor.
China's 700 million rural residents have been on a two-year buying spree of electric devices, purchasing hundreds of millions of air-conditioners and other energy-hungry appliances with government subsidies aimed at narrowing the gap in living standards between cities and rural areas.
In a little-noticed milestone, the latest data from Beijing and Washington shows that China passed the United States last year as the world's largest consumer of electricity.
Since March, responding to the power shortages, government officials in six provinces have begun rationing electricity, including here in Hunan province. At least five more provinces are preparing to do so, according to official reports.
In Yiyang, a town of 360,000 in south-central China, electricity shortages are so severe this spring that many homes and businesses receive power only one day in three. Even gasoline stations in this region are silent more days than not, because the pumps lack electricity.
Meanwhile, blackouts are starting to slow the nation's torrid growth of energy-intensive industries like steel, cement and chemicals. Unlike garment makers and other small manufacturers, the big factories cannot easily switch to backyard diesel generators.
To accommodate businesses that do use diesel back-ups, China last week banned exports of diesel fuel to conserve scarce supplies.
The power cuts are a reason the year-on-year growth rate of China's industrial production dipped last month -- to 13.4 percent in April, down from 14.8 percent in March -- and seems to be continuing to fall.
The lower productivity of factories, plus high diesel costs for those using generators, is likely to further raise average prices of American imports from China. Prices of Chinese exports are already up 2.8 percent in the last 12 months, after years of gradual decline that helped restrain inflation in the United States.
As power-deprived factories in China have less demand for raw materials, the impact has rippled around the world among China's suppliers as well, contributing to 10 percent declines in global prices for commodities like iron ore and copper. That is impinging on the economies of countries like Australia and Brazil, for which China is a big customer of natural resources.
Looking ahead, China has placed big bets on wind turbines for generating electricity. And despite Japan's recent nuclear travails, China is also cautiously proceeding with plans to lead the world in the construction of nuclear power plants in the coming decade.
But coal is still king in China. The country has nearly half of the world's total coal-fired capacity, and coal plants currently represent 73 percent of this nation's total generating capacity.
Hydroelectric power, at 22 percent, is a distant second and has been hampered by droughts this year.
If Beijing and the utilities can resolve their differences, China plans to build even more coal-powered plants. Doing so would produce another big surge in emissions of greenhouse gases, of which China is already the world's largest emitter.
''Only coal can provide new capacity in the time and scale needed,'' said David Fridley, a China energy expert at the University of California, Berkeley.
The idea of recalcitrant utilities balking at Beijing's dictates might seem to contradict the popular perception of China's government-guided economy. But while the electric utilities are majority-owned by the government, they are also profit-motivated companies accountable to the other holders of their publicly traded stock. So the power companies' incentives are not necessarily aligned with those of central planners in Beijing.
The government, for its part, has imposed an array of price controls, including on electricity rates, as it struggles to insulate the Chinese public from inflation. Consumer prices are rising 5.3 percent a year according to official figures, and Chinese and Western economists say the true rate may be nearly double that.
But coal prices, which the government deregulated in 2008, are rising even faster in China, which is a net importer of coal despite having its own extensive mining operations.
Huaneng, China's biggest electric utility, said last month that electricity rates it charges customers should have been 13 percent higher last year to match the increase in coal prices. But regulators held utility rates essentially flat.
Spot coal prices in China have surged an additional 20 percent this year -- to a record $125 a metric ton for top grades -- partly because of floods in Australia's and Indonesia's coal fields and partly because Japan is buying more from the global market to offset its lower nuclear power output.
But Chinese regulators have let electricity prices climb only 2.5 percent this spring. Residential users in China's cities pay 8.2 cents a kilowatt-hour. That compares to a national average of 11 cents in the United States and 15 cents in the heavily urban mid-Atlantic region. Chinese industrial users in cities are supposed to pay 12 cents a kilowatt-hour, although politically connected businesses receive discounts; the average industrial rate in the United States is 7 cents, and 9 cents in the mid-Atlantic region.
Big power generators like Huaneng buy nearly half their coal on the spot market and the rest on long-term contracts with prices that rise more slowly.
The government has put pressure on China's coal mines, also largely state-owned, to continue supplying power companies with coal at below-market prices under long-term contracts. But the mines, which are also profit-oriented operations, have responded with their own form of passive resistance -- by sending their cheapest, lowest-quality coal with the most polluting sulfur.
As a result, many power plants are now paying penalties to yet another arm of the government -- environmental regulators -- for burning the sulfur-spewing coal. That has further added to the utilities' cost of doing business, said Howard Au, the chief executive of Petrocom Energy, a Hong Kong company that builds coal-blending facilities.
Trying to help utilities reduce those environmentally and financially costly emissions, Petrocom has built a series of gray silos and red conveyor belts at Lianyungang port in northern China to dilute high-sulfur Chinese coal with low-sulfur imported coal.
Blackouts appear to be the worst in smaller towns like Yiyang here in Hunan, one of China's largest and most populous provinces. The power shortages are threatening to curb the explosive growth the province has experienced since the opening in late 2009 of a high-speed electric train link to prosperous Guangdong province to the south, which helped companies tap Hunan's cheaper land and labor force.
In rationing electricity, Hunan officials have given priority to big cities like Changsha, the provincial capital. Even there, though, industrial districts are blacked out one day in three.
In Yiyang, meanwhile, multiday blackouts have ruined a tiny restaurant run by Xu Zhanyun, 48, who now must cook meals over lumps of coal instead of his electric stove. ''I have so much food in my refrigerators that all went bad,'' he said.
There is running water only every other day because the pumping station requires electricity. And so he must haul water from a well -- as he did as a boy, before China's economy surged.
In other cities, factories require employees to work at odd hours when electricity is available.
''They shut down the electricity for a day every three days,'' said Jin Jianping, manager of an umbrella factory in Ningbo, in east-central China. ''We just arrange night shifts for everyone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Lianyungang, China, a pipeline moves raw coal. Coal plants produce three-fourths of the nation's total generating capacity. (B1)
A bucket wheel stacker reclaimer at a coal yard in Lianyungang, China. Utilities say they face financial ruin if the government continues to limit the prices they can charge customers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DU BIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHARTS: China's Power Picture: Still burning coal: While China leads the world in building wind turbines, it remains extremely reliant on coal.
Buying abroad: China has gone from the world's largest coal exporter to the largest importer, but imports have lagged since February as power companies balk at high coal prices.
Turning on the lights: Electricity consumption has soared in China, although usage per person is still only a quarter of American levels.
Staying cool: The typical urban household in China already has at least one air conditioner, and now farm families are buying them as well, helping to push up residential electricity use. (Sources: China Electricity Council via CEIC Data
U.S. Department of Energy
China National Bureau of Statistics via CEIC Data
GCIS China (2010 air-conditioner estimate))
 MAP: China's energy debate includes Yiyang and Changsha. (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (92%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); COAL PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); COAL MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); COAL INDUSTRY (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%)

COMPANY: CHINA POWER INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (59%)

TICKER: 2380 (HKSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); HUNAN, CHINA (90%); HENAN, CHINA (89%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



806 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: States Collect More Taxes, But Troubles Remain

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
States had strong growth in tax collections during the first quarter of the year, but still collected less money than they did before the recession began, according to preliminary data released Tuesday by the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government. 
Over all, states collected 9.1 percent more in taxes from January through March than they did during the same period last year, the institute found. The gains were widespread, with virtually every state reporting growth in tax collections. The biggest increase was in income tax collections, which rose 12.4 percent, a $6.7 billion gain.
The improved tax collections, which were better than many states had forecast, have helped ease the pressure on struggling states including California, Michigan, New Jersey, Ohio and Rhode Island as they tried to balance their budgets. But tax collections remain 3.1 percent lower than they were three years ago, according to the institute, the public policy research arm of the State University of New York.
Those tax levels combined with higher expenses and the end of federal stimulus money mean that many states still find themselves forced to cut spending or raise taxes to balance their budgets. The fragile nature of state finances was underscored this week by two court decisions: on Monday the Supreme Court ordered California to ease the overcrowding in its prisons, and on Tuesday the New Jersey Supreme Court ordered Gov. Chris Christie to increase school aid by $500 million in the coming school year, saying that the state, which has made deep cuts in education spending, was failing to meet its constitutional obligation to provide adequate resources for poor and minority children.
The strong improvement in tax collections -- which have now been rising for more than a year, after more than a year of the steepest and longest decline on record -- was a rare bit of welcome news for states. In some states, it reflected the improving economy. California officials said that their higher collections were largely due to more income for the state's highest earners, who pay the highest tax rates. In Illinois, the 40.9 percent increase in income tax collections reflected a large income tax increase passed in January.
But serious long-term fiscal threats remain for many states.
Public pension funds continued to lose ground last year as struggling states and local governments made only 78 percent of the contributions that they owe the funds, according to a report released Tuesday by the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College. By one measure, the report found, the pension funds it studied had only 77 percent of the money they will need to cover the benefits they have promised retirees, while by another measure they have only 51 percent of what they will need.
With many states and localities not making their full annual payments, the report noted, ''the funded situation of state and local plans will deteriorate over time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); SUPREME COURTS (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



807 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: Demand for Office Condos Grows in Manhattan

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
When the Progressive Credit Union began negotiations to renew the lease for its 9,800-square-foot office near Penn Station in Manhattan, the landlord offered terms that would have more than doubled the rent, to $40 per square foot.
The credit union's treasurer and chief executive, Robert Familant, rejected the offer.
''It was 2009,'' Mr. Familant said, ''and in spite of what was supposed to be a very weak economy, we were offered what I thought was an average new lease at best.''
The landlord then offered a substantially lower rent -- but remeasured the office and common space, contending Progressive would have to pay for almost 12,000 square feet, effectively making the rent $38 a square foot. 
''I am told it is a common New York City commercial landlord strategy,'' Mr. Familant said. ''I'm thinking, 'If this is how a quality tenant is treated in a bad economy, we would be a lamb being led to slaughter in a good one.' ''
So Progressive decided to buy its own office space. The company paid $450 per square foot for a 15,000-square-foot office at 131 West 33rd Street, one of the few commercial buildings in Manhattan offering office condominiums.
''I became determined not to allow the company to be at a landlord's mercy in the future,'' Mr. Familant said. ''It's only been 18 months since we bought, and less than a year since we moved in, but so far we are very happy with the decision we made.''
Office co-ops and condominiums began appearing in New York in the late 1970s. Since then, it has remained a niche market, representing only about 2 percent of the 500 million square feet of office space in Manhattan, said Michael Rudder, a principal of the commercial real estate brokerage Rudder Property Group, which specializes in office condominiums.
Before the real estate slump of 2008, office condominiums accounted for almost $400 million in Manhattan sales annually, Mr. Rudder said. Those sales were cut in half by the economic crisis.
Recently, however, several office condominiums have been built, converted from other uses or proposed in Manhattan in response to an increase in demand from various market sectors, Mr. Rudder said.
''Much like all aspects of the commercial real estate market, I'd say the values of office condos went down about 40 percent'' after the market crash of 2008, he said. ''With that lower value, I think a greater variety of prospective purchasers have emerged.''
Office condominiums, which tend to be more popular in other American cities than in New York, are also the norm in most European and Asian markets, Mr. Rudder said. Thus, businesses from those countries opening branches in New York, and businesses with principals native to Asian countries, typically leap at the opportunity to buy, he said.
''Whether you're in Bombay or Beijing, if you're a business owner, and you have office space, you most likely own your space,'' he said. ''So when those businesses come to New York, when the opportunity to buy at a good price comes, it's a cultural desire to want to own.''
Youngwoo & Associates, a property developer in New York whose principal, Young S. Woo, is Korean, nodded to that cultural preference by creating commercial condominiums at 139 Centre Street, a nine-story building in Chinatown. The units have been on the market for a little more than two years, and only seven of 144 office condos and two of 10 retail condos remain unsold, said Margarette Lee, a principal with Youngwoo.
Almost all the buyers are Chinese, Ms. Lee said. ''We kind of understand the Chinese culture,'' she said. ''Asians, especially Chinese people, love to own real estate, to give it to their sons and grandsons. It's important within the family.''
Most buyers were willing to pay $900 to $950 a square foot for the office condos, a relatively high price, Ms. Lee said.
''The Chinese buyers are willing to spend more money to own than to lease,'' she said. ''The whole concept is, if you lease it and pay rent, you're throwing money out, whereas if you make mortgage payments, at the end of the day, it's yours.''
Youngwoo & Associates, which also built the Chelsea Arts Tower at 545 West 25th Street, a commercial condominium building for the arts and fashion industries, would like to build another office condominium in Manhattan, or convert a building to one, Ms. Lee said.
Another reason that 139 Centre Street sold relatively quickly, even in the recession, is that owning offices has become popular with doctors, brokers said. More than 90 percent of 139 Centre Street is medical offices, Ms. Lee said.
Most doctors, who typically have high infrastructure costs associated with setting up their offices, do not want to be subject to a lease renewal every five or 10 years, Mr. Rudder said.
The International Gem Tower at 50 West 47th Street, which is also selling office condos, has attracted another niche market. Joseph Lipton, a partner in the 740,000-square-foot tower, which is under construction, said developers initially planned to lease offices, but the market downturn in 2008 scotched that idea.
''We realized construction costs would not have permitted us to rent in the new market environment at a number that would have given us a return,'' Mr. Lipton said. ''We would have been upside down.''
But recognizing the allure of office condominiums to businesses in the international diamond, gem and jewelry trade, the developers believed they could turn a profit with office sales, he said. Current asking prices are $1,000 a square foot, and the 20 floors released for sale in the 34-story tower are 60 percent under contract, Mr. Lipton said.
For Nikunj Parekh, the owner of Laxmi Diamond NY, buying a 2,200-square-foot office in the International Gem Tower, after leasing 1,500 square feet nearby, was a logical decision, largely based on a cultural preference.
''If I'm going to be in the business for a while, there's no point in paying rent when I can really build up equity in the longer run,'' Mr. Parekh said. ''I'd rather own it than rent it. That's what we are used to in our community and back in India.''
Many American businesses shy away from buying office space, believing ownership can hobble a growing business, but Mr. Parekh said he felt comfortable buying a little more space than he needed, to accommodate growth. ''I'm not doing manufacturing,'' he said. ''It's basically a sales office, so I'm hoping this will be enough for me for coming years.''
Since significant numbers of offices for purchase appeared in New York in the 1980s, perhaps their largest market has been nonprofit organizations buying for tax reasons, said David Lebenstein, a senior managing director and principal with the commercial real estate brokerage Cassidy Turley. Owning space also provides continuity for nonprofit groups, which can have fluctuating income and often risk being priced out of rental buildings, he said.
''Still, I'd say that of the 20 nonprofits that ask me for an analysis of buying versus leasing, about one of those 20 winds up buying,'' said Mr. Lebenstein, who specializes in nonprofit organizations. ''And that's probably appropriate. There are advantages and disadvantages to buying.''
The market for office condominiums could expand if changes in business accounting rules proposed by the Financial Accounting Standards Board are enacted, said Douglas P. Heller, a partner and condominium specialist with the law firm Herrick, Feinstein. Businesses would have to list their annual rent as an expense or liability, Mr. Heller said; rent is currently a footnote on their balance sheet. The companies would also list an office purchase as an expense or liability, but they would also record it as an asset, he said.
Mr. Lebenstein said that companies had been weighing the effects of such accounting changes, but also that the changes were still far from certain.
''A lot of people are expecting to see more corporate buyers of either large blocks of condo space or of entire buildings,'' he said. ''But that's a couple of years away, and it's more prediction than reality at this point.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert Familant, above, chief of Progressive Credit Union, bought an office at 131 West 33rd Street. Joseph Lipton, far left and Jeff Torkin, of Extell Development, which is building the International Gem Tower at 50 West 47th Street. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (67%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (67%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (60%); EXECUTIVES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



808 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Recession Slows Migration, Census Finds

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Domestic migration last year reached its lowest level since the government began tracking it in the 1940s, the Census Bureau said, as the lingering effects of the recession continued to curb Americans' mobility. 
About 10.5 million Americans changed counties from 2009 to 2010, or about 3.5 percent of the population, the lowest percentage since 1947, when the government first started tracking the numbers, according to census data released this week.
It was fewer than the 11 million who moved the previous year, and down by a third from the 15.8 million who moved from 2004 to 2005, when the economy was doing well.
The number caps a decade whose final years had steep declines in migration, as the recession and effects of the housing crisis continue to freeze Americans in place, said Kenneth Johnson, the senior demographer at the Carsey Institute at the University of New Hampshire.
Mobility tends to slow in times of economic hardship, like the Great Depression in the 1930s and the energy crisis in the 1970s.
But unlike in past recessions, when some areas like Texas and Florida that had traditionally had high population increases kept receiving migrants, the most recent recession touched all areas of the country, Mr. Johnson said. Florida registered a decline during the past decade for the first time since the 1940s.
''I expected it to tick back up this year, but that didn't happen,'' Mr. Johnson said of domestic migration, which measures the number of American citizens moving between counties.
Another barometer of economic vitality, immigration, which measures people moving into the United States from other countries, also declined. It was down by half from the 1.8 million who arrived from 2004 to 2005.
In all, about 37 million Americans moved from 2009 to 2010, including those who moved within the same county, according to the data, which came from an annual survey of about 100,000 households. That is about the same as the number who migrated in the previous year.
People who move between counties or states are less likely to do so for housing reasons than those moving shorter distances, Mr. Johnson said. Those going shorter distances represent about two-thirds of all movers.
About 4 out of 10 movers cited housing-related reasons. Another third said they had moved for family reasons, and about 16 percent said job reasons.
People with incomes below the poverty line were more likely to move than those just above it, according to the data.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (92%); RECESSION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); IMMIGRATION (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



809 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: New York City's Claim of a Census Undercount May Be Justified, Canvassing Finds

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS; Noah Rosenberg, Tim Stelloh and Rebecca White contributed reporting.

 BODY:
''We demand a recount,'' declared Assemblyman Rory I. Lancman, a Democrat from Queens.
The Brooklyn borough president, Marty Markowitz, pronounced himself ''flabbergasted.''
''The numbers are dead wrong,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, ''and it makes you wonder if the Census Bureau is living on a different planet.''
After learning that the population of Queens had increased by a mere 1,300 people in 10 years, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg proclaimed: ''As they say in Brooklyn: Fuhgeddaboudit!''
This crescendo of scorn was touched off by the Census Bureau's decennial verdict that though New York City's population reached a record high of 8,175,133 in 2010, the gain of 2 percent, or 166,855 people, since 2000 fell about 200,000 short of what the bureau itself had estimated. 
Public officials were incredulous that a city that lures tens of thousands of immigrants each year and where a forest of new buildings has sprouted could really have recorded such a puny increase.
How, they wondered, could Queens have grown by only one-tenth of 1 percent since 2000? How, even with a surge in foreclosures, could the number of vacant apartments have soared by nearly 60 percent in Queens and by 66 percent in Brooklyn?
Now, an informal house-to-house New York Times survey of three representative square blocks where the Census Bureau said vacancies had increased and the population had declined since 2000 suggests that the city's outrage is somewhat justified. In those blocks alone, census takers appear to have missed dozens of New Yorkers and to have overestimated the number of vacant apartments.
In Brooklyn, on a block near Ocean Parkway between Midwood and Gravesend, where the census said nearly half of the 148 homes were vacant, a resident said the only vacancies were in a new 33-unit apartment building that is partly occupied.
''There are not a lot of empty buildings,'' said another resident, Ralph Shamah. ''They're too expensive to be empty.''
On one block in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, the number of vacancies recorded by the Census Bureau far exceeds the number of unsold condominiums in a new apartment building. Superintendents of other nearby buildings say those had few vacant apartments when the census was conducted.
And on a block of two- and three-story homes in East Elmhurst, Queens, where the census recorded 26 fewer occupied apartments and 20 more vacant ones (defined as habitable but with no one living there) than a decade earlier, in 2000, a real estate agent said a one-family house had been illegally divided and had 14 residents -- evidence of demand for housing.
''The garbagemen have to work double because there's so much additional garbage,'' said the agent, Robert Butts.
The magnitude of any undercount is uncertain. The Times survey did not replicate the methods the Census Bureau uses, including mailing questionnaires and making up to five visits to addresses that have not returned the forms. As a last resort, a census worker will consult with a landlord or neighbors and make a best guess about whether a home is occupied.
Often, though, owners of illegally divided houses are reluctant to disclose the number of tenants, who tend to include people who are in the country illegally and are leery of providing any information to the government. A visit from Times reporters may have proved less intimidating to landlords and residents.
City officials say as many as 80,000 residents appear to have been systematically overlooked in crowded immigrant neighborhoods like East Elmhurst and Jackson Heights in Queens and Sunset Park, Bay Ridge and Bensonhurst in Brooklyn.
Classrooms in those neighborhoods are overcrowded and ''for rent'' signs are rare. Some demographers say the number of vacancies was not all that anomalous, given some overbuilding before the recession and a surge in foreclosures. But of 500 houses or apartments on the three blocks surveyed by The Times, only four were in foreclosure or had been seized by the mortgage holder, according to an analysis conducted at The Times's request by the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University.
Relying on earlier census surveys and evidence from the Postal Service and other sources, the city plans to formally ask the Census Bureau next month to review its findings. Census officials have acknowledged that a processing glitch is one possibility for any pattern of population declines and increased vacancies in specific neighborhoods.
At stake is more than just the city's wounded pride: federal aid is based on population.
''Why would so many units be there and be illegally subdivided if there was no demand for housing?'' said Joseph J. Salvo, director of the population division of the city's Planning Department, adding that the city had done ''extensive field research, work that is corroborated by local data sources on foreclosures, new construction and rents.''
In East Elmhurst, in the square block The Times canvassed, bordered by 99th and 100th Streets and 25th and 27th Avenues, the census concluded that the population had shrunk by 14 percent, from 516 to 446.
One census taker who not only lives in East Elmhurst, but was also assigned to make follow-up visits to neighborhood addresses to determine if they were occupied, acknowledged the challenges of trying to find people who do not necessarily want to be found.
''The ones that were illegal, people were uncomfortable giving information,'' said the census taker, Michael Williams. ''Even though I'd inform them that the information was confidential, they were afraid.''
''We did the best we could,'' he added.
Jeff Silverbush, a real estate agent in East Elmhurst, said: ''There are certain areas in Queens where half of the houses seem to be for sale. That's not the case there. You don't find a huge amount of empty houses around there.''
One woman who answered the door at a single-family home on 99th Street said she never returned her census questionnaire. ''I don't understand much English,'' said the 30-year-old woman, who did not want to give her name. In Brooklyn, off Ocean Parkway, a block of mostly one- and two-family homes bounded by East Second and Third Streets and Avenues O and P recorded an increase of 65 vacancies, to 70 from 5, and a decline in population of 57, to 283 from 340.
One reason for the increase in vacancies was the construction of the Venetian, a 33-apartment building on Avenue P that replaced a row of one- and two-family homes. Occupancy started early last year, and the ornate building is still about one-third vacant. But that would account for fewer than half of the vacancies recorded by the Census Bureau on the block, which is home mostly to immigrants from Russia and Syria.
''You want to see a vacant building?'' said Jacob Cohen, 25, who has lived with his wife on East Third Street for two years. ''That's a vacant building,'' he said, pointing toward the Venetian. ''That's the only one.''
Nearby, in Sheepshead Bay, the block bounded by Coyle and Bragg Streets and Shore Parkway and Emmons Avenue registered an increase in vacancies to 52 from 2 and a loss of 153 residents, from 547 to 394.
Among the mostly two- and three-story homes are two seven-story apartment houses that contain about 150 apartments, only a few of which were vacant in April 2010. At 3165 Emmons Avenue, a new 43-apartment condominium named Bay Breeze is now nearly half-full.
Theresa Scavo, the chairwoman of Community Board 15, doubted that the block had lost more than 150 people since 2000 and suggested instead that many of the Russian immigrants who moved to the neighborhood in recent years had not filled out forms or answered the door when census takers visited.
''How do you get a decrease in population,'' she said, ''when 10 years ago the buildings were not as crowded?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Part of a block on East Second Street in Brooklyn where the census listed 70 vacancies. Residents wonder where they are. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PICTOMETRY) GRAPHICS: A Block in Brooklyn: Exodus or Undercount? The 2010 census said occupied housing on this block in Ocean Parkway dropped by 20 percent since 2000, and the population declined. But there is little evidence of vacancy on this thriving block. (Sources: propertyshark.com
U.S. Census
New York City Real Property Assessment Database
 New York City Department of Buildings) (GRAPHICS BY FORD FESSENDEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (95%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); FORECLOSURE (66%); CONDOMINIUMS (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (92%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



810 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler Pays Back Rescue Loan

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Chrysler paid back on Tuesday $7.6 billion in loans from the American and Canadian governments, paving the way for its Italian partner, Fiat, to increase its control over the Detroit carmaker.
The repayment of loans and interest owed to the United States Treasury and Export Development Canada is a significant milestone in Chrysler's methodical comeback from bankruptcy in 2009.
Now the company's revival will enter a new phase that depends heavily on its alliance with Fiat, which on Tuesday increased its stake in Chrysler to 46 percent, from 30 percent. 
Fiat will most likely increase its ownership to 51 percent by the end of the year. Terms of Chrysler's federal bailout allow the Italian company to gain an additional 5 percent interest when a prototype of a new fuel-efficient compact car is ready for production in the United States.
Sergio Marchionne, who is chief executive of both auto companies, said the new car should be completed by December and would be produced beginning next year at a Chrysler plant in Illinois.
''It's my intention for us to have the car ready by the fourth quarter,'' Mr. Marchionne said at a ceremony marking the loan repayments.
Mr. Marchionne was joined at the event by Ron A. Bloom and Brian Deese, two members of the auto task force that was assembled by President Obama to shepherd Chrysler and General Motors through bankruptcy reorganization with taxpayer aid.
Many people in the auto industry were skeptical that Chrysler could survive even after its financial bailout.
But at the ceremony held at a Chrysler plant outside Detroit, Mr. Marchionne said the company had defied the odds by turning out new, improved products that are being sold at a profit.
''We have collectively found the strength to fight against this death sentence placed on our company from the very beginning,'' Mr. Marchionne said to the cheers of hundreds of workers at the plant in Sterling Heights, Mich.
Mr. Marchionne made his remarks in front of a red, white and blue sign that said ''PAID'' in huge letters. Retiring its government loans will not only save Chrysler an estimated $350 million a year in interest payments, but it should also bolster its image in the eyes of American consumers.
''The loans are no longer a negative in the marketplace,'' said Rebecca Lindland, an analyst with the research firm IHS Automotive. ''It also frees up more cash for them to build a better product.''
Chrysler was able to repay the loans because it had negotiated new financing with a consortium of investment banks that includes a term loan of $3 billion, debt securities totaling $3.2 billion and a revolving credit facility of $1.3 billion.
The loan repayment was also helped by funds from Fiat, which paid Chrysler $1.3 billion to increase its stake to 46 percent.
Chrysler was not obligated to pay back its United States loans until 2017. In a statement, President Obama said that the early repayment was further proof that government intervention in Detroit's troubles was a prudent decision.
''While there is more work to be done, we are starting to see stronger sales, additional shifts at plants and signs of strength in the auto industry and our economy,'' the president said.
Mr. Bloom, who is now the president's special assistant on manufacturing policy, said Chrysler's comeback had happened ''more quickly than we had hoped.''
The Treasury Department still holds a 6.6 percent stake in Chrysler, which it could begin selling when Chrysler holds a public stock offering.
Mr. Marchionne said he was committed to the stock offering, but had not yet set a timetable.
Mr. Bloom said the government would be ''opportunistic'' in divesting itself of its shares but declined to predict a time frame.
With the loan repayments behind it, Chrysler can now concentrate on maintaining its slow but steady resurgence in the marketplace.
Sales at Chrysler rose 22.5 percent through the first four months of this year, compared with a 19.6 percent increase for the overall American market. Much of the gains have resulted from new models like revamped versions of the Jeep Grand Cherokee sport utility vehicle and Chrysler 300 sedan.
But for the longer term, Chrysler needs more competitive small and midsize cars based on Fiat technology to broaden its product mix.
''Chrysler's alliance with Fiat is crucial to its survival,'' said Bruce Clark, a senior vice president at Moody's Investors Service. ''The union is vital to rebuilding Chrysler's product portfolio and sustaining its business model.''
One worker at Tuesday's ceremony said Chrysler's Italian partner was so far doing a much better job integrating with the company than one of its previous owners, the German carmaker Daimler.
''There's just a whole different feeling to it,'' said Russell Bell, an electrician who has worked for Chrysler since 1973. ''Fiat coming in was probably the lifeline that we needed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sergio Marchionne, right, Chrysler's chief, and Ron Bloom, of the task force, at the Sterling Heights, Mich., plant on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); FACTORY WORKERS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (63%); INVESTMENT BANKING (60%); EXPORT TRADE (57%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FIAT SPA (92%); EXPORT DEVELOPMENT CANADA (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (89%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



811 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: The G-8's Self-Serving Math

 BODY:
The final communiques haven't been written. But the word on the street is that when leaders of the Group of 8 industrialized countries meet in France this week, they will claim that wealthy countries have come close to fulfilling their 2005 promise to boost annual development aid by $50 billion by 2010. They are not even in the ballpark. 
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which keeps track of aid flows, said aid from rich nations in 2010 was $19 billion short of the promises made at the G-8 summit meeting in Gleneagles, Scotland, six years ago. Aid to Africa came in $14.5 billion short.
Yet the G-8 seems determined to fudge the numbers rather than admit to a broken promise. The accountability report published on the G-8 Web site last week inflates the aid figure by not accounting for the fact that a dollar today is worth much less than it was when the promise was made. By this accounting, annual aid from wealthy countries came about $1 billion short.
According to the OECD, most European donors have also failed to hit their pledge to increase aid to 0.51 percent of gross national income. Italy delivered only 0.15 percent; Germany only 0.38 percent. The United States looks better mainly because it didn't make such a commitment. Last year, American aid amounted to only 0.21 percent of G.N.I. It was, however, one of very few countries that made good on its promise to double aid to Africa.
It is disheartening to know how low a priority the wealthy countries still put on development in the poor world. What's more, the sleight of hand by the G-8 is unlikely to inspire much confidence in future promises. The only good news, we suppose, is that the impulse to fudge the numbers suggests the leaders of the rich world do have some shame. It would be better if they told the truth and then made good on their commitments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (94%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (88%); SCOTLAND (71%); GERMANY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



812 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Vote on Debt Is Planned But Criticized as a Stunt

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- House Republicans said Tuesday that they would allow a vote next week on an increase in the federal debt ceiling with no strings attached, in order to see it defeated and show Democrats that no increase in federal borrowing authority can be enacted without significant spending cuts.
At the same time, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said bipartisan talks among Congressional leaders over a fiscal package that could clear the way for an increase in the debt ceiling were now focused on getting at least $1 trillion in savings, though he said new revenue would have to be part of any bargain. 
''I think we're in position where we'll be able to get well above $1 trillion pretty quick,'' Mr. Biden told reporters after an afternoon session with lawmakers.
Republicans said the decision to proceed on a debt-ceiling showdown came after repeated calls by the White House, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and other Democrats for a straightforward vote to reassure the financial markets that political sparring over the nation's financial health would not prevent the country from making good on its debts.
Representative Dave Camp, the Michigan Republican who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, introduced the measure that would increase the current limit of $14.3 trillion by $2.4 trillion, even though Mr. Camp said he had no intention of voting for his own bill.
''The legislation I filed today will allow the House to reject a clean increase in the debt limit, proving to the American people, the financial markets and the administration that we are serious about tackling our debt and deficit problems,'' Mr. Camp said in a statement.
Calling the vote a stunt, leading Democrats said that having a debt-ceiling vote that was intended to fail was irresponsible and could rattle an already anxious financial community.
''My personal feeling is I think it sends a terrible message to the international community,'' said Senator Harry Reid, the Nevada Democrat who is majority leader.
The Republican push comes even though the White House and Congressional Democratic leaders effectively gave up their call for a ''clean'' debt-ceiling measure last month, when President Obama initiated the Biden talks to negotiate a long-term debt-reduction plan that Congress could vote on at the same time as the measure to increase the debt limit.
''Serious discussions are already under way on how to reach agreement on significant deficit reduction,'' said Amy Brundage, a White House spokeswoman, ''and all responsible leaders from both parties agree that we need to extend the debt limit. That is important so that the U.S. can live up to obligations for debts the country has already incurred and so that we do not run the risk of plunging the economy into another recession.''
Mr. Biden and six Congressional leaders met for almost three hours Tuesday in the Capitol, focusing mainly on reductions in the cost of health care.
Although Democrats oppose the House Republican plan to subsidize future retirees in private health care plans, party leaders say some changes in Medicare could be made.
''I have said it over and over again, everything needs to be on the table,'' said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 Democrat. ''Medicare is one of the things that needs to be on the table.''
Some Democrats worry that a deal that makes any significant changes could blunt the political edge Democrats have gained by stirring opposition to the proposal by Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the Budget Committee.
Republicans disputed the idea that the markets would react badly to the House vote. They noted that votes to raise the debt limit have failed at least nine times in Congress since 1975 without causing a financial calamity, though in most of those cases the increase was approved soon after the defeat.
''If Senator Reid is angry, he should call up Secretary Geithner and the 110-plus House Democrats who have demanded a vote on the clean debt extension and express his displeasure,'' said Brad Dayspring, a spokesman for Representative Eric Cantor, the Virginia Republican and House majority leader.
While Democrats were complaining about House Republicans' forcing a vote on a measure they know will not pass, they were moving ahead with their own plans to require Senate Republicans to vote on a Republican budget certain to fail.
Mr. Reid said he intended to bring to the floor this week the House-passed budget that includes the contentious plan to overhaul Medicare, because it had ''quickly become the defining principle of the Republican Party.''
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said Mr. Reid was playing politics while the serious budget negotiations were taking place under the leadership of Mr. Biden.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, said a vote on the debt ceiling that is intended to fail ''sends a terrible message.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: DAVE CAMP (78%); JOE BIDEN (77%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HARRY REID (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



813 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Hearing Over a Consumer Bureau Descends Into Sharp Accusations

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A House committee hearing on Tuesday about the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau disintegrated into heated accusations of lying, with the panel's chairman accusing Elizabeth Warren of giving misleading testimony at a hearing in March and of making up facts about her agreement to testify this week.
Representative Patrick T. McHenry, a North Carolina Republican who is chairman of a subcommittee of the House oversight committee, told Ms. Warren, who is directing the start of the consumer agency, that he believed she had misled Congress about her role in settlement talks between government authorities and mortgage servicing companies. 
Ms. Warren denied Mr. McHenry's accusation, saying that she clearly stated in March that she had provided advice to officials of the Treasury and Justice Departments about their investigations of fraud among mortgage-servicing companies and about their settlement discussions with the companies.
The argument was a rare collapse of the decorum that usually pervades discussions among even the most fervent opponents on Capitol Hill. It demonstrated the level of frustration some Republicans apparently have over the consumer agency, its leadership and its authority as established by the Dodd-Frank Act that followed the financial and mortgage crisis.
After an hour in which Ms. Warren repeatedly parried efforts by Mr. McHenry and other Republicans to pin her down with ''yes or no'' answers to questions about her March testimony -- and about the bureau's powers and responsibilities -- Mr. McHenry abruptly moved for a temporarily recess so lawmakers could attend a floor vote.
Ms. Warren objected, saying that she had agreed to be present for only an hour and had no more time. Mr. McHenry disagreed and said that other subcommittee members still had questions for her.
A vigorous back and forth ensued.
''Congressman, you are causing problems,'' Ms. Warren said. ''We had an agreement.''
''You're making this up,'' Mr. McHenry replied, eliciting gasps from the audience. ''This is not the case.''
As Mr. McHenry and Ms. Warren traded accusations, a senior Democrat, Representative Elijah Cummings of Maryland, tried to smooth things over. ''Mr. Chairman,'' he said, ''I'm trying to be cordial here -- you just accused the lady of lying. You need to clear this up with your staff.''
Mr. McHenry did not back down. After the meeting broke, he said in a statement: ''I was shocked by Ms. Warren's blatant sense of entitlement. She was apparently under the assumption that she could dictate a one-hour time limit for her testimony to Congress, and that we were there at her behest instead of the other way around. This is just further example of her disregard for Congressional oversight.''
The hearing was intended to address how much supervision Congress should require for the agency. Republicans have introduced bills to eliminate some of the bureau's independence; for example, the bureau is not subject to Congressional appropriations. A group of 44 Republican senators recently signed a letter saying they would not allow a director of the agency to be confirmed unless the Obama administration agreed to structural changes in the agency.
Faced with strong opposition to Ms. Warren, a Harvard professor, President Obama has not nominated her to lead the new bureau. In fact, officials in the Democratic Party are trying to pressure her to return to Massachusetts to run for the United States Senate in 2012.
While there were some questions about oversight, Ms. Warren apparently came to the hearing expecting a hostile reception on other topics. On Tuesday morning, hours before the afternoon hearing, Mr. McHenry said on CNBC that he believed she had lied to Congress.
''I question the veracity of her former testimony in relation to the reality that we now see,'' he said, referring to documents indicating that the consumer bureau had advised the Iowa attorney general on the terms of a possible settlement between federal and state regulators and mortgage servicing companies.
Asked by the CNBC correspondent if that meant she had been lying when she said she was only an adviser, Mr. McHenry replied, ''Sure.''
During the hearing, Mr. McHenry displayed the documents, which he said indicated that Ms. Warren's involvement extended outside her designated role as an adviser to the president and the Treasury secretary to set up the new consumer bureau.
''You said you were providing advice to the Treasury secretary,'' Mr. McHenry said. ''Now it is apparent that you were providing advice to the attorney general of Iowa,'' regarding lawsuits against mortgage servicers.
Ms. Warren said she provided advice to state and federal agencies at the direction of the Treasury secretary, adding that she had been open about her meetings and involvement in the talks. She said she had provided that information two months ago in response to a letter from House members and had heard nothing back since then.
Those exchanges led a Democrat on the subcommittee to apologize ''for the rude and disrespectful behavior of the chair.'' Representative John Yarmuth, a Kentucky Democrat, said to Ms. Warren that Mr. McHenry's accusation ''indicates to me that this hearing is all about you, because people are afraid of you and your ability to communicate in very clear terms the threats to our consumers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Elizabeth Warren, who is directing the start of a consumer bureau, at Tuesday's hearing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) (B1)
 Representative Patrick T. McHenry told Elizabeth Warren that he believed she had given misleading testimony to Congress. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (84%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (93%); PATRICK T MCHENRY (89%); ELIJAH E CUMMINGS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



814 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Top Colleges, Largely For the Elite

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com; twitter.com/DLeonhardt

 BODY:
The last four presidents of the United States each attended a highly selective college. All nine Supreme Court justices did, too, as did the chief executives of General Electric (Dartmouth), Goldman Sachs (Harvard), Wal-Mart (Georgia Tech), Exxon Mobil (Texas) and Google (Michigan).
Like it or not, these colleges have outsize influence on American society. So their admissions policies don't matter just to high school seniors; they're a matter of national interest.
More than seven years ago, a 44-year-old political scientist named Anthony Marx became the president of Amherst College, in western Massachusetts, and set out to change its admissions policies. Mr. Marx argued that elite colleges were neither as good nor as meritocratic as they could be, because they mostly overlooked lower-income students. 
For all of the other ways that top colleges had become diverse, their student bodies remained shockingly affluent. At the University of Michigan, more entering freshmen in 2003 came from families earning at least $200,000 a year than came from the entire bottom half of the income distribution. At some private colleges, the numbers were even more extreme.
In his 2003 inaugural address, Mr. Marx -- quoting from a speech President John F. Kennedy had given at Amherst -- asked, ''What good is a private college unless it is serving a great national purpose?''
On Sunday, Mr. Marx presided over his final Amherst graduation. This summer, he will become head of the New York Public Library. And he can point to some impressive successes at Amherst.
More than 22 percent of students now receive federal Pell Grants (a rough approximation of how many are in the bottom half of the nation's income distribution). In 2005, only 13 percent did. Over the same period, other elite colleges have also been doing more to recruit low- and middle-income students, and they have made some progress.
It is tempting, then, to point to all these changes and proclaim that elite higher education is at long last a meritocracy. But Mr. Marx doesn't buy it. If anything, he worries, the progress has the potential to distract people from how troubling the situation remains.
When we spoke recently, he mentioned a Georgetown University study of the class of 2010 at the country's 193 most selective colleges. As entering freshmen, only 15 percent of students came from the bottom half of the income distribution. Sixty-seven percent came from the highest-earning fourth of the distribution. These statistics mean that on many campuses affluent students outnumber middle-class students.
''We claim to be part of the American dream and of a system based on merit and opportunity and talent,'' Mr. Marx says. ''Yet if at the top places, two-thirds of the students come from the top quartile and only 5 percent come from the bottom quartile, then we are actually part of the problem of the growing economic divide rather than part of the solution.''
I think Amherst has created a model for attracting talented low- and middle-income students that other colleges can copy. It borrows, in part, from the University of California, which is by far the most economically diverse top university system in the country. But before we get to the details, I want to address a question that often comes up in this discussion:
Does more economic diversity necessarily mean lower admissions standards?
No, it does not.
The truth is that many of the most capable low- and middle-income students attend community colleges or less selective four-year colleges close to their home. Doing so makes them less likely to graduate from college at all, research has shown. Incredibly, only 44 percent of low-income high school seniors with high standardized test scores enroll in a four-year college, according to a Century Foundation report -- compared with about 50 percent of high-income seniors who have average test scores.
''The extent of wasted human capital,'' wrote the report's authors, Anthony P. Carnevale and Jeff Strohl, ''is phenomenal.''
This comparison understates the problem, too, because SAT scores are hardly a pure measure of merit. Well-off students often receive SAT coaching and take the test more than once, Mr. Marx notes, and top colleges reward them for doing both. Colleges also reward students for overseas travel and elaborate community service projects. ''Colleges don't recognize, in the same way, if you work at the neighborhood 7-Eleven to support your family,'' he adds.
Several years ago, William Bowen, a former president of Princeton, and two other researchers found that top colleges gave no admissions advantage to low-income students, despite claims to the contrary. Children of alumni received an advantage. Minorities (except Asians) and athletes received an even bigger advantage. But all else equal, a low-income applicant was no more likely to get in than a high-income applicant with the same SAT score. It's pretty hard to call that meritocracy.
Amherst has shown that building a better meritocracy is possible, by doing, as Mr. Marx says, ''everything we can think of.''
The effort starts with financial aid. The college has devoted more of its resources to aid, even if the dining halls don't end up being as fancy as those at rival colleges. Outright grants have replaced most loans, not just for poor students but for middle-class ones. The college has started a scholarship for low-income foreign students, who don't qualify for Pell Grants. And Amherst officials visit high schools they had never visited before to spread the word.
The college has also started using its transfer program mostly to admit community college students. This step may be the single easiest way for a college to become more meritocratic. It's one reason the University of California campuses in Berkeley, Los Angeles and San Diego are so much more diverse than other top colleges.
Many community colleges have horrifically high dropout rates, but the students who succeed there are often inspiring. They include war veterans, single parents and immigrants who have managed to overcome the odds. At Amherst this year, 62 percent of transfer students came from a community college.
Finally, Mr. Marx says Amherst does put a thumb on the scale to give poor students more credit for a given SAT score. Not everyone will love that policy. ''Spots at these places are precious,'' he notes. But I find it tough to argue that a 1,300 score for most graduates of Phillips Exeter Academy -- or most children of Amherst alumni -- is as impressive as a 1,250 for someone from McDowell County, W.Va., or the South Bronx.
The result of these changes is that Amherst has a much higher share of low-income students than almost any other elite college. By itself, of course, Amherst is not big enough to influence the American economy. But its policies could affect the economy if more colleges adopted them.
The United States no longer leads the world in educational attainment, partly because so few low-income students -- and surprisingly few middle-income students -- graduate from four-year colleges. Getting more of these students into the best colleges would make a difference. Many higher-income students would still graduate from college, even if they went to a less elite one. A more educated population, in turn, would probably lift economic growth.
The Amherst model does cost money. And it would be difficult to maintain if Congress cuts the Pell budget, as some members have proposed. But when you add everything up, I think the model isn't only the fairest one and the right one for the economy. It's also the best one for the colleges themselves. Attracting the best of the best -- not just the best of the affluent -- and letting them learn from one another is the whole point of a place like Amherst.
''We did this for educational reasons,'' Mr. Marx says. ''We aim to be the most diverse college in the country -- and the most selective.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anthony Marx presided over his final graduation at Amherst College on Sunday. He led big gains in diversity at Amherst. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAMUEL A. MASINTER/AMHERST COLLEGE) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (87%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (63%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); GOOGLE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



815 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
international
VOLCANIC ASH FORCES
MANY FLIGHT CANCELLATIONS
Airlines canceled about 500 European flights as the ash cloud from the Grimsvotn volcano in Iceland drifted into northern Britain and Ireland. A senior European official predicted that the disruption would not reach the scale of a year ago, when millions of travelers were inconvenienced. PAGE A12
SUDANESE OFFICIAL RESIGNS 
A top Sudanese minister resigned in protest over the northern Sudanese military assault on the border town of Abyei, as worrisome signs emerged that the area was descending into chaos. PAGE A4
OIL EXECUTIVE LOSES APPEAL
Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, a former billionaire whose prosecution by the Russian government has come to symbolize the country's legal failings, lost an appeal to overturn a second conviction. PAGE A5
GATES CITES IRAN ON TIMING
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said that if some American troops remained in Iraq beyond the scheduled withdrawal of all United States forces by the end of the year, it would be reassuring to Persian Gulf countries, but not to Iran. ''And that's a good thing,'' Mr. Gates said. PAGE A6
GENDER SELECTION IN INDIA
India's increasing wealth and improving literacy are apparently contributing to a national crisis of ''missing girls,'' with the number of sex-selective abortions up sharply among more affluent and educated families during the past two decades, according to a new study. PAGE A11
national
HOPES RISE IN SOUTH
AS WATERS DO NOT
When the Morganza spillway was opened to divert Mississippi River water to reduce pressure on levees downstream, many braced for the worst. Flood-estimate maps appear to have been a bit pessimistic. But the promising outlook does not mean that all is clear. PAGE A15
'CICADA YEAR' UNDER WAY
This is a ''cicada year.'' Every 13 years, little black bugs with beady red eyes and wings plague the South like clockwork. Since last month, they have been emerging by the millions -- some scientists say billions -- in 15 states. PAGE A13
STATES COLLECTED MORE TAXES
States had strong growth in tax collections during the first quarter of the year, but still collected less money than they did before the recession began, according to preliminary data released by the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government. PAGE A13
SUBPOENA ISSUED TO WRITER
Federal prosecutors are trying to force the author of a book on the C.I.A. to testify at a criminal trial about who leaked information to him. PAGE A14
new york
CITY UNDERCOUNTED,
NEW SURVEY SUGGESTS
Public officials were skeptical about the Census Bureau's report of a modest increase in New York City's population. A survey by The New York Times suggests that the city's disbelief may be justified. PAGE A20
business
DECORUM BREAKS DOWN
AT CONSUMER HEARING
A House committee hearing about the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau disintegrated into heated accusations of lying to Congress, with the panel's chairman accusing Elizabeth Warren of giving misleading testimony at a March hearing and of lying about her agreement to testify this week. PAGE B1
CHRYSLER REPAYS LOANS
Chrysler paid back $7.6 billion in loans from the American and Canadian governments, paving the way for its Italian partner Fiat to increase its control over the carmaker. PAGE B1
New Scrutiny for S.E.C. B3
Sports
N.B.A. UNION FILES
COMPLAINT TO LABOR BOARD
The legal maneuvering in the N.B.A.'s labor battle began in earnest , when the players union filed a complaint with the National Labor Relations Board, accusing league officials of failing to negotiate in good faith. The N.B.A. dismissed the complaint as having no merit and asserted that it has complied with federal labor laws. PAGE B12
Arts
THE HEALING POWER
OF FINE ART
The Art Healing Ministry, Alexander Melamid's most recent project, opens in SoHo and people can come in by appointment and be treated, by means of exposure to fine art, for a variety of physical and psychological ailments. PAGE C1
Dining
FASHIONING ARTISTRY
ON WHEELS
In a nondescript one-story factory in Brooklyn crowned with razor wire, Shanghai Stainless has fabricated trucks for some of the headliners of roaming specialty food. By all accounts, the company brings surprising artistry to the design of the stolid, lumbering food truck, and its success has been integral to the evolution of New York's nouveau mobile-dining phenomenon. PAGE D1
OP-ED
Thomas Friedman PAGE A23
Maureen Dowd PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLCANIC ASH CLOUDS (90%); 2010 ICELANDIC VOLCANO ERUPTION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); SUBPOENAS (89%); RIVERS (86%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); FLOODS & FLOODING (66%); RESEARCH REPORTS (66%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (66%); SCIENCE NEWS (64%); WRITERS (64%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (64%); CENSUS (63%); ABORTION (51%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) SUDAN (94%); ICELAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRELAND (92%); INDIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GULF STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



816 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Gift to N.Y.U. Will Expand Music-Business Program

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
The music executive Clive Davis is giving an additional $5 million gift to the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, allowing the expansion of the Clive Davis Department of Recorded Music into the Clive Davis Institute of Recorded Music, school officials announced Tuesday. The gift will make it possible for the school to recruit additional working professionals as faculty members, establish a generous scholarship fund, facilitate the recruitment of young talent from around the world and increase the number of students, university officials said in a statement. Two new programs will be created to bring in talented high school students. Future Music Moguls will be a free program for students in the New York City area, and the Summer High School Programs in Recorded Music will be open to students everywhere. 
With a $5 million gift from Mr. Davis in 2003, the Clive Davis Department of Recorded Music opened its doors. Its curriculum was designed to provide professional training for students seeking work in the music industry as creative entrepreneurs, with courses like ''The History of Def Jam'' and ''Branding.'' Twenty-eight students enrolled in the department when it opened, Richard Pierce, a spokesman for New York University said Tuesday. The expansion into an institute will allow the program to accept about 80 students, he said.
''The economy is in a downturn, and the music industry has always been one where you jump in by doing,'' Mr. Pierce said. ''We have seen this increase in the last few years where people who want to get into the music business first want to get an education. This is new for the music business and a big reason Mr. Davis gave the additional $5 million to expand the program.''
Mr. Davis, who graduated from N.Y.U. in 1953, has had a storied history in the music world. He has been president of Columbia Records and held top positions at Arista, J Records, BMG U.S. Label Group and was most recently the chief creative officer of Sony BMG. Bruce Springsteen, Jennifer Hudson, Billy Joel, Alicia Keys, Janis Joplin, Blood Sweat and Tears, Santana and Whitney Houston are among the artists he signed and helped develop. Mr. Davis has won four Grammy awards for producing albums and was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2001.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (93%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); CURRICULA (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%)

PERSON: WHITNEY HOUSTON (79%); BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (58%); ALICIA KEYS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



817 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: $1.3 Billion I.P.O. Surge For Yandex

BYLINE: By ANDREW KRAMER and EVELYN M. RUSLI

 BODY:
Shares of Yandex, a Russian search engine barely known in the United States, surged by more than 55 percent on Tuesday, signifying the latest multibillion-dollar technology offering and stoking the debate about whether this market has the makings of a bubble.
The debut of Yandex defied already lofty expectations, coming on the heels of the initial public offering of LinkedIn, the professional networking site whose shares more than doubled on their first day of trading. 
The Russian company, whose shares were priced as much as 25 percent higher than earlier estimates, raised $1.3 billion, the largest Internet offering in the United States since Google went public in 2004. The stock closed at $38.84 on Tuesday, up from $25 at its I.P.O.
''Yandex serves as yet another data point that we are at the start of a growth cycle for I.P.O.'s,'' said Paul Bard, the director of research for the I.P.O. advisory firm Renaissance Capital. ''Over all, investors have been starved for innovative, rapidly growing enterprises in new industries.''
But the strong demand - even fervor - for technology offerings is once again fanning concerns about market froth. In recent weeks, a number of multibillion-dollar Internet companies have enjoyed robust first-day pops like Yandex and LinkedIn, drawing unfavorable comparisons to the ill-fated dot-com boom.
Renren, called the Facebook of China, jumped 29 percent after its I.P.O. in early May. LinkedIn, which had recently traded in the secondary markets at an implied valuation of $2.5 billion, is now worth more than $8 billion.
As befitting a technology start-up, Yandex had scrappy beginnings. A Russian mathematician, Arkady Volozh, and geophysicist, Ilya Segalovich, founded the company in 1997, using an algorithm they invented to scan the Cyrillic script of the Russian Bible and classical literature.
The country's programmers have traditionally excelled at mathematically complex tasks like those involved in searches, tapping a rich tradition of scientific education in the Soviet Union.
The Yandex offering underscores the appeal of companies with a strong claim to a rapidly expanding sector - Internet advertising - in emerging economies that are projected to grow more swiftly than those of in the United States and Western Europe. Such companies are valued for knowing how to navigate the Web and the delicate politics of their home markets.
Investors have closely watched Yandex, based in Moscow, since the sharp rise in the value of the Chinese search engine Baidu, another regional challenger to Google. Baidu rose 354 percent on its first day of trading in August 2005, the biggest one-day pop since the dot-com bust, according to Renaissance Capital. Although shares slumped following the I.P.O., the company now trades at nearly $130, up from its offering price of $27.
The Russian Internet market is the second largest in Europe, after Germany, according to a report released on Friday by the Boston Consulting Group. The report estimated online commerce in the country will increase to 3.7 percent of the gross domestic product by 2015 from 1.9 percent in 2009, as broadband makes its way into the Russian provinces.
Yandex, which caters to the world's roughly 270 million Russian speakers, generates more searches in Russia than Google. It is also profitable, earning a net income of $134.3 million on revenue of $439.7 million last year.
''This is the Google of Russia,'' said Scott Sweet, a senior managing partner of I.P.O. Boutique. ''They are profitable, their growth is outstanding and they have over 60 percent market share.''
Still, the company faces significant political risk, as Yandex indicated in a regulatory filing. While President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia has often expressed desire to expand online commerce as an outlet for the country's rich scientific legacy, tight government control of political news could intensify as Internet use expands.
Just last month, a deputy director of the Federal Security Services, the successor agency to the K.G.B., said authorities were studying whether to ban sites like Skype or Google's G-mail that use encryption inaccessible to Russian law enforcement agencies.
A Russian government commission is expected to present its recommendations on how such sites might be closed later this year. Some interpretations of a 1993 law on encryption suggest these sites would be illegal if a Russian-based subsidiary charged for their services.
Yandex's founders originally planned an offering in 2008. But they delayed it after the onset of the global recession.
During that time, they negotiated the sale of a symbolic stake to a Russian state controlled bank, Sberbank, in an indication of the political risks of rising Internet use in Russia. Other co-owners of Yandex today include Tiger Global, an American investment firm; Baring Vostok, a Russian-focused fund; and the World Bank's International Finance Corporation.
''This is a demarcation point,'' for Russian Internet businesses, said Peter N. Loukianoff, a co-founder of Almaz Capital Partners, a venture capital firm and an early investor in Yandex. The listing, he said, signals a new phase of ''intellectual wealth creation in Russia,'' a country where most billionaires made their money on the privatization of oil fields and mines.
''Russia now has a Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak,'' he said of Mr. Volozh and Mr. Segalovich.
Yandex follows the $912 million offering last year of Mail.ru, a Russian Internet conglomerate that owns a minority stake in Facebook. In a sign of the country's growing prominence on the global scene, the chairman of the company, Yuri Milner, recently bought a $100 million home in Silicon Valley.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ilya Segalovich, center left and the chief technology of Yandex, and Arkady Volozh, center right, the chief executive, celebrated their market debut at Nasdaq in New York on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SEARCH ENGINES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (70%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (50%)

COMPANY: YANDEX NV (92%); LINKEDIN CORP (91%); GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: YNDX (NASDAQ) (92%); LNKD (NYSE) (91%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2011



818 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: 'Prepare Ye the Way of the Lord': 'Godspell' Revival Coming to Broadway

BYLINE: PATRICK HEALY


HIGHLIGHT: The revival, originally been aiming to open on Broadway in the summer of 2008, will be staged at Circle in the Square, with previews to begin on Oct. 13 and an opening night scheduled for Nov. 7.

 BODY:
"Godspell," the parable-driven musical based on the Gospel of Matthew that ran on various New York stages from 1971 to 1977, will be revived on Broadway for the first time this fall, the producers announced on Wednesday. The revival had originally been aiming to open on Broadway in the summer of 2008, but its financing plans did not come together, largely due to the approaching economic recession. The lead producer of the upcoming production, Ken Davenport, said on Wednesday that the musical would be staged at Broadway's only in-the-round theater, Circle in the Square. Preview performances of the open-ended run are scheduled to begin on Oct. 13, with an opening night of Nov. 7.
Daniel Goldstein will make his Broadway debut as director; among his previous credits are the 2007 Off Broadway musical "Walmartopia," and a production of "Godspell" at the Paper Mill Playhouse in 2006. The choreographer will be Christopher Gattelli, a Tony Award nominee for Lincoln Center Theater's revival of "South Pacific."
Mr. Davenport, in his announcement, listed "The People of Godspell" as his co-producer, a reference to investors who put in a minimum of $1,000 to capitalize the show; Mr. Davenport has referred to his financing strategy as Broadway's first attempt at a crowd-funded production.
The original "Godspell," which was conceived by John-Michael Tebelak and had music by Stephen Schwartz ("Wicked"), ran Off Broadway from 1971 to 1976, then on Broadway for 15 months and eventually became a staple for high school and college theater troupes.

        
New York City Opera Announces Its New Season
        
An iPhone App Has TKTS Information, but Not Its Endorsement
        
'Jerusalem' Gets Four-Week Extension on Broadway
        
Tony-Nominated Plays Reap Box-Office Benefits, and 'Spider-Man' Returns With a Bang
        
A Triple Bill by Woody Allen, Elaine May, Ethan Coen Heading to Broadway

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (93%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); MUSIC (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PAPER CONTAINER MFG (77%); CHOREOGRAPHY (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PAPER & PACKAGING (57%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (51%); CROWDSOURCING (50%) "Godspell"; Broadway; ken davenport; Stephen Schwartz; Theater; Godspell (Play); New York City

ORGANIZATION: PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



819 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Bill Allows Military to Use High-Carbon 'Liquid Coal'

BYLINE: JOHN COLLINS RUDOLF


HIGHLIGHT: Citing the military's own acknowledgement of climate change as a national security threat, critics call on Congress to reject the provision.

 BODY:
An amendment to a major military spending bill before the House would rescind a 2007 federal law barring the Defense Department from using alternative fuels, like synthetic oil made from coal, that produce more climate pollution than conventional fuels. A bill containing the amendment cleared the House Armed Services Committee earlier this month.
The military's annual consumption of about 120 million barrels of oil represents not only an enormous cost to the federal government but also a strategic risk resulting from the volatility of world oil markets, military analysts have said. The Defense Department currently has a target of obtaining 25 percent of its energy from renewable sources by 2025.
As a result of the 2007 law, authored by Democrats, a significant part of that effort is now focused on developing advanced biofuels like those made from algae with reduced carbon footprints. But the focus on biofuels has come under criticism by Republicans, who argue that the strategic imperative of reducing dependence on foreign oil outweighs the need to reduce the military's carbon dioxide emissions.
Were the provision barring high-carbon fuels eliminated, the Defense Department could renew its development of synthetic oil made from coal -- a process perfected by the German military during World War II when its access to oil reserves was blocked. The carbon dioxide emissions associated with coal-to-liquid fuel are roughly double those from conventional oil.
Citing the military's own acknowledgement of climate change as a national security threat, Daniel J. Weiss, director of climate strategy at the Center for American Progress, called for Congress to reject the provision allowing the procurement of high-emission alternative fuels.
"Congress should speed the development and deployment of significantly cleaner domestic biofuels instead of spending tax dollars on dirtier fuels that accelerate global warming, which will foster unrest in nations impacted by global warming," Mr. Weiss wrote in an essay.
Supporters of the provision, however, note that current law prohibits the Defense Department from purchasing crude produced from Canada's oil sands, potentially increasing fuel costs to the military -- and its reliance on more far-flung foreign suppliers. Crude from oil sands is more carbon-intensive than traditional oil, but only marginally so, studies have found.
"At a time when American forces are combating terrorists abroad, it is especially necessary for the Pentagon to have the versatility to secure and develop alternative sources of fuel from a friendly ally," Marty Durbin, vice president of the American Petroleum Institute, a lobbying group, said in a statement this month.
Earlier this year, the Defense Department's pursuit of experimental low-carbon biofuels was attacked as a waste of money in a report by the RAND Corporation.
That report was criticized by a top Navy official, who said it contained several misrepresentations and errors, including a failure to assess whether the military's enormous purchasing power could accelerate the development of affordable biofuels.
"We have come to some far different conclusions," Tom Hicks, deputy assistant secretary of the Navy for energy, said of the RAND report at a military conference in January.

        
U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Projected to Grow Slowly
        
Coal, Jobs and America's Energy Future
        
Less than 50 Years of Oil Left, HSBC Warns
        
On Our Radar: Don't Tear Down E.P.A., Former Agency Chiefs Urge
        
The Future of Algae Fuels Is ... When? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); BIOMASS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); NAVIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); OIL SANDS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); TERRORISM (60%) Biofuels; carbon-dioxide emissions; Coal; conventional fuels; Department of Defense; Navy; synthetic oil; Weiss, Daniel J; Air Pollution; Carbon Dioxide; Defense and Military Forces; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Law and Legislation; Oil Sands; United States Defense and Military Forces; Defense Department; Democratic Party; House of Representatives; Rand Corp; United States Navy; Business; Politics and Policy

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%) Defense Department; Democratic Party; House of Representatives; Rand Corp; United States Navy

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

PERSON: Weiss, Daniel J

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



820 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Derivatives Without Borders vs. Dodd-Frank

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Members of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission told a House panel that the Dodd-Frank Act was vague on how to handle restrictions on derivatives traded overseas.

 BODY:
The Dodd-Frank financial regulatory law spans nearly 1,000 pages -- but apparently not the United States border. 
Members of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the agency responsible for implementing dozens of Dodd-Frank's restrictions on derivatives trading, told lawmakers in Washington on Wednesday that the exact scope of the law is vague.
"This is an issue that has been the subject of much legal debate, but I think that we need to cut through that morass to provide some certainty to market participants who are concerned about what laws are going to apply to them," Bart Chilton, a Democratic commissioner at the C.F.T.C., told the House Agriculture Committee's panel on commodities and risk management. 
His comments echo larger complaints made by banks and other financial firms, which argue that the Dodd-Frank rules could push derivatives business and profits overseas. 
The Dodd-Frank Act says that new restrictions on proprietary trading and the derivatives business do not apply in foreign countries unless there's a "direct and significant connection with activities" in the United States.
It remains unclear how regulators will interpret that provision as they draw up the borders of the sweeping new regulations.
"The commission has not given the public any formal guidance on what this section means in practice," Jill E. Sommers, a Republican commissioner at the C.F.T.C., told the panel. "This has already created regulatory uncertainty for firms with global operations as they attempt to plan for the future."
Ms. Sommers also warned that European and Asian regulators have yet to complete -- or in some cases even propose -- rules that resemble Dodd-Frank. The law requires many derivatives contracts to be traded on regulated exchanges and run through clearinghouses, which act as a backstop in case one party defaults.
Under an agreement at the Group of 20 summit meeting in 2009, regulators across the world agreed to require clearing and exchange trading for derivatives. While the C.F.T.C. and the Securities and Exchange Commission plan to complete these rules later this year, international regulators plan to wait until the end of 2012. 
The European Commission, the European Union's executive body, has discussed proposals that largely mirror Dodd-Frank's requirements, but the regulators may take until 2012 or later to complete the plan. 
Ms. Sommers warned that the disparate time frames may hurt American businesses or encourage firms to skirt the Dodd-Frank by booking derivatives deals out of Frankfurt or London. 
The lag time "may shift business overseas as the cost of doing business in the U.S. increases and creates other opportunities for regulatory arbitrage," Ms. Sommers said. 
She also warned that some Dodd-Frank provisions would not match up with rules written by foreign regulators. The European Union, for instance, might exempt pension funds from mandatory clearing, she said. 
Mr. Chilton, however, played down any disagreements among regulators. 
"Of course, there are differences on some provisions of our respective laws, but the level of overall harmonization is substantial," he said, adding that the C.F.T.C. keeps in close touch with foreign regulators. 
The commission's staff exchanges daily e-mails with European Commission regulators and the two teams hold video conferences. Gary Gensler, the chairman of the commission, also traveled to Brussels twice in the last year or so to work on the derivatives proposals. 
But, as DealBook reported in April, the commission could not afford to send Mr. Gensler overseas. The Goldman Sachs alumnus paid his own way.

        
Derivatives Market Faces New Capital Rules
        
Republicans Assail Regulator on Costs of New Rules

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUTURES (94%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (93%); SECURITIES TRADING (93%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (92%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (92%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%) Bart Chilton; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Derivatives; Dodd-Frank Act; European Commission; European Union; Gary Gensler; Group of 20; House Agriculture Committee; Jill Sommers; Securities and Exchange Commission; Derivatives (Financial Instruments); Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection A; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) Commodity Futures Trading Commission

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (71%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



821 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Grading on a Partisan Curve

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The divide between liberal and conservative views on egalitarianism applies to more than just attitudes about the role of government. It appears to make a difference in academic grading, too, a new study finds.

 BODY:
The divide between liberals and conservatives applies to more than just attitudes about the role of government. It appears to make a difference in university grading, too.
A new study by Talia Bar and Asaf Zussman looked at patterns in how Republican and Democratic college professors graded students. It is based on a data set of grades, courses and SAT scores of 17,062 students at an unnamed "elite university." The researchers then determined the political affiliation of the professors assigning those grades, based on listings on local voter registration rolls (for the 511 professors who were registered with a party, anyway).
The authors were interested in whether Democrats professors gave out a more egalitarian distribution of grades, since liberals believe more strongly than conservatives "in the justification for governmental action to reduce inequality."
And their hunch appears to be right.
Here's a chart, taken from the paper, that shows the average grades given to students who had scored in a few different SAT ranges. The dashed line shows Republican professors' grades, and the solid line shows Democratic professors' grades:
As you can see, the grading distribution for Democratic professors is relatively flat, meaning there was little variety in grades assigned to students with different SAT scores. The Republican line is steeper, meaning that Republicans had more variance in their grading: They gave both more A's and more D's than Democrats did; Democrats tend to give a lot of B's.
From the paper:[T]he share of the lowest grades (F, D-, D, D+, and C-) out of the total is 6.2 percent in courses taught by Republican professors and only 4.0 percent in courses taught by Democratic professors; the share of the highest grade (A+) out the total is 8.0 percent in courses taught by Republican professors and only 3.5 percent in courses taught by Democratic professors. Both differences are highly statistically significant.The study's authors suggest that the egalitarianism, or lack thereof, shown by these two groups of professors may reflect their different worldviews.
There are some major caveats to this finding, including that the sample size for Republican professors was much smaller than that for Democratic professors. There are also many ways to interpret this difference in grading, including that students may actually perform differently in classes taught by a professor from one party versus the other.
In any case, I recommend checking out the paper, which is to be published by The American Economic Journal: Applied Economics. It also observes that black students receive significantly lower grades than white students when taking a course with a Republican professor as opposed to a Democratic one -- but again, the reasons are open to interpretation.

        
Are Young College Grads Too Lazy to Work?
        
Princeton and Harvard Reinstate Early Admissions
        
Grading College Athletes
        
What We're Reading: Educated Women, Fewer Children
        
What We're Reading: Stem Cell Tourism

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADES & GRADING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); GRADE INFLATION (78%); STATISTICS (76%); WRITERS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (73%) Colleges and Universities; grade inflation; inequality; politics; Grading of Students

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



822 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: A Plea to Elite Colleges for Socioeconomic Diversity

BYLINE: JACQUES STEINBERG


HIGHLIGHT: "Despite progress on diversity,'' David Leonhardt writes in Wednesday's Times, "campuses tilt to the affluent."

 BODY:
"For all of the other ways that top colleges had become diverse,'' David Leonhardt of The Times writes in his Economic Scene column today, "their student bodies remained shockingly affluent.'' In calling on universities to mount, in effect, a concerted affirmative action program for low-income students, Mr. Leonhardt writes: "At the University of Michigan, more entering freshmen in 2003 came from families earning at least $200,000 a year than came from the entire bottom half of the income distribution. At some private colleges, the numbers were even more extreme." As a template for the future, he points to Amherst College in Massachusetts, which, he said, has bolstered its enrollment of lower-income students by devoting more resources to financial aid and using its transfer program mostly to admit community college students.

        
Reacting to One College's Advice for Parents
        
A Sheaf of Rejections, But Still 'Fabulous'
        
Touring a College in the Rain, and Drawing Some Preliminary Conclusions
        
Student Bloggers Find an Unlikely Home, on Their College Web Sites
        
Rating Colleges by Their Contribution to the Social Good

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (87%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); FAMILY (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); PARENTING (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%) Amherst College; David Leonhardt; Admissions Buzz

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



823 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The New Old Age)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Unnecessary Colon Screenings for Elderly Patients

BYLINE: PAULA SPAN


HIGHLIGHT: Older patients are getting too many routine colonscopies, a new study finds.

 BODY:
Forgive me for sounding like a broken record, to use a highly retro phrase, but the evidence on overtesting and overtreatment of older adults keeps piling higher.
We've already learned that nearly 20 percent of elderly women with advanced dementia are subjected to pointless, disturbing mammograms. We've also learned that nursing home patients frequently take antibiotics (and the wrong kinds, and for too long) for suspected urinary tract infections, in direct contradiction of medical guidelines. Frail, older diabetics are pushed to maintain very low blood sugar levels even though they're unlikely to live long enough to benefit. All these treatments pose risks and can cause more harm than good when they're used on the wrong people.
Maybe we should institute an Older Americans Overtreatment of the Month award. Picking a winner might be a tough task, though.
The latest candidate: Everyone's favorite screening test, the colonoscopy, which allows doctors to spot and then remove growths called polyps that can evolve into colon cancer. Routine screening has probably contributed to the declining death rate from that disease, considered highly curable in its early stages, and it's still underused, particularly among minorities and the uninsured.
But colonoscopies are considerably overused among elderly patients, a new study suggests.
"This is truly mindless application of guidelines that were developed for 50-year-olds," said Dr. James Goodwin, a geriatrician at the University of Texas Medical Branch and lead author of the study, published this month in the Archives of Internal Medicine.
For years, the recommendations for screening colonoscopies (as opposed to those performed because of a specific symptom) have been virtually unanimous. Medical authorities agree that people over age 50 should have one. Patients with negative results and no subsequent symptoms or indications don't need another one for 10 years. "It takes a long time for polyps to evolve into cancer," Dr. Goodwin said.
But in the Texas researchers' sample -- more than 24,000 Medicare enrollees who had a negative colonoscopy between 2001 and 2003 -- more than 46 percent underwent a repeat colonoscopy in less than seven years. In fact, many of these tests took place after just three years or five. Yet in almost a quarter of all these repeat colonoscopies -- 23.5 percent -- the researchers, scrutinizing the medical records, could find no reason for performing them so soon.
Dr. Goodwin was especially troubled by the fact that a third of patients over age 80 when they had initial colonoscopies received another within seven years. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends no routine colon cancer screening for those aged 76 and older, and no screening at all for those over age 85.
Preparation for a colonoscopy, merely unpleasant for most of us, can take a steep physical toll on the very old. They can become incontinent, setting off a cycle of prescriptions for drugs to stop diarrhea and then constipation. The preparations can disrupt eating and sleep. "It can throw people off for a long time," Dr. Goodwin said.
"It would be a very bad idea for people with moderate dementia," he added, and that's a significant proportion of the 85-plus population. They may not understand the test's purpose or be able to comply with the prep directions. Even more to the point, people with dementia, a terminal disease, are unlikely to live long enough to benefit from colon cancer screening.
The researchers also found that older patients with three or more "co-morbidities" -- diseases such as heart failure, high blood pressure, chronic bronchitis, asthma -- had even higher rates of repeat colonoscopies without medical indications. "That's bizarre," Dr. Goodwin said. With multiple diseases, "you're less likely to live long enough to develop colon cancer. You should be less likely to be screened."
Fortunately, the rate of complications from colonoscopy is low: one Medicare patient in 1,000 requires hospitalization, and one in 10,000 dies. "It's a small number, which is dwarfed by the cancers you can prevent," Dr. Goodwin said. "But if you double the rate of screening, you double the complications and deaths, without any benefit to patients."
So why does this happen? At about $1,000 per procedure, there's clearly an economic incentive, Dr. Goodwin said. But patients and their families bear some responsibility as well. 
"We've done too good a job with some of these messages" urging tests for various diseases, he said. "Some of the demand comes from patients who don't understand that there's a cost to these things, and I don't mean the economic cost." But the expense is an outrage, too. Medicare supposedly only reimburses for screening colonoscopies every 10 years, but it only denied 2 percent of the claims in this study.
Overtesting and overtreating aren't merely expensive and unnecessary. "They're harmful," Dr. Goodwin said. "They hurt people. When that message gets out, I think we'll have more pushback from patients."
Noted. A key question for seniors and their caregivers to lob at doctors: What's the reason for this colonoscopy when routine screening isn't recommended for someone this age? (That is, a patient aged 76 or older.)
Sometimes, of course, there's a valid explanation. When there's not, said Dr. Goodwin, "Even if you had a rabid doctor who just loved to do colonoscopies, that question would give him pause."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SENIOR CITIZENS (94%); RESEARCH REPORTS (93%); AGING (92%); COLORECTAL CANCER (90%); ENDOSCOPY (90%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (90%); CANCER (89%); GERIATRICS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (77%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (77%); DEMENTIA (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (76%); ANTIBIOTICS (76%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (73%); MEDICAL RECORDS (73%); MEDICARE (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); URINARY TRACT DISORDERS (71%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (71%); INCONTINENCE (71%); DIABETES (71%); WRITERS (64%) overtreatment; prevention; screening; Colonoscopy; Elderly; Medicine and Health; Tests (Medical); Health Care

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



824 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Financial Lobbying and the Housing Crisis

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Banks used lobbying and political influence to gain larger assistance for their mortgage-lending problems, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago.
A new study finds a link between bailouts and the lobbying of the financial industry.
It is sometimes asserted that the housing boom of the first half of the last decade was largely a result of easy credit by the Federal Reserve - that low interest rates made it too easy for too many people to borrow to purchase a new, bigger home.
But interest rates were only a bit lower in the decade than they were in the 1990s, when there was not a housing boom. By the standards of the 1990s, one might expect the somewhat lower interest rates of the last decade to elevate housing prices only a bit (as I have estimated; Edward Glaeser of Harvard and his co-authors have, as well), rather than the much sharper increase that actually occurred.
It's also true that bank lending standards were relaxed during the housing boom, with risky borrowers allowed to purchase homes, and all kinds of borrowers allowed to purchase homes with little money down. But as Professor Glaeser has frequently noted, for instance in this post, the housing boom is not primary explained by easy credit.Even if interest rates and lending standards had been the same in the last decade as they were in the 1990s, however, a crisis might still have been brewing, because interest rates should have been higher during the housing boom than they were before.
Housing prices were elevated during the boom (in part for the reasons cited above) and, by comparison with the 1990s, this made it more likely that -- if and when housing prices came back down -- even high-income borrowers making 20 percent down payments would default. With default more likely, interest rates needed to be higher, even for high-income borrowers putting 20 percent down.
The new study, by Deniz Igan, Prachi Mishra, Thierry Tressel, three economists at the International Monetary Fund, suggests that implicit subsidies and a lack of regulation helped make it possible for lenders to offer lower rates on mortgages that were increasingly likely to default. My fellow Economix blogger Simon Johnson has also noted the interplay of political influence on regulation and finance.
The study by the I.M.F. economists found that the heaviest lobbying came from lenders making riskier loans and expanding their mortgage business most rapidly during the housing boom. The loans originated by those lenders were, by 2008, more likely to be delinquent.
Most important, lobbying meant access to tax dollars. The lenders lobbying more heavily were 7 percent more likely to receive bailout funds, received larger amounts of those funds, and enjoyed a 27 percent greater increase in their market capitalization in October 2008, the month the bailout program was announced.
The authors did not disentangle the path by which lobbying brought forth bailout funds, but it is likely to have followed some combination of political access enjoyed at the time and the lobbying lenders' assertions of need -- created by the lax lending that had gone before, itself facilitated by lobbying during the housing boom years.
Nobody knows for sure how much of the blame for the housing boom can be put on the federal government, but we're starting to see how political influence was associated with mortgage lending and, ultimately, with taxpayer subsidization of delinquent and defaulting mortgages.

        
When Regulators Side With the Industries They Regulate 
        
New Keynesian Economics Misses the Point, for Now
        
Big Banks Have a Powerful New Opponent
        
Battle of the Bank Policy Heavyweights
        
Is the New York Fed Making a Big Mistake? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); WRITERS (73%); BANKING LAW (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (60%) banking regulation; Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; financial crisis; housing prices; lobbying; Housing and Real Estate; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Subprime Mortgage Crisis

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



825 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Winding Down the Bailouts, and Trying Not to Lose Money

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: The Treasury Department still maintains significant stakes in a few rescued companies like A.I.G. and G.M., and it hopes to avoid losing money on them.

 BODY:
After months of planning, the federal government has sold the first batch of shares that it owns in the American International Group, the most prominent reminder of the wreckage of 2008.
But much hard work remains.
As the Treasury Department winds down its numerous bailout programs, it must still contend with disposing of its legacies of the financial crisis: big investments in rescued companies like A.I.G. and General Motors.
After Tuesday's $8.7 billion offering of A.I.G., Treasury still needs to sell more than 1.4 billion common shares, perhaps over the next two years or so. (In addition to an approximately 77 percent stake in A.I.G., it also owns about $11.3 billion in preferred shares.)
All told, Treasury still has $53 billion invested in A.I.G., while the Federal Reserve Bank of New York also has about $23.6 billion in loans to two A.I.G.-related investment vehicles.
And the Treasury Department also maintains significant stakes in other rescued companies. It currently owns about a 26 percent stake in G.M., down significantly after it raised $23.1 billion in a highly regarded initial stock offering. It also owns a 6.6 percent stake in Chrysler and a 74 percent stake in Ally Financial. 
Stock sales for Chrysler and Ally are in the offing; Ally's offering may take place as soon as the end of June. On Tuesday, Chrysler repaid $5.9 billion in loans to the Treasury Department as well.
So far, shares in the two companies in which the Treasury Department has already sold stock have declined. Shares in A.I.G. tumbled on Wednesday to a new low for the year, down 4 percent, to $28.28. That is below the Treasury Department's break-even price of $28.73. And shares in G.M. have fallen more than 8.5 percent since its November initial offering, closing on Wednesday at $31.27.
In the government's reckoning, it has done well so far. Treasury Department officials say that the goal of the various bailout initiatives, including the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program, was to prevent an economic collapse. Earning any sort of profit would essentially be gravy, they contend.
As of now, the federal government has already recouped nearly 73 percent of its total TARP disbursements through both repayments and interest. 
"Just two and a half years ago, our financial system was on the brink of collapse and a bipartisan effort was conceived to stabilize the market," Tim Massad, the acting assistant secretary for financial stability, said on Wednesday. "TARP fulfilled this mission and we've already been able to recover more than 75 percent of the taxpayers' money in a very short time. No one predicted this positive outcome."
Mr. Massad said in a conference call on Tuesday evening that the goal instead had been to maximize the value of those shares for taxpayers. The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, conceded in a speech last month that the auto bailouts, which totaled about $63 billion, were likely to lose money.
Setting the parameters of the bigger stock sales requires a delicate balance. The Treasury Department is seeking to fetch a price high enough to avoid locking in big losses. But it is also eager to shed its holdings, since officials say that their task is not to act like a hedge fund or private equity investor.
The companies have also stressed a strong desire to reduce government ownership, arguing that the overhang has deterred private shareholders from investing. 
"The more the government continues to own parts of these entities, the harder it is for these companies to get back to business as usual," Anant Sundaram, a professor at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth, said. "Getting the corporate governance at these enterprises to back to as normal as can be is highly important."
But several factors, many beyond the government's control, may make breaking even difficult. As the markets have grown more volatile in recent weeks, pulling off a successful public offering has become more difficult. 
Shares in A.I.G. had already fallen 49 percent this year before the re-I.P.O., requiring underwriters to walk a very fine line in finding a price acceptable to both Treasury and company officials and to potential incoming shareholders.
Compare that with G.M.'s offering, in which after months of frenzied meetings with investors, the federal government consented to both increasing the number of shares sold and their price. 
Times have changed since then. Though the government's lock-up period for selling G.M. shares expires soon, the Treasury Department is now likely to wait until mid-August or September to hold a secondary offering for the company's stock, people with knowledge of the matter said previously. At the initial public offering price of $33, Treasury must now sell the remainder of its shares at an average of $53 to break even.
Some observers give Treasury the benefit of the doubt, pointing to the difficulties that private investors have in similar situations. On Wednesday, Freescale Semiconductor, a chip maker owned by a consortium of leveraged buyout firms, priced its initial offering at the bottom of an already reduced range amid slumping investor demand.
"I definitely give Treasury a solid B-plus," Professor Sundaram said.

        
Treasury's Warrior at the Negotiating Table
        
Treasury Lawyer Replaces Feinberg as Pay Czar

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (94%); BAILOUTS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); COMMON STOCK (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PREFERRED STOCK (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (68%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) A.I.G.; Ally Financial; Chrysler; General Motors; TARP; Tim Massad; Treasury Department; Initial Public Offerings; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Ally Financial Inc; American International Group Inc; Chrysler LLC; American International Group Inc|AIG|NYSE; General Motors|GM|NYSE; Airlines/Autos; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1; Wall Street Bailout

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Ally Financial Inc; American International Group Inc; Chrysler LLC; General Motors; Treasury Department

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (57%) American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE; American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE; General Motors; GM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



826 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: New E.P.A. Window Stickers Make Debut

BYLINE: JONATHAN SCHULTZ


HIGHLIGHT: The labels contains new metrics intended to more accurately represent real-world fuel economy than the current E.P.A. stickers manage.

 BODY:
On Wednesday, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood unveiled a new window sticker that would be required for all 2013 model-year vehicles on dealer lots. The sticker revises the current version, which provides only basic information regarding the average fuel consumption of a vehicle.
In a first for the Environmental Protection Agency, the 2013 sticker includes a gallons-per-mile metric, whereby the estimated fuel consumption per 100 miles of combined city and highway driving is provided. Individual city, highway and combined m.p.g. metrics are retained on the sticker.
In another first, the E.P.A. designed unique stickers to suit different powertrains. The label for a purely electric vehicle, for example, will reflect the estimated range of the E.V. and the estimated average yearly cost of charging it, as well as a numerical miles-per-gallon equivalent, expressed as MPGe.
The purely electric Tesla Roadster, not surprisingly, claims the gaudiest sticker among passenger vehicles, reflecting a 245-mile range and a fuel economy and greenhouse rating of 10 out of a possible 10. That said, the stickers do not take into account the so-called well-to-wheel efficiency of the vehicles, which consider the greenhouse emissions of power sources.
Some environmental advocates had hoped the E.P.A. would select another sticker proposal, which would have assigned a letter grade to a car based on its fuel economy and total emissions relative to the entire fleet of new cars. That proposal was opposed by many within the auto industry, including the National Automotive Dealers Association, as being ambiguous.
On Jalopnik, Justin Hyde reposted a photo from Twitter, in which Mr. LaHood is said to have arrived at the Transportation Department on Wednesday in a Chevrolet Suburban, which is rated at 15 m.p.g. in city driving. President Obama announced on Tuesday that federal employees were expected to use "midsize or smaller sedans" for most transportation needs.
To view examples of the new stickers, visit the E.P.A. Web site.

        
U.S. Government Adds Hybrids and E.V.'s to Car Fleet
        
Tesla Sues 'Top Gear' Over Show About the Roadster
        
E.P.A. Eases Way for Alternative-Fuel Engine Conversions
        
E.P.A. Offers Fuel-Economy Labels for Used Cars
        
A 375-Mile Battery Range: Too Good to be True?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); SEDANS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE & PARTS DEALERS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (62%) E.P.A.; Ray LaHood; Tesla Roadster; LaHood, Ray; Automobiles; Environment; Environmental Protection Agency; Transportation Department (US); Electric Vehicles; Fuel Efficiency; Industry News

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%) Environmental Protection Agency; Transportation Department (US)

PERSON: RAY LAHOOD (90%); BARACK OBAMA (50%) LaHood, Ray

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



827 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Tweet on the Street

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Morgan Stanley's wealth management division will give financial advisers access to Twitter -- but all posts must first be approved by the firm.

 BODY:
Most Wall Street employees can't access sites like Facebook and Twitter, a move by banks to control the dissemination of information. 
But Morgan Stanley's wealth management division broke ranks on Wednesday, announcing that it plans to give its army of almost 17,800 financial advisers access to Twitter. 
Well, up to a point.
While the lure of Twitter is its immediacy, Morgan Stanley employees won't be sending anything out unscripted. All posts must first be approved by the firm.
Financial advisers can also select from a library of preapproved status updates that cover market updates, economic and investment insights and wealth management topics.
Andy Saperstein, the head of United States wealth management, wrote in a memo to employees: "The initiative will launch in late June and will initially include approximately 600 advisors firm wide who will have access to LinkedIn and partial use of Twitter. This first group includes our Chairman's Club members and many others who have been working with us for the past year to get to this solution."
"You will have the ability, with the click of a button, to share pre-approved "status updates" or "tweets" with your social and professional networks," Mr. Saperstein wrote.
He said he expected the rollout to be complete in about six months. 
Regulators, worried about investment scams, keep a close eye on what brokers and other Wall Street staffers are saying. As a result, Wall Street has been slow to embrace social media. 
Mr. Saperstein's memo is below: 
I am excited to announce that MSSB will begin a staged roll-out for Advisors to use Social Media. We are the first major wealth management firm to announce a vendor solution for our Advisors to use key social networking sites to market themselves and share the firm's intellectual content, while complying with regulatory requirements. Over the last few years, the emergence of Social Media has changed the way in which people communicate with each other, and companies interact with clients. MSSB is embracing how Social Media is changing communication and is at the forefront of the industry in how we are incorporating it into our business strategy. In the coming weeks, Morgan Stanley will implement a technology solution that will capture and retain all communications on approved social networking sites to comply with regulatory requirements. This technology will enable MSSB Advisors to fully leverage the power of social networking sites in a compliant way. In addition to the compliance component, we will also have a tool for Advisors to distribute Firm approved research and content, providing you with a powerful way to share our unique intellectual content with clients and prospects. You will have the ability, with the click of a button, to share pre-approved "status updates" or "tweets" with your social and professional networks. The initiative will launch in late June and will initially include approximately 600 Advisors firmwide who will have access to LinkedIn and partial use of Twitter. This first group includes our Chairman's Club members and many others who have been working with us for the past year to get to this solution. We expect to open it up to the rest of the Field within 6 months. For those participating in the initial roll-out, shortly you will receive an email from Lauren Boyman with more details on training and how to get started by getting your profiles approved. 
This roll-out will continue our recent history of innovative communications strategies, including being the first firm to introduce an internal social networking site for Financial Advisors (Advisor Insights) and the first to introduce texting capabilities. Also, building on this momentum, later this summer the GIC will present an iPad application that was recently piloted with positive feedback. The app brings GIC's On The Markets to you in a digital and interactive format to help you engage with clients.
MSSB is committed to continue leading our competition in innovation. This will be a significant competitive advantage. We look forward to getting your feedback as this very important initiative progresses.

        
Google and Twitter Go to Bat for Theflyonthewall
        
Big Clients Keep Their Head Start

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (93%); APPROVALS (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (67%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (50%) Andy Saperstein; Morgan Stanley; Twitter; Social Networking (Internet); Morgan Stanley|MS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Technology

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (94%); TWITTER INC (92%); FACEBOOK INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Morgan Stanley

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (94%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%) Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



828 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Less Active at Work, Americans Have Packed on Pounds

BYLINE: TARA PARKER-POPE


HIGHLIGHT: As workers moved from farms and factories to desks over the last half-century, calories have been piling up: about 120 to 140 a day, a new study has found. 

 BODY:
Looking beyond poor eating habits and a couch-potato lifestyle, a group of researchers has found a new culprit in the obesity epidemic: the American workplace.
A sweeping review of shifts in the labor force since 1960 suggests that a sizable portion of the national weight gain can be explained by declining physical activity during the workday. Jobs requiring moderate physical activity, which accounted for 50 percent of the labor market in 1960, have plummeted to just 20 percent.
The remaining 80 percent of jobs, the researchers report, are sedentary or require only light activity. The shift translates to an average decline of about 120 to 140 calories a day in physical activity, closely matching the nation's steady weight gain over the past five decades, according to the report, published Wednesday in the journal PLoS One.
Today, an estimated one in three Americans are obese. Researchers caution that workplace physical activity most likely accounts for only one piece of the obesity puzzle, and that diet, lifestyle and genetics all play an important role.
But the new emphasis on declining workplace activity also represents a major shift in thinking, and it suggests that health care professionals and others on the front lines against obesity, who for years have focused primarily on eating habits and physical activity at home and during leisure time, have missed a key contributor to America's weight problem. The findings also put pressure on employers to step up workplace heath initiatives and pay more attention to physical activity at work.
"If we're going to try to get to the root of what's causing the obesity epidemic, work-related physical activity needs to be in the discussion," said Dr. Timothy S. Church, a noted exercise researcher at the Pennington Biomedical Research Center in Baton Rouge, La., and the study's lead author. "There are a lot of people who say it's all about food. But the work environment has changed so much we have to rethink how we're going to attack this problem."
The report shows that in 1960, one out of two Americans had a job that was physically active. Now it is estimated that only one in five Americans achieves a relatively high level of physical activity at work. Dr. Church notes that because the research doesn't factor in technological changes, like increasing reliance on the Internet and e-mail, many people in service and desk jobs that have always involved only light activity are now moving less than ever, meaning the findings probably understate how much physical activity has been lost during work hours.
While it has long been known that Americans are more sedentary at work compared with the farming and manufacturing workers of 50 years ago, the new study is believed to be the first in which anyone has estimated how much daily caloric expenditure has been lost in the workplace.
"It's a light bulb, 'aha' moment," said Barbara E. Ainsworth, the president-elect of the American College of Sports Medicine and an exercise researcher at Arizona State University. "I think occupational activity is part of that missing puzzle that is so difficult to measure, and is probably contributing to the inactivity and creeping obesity that we're seeing over time."
For years, the role that physical activity has played in the obesity problem has been uncertain. Numerous studies suggest there has been little change in the average amount of leisure-time physical activity, posing a conundrum for researchers trying to explain the country's steady weight gain. As a result, much of the focus has been on the rise of fast-food and soft drink consumption.
Other studies have suggested that changing commuting habits, declining reliance on public transportation and even increased time in front of the television have played a role in the fattening of America. But none of those issues can fully explain the complex changes in nationwide weight-gain patterns.
Some earlier research has hinted at the fact that workplace physical activity is associated with weight and health. One seminal set of studies of London bus drivers and conductors showed that the sedentary bus drivers had higher rates of heart disease than the ticket-takers, who moved around during the workday.
Dr. Church said that during a talk on the country's obesity patterns, he was struck by the fact that Mississippi and Wisconsin both have high rates of obesity, despite having little in common in terms of demographics, education or even weather. It occurred to him that both states have waning agricultural economies, prompting him to begin exploring the link between changes in the labor force and declines in workplace physical activity.
He quickly discovered that a decline in farming jobs alone could not explain increasing obesity around the country, and began exploring job shifts over several decades. Using computer models, Dr. Church and colleagues assigned metabolic equivalent values to various job categories and then calculated changes in caloric expenditure at work from 1960 to 2008.
"You see the manufacturing jobs plummet and realize that's a lot of physical activity," said Dr. Church. "It's very obvious that the jobs that required a lot of physical activity have gone away."
Ross C. Brownson, an epidemiologist at Washington University in St. Louis, said that both health professionals and the public needed to broaden the traditional definition of physical activity as something that occurs during planned exercise, like running or working out at the gym.
"We need to think about physical activity as a more robust concept than just recreational physical activity," said Dr. Brownson, whose 2005 report on declining physical activity in the workplace is cited in the PLoS One report. "In many ways we've engineered physical activity out of our lives, so we've got to find ways to put it back into our lives, like taking walks during breaks or having opportunities for activity that are more routine to our daily lives, not just going to the health club."
Researchers said it is unlikely that the lost physical activity can ever be fully restored to the workplace, but employers do have the power to increase the physical activity of their employees by offering subsidized gym memberships or incentives to use public transit. Some companies have set up standing workstations, and marketers now offer treadmill-style desks. Employers can also redesign offices to encourage walking, by placing printers away from desks and encouraging face-to-face communication, rather than e-mail.
"The activity we get at work has to be intentional," said Dr. Ainsworth. "When people think of obesity they always think of food first, and that's one side of it, but it's high time to look at the amount of time we spend inactive at work."This article appeared in print on page A1.

        
Exploring the Links Between Depression and Weight Gain
        
The Stigma of Being 'Fat'
        
Central Heating May Be Making Us Fat
        
Can You Be Addicted to Foods?
        
Doctors and Patients, Not Talking About Weight

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OBESITY (91%); NUTRITION (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); DIETING (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); EPIDEMICS (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); BIOMEDICINE (72%); WRITERS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (63%) Obesity; overweight; Weight; Exercise; Labor and Jobs; Weigh In

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (77%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



829 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Discontent Turns Tide in Hochul's Victory Upstate


HIGHLIGHT: An upset victory in a special Congressional election reflects unhappiness over the economy.

 BODY:
ALBION, N.Y. - This is an achingly beautiful land where politicians do well to tiptoe carefully. 
The economy of western upstate New York, in hamlets like Albion, Gaines and Medina, has been lousy for so long that it feels more like a toothache than a sudden infection. Auto plants have moved out or downsized, and family farms keep their orchards going on the backs of Caribbean and Mexican laborers (even as local politicians decry these same immigrants - a puzzle for another day). Prisons are economic pillars.
The unemployment rates hangs around 8 percent, but wages and median incomes keep falling.
People here sound not so much Tea Party angry, although there's a bubble or two of that, as they are deeply discontented. And on Tuesday night that pushed a most unusual creature - a Democrat - into a traditionally Republican Congressional seat here, as Kathy Hochul, the Democrat, scored a rather striking victory over Jane L. Corwin, the Republican, in a special election race. 
The current Republican injunctions - cutting Medicare, reducing taxes on the rich, great pailfuls of anti-Obama bile - tend to draw a pained look. Just bring down taxes, pull up wages and don't go Glenn Beck on everyone. 
 "My taxes are high, really high, and wages keep falling every year - like down to here," Sammy Giovanni, a wiry, retired autoworker with a wiseacre manner, said as he held his hands down around his knees. "I've been a Democrat, then a Republican, then a Democrat again. I'm staying that way at least for this election."
The provisional tense when talking about politicians makes sense up here. Republicans, Democrats - everyone promises help, then deliverance slips further away. (A recent Marist Poll showed that more than a quarter of upstate residents would like to move out of the state, though, as more than a few noted, that presumes they could sell their homes, most of which are worth less than when they were purchased. Downstate residents are just as restless, though for different reasons - they cannot afford the place anymore.)
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who can grow and regrow political antennae the way a salamander grows and regrows a tail, knows that his father, Mario M. Cuomo, the former governor, came to political ill up here. The current governor is not about to let that happen to him. He did well up here in 2010 and he has repaid the favor by pushing a perhaps fiscally ill-advised but deeply popular property tax cap. (A recent poll showed that 7 in 10 New Yorkers favored a cap, and I would guess that ran closer to 9 out of 10 around here.)
But the governor - in truth like his father - remains a bit of a walking political conundrum. The puzzle in local political circles is why he remained so silent in this special election, particularly considering that Democrats from the Flatiron district in Manhattan to Plattsburgh ran phone banks and held election night parties. 
The governor endorsed Ms. Hochul, but tepidly, carefully, and at a distance, and so he has lost claim to the role of kingmaker.
The sentimental favorite, in the land between rough-hewn Buffalo and Lackawanna and the high-toned eminences of waterfront Rochester, was Jack Davis, who ran as a sort-of-maybe Tea Party Democrat who used to be Republican. Mr. Davis, a 75-year-old factory owner whose touch is as plain-spoken as gravel, speaks for the many around here who live in towns where factories become not lofts but vacant eyesores.
His approach to campaigning falls between the quixotic and the inexplicable. A few weeks ago, he threatened to take the lead in the polls, just as he did when he ran for Congress in 2006. In that race, he told his spokesman to buzz off while he ushered me into his factory office, where he boasted he was not into that knock-knock, glad-hand stuff. No way.
 He preferred to stay in his factory in Akron, where he paid his workers pretty well and they took his more-or-less nonstop political philosophizing in stride. This time around, he did a little more campaigning, although not so much as to be confused with real enthusiasm. A wiry sort with a thick lion's mane of white hair, he paused Tuesday morning, after voting, to explain why he had refused to debate his opponents.
 "I compare myself to George Washington - I will not tell a lie," he said. "I don't need media debates with two liars."
Whatever. More than a few in Albion spoke fondly of "Jack," but they suggested they were not particularly fond of tossing away their votes. That seems frivolous, given their predicament.
 "I'll tell you, if Jack was 10 years younger and serious about campaigning, I'd vote for him," said Jim VanWagner, a barrel-chested former autoworker, who works in a quiet little gift shop with his wife on Albion's main drag. "Hello? You got to want the office, you know what I mean?"
 In a land where "rust belt" too often yields to "no-work belt," it's hard to argue with that.

        
Wisconsin's Kohl to Retire From Senate
        
Ex-Members of Congress Call for Civility 
        
It's Time for Democrats to Attack, Pelosi Says
        
Congressmen Push for Paper Ballots 
        
A Gamer's Guide to Redistricting

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); FAMILY FARMS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%) Congress; Elections; Gotham; The Caucus

PERSON: KATHY HOCHUL (79%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); GLENN BECK (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



830 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Six Months After Midterm Disaster, Hopeful Signs for Democrats

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: The Medicare fight and the killing of Osama bin Laden could help the Democrats going into next year's elections.

 BODY:
Here's what I wrote two weeks ago about the special election in New York's 26th Congressional District, which was won by the Democrat Kathy Hochul Tuesday night:
[If] Ms. Hochul can get her vote up into the mid-to-high 40s - as the Democratic candidates did in 2006 and 2008 while facing only one viable opponent instead of two - then the Democrats will be entitled to a round of beer; it will be one small sign (though just one) that the electoral environment has moved toward what it was in stronger Democratic years.
Ms. Hochul, with most of the vote counted, has 48 percent of the total, so she has met this threshold. The rest of the vote was split among the Republican, Jane Corwin, with 42 percent, the the Tea Party candidate, Jack Davis, with 9 percent, and the Green Party's Ian Murphy, with 1 percent.
Suppose that Mr. Davis and Mr. Murphy were not running, and that this were a true two-way race between Ms. Hochul and Ms. Corwin. If Ms. Corwin had won all of Mr. Davis's vote (and Ms. Hochul won all of Mr. Murphy's vote), she would have won 51-49.
That would still qualify as a bad night for the Republicans, however. Based on the way that the district votes in presidential elections, it is 6 percentage points more Republican than the country as a whole. That means, roughly speaking, that in a neutral political environment with average candidates, Ms. Corwin would have won 56 percent of the vote and Ms. Hochul 44 percent -- a 12-point victory. A 2-point win instead, therefore, would have spoken to a relatively poor political environment for the Republicans.
Nor is it likely that Ms. Corwin would in fact have won all of Mr. Davis's votes. He ran in the district as a Democrat in 2006, and polls suggested that his voters leaned Republican by roughly a 2-1 margin, but not more than that. If you had split his vote 2-1 in favor of Ms. Corwin, the results would have been Ms. Hochul 51 percent, and Ms. Corwin 48 percent.
So Republicans can't really pin the blame for this result on Mr. Davis. They do, however, have a couple of more credible arguments.
First, any one special election probably does not have all that much predictive power. Once there are several special elections, they may begin to mean something, but one taken in isolation is a rather fuzzy indicator.
Second, Ms. Corwin had very high unfavorable ratings and tried a crass political stunt that backfired, so she was probably a below-average candidate.
Still, a seat that would ordinarily be won by Republicans by about 12 points, but was instead won by the Democrats by 6 points, is a pretty big deviation from the norm. Odds are, like in the special election in Massachusetts last year, that some part of this had to do with factors that could carry over to the national level, while some other part had to do with circumstances specific to the district.
There is strong circumstantial evidence from the Siena poll, which came reasonably close to the actual outcome, that one of the more broadly applicable factors was Ms. Corwin's association with Representative Paul Ryan's budget, which Ms. Hochul criticized for its changes to Medicare.
One can also take a more post-modern view toward special elections, like the one advocated by The Washington Post's Jonathan Bernstein: special elections matter to the extent that people think they matter. We may get a better indication of how much Republicans think this one matters based on the way they vote when Mr. Ryan's budget comes to a vote in the Senate, possibly later this week.
Republicans could try to toe the party line -- there are solid reasons, both from a strategic standpoint, and from a morale standpoint, for them to do so. But that doesn't necessarily make the problem go away: Democrats are all but certain to make a major issue of Medicare and Mr. Ryan's budget in every competitive Congressional election next year.
Looking at the bigger picture, my view is that the two biggest wild cards so far this year have both broken in favor of the Democrats: one being the risk the Republicans took by voting almost unanimously for Mr. Ryan's budget, and the other being the killing of Osama bin Laden. Even in an election that mostly comes down to the economy -- President Obama and the Democrats, make no mistake, remain extremely vulnerable there -- these could be important factors at the margins. Pick up an extra 1 percent of the vote here, an extra 2 percent of the vote there, and your strategy starts to look a lot more robust: maybe O.K.-but-not-good economic growth is enough to get the Democrats elected, in addition to good-but-not-great growth.
Coupled with what is arguably a troubling start for the Republicans in the presidential campaign -- a couple of electable candidates aren't running, while there are signs now that Sarah Palin may -- the past six months have played out in a way that is toward the lower end of what the G.O.P. might reasonably have expected in November 2010.
That doesn't mean there are any guarantees. Far from it: I don't know that Mr. Obama is much more likely than a 2-to-1 favorite to retain the White House, nor that Democrats better than even money to take back the House. But both sets of odds have improved, in my view, from where I would have pegged them a few months ago.
Correction: An earlier version of this post misidentified the Green Party candidate for New York's 26th Congressional District. His name is Ian Murphy, not Miller.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (74%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%) Corwin, Jane L; Hochul, Kathleen C; Elections; Democratic Party; Republican Party

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party

PERSON: KATHY HOCHUL (92%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (59%) Corwin, Jane L; Hochul, Kathleen C

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



831 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Want Success in Silicon Valley? Drop Out of School

BYLINE: CLAIRE CAIN MILLER


HIGHLIGHT: The tech investor Peter Thiel announced the first group of Thiel Fellows, teenagers who agree to drop out of school to start tech companies.

 BODY:
Parents, do you hope that your children have the chance to become like Peter Thiel, the PayPal co-founder, Facebook investor and hedge fund manager? If so, Mr. Thiel suggests that you encourage them to drop out of school. In fact, he will help by paying them to do it. 
On Wednesday, the Thiel Foundation, funded by Mr. Thiel, announced the first group of Thiel Fellows, 24 people under 20 who have agreed to drop out of school in exchange for a $100,000 grant and mentorship to start a tech company. 
More than 400 people applied. The winners include Laura Deming, 17, who is developing anti-aging therapies; Faheem Zaman, 18, who is building mobile payment systems for developing countries; and John Burnham, 18, who is working on extracting minerals from asteroids and comets. 
The fellowship addresses two of the country's most pressing problems, Mr. Thiel says: a bubble in higher education and a dearth of Americans developing breakthrough technologies. 
Much of the technological talent these days is going into Web sites and apps. Mr. Thiel says he has no problem with those -- Facebook has made him a billionaire. But "there's a more urgent need for innovation" in other areas, he said, like biomedical technology, nanotechnology, transportation and energy. 
Mr. Thiel, a contrarian investor and libertarian known for his controversial views, knows that suggesting education is not always worth it strikes at the core of many Americans' beliefs. But that is exactly why is he doing it. 
"We're not saying that everybody should drop out of college," he said. The fellows agree to stop getting a formal education for two years but can always go back to school. The problem, he said, is that "in our society the default assumption is that everybody has to go to college." 
"I believe you have a bubble whenever you have something that's overvalued and intensely believed," Mr. Thiel said. "In education, you have this clear price escalation without incredible improvement in the product. At the same time you have this incredible intensity of belief that this is what people have to do. In that way it seems very similar in some ways to the housing bubble and the tech bubble." 
In Silicon Valley, following in the footsteps of Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg and Evan Williams by dropping out of school might make sense. But many employers would never look at a resume that does not list a college degree, and of course some professions require advanced degrees. As the Times reporter Catherine Rampell has written, the job market is bad for college graduates right now but even worse for non-graduates. 
But Mr. Thiel said the recession had opened parents' and students' eyes to the problems with the belief in higher education. 
"I think a program like this would have been unthinkable in 2007, but I think you increasingly have people who are graduating from college, not being able to get good jobs, moving back home with their parents," he said. "I think there's a surprising openness to the idea that something's gone badly wrong and needs to be fixed." 
Mr. Burnham, the fellow working on mineral extraction from outer space, agreed with Mr. Thiel, whom he first became aware of via the movie "The Social Network." He said that college did not fit every student. 
"What I really liked about this program is it's giving a lot of people who maybe wouldn't get into Harvard an opportunity to participate in something just as selective and just as valuable and just as educational," Mr. Burnham said. "It's giving them that opportunity even though their personalities and characters don't quite fit the academic mold." 
His father, Stephen Burnham, said the decision for his son to skip college, at least for now, was uncontroversial. "There's a lot of other stuff that you get in college and I would say that would be useful for John," he said. "But I would say in four years there's a big opportunity cost there if you could be out starting your career doing something that could change the world." 

        
Dot Earth: Games as Learning
        
From Some Teachers, Excitement About Classroom Tech
        
Second Thoughts on Online Education
        
An Easy Way to Donate Unwanted Gift Cards to Schools
        
A Virtual Game to Teach Children Languages

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (84%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); MOBILE PAYMENTS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (68%); EMPLOYMENT (62%); AGING (55%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (54%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (51%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%); PRICE INCREASES (50%) bubble; Education; Peter Thiel; Dropouts; Scholarships and Fellowships; Innovations and Ideas; People; Silicon Valley; Start-ups

COMPANY: PAYPAL INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (78%); BILL GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



832 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Extricating Wilderness From Political Limbo

BYLINE: FELICITY BARRINGER


HIGHLIGHT: A group of 44 mostly Democratic members of Congress ask President Obama to invoke existing legal authority to set aside federal land as potential wilderness.

 BODY:
"In wildness is the preservation of the world" -- Henry David Thoreau
"This decision will seriously hinder domestic energy development and further contributes to the uncertainty and economic distress that continues to prevent the creation of new jobs." -- Representative Rob Bishop, Republican of Utah, speaking of the Obama administration's wild lands policy.
The spiritual need for wilderness has been voiced with passion and simplicity by writers from Thoreau to Wallace Stegner. The economic need for both energy and jobs has been voiced less eloquently but with no less passion by people as diverse as union leaders and industry chiefs, with a lot of politicians in between.
Federal wilderness policy has ricocheted between those two camps for decades. It is now in a state of limbo, with the Obama administration prevented from carrying out its announced policy of increasing federal powers to set wilderness-quality lands aside, pending a Congressional decision on their use.
As a result of a rider attached to the budget compromise, the policy announced by Interior Secretary Ken Salazar remains intact, but its overseers lack the money to give it force.
Now comes what might be called the Congressional wilderness caucus, a group of 44 House members who argue in a letter to President Obama that there is an answer to this dilemma. They say federal land managers can, and must, use another federal law to establish rules to protect wilderness-quality lands.The merit of this argument has yet to be tested, but it is not clear that federal land managers have ever felt obliged to establish such rules under the law cited by the representatives, the Federal Land Policy Management Act.
The letter's first signer was Maurice Hinchey, a New York Democrat who two weeks ago re-introduced the Red Rock Wilderness Act to put 9.1 million acres of Utah land permanently off limits to oil and gas drilling, motorized recreation or other forms of development. Among the 43 other signers, there were exactly zero from Utah, where the issue has naturally been more contentious than anywhere else.
But that doesn't mean that Utah's delegation has been missing in action. Representative Bishop, a Republican, has been extremely active on the issue, praising the state's decision to file a lawsuit, challenging the Obama policy and introducing legislation to give energy extraction higher priority among the multiple possible uses of federal land.
The measure would also reinstate more than 70 canceled leases that were auctioned off in the closing days of the Bush administration. (This auction was crashed by Tim DeChristopher, an economics student who successfully bid on $1.8 million worth of leases. He was convicted of disrupting the auction and making false statements on federal forms.)
Wednesday's letter can be read in this context -- as another battle cry from the pro-wilderness side of the wilderness wars. What is still missing, as a columnist for The Salt Lake Tribune recently pointed out, is a thorough study of the economic pros and cons of setting wild lands aside. Do tourism jobs and revenues cancel out the lost revenue from thwarted drilling? Claims are made, but evidence is skimpy.
What has also gone missing, since the Obama wilderness policy was financially hogtied, is the nascent spirit of pragmatic compromise that led to deals between wilderness advocates and mining and drilling interests last year.

        
Think Globally, Compromise Locally
        
New Measures to Aid Solar on Public Lands
        
B.L.M. Backpedals on Oil and Gas Leases in Utah 
        
A Bird's Convoluted Conservation Odyssey
        
Sale of Oil Leases Planned for Gulf of Mexico 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WILDERNESS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); LITIGATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); OIL & GAS LEASES (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (65%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); OIL EXTRACTION (62%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%) Bill Barrett Corporation; Bureau of Land Management; Federal Land POlicy Management Act; Interior Secretary Ken Salazar; Labyrinth Canyon; oil and gas leases; Rob Bishop; Thoreau; Utah; Wallace Stegner; wilderness; Hinchey, Maurice D; Wilderness Areas; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MAURICE D HINCHEY (76%); ROB BISHOP (76%); KEN SALAZAR (71%) Hinchey, Maurice D

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Utah

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



833 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Does It All Come Down to Medicare?

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS AND GAIL COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: In the 2012 presidential election, the Democrats will try to address the fiscal problems without touching the elderly or the middle class, while the Republicans will focus on tax revenue. No matter how you slice the issue, it's voodoo policy.

 BODY:
Gail Collins: David, this is going to be our last conversation until after Labor Day. I'm already nostalgic -- we've been doing this for almost three years to the day, and this will be our first real break. I've been remembering all our fun times -- like how plucky you were about finding ways to communicate during severe power outages -- which, I must point out, seem to follow you around the country. And the night the Republicans won the Ted Kennedy Senate seat and I carried on my half of the conversation by e-mail while curled up in a fetal position under a hotel bed. 
David Brooks: Yes, it's going to be a long hot summer. I foresee riots and infernos as the nation reels from our sabbatical. I, too, often think back on the night the Republicans captured the Massachusetts seat, and not because of Scott Brown's centerfold in Cosmo.
Gail Collins: The memory of that night seems particularly apt today, given the election results from upstate New York. A Democrat taking the 26th Congressional District seat doesn't exactly have the same heavy symbolism as Ted Kennedy's seat, but this is definitely fetal-position time for Republicans.
David Brooks: To everything there is a season. A season of unearned victories and undeserved defeats, but I suspect we'll get to that in a second. 
Gail Collins: In the spirit of last-conversation-before-break, I will refrain from pointing out that the election wouldn't have happened at all, if the previous Republican incumbent hadn't been caught posing half-naked on the Internet. Begone, shoddy partisanship.
David Brooks: My memory of that scandal is fuzzy, but as I recall the Republican was deeply concerned about the epidemic of childhood obesity plaguing the country and decided that if he posted pictures of himself bare-chested on the Internet this would inspire America's youth to exercise and lead healthier and more fulfilling lives.
Gail Collins: O.K., let's get to the issue. You do agree that yesterday's vote was all about Medicare, right? Here's a super-Republican district and two relatively anonymous candidates -- their debate high point came when they both admitted to owning four cars, but squabbled over whose fleet was more expensive. The only notable thing about the campaign was that the Democrat kept pounding away at the Republican for supporting the Paul Ryan budget plan, which included an end to Medicare as an entitlement. 
I know you like Ryan and let me throw in some praise for him. I agree with the people who say he was brave to open up this conversation. Although it appears now he did not actually appreciate that the voters were going to hate, hate, hate his idea. So maybe a combination of brave and out of touch.
David Brooks: I agree, this is mostly about Medicare. I also believe it was entirely predictable. It's not exactly a secret that touching Medicare in any way is deeply unpopular with voters. The average American, earning the median salary, pays about $150,000 into Medicare over the course of their career. They get back somewhere in the neighborhood of $350,00 to $450,000 in benefits. Their grandchildren are involuntarily footing a huge portion of that gap, so naturally today's voters want to preserve this sweet deal. The Ryan plan threatens their grip on hundreds of thousands of dollars in free money. 
Gail Collins: So where do we go from here? When I come back from my book leave in September, are the Republican leaders still going to be beating up any candidate for president who tries to plot some kind of middle course on entitlements? I guarantee you, Mitt Romney has already built a mutant middle-road Medicare plan in his basement, and he'll let it come out and run in the yard the very second he feels confident he can get past the Tea Party and win the nomination. Unless he's forced to take some kind of Paul Ryan loyalty oath first.
David Brooks: I can easily foresee where this is going. The Republicans are going to find a way to bury any efforts to address Medicare under a lot of talk about economic growth. They will then revert to their 2010 strategy - demagogue the Democrats for daring to talk about Medicare as part of health care reform. The Democrats are going to conclude that demagoguing Medicare is the key to victory and they will base the 2012 election on that.
The campaign will mean that -- whoever wins -- entitlement reform will be effectively off the table for the next 4 years. That will probably lead to some sort of national bankruptcy of the Greek variety, leading to a catastrophic stock market decline, an explosion of unemployment, a loss of national sovereignty as the Chinese begin to put limits on our foreign policy and a general loss of national morale. 
Invest in gold.
Gail Collins: In my capacity as a sentient being, I know we have to do something about health care costs. Getting rid of Medicare for senior citizens is the last thing I'd choose. I'd rather give the whole country Medicare and then rationalize our health care delivery system the way other civilized countries do. But we won't be able to do anything major until politicians feel free to admit to the public that the taxpayers can't subsidize the status quo forever. 
David Brooks: Unfortunately, the essential logic is this. Today's seniors and tomorrow's seniors are draining too much money from the future. Either through higher taxes or lower benefits or both, they will have to pay more to avoid ruin. President Obama thinks that he can address the fiscal problems without touching seniors or the middle class. That is truly voodoo fiscal policy. Republicans think they can do it without more tax revenue. That's voodoo, too.
Gail Collins: Ah, they do do that voodoo that they do so well. Do you think there's any chance that the Republicans will realize they're on a doomed course and switch to a different road? You're famous for your sanity, could you get them to issue a mass press release saying: "O.K., the Ryan thing isn't what you want. We've got to come up with a plan that preserves the entitlement but makes it less expensive. Stay tuned ..."? When I come back in September I expect you to have this worked out.
David Brooks: I guess I'd say we first need a gigantic education campaign to show voters the course we are on. Instead we're about to get a reverse education campaign promising people a good future with no pain. 
Do I sound gloomy? I guess I kind of am. I think there's a nontrivial chance that the blowup will come this summer as a result of a miscalculation over the debt ceiling fight, and there is a larger chance that the blowup will come over the next four to six years. 
Either the markets will revolt, the Chinese will start using their muscle to veto our policies (think Suez, 1956) or the interest payments on the debt will just make normal government impossible. Either way, bad times are a coming. 
Have a nice summer.
Gail Collins: I hate to leave you in this state of depression. Maybe I should tell the readers that your non-Web-based persona is an extremely cheerful one, no matter how miserable you sound right now. David will be all right, people! And we'll see you in September.

        
Budget Politics
        
The Pelosi-Bachmann Conundrum
        
The New Kids in Town
        
A Midterm Revolution?
        
Are the Democrats the True Extremists? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US LABOR DAY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); POLITICS (75%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); OBESITY (62%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (62%); BUDGETS (62%); POWER FAILURES (56%) democrats; Elections 2012; Medicare; republicans; Reform and Reorganization; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party; Republican Party; The Conversation

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); TED KENNEDY (70%); SCOTT BROWN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



834 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: On Bloomberg Editorials, the Comptroller, and Housekeepers

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Governing Class: Bloomberg's View (his company's, that is) makes its debut; the mayor goes to court for the comptroller; and an idea to protect hotel housekeepers.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg rarely misses a chance to proclaim his views at daily news conferences - on the economy, politics, philanthropy, art, traffic and, well, you get the idea. 
But this format (the mayor, standing before journalists with tape recorders, notebooks and video cameras) was apparently insufficient.
On Wednesday morning, Mr. Bloomberg began to disseminate his opinions systematically to the world through editorials produced by the media company that bears his name, Bloomberg L.P. 
The first installment of Bloomberg View - unsigned editorials that appear on the Web site of Bloomberg News - touched on a variety of topics and offered a new peek into the mayoral mind. 
The Bloomberg view on the initial public offering of LinkedIn, the social networking company, which valued the firm at $9 billion? "Considering that the company itself is warning that revenue growth is likely to decline this year, this level seems hard to justify," Bloomberg editorialized. 
The Bloomberg view on the worldwide response to the Fukushima nuclear disaster? "One entity could have rallied world expertise in a hurry: the Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency," it opined.
(Sexy, they are not. At least, on Day 1, which emphasized the serious and the somber.)
The editorials are written by a group of journalists and writers who work out of the mayor's philanthropic foundation on the Upper East Side. Mr. Bloomberg's precise role in shaping them is not entirely clear. But Bloomberg News officials said the editorials would be consistent with Mr. Bloomberg's values and opinions. 
In an essay, the new editors of Bloomberg View explained their rationale for wading into the sea of opinion journalism and editorial writing. 
"In an age of celebrity, when everybody is marketing his or her own brand, an unsigned opinion article seems old-fashioned," they wrote. "Done right, editorials can do things that other news and opinion articles can't do, or at least not as well. Editorials can see the world whole. That is, they can be logically consistent with one another, each a piece of the larger puzzle, and each able to withstand changing circumstances."
The editors acknowledged that their place within the political spectrum would emerge over time.
"Right now," they wrote, "we can't say precisely what that philosophy will be, only that it will be committed to transparency and tolerance, to nonpartisanship and intellectual honesty, to free markets and data-driven solutions to national and international problems - values embodied by Mike Bloomberg, the founder of Bloomberg L.P."
- MICHAEL BARBARO
Bloomberg Goes to Court to Defend Liu
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg may not have the warmest relationship with City Comptroller John C. Liu. Nor may he care much about Mr. Liu's efforts to bend over backward for the city's unions as he contemplates a possible mayoral run in 2013.
But that does not mean Mr. Bloomberg will not defend Mr. Liu in court.
Mr. Liu is legally responsible for setting what are known as prevailing wages for a smattering of industries that do business with the municipal government. And last July, Mr. Liu, who has been criticized for issuing reports and pursuing audits that seem too tilted toward unions, decided that the city should pay people in the moving industry a prevailing wage of almost $39 an hour - roughly double what the federal government pays and three times what private business does.
Several moving companies sued, alarmed that they would have to pay a lot more money, even though most moving employees are not even union members. They argued, as well, that such a rate would cost taxpayers millions of dollars, given that the city currently has moving contracts worth at least $40 million.
In late March, Justice Alice Schlesinger of State Supreme Court in Manhattan sided with the movers, and she chided Mr. Liu in unusually dismissive terms.
Saying that Mr. Liu's calculation "drastically diverges from standard prevailing wage determinations," she ruled that his formula "risks producing inconsistent and arguably absurd results, since a moving company awarded contracts on a municipal job, a private job, and a federal job would need to pay its workers twice as much for the municipal job as compared to the private and federal jobs."
Enter Mr. Bloomberg.
On May 12, the city's Law Department filed a notice of appeal of Mr. Liu's behalf. And the reason, according to the document, was a belief that the judge had "misapplied applicable law." In lay terms, the city believes that the judge's interpretation was too narrow and that Mr. Liu was within his right to make his calculations.
When asked to comment about the appeal, Marc La Vorgna, a spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg, offered a response that was hardly a full-throated endorsement of Mr. Liu's decision.
"Per state law, the comptroller is assigned the discretion to set the wage rates and the Law Department is obligated to defend the comptroller when he is exercising his duties in a manner in accordance with the law," he said.
But Claude M. Millman, a lawyer for one of the plaintiffs, Metropolitan Movers Association, said, "The city's appeal is doomed and will just consume more scarce taxpayer dollars." 
Of course, it would not be a stretch to assume that Mr. Bloomberg does not support the actual figure that Mr. Liu came up with. Mr. Bloomberg opposes a City Council bill that would require developers who receive taxpayer subsidies to pay a "living wage," $10 to $11.50 per hour, arguing that the local economy would be harmed and that city would lose tens of thousands of jobs. 
- DAVID W. CHEN
Bill Aims at Protecting Hotel Housekeepers
A Queens lawmaker has introduced legislation that would require hotels and motels in New York state to provide housekeepers and other workers with a remote panic alert pendant, similar to those marketed to the frail and elderly. 
 Assemblyman Rory I. Lancman, a Queens Democrat, introduced the bill after the arrest of Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former head of the International Monetary Fund, on charges that he sexually assaulted a housekeeper at a Manhattan hotel. Mr. Lancman is looking for a co-sponsor in the State Senate.
 "It's a very inexpensive way to provide security to these women - and it's mostly women - who enter into these rooms, and who can often find themselves subjected to unwanted groping, touching and propositions from men," Mr. Lancman said.
 Mr. Lancman said he had bought a similar "panic button" device as part of the alarm system for his district office and that they were relatively inexpensive.
 In a statement, Joseph E. Spinnato, president of the Hotel Association of New York City, said that worker safety was "always a paramount concern" of the association's members.
 "We look forward to the opportunity to study the details of the assemblyman's legislation," Mr. Spinnato said. "We share his goal of protecting our workers from dangerous individuals, including heinous sexual predators."
- NICHOLAS CONFESSORE
Our political reporters, and occasional guests, offer you a peek inside Albany and City Hall. Check back every Wednesday.

        
New Liberal Voice Casts Eye on Bloomberg and Beyond
        
It's News to the Mayor, and From a Blog
        
Yassky May Head Taxi Agency
        
Never Too Early to Start 2013 Campaign
        
Leftover Campaign Cash Is Ruled Eligible for Matching Funds

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); HOTEL STAFF (90%); WRITERS (90%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); LITIGATION (90%); POLITICS (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (83%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (67%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (61%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%) Dominique Strauss-Kahn; John C. Liu; Michael R. Bloomberg; Rory Lancman; Bloomberg, Michael R; Liu, John C; Labor and Jobs; Politics and Government; Wages and Salaries; Bloomberg LP; Bloomberg View; New York City; City Hall; Courts and Law; Crime & Public Safety; Governing Class; Government & Politics

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (55%) Bloomberg LP; Bloomberg View

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (94%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (94%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (74%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Liu, John C

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



835 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Bill Clinton: We've Got to Deal with Medicare

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: Bill Clinton says the message of a special election in upstate New York is not, necessarily, to keep hands off Medicare.

 BODY:
Former President Bill Clinton, still widely considered one of his party's foremost politicians, said on Wednesday that Democrats should cut a "reasonable" deal with Republicans on Medicare savings rather than conclude from Tuesday's upset in a special Congressional election that bashing Republicans on the issue is the key to a party comeback in 2012.
Mr. Clinton's message, while more politically pointed, followed similar comments on Wednesday morning from Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner as both responded to a Democrat's victory in a conservative district in upstate New York. The race turned on House Republicans' budget plan to replace Medicare with a voucher system and dramatically reduce future federal health-care spending.
"You shouldn't draw the conclusion that the New York race means that nobody can do anything to slow the rate of Medicare costs. I just don't agree with that," Mr. Clinton said at a budget forum sponsored by the Peter G. Peterson Foundation. Instead, he said, "you should draw the conclusion that the people made a judgment that the proposal in the Republican budget is not the right one. I agree with that."
But Mr. Clinton said he feared that Democrats would conclude "that we shouldn't do anything."
"I completely disagree with that," he said. "I think there are a lot of things we can do to bring down Medicare costs."
Indeed, liberal groups and liberal Democrats in Congress were claiming validation on Wednesday of their position against negotiating a deficit-reduction deal with Republicans that would touch major entitlement-benefit programs like Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, whose long-term costs are major drivers of future debt projections. They say the party should make the issues a rallying cry for the 2012 elections and use them to potentially reclaim the House majority they lost last fall.
Yet bipartisan talks between the White House and Congressional leaders are ongoing, and Tuesday's session at the Capitol focused on potential common ground for savings in Medicare and Medicaid.
Mr. Clinton, with some passion, returned to the topic at the end of an hour-long interview. "I think the Democrats are going to have to be willing to give up, maybe, some short-term political gain by whipping up fears on some of these things -- if it's a reasonable Social Security proposal, a reasonable Medicare proposal. We've got to deal with these things. You cannot have health care devour the economy."
Mr. Geithner, at a breakfast sponsored by the Web site Politico, said the White House and Congress should expand on the cost-saving provisions in Mr. Obama's health care law, "to find a way to get more savings out of the health care system, including Medicare, over the long run so we can afford to give people who retire access to health care with an adequate benefit." Republicans want to repeal the law.
Mr. Geithner said the House budget, by contrast, shows how deeply spending would have to be cut if, as Republicans insist, taxes cannot be increased as part of a debt-reduction plan.
"If your objective is to leave in place these exceptionally low tax rates for the most rich Americans, then you are going to have to do transforming, dismantling, of basic commitments to our seniors, to the poor, to the elderly," Mr. Geithner said. "There's no alternative to that, and it's not going to happen. We would never support it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); HEALTH CARE (74%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); MEDICAID (57%) The Caucus

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (95%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



836 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: Live Blogging the Ira Sohn Conference

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: Investment professionals are once again gathering in New York for the annual Ira Sohn Conference, a sold-out show where prominent hedge fund managers and the like showcase their best ideas. DealBook is live blogging the event.

 BODY:
Investment professionals are once again gathering in New York for the annual Ira Sohn Conference, a sold-out show where prominent hedge fund managers and the like showcase their best ideas. 
In years past, the confab has attracted high-profile names, including Stanley Druckenmiller, founder of Duquesne Capital; Seth Klarman of the Baupost Group; and Larry Robbins of Glenview Capital. David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital famously described a short against Lehman Brothers in 2008, months before the investment bank went belly up. 
This year, the speakers include Erez Kalir, C.E.O. of Sabretooth Capital, Greenlight Capital's David Einhorn, Steve Eisman of FrontPoint Financial Services Fund and investor Carl Icahn.
DealBook was on hand for the gathering. What follows is a blog of the event.
3:51 P.M. | Steve Eisman likes property, casualty insurance sector
Steve Eisman, famed for his bet against the subprime mortgage market, said the market has been down on U.S. financials, thanks to rates being on hold and loan growth remaining elusive. But one area outside of the banks that he sees improving is the property and casualty insurance sector.
The entire financial sector has been beaten because there is no revenue growth, but Mr. Eisman believes property and casualty pricing will harden and revenue will begin to increase. He said playing the sector could take investors on a wild ride, especially during hurricane season.
Mr. Eisman sees the market turning around and suggested that the faint-hearted buy insurance brokers. For the bold, he recommended buying the larger and more diversified companies, like Aon. But he said the names with the most potential upside are pure property and casualty businesses in Bermuda.
"When the cycle turns, the upside in earnings could be considerable," he noted.
3:31 P.M. | Peter May wants people to buy Tiffany
Peter May, a founder of Trian Capital, wants people to buy Tiffany. His firm is a major shareholder, and he sits on the company's board.
3:24 P.M. | Steve Feinberg favors residential MBS
Steve Feinberg, the head of Cerberus Capital, thinks that residential mortgage-backed securities offer a good opportunity for investors.
Given the state of the housing market, with depressed prices and a proliferaton of underwater loans, people are walking away from their homes even if they can pay.
"We see cheap securities," he said.
3:21 P.M. | Winner of idea contest touts Bridgepoint Education
The Ira Sohn conference brings together masters of the investment universe to pitch their ideas to the eager. But today, the master was the student. Sunjat Gorawara, a student at Indiana University, was named the winner of the Ira Sohn idea contest.
Mr. Gorawara is one of a hundred applicants in the contest. The winner is allowed to present his or her idea before the audience.
And the winning idea? Buy shares of Bridgepoint Education, a for-profit college, which has high gross margin and return on investment.
Acknowledging that at a previous conference, investor Steve Eisman called for-profit colleges a short idea, Mr. Gorawara said just because an industry may fit a certain profile doesn't mean individual companies within it do.
He noted the demographic difference in Bridgepoint Education's students - mostly women in their mid-30s, compared to early 20s at other for-profit colleges. He also took Senator Tom Harkin to task for citing a dropout rate at Bridepoint that wasn't entirely accurate.
2:47 P.M. | James Chanos keen on shorting solar power companies
James Chanos, the head of Kynokos Associates, promised not to talk about China during his presentation at the Ira Sohn Conference. Instead, he took aim at the "greenies" or clean energy companies.
He said that the companies were poised for problems, as costs remain high and demand falters. Specifically, he attacked wind and solar energy companies. He accused Vestas, a wind energy company, of resorting to arguably questionable accounting to improve their financial picture. He said their cash flow had turned down dramatically and the company had declining returns on capital.
But, he said, he was most excited about shorting solar power companies. He called solar energy inefficient and noted that gas and coal runs rings around it in terms of price.
Mr. Chanos believes policy, rather than geniune demand, has driven installations. He cited European countries as having reduced their use of solar power, a major blow to demand. He said one C.E.O. his staff talked to said he planned to double capacity even if it meant prices dropped 50 percent.
His best short idea was First Solar, which he said uses a questionable technology and has serious operating problems. And to top it off, he said, the company is facing a management exodus. "They are seeing the same things we are seeing," he said of the departing management. "We advise you to heed their warnings."
2:25 P.M. | Phil Falcone on his all-out bet on LightSquared
Explaining why he favors Crosstex Energy, Phil Falcone, founder of Harbinger Capital Partners referred to its fundamental value as well as the company being a solid bet on oil and gas.
Mr. Falcone also offered a brief plug for his all-out bet on wireless venture LightSquared, which he said may one day become public, during a brief speech at the conference today. The venture represents a massive share of his hedge fund and remains private.
1:54 P.M. | Phil Falcone pitches Crosstex Energy
Phil Falcone, founder of Harbinger Capital Partners, is pitching Crosstex Energy.
1:33 P.M. | Stock picks from Dinakar Singh of TPG-Axon Capital
The tenor of the 16th annual Ira Sohn conference is something akin to investment speed dating. Managers step up and in 15 minutes try to offer a snapshot of what's worth pouring money into.
To that end, Dinakar Singh, founding partner of TPG-Axon Capital, skipped the casual banter and cut to the chase.
He thinks the current market conditions will be optimal for stock pickers. With all the stimulus being pumped into the system, and the financial crisis that preceded it, the market has moved up and down in tandem, creating mostly beta. But he thinks when the liquidity faucet is turned off, you'll be able to see what is and is not a really good value: "Now we get to see what the real economy looks like."
His picks: Orkla, a Norweigian company with a clean balance sheet that he says has suffered mismanagement. But change is underway. Board members are likely to be replaced and restructuring the company could also assist share price, which he believes has a 30 to 60 percent upside.
Zhongpin, a Chinese pork processor, is also a buy. It has been a disaster recently, he said, as Chinese markets have sold off, which makes the food leader a good value. He said as Beijing pushes the consolidation of the food industry, Zhongpin will be on the winning side.
Sprint is his last bet. Not only because after years of being bludgeoned there are signs of change, but it's also a long term bet on the U.S. mobile market, which will eventually be something like a utility, he said. And the recently announced acquisition of T-Mobile by AT&T will only make it more likely that the government will want Sprint to stick around as a viable competitor, he noted. That deal also grants Sprint a better bargaining position with potential collaborators like Lightsquared or Clearwire.
12:38 P.M. | Sabretooth Capital's Erez Kalir kicks off conference
The conference has began, and starting things off is Erez Kalir, cofounder of Sabretooth Capital.
Scanning the crowd before his presentation, the grimly titled "Economic Death as a Special Situation," he joked that he hadn't stood before this many people since his bar mitzvah, where he had a much more authoritative text to rely on.
Mr. Kalir's thesis is essentially that companies or even countries that are seen as economically dead present a potential opportunity for investors. So far, he's listed MBIA as a company and Argentina as a country he would place his bet on.
In Argentina, Kalir sees the economy turning around since the country's default in the early 2000s, and the best opportunity will be in the energy sector. He gave the examples of Crown Point Ventures and American Petrogras. 
He also said America could be at risk of a financial accident.
So how to profit? He dismissed gold or shorting U.S. treasuries. The government could intervene and foil those plans. Instead, he said, try buying some farmland outside the U.S. Seriously.

        
Pitching the Hedge Fund Masters
        
Live From the Ira Sohn 2010 Conference

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (91%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INSURANCE (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (68%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); SUBPRIME LENDING (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (63%) erez kalir; Ira Sohn Investment Research Conference; Einhorn, David; Sohn, Ira; Soros, George; Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc; Hedge Funds; Technology; Top Headline 1; Venture Capital

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (59%); BRIDGEPOINT EDUCATION INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc

TICKER: BPI (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (51%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (79%); GEORGE SOROS (74%); STANLEY DRUCKENMILLER (58%) Einhorn, David; Sohn, Ira; Soros, George

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



837 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Cheer Up, Republicans, the 2012 Field Isn't That Bad

BYLINE: MATT BAI


HIGHLIGHT: The current crop of presidential candidates is causing a near panic among Washington Republicans. But really, it shouldn't.

 BODY:
Suddenly the 2012 presidential field appears to have cemented itself, more or less. 
Indiana's governor, Mitch Daniels, has passed, leading to much wailing and rending of clothes in the halls of conservative think tanks. Tim Pawlenty, the former Minnesota governor, made his candidacy official this week. Jon M. Huntsman, the former Utah governor and ambassador to China, just made a solid debut in New Hampshire, garnering decent crowds and sterling press coverage, and when I sat with him Monday he sounded ready to jump in. And Newt Gingrich had moved on from defending his comments on Medicare to explaining away his credit account at Tiffany's, prolonging one of the most unfortunate curtain-raisings in the history of presidential campaigns.
There could still be surprises, of course, and by now you're probably sick of hearing the constant speculation about them; maybe Sarah Palin will decide to run, or maybe activists will draft Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, or maybe Ronald Reagan is actually frozen, like Ted Williams's head, and is thawing out for a return engagement. But barring such an eventuality, we can pretty much say that the top tier of establishment Republicans comes down to Mitt Romney, Mr. Pawlenty and probably Mr. Huntsman, with Mr. Gingrich and other contenders (Rick Santorum, perhaps, or Michele Bachmann) vying to create a viable insurgency. 
That roster is causing a near panic among Washington Republicans. But really, it shouldn't. That's because the most likely Republican contenders have a lot more going for them than you would think from watching cable TV. For one thing, they're all former governors, and governors generally make far more compelling presidential candidates than senators, who tend to speak like parchment scrolls, or, say, former big-city mayors who are used to getting their way all the time. (Not thinking of any Republican in particular here.) Governors tend to be pragmatic in a way that voters appreciate, and they can run as outsiders to Washington, which is the only way anyone can seem to become president anymore. What's more, two of the three likeliest candidates - Mr. Romney and Mr. Pawlenty - got themselves elected governor in predominantly Democratic states. The third, Mr. Huntsman, governed in one of the country's reddest states, but even then, he won reelection by a whopping 58 points and left office with the highest approval ratings in Utah since Brigham Young arrived. In other words, they may be yet unknown or - in the case of Mr. Romney - uninspiring, but nobody should lightly dismiss the political skills of any of these guys. And with the unemployment rate refusing to budge and economic anxiety peaking throughout the land, the eventual Republican nominee will have plenty to work with. It's not as if the game plan here requires a ton of innovation or star power. You can't really blame Republican power brokers who are pining for a more exciting entry to the race. They feel about this crop of willing candidates a little like any teenage girl would feel about the nice-enough guy who begs her to go to the prom six months out. All that availability just isn't very attractive. Surely there's some more popular kid who will come calling if you just hold out a little longer and drop some hints. 
But if history tells us anything, it's that you're always better off with the small-time or flawed candidate who really, desperately, wants to be president than with a more imposing or romantic figure who has to be persuaded to run. (Just ask President Wes Clark about that, or President Fred Thompson.) Democrats, you may recall, once dreamed of Mario Cuomo and had to settle, instead, for some yokel named Bill Clinton. And those who dream of more ideal candidates tend, as one does in dreams, to elide their very real blemishes. It's true, for instance, that Chris Christie, New Jersey's governor, has a national profile and plain-talking style; it's also true that his approval ratings have fallen into the 40s, and, as a matter of sheer optics, he would be the largest man to run for president since William Howard Taft. (This shouldn't matter, but then, neither should Michael Dukakis have been mocked for his height.) 
Mr. Daniels might well have had his best day as a candidate on the day he announced, just before Republican voters remembered that he presided over all that spending as George W. Bush's budget director. Jeb Bush might be the imaginary candidate with the most potential, but his last name is still Bush, and there's no way around that. No, the fact is that the best presidential candidates don't start out as fully formed national figures, like a Bob Dole or a Bill Bradley. They evolve to meet the moment by listening to voters in depressing banquet halls and cramped living rooms. They sharpen arguments through endless repetition and find their voices when no one in the press is really listening. They meet adversity and keep on going, because they just can't imagine living in a world where they haven't proved the rest of us wrong. Chances are that one of the candidates you see now is going to look a lot more presidential a year from now than he does today. Republicans shouldn't underestimate the power of that transformation - and neither should the man they're trying to unseat.

        
For Republican Hopefuls, the Bush Primary Is Well Under Way
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
Which Presidential Video Works Best?
        
Obama Strategy: Share Credit (and Blame?)
        
Lots of Talk, but Still No 2012 Republican Candidates

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (74%); MAYORS (72%); MEDICARE (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%) 2012; 2012 presidential campaign; barack obama; bill clinton; jon huntsman; mitt romney; newt gingrich; Republicans; tim pawlenty; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt; Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Elections; Political Times; The 44th President; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); TIM PAWLENTY (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); MITCH DANIELS (73%); RICK PERRY (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (57%); RICK SANTORUM (57%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



838 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW '4TH AND FOREVER'; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times at a Factory of Legends

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
Long Beach Polytechnic High School in California is not much like the fictional East Dillon High of ''Friday Night Lights'' or even, for that matter, the wealthier rival Panthers across town with their championship victories. Poly, as the locals call it, exists in a realm unto its own: Sports Illustrated called it ''sports school of the century.''
A kind of legends factory, the school has sent more than 50 players to the National Football League while producing other stars like Tony Gwynn, Billie Jean King, John Wayne, Cameron Diaz and Snoop Dogg. Poly must crane its neck, peer over at Beverly Hills High School, 32 miles to the north, and laugh in condescension. 
Lately, though, its legacy has been challenged, at least on the football field, and this is the subject of ''4th and Forever,'' a new series that bills itself as an unfolding documentary even as it bears all of the stagey hallmarks of conventional reality programming. It may seem narrow-minded to call out such discrepancies, arguably just semantic now. But ''4th and Forever'' is being shown on Current TV (soon to be the home of Keith Olbermann's ''Countdown''), the network co-founded six years ago by Al Gore, whose Nobel lecture, when played backward, promises to cleanse civilization of ''The Real Housewives.''
Current TV turns out to be less serious than one would have predicted, and in some sense ''4th and Forever'' might have benefited from some of the aura of earnestness that used to surround Mr. Gore before he took to making uncannily great guest appearances on enterprises like ''30 Rock.''
The producers of ''4th and Forever'' offer it with the establishing shots, synthesized music and inorganic, director-prompted conversations that are the lifeblood of Bravo and VH1. The commentator delivering the blow-by-blow for segments of the games that we see is not, in fact, the actual Poly announcer but an actor who seems to be modeling his delivery after the faceless announcer of ''Friday Night Lights.''
The emulation more or less begins and ends there. Midway through its fifth and final season on NBC, ''Friday Night Lights'' persists as an evocative meditation on the difficulties of working-class life. ''4th and Forever'' examines Poly's football team at a turning point, the 2010 season. In 2009 the team compiled its worst record in 15 years, losing 6 of its 12 games, which Coach Raul Lara calls ''a laughter of our tradition.''
Much is at stake for the many players striving for college scholarships in a place where, we are told, poverty and gang violence are commonplace. I say ''told'' because the series fails to delve deeply into the larger, uglier sense of place it suggests. You don't come away knowing Long Beach the way you come away from ''Friday Night Lights'' knowing Dillon. And you don't develop a satisfying rejection of the myth that sports are a great engine of American social mobility, a disappointment this show shares with the film ''The Blind Side.'' (On the other hand, you do see realistic football, which ''Friday Night Lights,'' with its fantastical fourth-quarter comebacks and 45-yard field goals kicked by novices, rarely manages.)
The players we meet are hard working and ambitious. One, a defensive lineman named Devin Jackson, sells kitchen knives door to door to help support his family -- his parents are unemployed -- and we see him doing so cheerfully. Another, who lives with a caring and supportive guardian, maintains a 4.0 grade-point average and is determined to get into Harvard. The University of California, Los Angeles; Princeton; and the Air Force Academy have already expressed interest.
The series talks about the problem of absent stewards, but for the most part it shows us parents and caregivers who push their children to succeed and remain present, a fact that seems to undermine the football mystique the show tries to uphold. The gridiron alone is no savior.
4th and Forever
Current TV, Thursday nights at 9, Eastern and Pacific times; 8, Central time. Produced for Current TV by Brian Graden Media, Jupiter Entertainment, DLP Entertainment and Global Content Partners. Brian Graden, Lois Curren, Stephen Land, Michael Hughes, Clint Stinchcomb and Alex Rader, producers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Devin Jackson, of Long Beach Polytechnic High School, who sells knives door to door to help support his family. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVANS VESTAL WARD/CURRENT TV) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (75%); SPORTS (75%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); GANGS (72%); REALITY TELEVISION (68%)

ORGANIZATION: CAROLINA PANTHERS (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%)

PERSON: CAMERON DIAZ (55%); AL GORE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

TITLE: 4th and Forever (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



839 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: Clouds Have Lifted, and the Hamptons Beckon

BYLINE: By JULIA CHAPLIN

 BODY:
IS it summer already? It certainly feels that way in the Hamptons, where a post-recession lift brings new places to dine, shop and, of course, party. Mercifully, the mood has shifted from the go-go 2000s. Instead of magnums of Cristal, it's now about communal seaplanes, hipster charities, hippie festivals, Montauk and more Montauk. Our guide:
1. ARRIVE IN STYLE
You don't need a helicopter timeshare to beat the grueling Hamptons commute. Starting today, the hotelier Andre Balazs will offer 45-minute trips aboard StndAir, an eight-passenger Cessna that will putter between a seaplane ramp at East 23rd Street and the East River, and Easthampton. ''It's unbelievably convenient,'' Mr. Balazs said of his fashionable cherry-red plane. ''It's really old-school flying.'' 
One-way fares start at $495. In-flight amenities include a goodie basket, Andre Balazs rose and glossy magazines. The seaplane can also be chartered to Martha's Vineyard, Nantucket and other coveted seasides ($2,200 an hour).
And if you're out of cash after you land, no worries. A new advertising-supported shuttle, Hamptons Free Ride (hamptonsfreeride.com), is operating an eight-person electric car in East Hampton, with stops between Main Street and the Main Beach.
For Stndair reservations: (855) 786-3247.
2. MORE IN MONTAUK
Finally, an alternative to the Surf Lodge by the people who brought you the Surf Lodge, the beachside hot spot credited (or blamed) for raising the party decibels in Montauk. The old Second House Tavern is being reborn as Ruschmeyers, a restaurant, bar and hotel with plenty of hipster flourishes.
''Midcentury, nautical, summer camp with a Wes Anderson twist,'' is how Ben Pundole, an owner with Rob McKinley, describes the look. Also expect tepee lounges, treehouses and a beer garden inside the old swimming pool. The restaurant, run by the Fat Radish team (Phil Winser and Ben Towill), features local seafood and long picnic tables.
Also in Montauk, the Crow's Nest, a divey restaurant/inn that the hotelier Sean Macpherson took over last summer, has seen more renovations, including spruced-up rooms and a new two-bedroom cottage.
Ruschmeyers, 161 Second House Road, Montauk; visitruschmeyers.com; (631) 668-2877. Crow's Nest, 4 Old West Lake Drive, Montauk; (631) 668-2077.
3. CLUBBY NIGHTS
The meatpacking district comes to the Hamptons, with two big clubs landing in Southampton. Elm, a multilevel club in the old Polish Social House hall, flaunts a burlesque theme. Mark Baker, an owner, says he's not targeting the summer-share set, but a more ''sophisticated crowd.'' Picture a gentlemen's club with a pool table, bookshelves and bottle service.
A quick hop away is South Pointe, a French Riviera-themed nightclub that hopes to be as debauched as the previous occupants, RdV East and Tavern. In East Hampton, the former Lily Pond space is now SL East, a sprawling club brought to you by the team behind the miniskirt magnets SL and Tenjune. Expect a similar madhouse.
Elm, 230 Elm Street, Southampton; (631) 488-4333. South Pointe, 125 Tuckahoe Road, Southhampton. SL East, 44 Three Mile Harbor Road, Easthampton; sleast.com.
4. SUSHI BY THE SEA
Can't go the weekend without black miso cod? Thankfully, Nobu has opened a beachy outpost in the revamped Capri hotel in Southampton with ''new dishes exclusive to the Hamptons,'' according to press materials.
The restaurant anchors the 31-room Capri, which opens this weekend after a beach-chic makeover by Meyer Davis Studio. Also premiering at the hotel is a Cynthia Rowley boutique and a poolside lounge called the Bathing Club.
Capri, 281 County Road 39A, Southampton; caprisouthampton.com; (631) 504-6575.
5. HIPPIE STAGES
Music festivals arrive in the East End. Vampire Weekend, Cold War Kids and Bright Eyes are among the indie bands headlining Music to Know, a new two-day festival at the Easthampton airport. Tickets start at $195.
For a more Burning Man-type affair, the creators of the Secret Garden Party, one of England's top ''boutique festivals,'' are importing their noncorporate, artsy and outdoorsy mix to the Shinnecock Indian Reservation. The three-day festival, called Escape to New York, offers live music (Patti Smith and others), a disco tent and high-end camping (''glamping''). Prices from $100 for a one-day pass to $3,350 for a safari tent with flowers.
Music to Know, Aug. 13 to 14, musictoknow.com. Escape to New York, Aug. 5 to 7; escape2ny.com.
6. READ THIS
Just when you thought the coffee table was safe, the magazine war is back. Joining the glut of glossy titles are two newcomers, The Daily Dan and Plum Hamptons, all vying for affluent eyeballs.
The Daily Dan, a collaboration between the fashion-y Daily Front Row and Dan's Papers, will cover the glamorous end of the social spectrum and, despite its name, is a weekly insert and freestanding handout. Plum Hamptons, from the resort-only Plum Networks, is a monthly that aims for the highbrow. The debut issue features the model and filmmaker Christy Turlington on the cover, along with a feature on Julian Schnabel and fiction by Jay McInerny. ''I wanted it to be more literary, something you can take to the beach and actually read,'' said Cristina Greeven Cuomo, the editor.
7. NOT SEASHELL ART
Can't make it to Venice or Basel? The contemporary art scene in the Hamptons isn't too shabby. Summer highlights include Richard Prince, a part-time Hamptons resident who will exhibit new works at Guild Hall, based on photographs of Jackson Pollock (Aug. 13 to Oct. 10). Tauba Auerbach will show at Glenn Horowitz Bookseller (Aug. 13 to Sept. 11).
And then there's Gloria Hole, a group show at the Fireplace Project featuring works by Terrence Koh, Agathe Snow, Aurel Schmidt, and Cindy Sherman, held in an old garage across the road from the Pollock-Krasner house in the Springs (May 27 to June 20). The opening party on Saturday promises to be a spectacle with pallid hipsters mingling with the Tory Burch set.
Guild Hall, 158 Main Street, East Hampton; (631) 324-0806; guildhall.org. Glenn Horowitz Bookseller, 36 Newtown Lane, East Hampton; (631) 324-1131; glennhorowitz.com. The Fireplace Project, 851 Springs Fireplace Road, East Hampton; (631) 324-4666;thefireplaceproject.com.
8. START PEDALING
The battle over high-end spinner classes has spread to East Hampton. SoulCycle is opening a 60-bike studio this weekend in a former art gallery, adjacent to Babette's and James Perse. Down the road is a new Flywheel studio, started by a SoulCycle alum, Ruth Zukerman. Both are known celebrity sweatboxes. Let the cycling races to nowhere begin!
Things are more namaste in Montauk. The lithe and tanned from last night's bonfire can be found at Love, a Yoga Space, a chill spot with a graffiti-covered studio ($20 drop-in class), hammocks strewn around and a resident surf pro, Mikey DeTemple, who gives lessons to the limbered ($120 ).
SoulCycle East Hampton, 68 Newtown Lane, East Hampton, (631) 324-6600, soul-cycle.com. Flywheel, 65 Montauk Highway, Suite C, East Hampton, (631) 329-8622, flywheelsports.com. Love, a Yoga Space, 83 South Elmwood Avenue, Montauk; (631) 668-8068, loveyogamontauk.com.
9. POP-UPS AND MORE
Now that the Hamptons have as many international brands as Bleecker Street, an indie retail movement is brewing. The Brazilian beauty Claudja Bicalho and her boyfriend, Mark Wilson, transformed an old wooden house in Amagansett into Lazypoint, a seasonal pop-up store with boho-chic offerings like crocheted beachwear.
Salt Box, a sort of communal gallery of East Coast artists, carries photography books, blown glass and graphic T-shirts. Also in Montauk, the French writer and filmmaker Agathe Borne curates Le Pop at an undisclosed house in late June, before pushing off to St.-Tropez and Ibiza. Items include limited-edition dresses by Tracy Feith, vintage Chanel and jewelry by Yazbukey.
Lazypoint, 303 Main Street, Amagansett, (917) 392-1384; lazypointvariety.com. Salt Box, 34 South Etna Avenue, Montauk; (631) 668-8094. Le Pop, location disclosed June 4 at lepopnyc.com.
10. FINDING CAUSES
The lions of the Hamptons benefit circuit still rule their weekends, but the junior humanitarians are edging in. Surfers and fashionistas gather this Sunday for a beach party in Bridgehampton to benefit Planned Parenthood.
And the socialite and baker Arden Wohl will host an Aug. 6 benefit for the Endangered Species Coalition at her renovated old barn in Southampton. ''The world is changing,'' Ms. Wohl said, ''so our generation has new causes to support.'' She also hopes to subvert the usual formula, with no sit-down dinner, no dress code and no ending time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WHAT'S HOT? A lot. Visitors to the Hamptons this season will find new clubs, restaurants, shops, shows, workouts and a fresh scene in Montauk.
PARTY: Elm in Southampton.
SWEAT: Yoga in Montauk.
SHOP: Pop-up stores abound. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 SEE: Art in East Hampton. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PRINCE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (86%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HOTEL AMENITIES (75%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); HELICOPTERS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: CROW'S NEST MUSIC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (52%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



840 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Winding Down the Bailouts, and Trying Not to Lose Money

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
After months of planning, the federal government has sold the first batch of shares that it owns in the American International Group, the most prominent reminder of the wreckage of 2008.
But much hard work remains.
As the Treasury Department winds down its numerous bailout programs, it must still contend with disposing of its legacies of the financial crisis: big investments in rescued companies like A.I.G. and General Motors.
After Tuesday's $8.7 billion offering of A.I.G., Treasury still needs to sell more than 1.4 billion common shares, perhaps over the next two years or so. (In addition to an approximately 77 percent stake in A.I.G., it also owns about $11.3 billion in preferred shares.) 
All told, Treasury still has $53 billion invested in A.I.G., while the Federal Reserve Bank of New York also has about $23.6 billion in loans to two A.I.G.-related investment vehicles.
And the Treasury Department also maintains significant stakes in other rescued companies. It currently owns about a 26 percent stake in G.M., down significantly after it raised $23.1 billion in a highly regarded initial stock offering. It also owns a 6.6 percent stake in Chrysler and a 74 percent stake in Ally Financial.
Stock sales for Chrysler and Ally are in the offing; Ally's offering may take place as soon as the end of June. On Tuesday, Chrysler repaid $5.9 billion in loans to the Treasury Department as well.
So far, shares in the two companies in which the Treasury Department has already sold stock have declined. Shares in A.I.G. tumbled on Wednesday to a new low for the year, down 4 percent, to $28.28. That is below the Treasury Department's break-even price of $28.73. And shares in G.M. have fallen more than 8.5 percent since its November initial offering, closing on Wednesday at $31.27.
In the government's reckoning, it has done well so far. Treasury Department officials say that the goal of the various bailout initiatives, including the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program, was to prevent an economic collapse. Earning any sort of profit would essentially be gravy, they contend.
As of now, the federal government has already recouped nearly 73 percent of its total TARP disbursements through both repayments and interest.
''Just two and a half years ago, our financial system was on the brink of collapse and a bipartisan effort was conceived to stabilize the market,'' Tim Massad, the acting assistant secretary for financial stability, said on Wednesday. ''TARP fulfilled this mission and we've already been able to recover more than 75 percent of the taxpayers' money in a very short time. No one predicted this positive outcome.''
Mr. Massad said in a conference call on Tuesday evening that the goal instead had been to maximize the value of those shares for taxpayers. The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, conceded in a speech last month that the auto bailouts, which totaled about $63 billion, were likely to lose money.
Setting the parameters of the bigger stock sales requires a delicate balance. The Treasury Department is seeking to fetch a price high enough to avoid locking in big losses. But it is also eager to shed its holdings, since officials say that their task is not to act like a hedge fund or private equity investor.
The companies have also stressed a strong desire to reduce government ownership, arguing that the overhang has deterred private shareholders from investing.
''The more the government continues to own parts of these entities, the harder it is for these companies to get back to business as usual,'' Anant Sundaram, a professor at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth, said. ''Getting the corporate governance at these enterprises to back to as normal as can be is highly important.''
But several factors, many beyond the government's control, may make breaking even difficult. As the markets have grown more volatile in recent weeks, pulling off a successful public offering has become more difficult.
Shares in A.I.G. had already fallen 49 percent this year before the re-I.P.O., requiring underwriters to walk a very fine line in finding a price acceptable to both Treasury and company officials and to potential incoming shareholders.
Compare that with G.M.'s offering, in which after months of frenzied meetings with investors, the federal government consented to both increasing the number of shares sold and their price.
Times have changed since then. Though the government's lock-up period for selling G.M. shares expires soon, the Treasury Department is now likely to wait until mid-August or September to hold a secondary offering for the company's stock, people with knowledge of the matter said previously. At the initial public offering price of $33, Treasury must now sell the remainder of its shares at an average of $53 to break even.
Some observers give Treasury the benefit of the doubt, pointing to the difficulties that private investors have in similar situations. On Wednesday, Freescale Semiconductor, a chip maker owned by a consortium of leveraged buyout firms, priced its initial offering at the bottom of an already reduced range amid slumping investor demand.
''I definitely give Treasury a solid B-plus,'' Professor Sundaram said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy Massad, an acting assistant Treasury secretary, said 75 percent of the taxpayers' money was recovered. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (75%); PREFERRED STOCK (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



841 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Euro Crisis Looms for Group of 8

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
PARIS -- The euro crisis hangs over the coming meeting of the Group of 8 industrialized countries, with Greece's renewed problems destabilizing markets, worrying Washington and influencing the debate over who should be the next managing director of the International Monetary Fund.
As the leaders meet on Thursday and Friday in the French seaside resort of Deauville for what is normally more of an informal session on security issues, the continuing problems of the euro and the divisions it is causing inside Europe are threatening to harm the West's uneven recovery. 
The European Union and the I.M.F. have tried for the last year to calm the bond markets. But demonstrations against harsh austerity measures in Spain, Portugal and Greece; bickering among European leaders over Greece's financial problems; and the European Central Bank's fierce opposition to any restructuring of Greek debt have all conspired to send bond rates soaring in the last week.
Some analysts, like Bruce Stokes of the German Marshall Fund in Washington, suggest that the problems of the euro could put the recovery of the United States at risk. ''If the European crisis gets worse again, the United States will have fewer tools to fight off the contagion,'' he wrote in The National Journal.
''For the United States, the euro is a big concern,'' said Nicolas Veron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, an economics research institute in Brussels, and a visiting fellow at the Peterson Institute in Washington. ''The Americans want to avoid systemic instability.''
For that reason, Mr. Veron suggested, the Europeans want a new head of the I.M.F. in place quickly, and in keeping with tradition they want a European. They have largely united around the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, 55, an English-speaking lawyer, who announced her candidacy on Wednesday.
American officials have called for an open process and praised both Ms. Lagarde and a Mexican candidate, Agustin Carstens, as ''credible,'' Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said on Wednesday. But he also said that Washington was working with all partners to ensure that the fund ''reflects the balance of power in the world today.''
The Group of 8 has been overshadowed by the larger and more economically oriented Group of 20, in which fast-growing emerging nations like China, India, Brazil and South Africa also sit at the table, reflecting the shifting balance of power in the global economy.
''The competition for global leadership is bigger than before the financial crisis,'' said Jan Techau, the director of Carnegie Europe, the European office of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Similarly, David Shorr of the United States-based Stanley Foundation, said that ''the G-8 bears a burden of proof to show its relevance and influence in today's world of shifting political and economic power.'' As a ''club of the Western old guard,'' he asked, ''does it have enough key global players at the table to tackle the big challenges?''
In addition to economic matters -- including questions about how President Obama intends to reduce Washington's giant budget deficit -- the leaders will face new challenges concerning nuclear safety after the meltdowns at the Fukushima Daiichi power plant in Japan and how to help along the Arab Spring in North Africa and the Middle East, even as the NATO-led war in Libya drags expensively and bloodily toward stalemate.
One of the biggest issues will be how to invigorate Arab economies and create jobs in the face of a large demographic bulge of unemployed young people and continuing instability.
Mr. Obama has pledged to forgive as much as $1 billion in Egyptian debt and guarantee another $1 billion in financing for infrastructure and new jobs, even as Congress seeks to cut spending to deal with America's own ballooning deficit.
France wants to push the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was set up to help the economic and democratic transformation of Eastern Europe, to explore helping Egypt, Tunisia and other Mediterranean countries.
But Group of 8 leaders are likely to find themselves enmeshed in discussions over their own economic and political troubles, which are deepening as recovery in Europe and the United States remains feeble.
Greece's troubles -- and rising popular unhappiness with austerity programs there, as well as in Portugal and Spain -- have shaken and divided European leaders. If Greek debt is not restructured and the country has no ability to raise money at reasonable interest rates in the private market, it would end up a ward of the European Union. Bond yields for Italian and Spanish debt are rising, as investors sense disagreement and confusion about Greece among euro zone leaders.
Mr. Stokes described the euro crisis as ''a slow-motion train wreck since it erupted last year.'' Despite billions of euros in loans to Greece, Portugal and Ireland, investors seem far from reassured that these economies can reform themselves and recover, or that any new contagion spawned by Greece will not hit even bigger economies.
In Spain, where unemployment is stuck above 20 percent and two million jobs have evaporated since the economic crisis hit, thousands of protesters -- inspired by the Arab Spring -- have been camped in Madrid for more than a week. Voters handed the governing Socialist Party heavy losses on Sunday in regional and municipal elections.
After Portugal finally went to the European Union and the I.M.F. for bailout loans, European officials felt that there was a ''firebreak,'' and that Spain, which had cut its deficit, would be safe. But now it is not so clear, and European Central Bank officials are arguing that if any form of restructuring of Greek debt goes ahead, Spain and Italy will quickly come under fire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); BONDS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); GERMAN MARSHALL FUND OF THE US (55%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (59%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GREECE (91%); FRANCE (90%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); BELGIUM (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); PORTUGAL (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011



842 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Reject the Tax Cap: A cap on New York property taxes would devastate schools and is no substitute for leadership

 BODY:
Gov. Andrew Cuomo and the New York State Legislature have already adopted a state budget that drastically cuts funds to schools and local communities -- cuts that were far deeper than needed to balance the budget because of Mr. Cuomo's indefensible refusal to extend a tax surcharge on New York's wealthiest residents. Now they want to adopt a cheap political tool -- a 2 percent property tax cap -- that would only further devastate communities around the state that can least afford it. 
Mr. Cuomo calls the proposal ''a game changer.'' He's right. In the same way that Proposition 13 has ravaged California, a New York property tax cap would do huge damage to already struggling schools and the state's long-term economic competitiveness. California's education system was once the envy of the nation. Education Week now ranks it 46th for achievement in grades K-12, below Alabama and South Carolina. New York schools currently rank 8th. For how much longer?
Not surprising, the Albany politicians and business leaders championing the tax cap don't like to talk about California. Instead, they point to Massachusetts, which capped property taxes at 2.5 percent in 1980. It wasn't a happy tale there, either. Communities starved of needed revenues were forced to lay off teachers, police officers and firefighters and to shut libraries and senior centers.
Massachusetts schools suffered so badly that the Legislature had to pump in more and more state financing, especially to the poorer school districts.
Mr. Cuomo and other backers insist that communities will still have a choice. The cap could be overridden by a vote of 60 percent of residents in the tax district. (Whatever happened to a simple democratic majority?) Wealthier taxpayers may well vote that way, especially to maintain good schools. It is far less likely to happen in the poorer districts.
When New York's politicians go on about how New York fails to draw businesses because of high taxes, even they must know that's ridiculous. Taxes generally rank behind education, infrastructure and other criteria when businesses decide to relocate and invest. Employees and bosses want to know about the schools. Business owners want to know if there is an educated work force. No public services? Who wants to move or work there?
Let's be clear: A tax cap is nothing more than a political crutch for politicians who don't have the courage to argue the case for more taxes or for spending cuts.
Mr. Cuomo, the Legislature and local politicians have to make the tough decisions to raise revenue and wrestle down personnel costs, streamline services and rationalize costly state mandates.
Property taxes in New York are undeniably high. But a tax cap is not the answer. It is an invitation to disaster.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (65%); RELOCATIONS (60%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



843 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: SEDENTARY WORK CITED AS FACTOR IN RISING OBESITY

BYLINE: By TARA PARKER-POPE

 BODY:
Looking beyond poor eating habits and a couch-potato lifestyle, a group of researchers has found a new culprit in the obesity epidemic: the American workplace.
A sweeping review of shifts in the labor force since 1960 suggests that a sizable portion of the national weight gain can be explained by declining physical activity during the workday. Jobs requiring moderate physical activity, which accounted for 50 percent of the labor market in 1960, have plummeted to just 20 percent.
The remaining 80 percent of jobs, the researchers report, are sedentary or require only light activity. The shift translates to an average decline of about 120 to 140 calories a day in physical activity, closely matching the nation's steady weight gain over the past five decades, according to the report, published Wednesday in the journal PLoS One.
Today, an estimated one in three Americans are obese. Researchers caution that workplace physical activity most likely accounts for only one piece of the obesity puzzle, and that diet, lifestyle and genetics all play an important role. 
But the new emphasis on declining workplace activity also represents a major shift in thinking, and it suggests that health care professionals and others on the front lines against obesity, who for years have focused primarily on eating habits and physical activity at home and during leisure time, have missed a key contributor to America's weight problem. The findings also put pressure on employers to step up workplace heath initiatives and pay more attention to physical activity at work.
''If we're going to try to get to the root of what's causing the obesity epidemic, work-related physical activity needs to be in the discussion,'' said Dr. Timothy S. Church, a noted exercise researcher at the Pennington Biomedical Research Center in Baton Rouge, La., and the study's lead author. ''There are a lot of people who say it's all about food. But the work environment has changed so much we have to rethink how we're going to attack this problem.''
The report shows that in 1960, one out of two Americans had a job that was physically active. Now it is estimated that only one in five Americans achieves a relatively high level of physical activity at work. Dr. Church notes that because the research doesn't factor in technological changes, like increasing reliance on the Internet and e-mail, many people in service and desk jobs that have always involved only light activity are now moving less than ever, meaning the findings probably understate how much physical activity has been lost during work hours.
While it has long been known that Americans are more sedentary at work compared with the farming and manufacturing workers of 50 years ago, the new study is believed to be the first in which anyone has estimated how much daily caloric expenditure has been lost in the workplace.
''It's a light bulb, 'aha' moment,'' said Barbara E. Ainsworth, the president-elect of the American College of Sports Medicine and an exercise researcher at Arizona State University. ''I think occupational activity is part of that missing puzzle that is so difficult to measure, and is probably contributing to the inactivity and creeping obesity that we're seeing over time.''
For years, the role that physical activity has played in the obesity problem has been uncertain. Numerous studies suggest there has been little change in the average amount of leisure-time physical activity, posing a conundrum for researchers trying to explain the country's steady weight gain. As a result, much of the focus has been on the rise of fast-food and soft drink consumption.
Other studies have suggested that changing commuting habits, declining reliance on public transportation and even increased time in front of the television have played a role in the fattening of America. But none of those issues can fully explain the complex changes in nationwide weight-gain patterns.
Some earlier research has hinted at the fact that workplace physical activity is associated with weight and health. One seminal set of studies of London bus drivers and conductors showed that the sedentary bus drivers had higher rates of heart disease than the ticket-takers, who moved around during the workday.
Dr. Church said that during a talk on the country's obesity patterns, he was struck by the fact that Mississippi and Wisconsin both have high rates of obesity, despite having little in common in terms of demographics, education or even weather. It occurred to him that both states have waning agricultural economies, prompting him to begin exploring the link between changes in the labor force and declines in workplace physical activity.
He quickly discovered that a decline in farming jobs alone could not explain increasing obesity around the country, and began exploring job shifts over several decades. Using computer models, Dr. Church and colleagues assigned metabolic equivalent values to various job categories and then calculated changes in caloric expenditure at work from 1960 to 2008.
''You see the manufacturing jobs plummet and realize that's a lot of physical activity,'' said Dr. Church. ''It's very obvious that the jobs that required a lot of physical activity have gone away.''
Ross C. Brownson, an epidemiologist at Washington University in St. Louis, said that both health professionals and the public needed to broaden the traditional definition of physical activity as something that occurs during planned exercise, like running or working out at the gym.
''We need to think about physical activity as a more robust concept than just recreational physical activity,'' said Dr. Brownson, whose 2005 report on declining physical activity in the workplace is cited in the PLoS One report. ''In many ways we've engineered physical activity out of our lives, so we've got to find ways to put it back into our lives, like taking walks during breaks or having opportunities for activity that are more routine to our daily lives, not just going to the health club.''
Researchers said it is unlikely that the lost physical activity can ever be fully restored to the workplace, but employers do have the power to increase the physical activity of their employees by offering subsidized gym memberships or incentives to use public transit. Some companies have set up standing workstations, and marketers now offer treadmill-style desks. Employers can also redesign offices to encourage walking, by placing printers away from desks and encouraging face-to-face communication, rather than e-mail.
''The activity we get at work has to be intentional,'' said Dr. Ainsworth. ''When people think of obesity they always think of food first, and that's one side of it, but it's high time to look at the amount of time we spend inactive at work.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Women sorting rice grains in a factory, the kind of labor-intensive work now in decline. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES/SUPERSTOCK)
 Less physical activity during mostly sedentary workdays accounts for one piece of the obesity puzzle, researchers say. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (93%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); NUTRITION (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); DIETING (90%); EPIDEMICS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (72%); BIOMEDICINE (72%); WRITERS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (68%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



844 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Married Couples Are No Longer a Majority, Census Finds

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Married couples have dropped below half of all American households for the first time, the Census Bureau says, a milestone in the evolution of the American family toward less traditional forms.
Married couples represented just 48 percent of American households in 2010, according to data being made public Thursday and analyzed by the Brookings Institution. This was slightly less than in 2000, but far below the 78 percent of households occupied by married couples in 1950.
What is more, just a fifth of households were traditional families -- married couples with children -- down from about a quarter a decade ago, and from 43 percent in 1950, as the iconic image of the American family continues to break apart. 
In recent history, the marriage rate among Americans was at its highest in the 1950s, when the institution defined gender roles, family life and a person's place in society. But as women moved into the work force, cohabitation lost its taboo label, and as society grew more secular, marriage lost some of its central authority.
''The days of Ozzie and Harriet have faded into the past,'' said William Frey, the senior demographer at Brookings who analyzed the data. (The proportion of married couples slipped below half over the past decade, but was first reported as a precise count by the 2010 census.)
Today, traditional patterns have been turned upside down. Women with college degrees are now more likely to marry than those with just high school diplomas, the reverse of several decades ago, said June Carbone, a law professor at the University of Missouri-Kansas City, and co-author of ''Red Families v. Blue Families.''
Rising income inequality has divided American society, making college-educated people less likely to marry those without college degrees. Members of that educated group have struck a new path: they marry later and stay married. In contrast, women with only a high school diploma are increasingly opting not to marry the fathers of their children, whose fortunes have declined along with the country's economic opportunities.
''Employment instability depresses marriage rates,'' Ms. Carbone said. Explaining the reasoning, she said, ''I can support myself and the kid, but not myself, the kid, and him.''
W. Bradford Wilcox, the director of the National Marriage Project at the University of Virginia, argues that the retreat from marriage is bad for society because it means less security for children. ''It's troubling because those kids are much more likely to be exposed to instability, complex family relations and poverty,'' he said.
Married couples may be half of all households, but that does not mean that only half of Americans will ever be married. The overwhelming majority of Americans -- with some exceptions -- do eventually marry (though increasingly, working-class people do not stay married).
Households are changing in other ways. Americans are living longer than ever, so households now include a growing number of elderly singles, said Andrew J. Cherlin, a demographer at Johns Hopkins University. Other factors have been the large influx of immigrants, who tend to be single people in their 20s and 30s, and the growing number of young people who live together without being married.
There are 37 states, plus the District of Columbia, in which married couples make up fewer than 50 percent of all households, up from just 6 states in 2000, Mr. Frey said.
In all, 41 states showed declines in traditional households of married couples with children. In 2000, married couples with children were fewer than 20 percent of all households in just one state, plus the District of Columbia. Now they are fewer than a fifth in 31 states, Mr. Frey said.
The biggest change for the decade was the jump in households headed by women without husbands -- up by 18 percent in the decade. The next largest rise was in households whose occupants were not a family -- up by about 16 percent, Mr. Frey said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (95%); CENSUS (92%); FAMILY (91%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (70%) MISSOURI, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



845 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: 'Godspell' to Be Revived on Broadway

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
''Godspell,'' the parable-driven musical based on the Gospel of Matthew that ran on various New York stages from 1971 to 1977, will be revived on Broadway for the first time this fall, the producers announced on Wednesday. The revival had originally been aiming to open on Broadway in the summer of 2008 but its financing plans did not come together, largely due to the approaching economic recession. The lead producer of the upcoming production, Ken Davenport, said on Wednesday that the musical would be staged at Broadway's only in-the-round theater, Circle in the Square. Preview performances of the open-ended run are scheduled to begin on Oct. 13, with an opening night of Nov. 7. 
Daniel Goldstein will make his Broadway debut as director; among his previous credits are the 2007 Off Broadway musical ''Walmartopia,'' and a production of ''Godspell'' at the Paper Mill Playhouse in 2006. The choreographer will be Christopher Gattelli, a Tony Award nominee for Lincoln Center Theater's revival of ''South Pacific.''
Mr. Davenport, in his announcement, listed ''The People of Godspell'' as his co-producer, a reference to investors who put in a minimum of $1,000 to capitalize the show; Mr. Davenport has referred to his financing strategy as Broadway's first attempt at a crowd-funded production.
The original ''Godspell,'' which was conceived by John-Michael Tebelak and had music by Stephen Schwartz (''Wicked''), ran Off Broadway from 1971 to 1976, then on Broadway for 15 months and eventually became a staple for high school and college theater troupes.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (93%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PAPER & PACKAGING (57%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); CROWDSOURCING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



846 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Growth in Education Spending Slowed in 2009

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU and ROBERT GEBELOFF

 BODY:
The nation's overall education spending grew at a slower pace in 2009 than at any other time in more than a decade, amid deepening state fiscal woes and flatter tax revenues, according to new census figures released Wednesday.
Public school districts spent an average of $10,499 per student on elementary and secondary education in the 2009 fiscal year, up 2.3 percent from 2008. In contrast, spending rose by 6.1 percent and 5.8 percent in the two years before that. 
''I think they are responding to economic and political realities,'' said Robert N. Lowry Jr., deputy director of the New York State Council of School Superintendents. ''There's been this recognition that times are different.''
Total revenues devoted to education -- which include money from federal, state and local sources -- rose to $590.9 billion in 2009, or 1.5 percent more than the year before. Of that amount, state revenues accounted for $276.2 billion (46.7 percent); local revenues, $258.9 billion (43.8 percent), and federal revenues, $55.9 billion (9.5 percent).
The report showed that spending slowed as a direct result of big cuts in education aid in some states after years of near constant growth. In total, such aid fell 1.7 percent to $276 billion, with the largest cuts in Florida, Michigan and California.
Meanwhile, local tax revenue continued to grow, but at a slower rate than in past years; property taxes accounted for about two-thirds of that revenue.
The report does not cover most of the $100 billion in federal stimulus money distributed to schools beginning in spring 2009, though federal aid did increase by $8.8 billion during the period.
New York led the nation once again in overall spending, at $18,126 per student, with school officials pointing to high personnel costs and a large number of state education mandates, among other factors, that push up the cost of education in the state.
Washington, D.C., ranked second, with spending rising 12.4 percent over the previous year -- the largest increase in the nation -- to $16,408. The next three highest-spending states were New Jersey ($16,271), Arkansas ($15,552) and Vermont ($15,175).
At the other end of the scale, Utah spent the least per student, at $6,356, preceded by Idaho ($7,092), Arizona ($7,813), Oklahoma ($7,885), and Tennessee ($7,897).
Safiya Jafari Simmons, a spokeswoman for the Washington school system, said that ''education is a much higher priority in D.C. than it has been in the past decade'' and ''as such, it is no surprise that we are putting more money into education.''
In New Jersey, the acting education commissioner, Christopher D. Cerf, said the state's own calculation of education spending was even higher than that done by the Census Bureau, just under $18,000 per student.
Mr. Cerf said the amount of money is less important than whether it is being spent effectively.
''The measure we should be looking at is how successful we are at graduating all of our students college- and career-ready,'' Mr. Cerf said. ''I think that is something that is not a function only of dollars, but much more importantly, of policies and practices that drive achievement.''
Employee benefits, including pensions and health care, continued to be the fastest-growing cost in education, increasing at twice the rate of salaries, according to the figures. For instance, benefits accounted for 22 cents of every $1 spent on schools in 2009, compared with 17 cents in 2002.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: Scaling Back: The rise in spending on elementary and secondary schools, driven largely by pension and medical benefits, eased in the 2009 fiscal year. (Sources: Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION FUNDING (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); CENSUS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); STATISTICS (77%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); EDUCATION LAW (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



847 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Shares Advance Modestly, Led by Commodities

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks advanced on Wednesday, with benchmark indexes ending a three-day decline, as commodity shares rallied on expectations for higher raw material prices.
Occidental Petroleum and Halliburton gained at least 1.6 percent as oil climbed after a report showing that distillate fuel supplies in the United States fell to a two-year low. Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold advanced 2.4 percent as copper rose after Deutsche Bank said prices were likely to rebound. Fifth Third Bancorp and BB&T increased more than 1 percent after Fitch Ratings said it probably would not downgrade German banks because of their holdings of Greek debt.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.19 points, or 0.32 percent, to 1,320.47. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 38.45 points, or 0.31 percent, to 12,394.66. The Nasdaq rose 15.22 points, or 0.55 percent, to 2,761.38. 
''It's a risk-on day,'' said Russ Koesterich, the global chief investment strategist based in San Francisco for the iShares unit of BlackRock. ''On days when you get a little bit more conviction about the economic recovery, stocks and commodities move up. The risk-on day is also a manifestation of companies most tied to the economy.''
The S.& P. 500 has fallen 3.2 percent from an almost three- year high on April 29 on concern about Europe's debt crisis and weaker-than-forecast economic data. Indexes of commodity producers slumped at least 5 percent during that period. Still, the benchmark gauge rose 5 percent since the end of 2010 on government stimulus measures and higher-than-forecast profits.
Barometers of energy and raw material shares rose at least 1.3 percent on Wednesday, the two biggest gains of 10 industry groups in the S.& P. 500. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials rallied 1.6 percent. Oil rose above $101 a barrel in New York. Copper gained the most in a week as Deutsche Bank said that prices were likely to rebound, after similar comments from the Goldman Sachs Group and JPMorgan Chase.
Occidental Petroleum, the biggest onshore oil producer in the continental United States, added 1.7 percent to $104.22. Halliburton rose 5 percent to $49.87 after Morgan Stanley raised its recommendation for the company to ''overweight'' from ''equal-weight.'' Freeport, the largest publicly traded copper producer, gained 2.4 percent to $49.98.
''The rally in stocks and commodities reflects the view that the global economic recovery is in place,'' said Eric Teal, chief investment officer at First Citizens BancShares in Raleigh, N.C. ''There had been some concern about softness in recent data and that's why we saw a pullback. Profits and margins should be sustained at these levels. The trend is higher and the rally will be driven by companies most exposed to economic growth.''
Financial companies helped pace a rebound in benchmark indexes as Fitch Ratings said German banks had ''manageable'' risks related to Greek sovereign debt and the Mediterranean country's economy.
''The worst consequence of any Greek sovereign default for German and other European banks would be a sharp increase in general capital market and creditor risk aversion at a time when many banks are still in rehabilitation mode,'' Michael Dawson-Kropf, an analyst at Fitch based in Frankfurt, said in an e-mail.
Fifth Third Bancorp, Ohio's largest lender, added 1 percent to $12.61. BB&T rose 1.8 percent to $26.67.
Take-Two Interactive Software rose 3.2 percent to $16.62. The company, which produces the Grand Theft Auto video games, reported a fourth-quarter loss, excluding some items, that was 55 percent narrower than the average analyst estimate.
Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years fell 3.6 percent in April, the most since October, after a 4.4 percent increase in March, a Commerce Department report showed. Economists projected a 2.5 percent drop in April, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 5/32, to 99 30/32, and the yield rose to 3.13 percent from 3.11 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); CREDIT BUREAUS (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); COPPER MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (75%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (75%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (74%); EURO CRISIS (74%); DEBT CRISIS (74%); COPPER INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FIFTH THIRD BANCORP (83%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (72%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); FITB (NASDAQ) (83%); FCX (NYSE) (72%); OXY (NYSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (72%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (72%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (72%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (72%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (72%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (72%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (72%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (72%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (72%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (72%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (72%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (58%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (57%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



848 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Security Suit Seeks Oklahoma's Help

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- It is hard to escape the long arm of Wal-Mart. Just ask Bruce O. Gabbard, a former computer security technician who was fired by the corporation in March 2007 for spying on company officials.
Mr. Gabbard has been on the run ever since, pursued by Wal-Mart's lawyers, who claim he took a trove of company documents with him when he left. A corporate fugitive, he fled Wal-Mart's home state of Arkansas and has not returned because a state judge has ordered he be arrested on sight and questioned under oath about whether he pilfered documents.
Now Wal-Mart has filed suit in Oklahoma -- where Mr. Gabbard has moved -- seeking to enforce the Arkansas judge's order. Mr. Gabbard's lawyers say the motion amounts to an attempt to have their client arrested and brought back to Arkansas, which would be highly unusual in a civil dispute. 
Wal-Mart officials deny they want Mr. Gabbard physically detained -- the order to arrest him has no legal weight outside Arkansas, they admit -- but they are asking the Oklahoma court to require him to return internal corporate documents they say he has. They also say Mr. Gabbard posted Wal-Mart documents on a Web site he controls as recently as last week.
''We have credible evidence that Mr. Gabbard copied Wal-Mart files before returning them to the company, and he revealed this month that he still retains Wal-Mart's confidential information,'' said Greg Rossiter, a Wal-Mart spokesman. ''All we are asking is that Mr. Gabbard comply with the court's order requiring that he turn over confidential files.''
Mr. Gabbard maintains he did comply with the court order in April 2007, handing over all the documents he had at the time, including those on his desktop computer, several hard drives and a raft of other digital storage devices.
''I brought everything and surrendered it to Wal-Mart,'' he said in an interview this week.
But Mr. Gabbard's lawyers say he later came into possession of another batch of internal Wal-Mart documents, after he had been fired and after a court order in 2008 prohibiting him from revealing trade secrets. They argue those documents, which support his claim that he was wrongly terminated, are not covered by the court's order.
Wal-Mart officials say those are questions for Judge John R. Scott in Bentonville, Ark., to decide. For two years, they complain, Mr. Gabbard has flouted the judge's order to appear in court and to hand over company documents in his possession.
David Massey, a lawyer representing Mr. Gabbard pro bono, says his client believes he cannot get a fair hearing in Bentonville, home to Wal-Mart's corporate headquarters. Mr. Massey says the Arkansas court denied his client due process when it held Mr. Gabbard in contempt two years ago.
Mr. Gabbard was unemployed and living in South Carolina when he received notice of the hearing, just three days before it was to take place, Mr. Massey said. The judge held the hearing without him, decided in Wal-Mart's favor, then ordered the local sheriff to arrest Mr. Gabbard on sight for contempt of court. The ruling also ordered Mr. Gabbard to disclose all the documents he had, along with the names of everyone he had communicated with since January 2007.
''He's scared to death to go back to Wal-Mart's home court,'' Mr. Massey said.
Mr. Gabbard, a 48-year-old former Marine, was fired after Wal-Mart discovered he had taped telephone conversations between a New York Times reporter and members of the company's public relations staff. Mr. Gabbard, a computer security expert, has maintained he was a fall guy. His superiors knew he was monitoring phone calls, he says, and had encouraged him to find the leak to the newspaper. Wal-Mart says he acted alone.
After his dismissal, Mr. Gabbard embarrassed the retailer, telling The Wall Street Journal he was part of an elaborate operation that snooped on employees, stockholders and company critics. Wal-Mart also accused him of leaking trade secrets to the news media, including a plan to increase the retailer's stock price called ''Project Red.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (90%); JUDGES (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (76%); WITNESSES (76%); ARREST WARRANTS (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); EVIDENCE (71%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



849 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Evasions By Leader Add Chaos In Yemen

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH and LAURA KASINOF; Nasser Arrabyee contributed reporting from Sana, Yemen, and Helene Cooper from Washington.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The president of Yemen, Ali Abdullah Saleh, has long been known as a devious and unpredictable ruler, famous for his brinkmanship.
Yet in recent days, as Yemen slips from political crisis into bloody civil conflict, Mr. Saleh's evasions have become downright bizarre -- exasperating kings, presidents, and even many of his own loyalists. Three times, he has promised to sign an agreement to transfer power in the face of vast street protests, only to back out at the last minute for reasons that seem trivial.
''Even by his own standards of what is rational, he is not being rational,'' said one American official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity under diplomatic protocol. 
Last week, John O. Brennan, the White House counterterrorism chief, called Mr. Saleh and told him that if he signed the agreement to step down, President Obama would single out the Yemeni president as a positive example of change in his long-awaited speech on the Middle East, according to another administration official. The United States and Saudi Arabia have grown deeply worried about the political vacuum in Yemen, which has been a boon to Al Qaeda's local affiliate.
Mr. Saleh promised he would sign. But he changed his mind again, this time in spectacular fashion. On Sunday, as diplomats waited for him to arrive at the signing ceremony in the Yemeni capital, Sana, hundreds of armed supporters of Mr. Saleh surrounded the building and trapped them for hours, preventing the ceremony from taking place.
Later, some of his subordinates signed the document, but Mr. Saleh refused, saying he wanted the political opposition -- who had already signed it and had not been invited until late in the process -- to be present.
On Wednesday, the capital echoed with exploding mortar shells for the third day in a row. Dozens of people have been killed; one local doctor said he had confirmed 54 dead on the opposition side alone.
The State Department ordered all eligible family members of United States government employees and some nonessential personnel to leave the country, according to a statement on its Web site.
The conflict pits Mr. Saleh's security forces against his tribal rivals, the Ahmar family, whose members play leading roles in the political opposition. The two sides are struggling for control of important government buildings, including the Interior Ministry, which are near the Ahmar family compound.
The United States, which has worked closely with Yemen on counterterrorism, is now considering pushing for United Nations resolutions or even sanctions against Mr. Saleh and his family members, to pressure him to sign the agreement.
American officials are finding they have little leverage with a president who seems to believe he can outfox his opponents -- and perhaps secure a bailout from Saudi Arabia -- despite the dire situation in his country, much of which is in open revolt and where several provinces are beyond his control.
To some Yemen observers, there is nothing new in all this except that Mr. Saleh is now in the global limelight. ''He's always survived by promising and pulling back,'' said Bernard Haykel, a professor of Middle Eastern studies at Princeton University who has lived in and written about Yemen. ''He thinks he can cajole and bluff and threaten and wear people down until someone says 'O.K., you win.' ''
It is not clear whether Mr. Saleh realizes that the current crisis is far more serious than anything he has faced before. Yemen's economy is collapsing, and its largest tribes are on the brink of armed rebellion. Mr. Saleh may soon run out of the money he needs to maintain his followers' loyalty.
Mr. Saleh's loyalists say he is driven by concern about Yemen's future. Yemen's political opposition, they say, has been a profoundly unreliable partner; it is fractious and ideologically diverse, and it lacks the experience necessary to run a government.
Yemen appears to be paying a tragic price for the struggle playing out between Mr. Saleh and his rivals. The nonviolent youth movement that inspired people across the country with its calls for democracy and an end to corruption has been overshadowed by a bloody street battle in the heart of the capital, one that now threatens to metastasize.
The conflict has deep roots.
''This power struggle between rival elite factions has been brewing for several years.'' said Ginny Hill, head of the Yemen Forum at Chatham House, a research organization in London.
When the youth protest movement broke out in January, many of Mr. Saleh's loyalists blamed it on the Ahmar family, especially on Hamid al-Ahmar, a telecom mogul. It is true that Mr. Ahmar has long cast himself as a rival to Mr. Saleh, and had proposed fomenting a revolution against the Yemeni president to United States diplomats in 2009.
But Mr. Ahmar played no part in the uprising that began in January. He has certainly tried to capitalize on it, using his vast wealth to provide food for many of the protesters camped out in a public square in Sana.
Yet many of the independent youth protesters do not trust the Ahmars to be Yemen's next leaders. They say an Ahmar presidency would not bring the change they are calling for, namely the transformation of a system of tribal favoritism and patronage into a modern state.
''We deny that violence. We don't want it to be like that. It doesn't belong to us,'' said Hamza al-Kamaly, a youth protest leader, by telephone from the Sana sit-in. ''You can say we don't belong to any side right now. We swear to God that we will never use weapons or hold arms.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yemeni medics helped a wounded tribe member after clashes with security forces on Wednesday in Sana, the capital. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YAHYA ARHAB/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); AL-QAEDA (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); WEB SITES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANAA, YEMEN (79%) YEMEN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



850 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Belarus Leader May Trade Rivals' Freedom for Aid

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- Facing a deepening economic crisis in Belarus, the country's authoritarian president, Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, indicated on Wednesday that he might free his imprisoned political rivals, a signal that he could be ready to strike a deal with Western governments in exchange for financial support. 
Until now, Mr. Lukashenko has openly mocked demands from the United States and the European Union to release about two dozen opposition figures who were jailed for participating in a large protest over the president's victory in fraud-riddled elections last year.
But the Belarussian economy now appears to be in free fall. Foreign currency reserves are dwindling, and prices are rising. Already in steep decline, the Belarussian ruble was devalued by an additional 36 percent this week, and many economists say it could plunge further.
There are fears of panic, as Belarussians stock up on increasingly expensive staple goods as well as dollars and euros, if they can still get them.
A large foreign bailout is imperative, economists say, but a $3 billion loan tentatively offered by Russia has been slow in coming, and might not be enough in any case.
That leaves only the West.
''They are still screaming, 'Free the political prisoners,' '' Mr. Lukashenko said Wednesday, referring to Western officials. ''We'll free them probably. No need to blow government money on prisons, eating up bread.''
Western officials offered no immediate reaction to Mr. Lukashenko's remarks, which were widely construed as a sign that the president might be willing to soften his hard line.
''This is a signal that our government is now open to a deal,'' said Sergei Chaly, an independent economist in Minsk, the capital of Belarus.
Both the United States and the European Union have imposed economic sanctions against top officials in Belarus, including the president, contingent on the release of the prisoners.
The police brutally dispersed tens of thousands of people who converged last December on a large square in Minsk to contest the presidential elections. Hundreds were arrested, and opposition leaders have since been sentenced to up to five years in prison for organizing the rally.
Though a Moscow-led alliance of former Soviet republics has offered a bailout, there are fears in Belarus that it will come at the expense of the country's lucrative government-owned energy transport infrastructure, which Russia has long coveted.
The troubles have shaken confidence in Mr. Lukashenko, who in nearly 17 years as president has largely staved off the wild economic fluctuations suffered by other former Communist bloc countries by maintaining a Soviet-style command economy and relying on handouts from others.
For the first time on Wednesday, Mr. Lukashenko acknowledged, in his offhand way, the country's dire economic state. ''Sure, there was devaluation. So what?'' he said, according to the Interfax news agency. ''The important thing is to deal with it properly.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); PRISONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SENTENCING (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); EURO (76%); ARRESTS (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (65%); PRICE INCREASES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) BELARUS (99%); EUROPE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



851 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
North May 'Cleanse' TownIn Sudan, U.N. Says
After seizing a disputed town on the border of the breakaway region of southern Sudan, the army of northern Sudan is now facilitating a relatively large influx of nomadic people into the area, according to new United Nations field reports. United Nations officials said the move could mean that the Sudanese government was trying to ''ethnically cleanse'' the area in a bid to change its demographics permanently and annex the town, Abyei. PAGE A4 
Positioning on Israel
Few issues in American politics are as bipartisan as support for Israel. Yet the question of whether Presi- dent Obama is supportive enough is behind some of the most partisan maneuvering since the Mideast ally was born six decades ago -- with po- tential ramifications for the 2012 elections. PAGE A6
NATIONAL
Battle Over Lagoon CleanupDivides a Surfing Haven
Malibu, Calif., is playing host to a court and civic battle that has pitted surfer against surfer, environmen- talist against environmentalist and City Council member against City Council member. A $7 million plan to clean up the Malibu Lagoon has stirred up a community that is more commonly identified with exclusiv- ity and natural beauty than street protesters and smack-downs at City Council meetings. PAGE A14
Married Couples in Minority
Married couples have dropped be- low half of all American households for the first time, the Census Bureau says, a milestone in the evolution of the American family toward less traditional forms. PAGE A22
New York
TICKET-FIXING INQUIRY
SPILLS INTO BRONX TRIALS
For weeks, a grand jury has been hearing evidence in a wide-ranging investigation of the age-old practice of ticket-fixing by police, or vacating traffic tickets for people they know. Though the investigation has not been formally announced and has not resulted in any arrests, its reach has already begun to extend to Bronx trial courtrooms. PAGE A25
Business
LOSSES MOUNT FOR AIR INDIA
ALONG WITH STIFF CRITICISM
Air India, once India's monopoly carrier, has been surpassed by three commercial Indian airlines that have sprung up since India deregulated the domestic industry nearly two decades ago. Air India now has less than 15 percent of India's domestic air travel market, with many empty seats on the flights that do take off, and it is being buffeted by criticism from travelers, pilots and lawmakers alike. PAGE B1
CARS TO ADD EMISSIONS DATA
The federal government unveiled new fuel economy window stickers for vehicles starting with the 2013 model year. The new labels will include estimated annual fuel costs and the vehicle's overall environmental impact. PAGE B1
FRENCH OFFICIAL'S I.M.F. BID
Europe's top candidate to lead the International Monetary Fund, Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister, formally announced her bid, as developing nations issued a joint complaint about the custom of always naming a European to one of the most important jobs in global finance. PAGE B3
OP-ED
Gail Collins PAGE A27
Nicholas D. Kristof PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DEREGULATION (88%); AIRLINES (87%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); FAMILY (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); POLITICS (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EMISSIONS (72%); CENSUS (72%); EVIDENCE (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); MARRIAGE (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (65%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); GRAND JURY (63%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL AVIATION CO OF INDIA LTD (AIR INDIA) (82%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) SUDAN (96%); INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



852 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Going Way Beyond Mileage

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The federal government unveiled new fuel economy window stickers on Wednesday, for vehicles starting with the 2013 model year, that for the first time include estimated annual fuel costs and the vehicle's overall environmental impact.
The new labels, which replace a five-year-old design that provided only basic information about estimated fuel economy, represent the broadest overhaul in the sticker program's 35-year history. There will be different labels for conventional vehicles, plug-in hybrids and all-electric vehicles, with cars running solely on battery power estimated to get 99 miles per gallon. 
The Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Transportation, which are jointly responsible for the window sticker program, rejected a radically different design that would have prominently displayed a letter grade from A to D comparing a given vehicle's fuel economy and air pollution to those of the entire fleet of new cars.
Automakers objected to that sticker as simplistic and potentially misleading. The government instead adopted a much busier label with more information and a sliding scale comparing vehicles across classes.
''These labels will provide consumers with up-front information about a vehicle's fuel costs and savings so that they can make informed decisions when purchasing a new car,'' said Ray LaHood, the transportation secretary.
The new stickers will for the first time include a greenhouse gas rating, comparing a vehicle's emissions of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases with those of all other vehicles, as well as a smog rating based on emissions of other air pollutants like nitrogen oxide and particulates.
Cars capable of running on electricity will get the highest greenhouse gas and smog ratings, but the fine print indicates that the measure does not take into account emissions from power plants generating the electricity used to charge them up. Stickers for plug-in hybrids and electric cars will also include their charging time and estimated range while running in electric-only mode.
Gloria Bergquist, vice president for public affairs at the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, said the government was right to leave power plant emissions out of its ratings for electric vehicles.
''Upstream emissions raise a complex mix of factors that auto manufacturers have no way of predicting or controlling, including the electric energy mix of a particular geographic region, and how much -- or in what manner -- vehicles are driven,'' she said in a statement.
The labels will include an estimated annual fuel cost based on 15,000 miles traveled at a fuel price of $3.70 per gallon as well as an estimate of how much more or less the vehicle will cost to operate over five years than an average new vehicle. In addition to the familiar city, highway and combined fuel economy estimates expressed in miles per gallon, the sticker will include an estimate of how much fuel the vehicle will need to travel 100 miles.
The E.P.A. said the new gallons-per-mile metric, combined with the estimated fuel costs, would provide consumers a more accurate measure of efficiency and expense than the traditional miles-per-gallon figure, which rarely reflects real-world driving conditions.
The gasoline price is based on Department of Energy surveys and calculations and will typically be updated annually, the E.P.A said.
The label will also include a QR Code that can be scanned by a smartphone to obtain cost estimates based on a consumer's driving habits and the price of gasoline and electricity where he or she lives, as well as comparisons with other vehicles. Such calculators will also be accessible online.
The National Automobile Dealers Association welcomed the new design and said it was relieved that the federal government had rejected the letter grade label.
''For decades, car and truck buyers have relied on miles per gallon -- or m.p.g. -- to compare the fuel economy of different vehicles,'' the association said in a statement. ''N.A.D.A. applauds the Obama administration's decision to drop the ill-advised 'letter grade' in favor of one that prominently displays a vehicle's m.p.g. By doing so, car shoppers can make informed comparisons on dealers' lots, allowing them to take advantage of new technologies, which will ultimately put more fuel-efficient vehicles on the road.''
Some environmental advocates pushed hard for the letter grade system, saying it provided car buyers the clearest way to compare vehicles across classes.
Luke Tonachel of the Natural Resources Defense Council said that the letter grade would have been preferable, but said he was glad that the new label provided pollution impacts and operating costs.
Dan Becker, director of the Safe Climate Campaign, who has been involved in fuel economy issues for three decades, was far harsher in his judgment of the administration's decision and the auto industry's lobbying campaign against the letter-grade system.
''The Obama administration has dashed consumers' hopes for clear information to make educated choices about which cars are really clean,'' he said. ''With its $80 billion bailout in hand, the auto industry has beaten the administration into abandoning the letter grade label.''
He added that he hoped the administration would move forward with strong new mileage and emissions standards for the 2017-to-2025 model years, with a mandate for a new car fleet average as high as 60 miles per gallon.
Those new rules are due this fall.
Online Correction: May 25, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the letter grade label for vehicles in a proposal that was rejected by federal agencies. It is A to D, not A to F.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ray LaHood, transportation secretary, and Lisa Jackson, head of the Environmental Protection Agency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 The federal government unveiled new window stickers, which will go into effect for vehicles starting with the 2013 model year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) (B8) GRAPHIC: The New E.P.A. Label: The government has redesigned its fuel economy sticker for new vehicles, which will start showing up for the 2013 model year. Here are some key features of the label for gasoline models. (Source: Environmental Protection Agency) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); SMOG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); NITROGEN OXIDES (74%); PARTICULATE MATTER (73%); AIR POLLUTION (73%); AIR POLLUTANTS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%)

PERSON: RAY LAHOOD (54%); LISA P JACKSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



853 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Running on Medicare the Right Way: Democrats cannot spent their entire campaign attacking Paul Ryan's budget plan

 BODY:
After their surprise victory in a heavily Republican Congressional district of western New York, Democrats believe they have the magic formula for winning back the House next year. ''Medicare, Medicare, and Medicare,'' said Representative Steve Israel of Long Island, who runs the Democratic election effort in the House. There is enormous power in Mr. Israel's new cudgel. Even Paul Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican who wrote the plan to privatize Medicare and end its guarantee to the elderly, admitted that it played a significant role in the victory by Kathy Hochul, the Democrat. Nonetheless, effective as the playbook was in one special election, Democrats cannot expect to build their entire 2012 campaign around attacking the Ryan plan. It's a useful reminder of the vast differences between the parties, but defines only the Republicans, not the Democrats. 
Sooner or later, Democrats will have to admit that Medicare cannot keep running as it is -- its medical costs are out of control, and a recent report showed its trust fund running out of money in 2024, five years earlier than expected. Bill Clinton was right on Wednesday to warn his party that it must bring down those costs if it is to have any credibility on the deficit and the economy.
Many Republicans are ruefully admitting that the House went much too far in passing the Ryan plan last month. Hypnotized by their own rhetoric, firmly believing that the 2010 elections gave them a mandate to dismantle essential programs rather than raise taxes on the rich, House Republicans approved a budget that went far beyond the comfort level of the nation's center. On Wednesday, five Republicans refused to support the Ryan plan in a symbolic vote in the Senate.
But not all Medicare cuts are the same. Democrats don't like to admit this, but President Obama's health care law reduces Medicare spending by more than $500 billion through 2019. This is done mostly by reducing the increases in payments to providers and cutting Medicare Advantage plans. After the law was passed, Mr. Obama proposed reducing health costs even more sharply. The subject is so confusing to voters that Republicans have used these cuts to suggest that everyone wants to cut Medicare. That's why Nancy Pelosi prefers a more simplistic pitch: ''We have a plan. It's called Medicare.''
At some point in the next year, Democrats will have to do better than that. They can start by defending their cuts and clearly differentiating them from Mr. Ryan's extreme plan, which makes the program unrecognizable. It might require, as Mr. Clinton put it, giving up some short-term political gain, but voters might also appreciate a dose of honesty and realism in their political diet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); US PRESIDENTS (66%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); KATHY HOCHUL (79%); STEVE ISRAEL (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



854 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Voter Group Flexes Muscle In Ads Aimed at Senators

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The League of Women Voters is typically thought of as an earnest, civic-minded organization best known for hosting sober candidate debates and distributing studious voter guides to keep the citizenry informed.
But two senators facing elections discovered this month that the group had decided to take its informational role to an entirely new level. Senators Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, and Scott P. Brown, Republican of Massachusetts, found themselves on the receiving end of a hard-hitting, big-money television campaign taking them to task for votes to limit the regulatory power of the Environmental Protection Agency.
The league-sponsored ads showed a new willingness by the nearly century-old group to flex political muscle. At the same time, the sharp tone of the commercials set off internal dissension, got league officials called to the Capitol for a dressing-down from Democrats, and had politicians looking at the group in a whole new light. 
''I was shocked,'' said Ms. McCaskill, who like Mr. Brown was accused of favoring polluters over people in an ad featuring an asthmatic little girl struggling to breathe. ''My mom was the president of the League of Women Voters in Lebanon, Missouri, when I was a little girl. To me, they have always been about civic engagement and debates.''
League officials and their allies say the ads were a natural outgrowth of the group's historic advocacy role on issues like clean air, which the league has championed for decades. Leaders of the organization said the campaign was reminiscent of its origins, when founding members spoke out for voting rights.
''The women who fought for suffrage and won were not shrinking violets,'' said Judy Duffy, a Minnesotan who is chairwoman of the national league's advocacy committee.
She acknowledged, though, that the group had decided to rev up its message machine after deciding that its more conventional approaches of letter-writing and visits to Capitol Hill were not working when it came to clean air issues.
She said league leaders were motivated by what they perceived as a shift from treating air pollution as a health threat to one based more on the economic impact of new rules.
''We had a variety of our normal kinds of advocacy but the message wasn't being delivered,'' she said. ''We took advantage of the opportunity to kind of step out of our box.''
That step was a big one, resulting in the league's acting at the end of April to buy two weeks of ads for approximately $1.5 million to take on two high-profile senators facing the voters next year, an approach calculated to grab attention. And it did.
Mr. Brown and his allies answered back to what they saw as an ambush, assembling a video that he posted on a campaign site. It accused the league of serving as a front for liberal special interests and sought to undermine the group's credibility.
''Remember when the League of Women Voters used to be a nonpartisan group?'' it asked. ''Now they have gone to the gutter with their negative ads against Scott Brown.''
Eric Fehrnstrom, a political adviser to Mr. Brown, said the league had squandered its hard-earned reputation for unbiased and nonpartisan voter education in order to go after Mr. Brown.
''It fell to us to correct the record about their misleading attack,'' he said.
Senate Democrats were not happy, either, with the campaign against Ms. McCaskill, who faces a difficult re-election campaign next year.
Representatives of the league and other environmental organizations that participate in a coalition in support of the Clean Air Act were summoned to the office of Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, to be told that the attack on Ms. McCaskill was not helpful.
Gene Karpinski, president of the League of Conservation Voters and an ally of the league, said the reaction was so vehement because the advertising sponsored by the league, with its long-standing reputation, packed more of a punch than would a campaign sponsored by a conventional environmental group.
''They are a great messenger,'' he said.
Both parties are quick to point out that the league, which supports transparency in political fund-raising, has not been willing to reveal the source of the money for the ad campaign.
''I don't know how a good-government organization can say with a straight face that they are not part of the problem if they are unwilling to reveal who is paying for the ad,'' Ms. McCaskill said.
League officials said they would meet disclosure requirements in their annual report next year.
One person familiar with the ads said the money was a result of fund-raising efforts and did not have a single source.
Ms. McCaskill and others also suggested that the advertising initiative could limit participation by political candidates in league activities like debates.
There were internal repercussions as well. A chapter president in Massachusetts resigned her post, and other members in the two states have raised strong objections to the ads, which have ended their run.
Ms. Duffy called the turmoil within the group regrettable. But she said she was hearing from many members -- including mothers and grandmothers of asthmatic children -- who were ''delighted that we are stepping out of our normal advocacy and making a strong statement.''
''We thought this was an opportunity to be heard above the din,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ads from the League of Women Voters addressed votes by Senators Claire McCaskill, left, and Scott P. Brown, right, to curtail the powers of the Environmental Protection Agency. In 2006, the league hosted a debate in the Senate race in Virginia, center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM LO SCALZO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
BOB BROWN
 ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); AIR QUALITY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); WOMEN (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); AIR POLLUTION (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); ASTHMA (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (90%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



855 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2117 words

HEADLINE: Maria Sharapova Extends Her Reach

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
WHEN Maria Sharapova won her first grand slam title in 2004, at age 17, she made the cover of Sports Illustrated. The issue showed Ms. Sharapova at the moment she became a household name, proudly beaming on court at Wimbledon in a body-skimming white tank dress from Nike. ''Star Power,'' the headline read.
''And do you think I knew what Sports Illustrated was?'' Ms. Sharapova said recently, recalling the moment when her agent, Max Eisenbud, first showed her the magazine, expecting her to be as excited as he was. ''I knew what Vogue was, but I didn't know what Sports Illustrated was.''
Ms. Sharapova, over coffee at a SoHo hotel last month, laughed at herself, saying, ''When you are young, you are a little naive.'' 
But you had to wonder: Was Maria Sharapova really all that naive?
One does not become the highest paid female athlete in the world without recognizing that the greatest potential for earnings comes not from winning championships, but from endorsement deals, particularly with fashion and sportswear brands. Ms. Sharapova, now 24 years old and the seventh ranked women's singles player, made $24.5 million from June 2009 to June 2010, according to Forbes, about $4 million more than her nearest competitor, Serena Williams.
Last year, she renewed her contract with Nike in an expanded eight-year deal that is estimated to be worth as much as $70 million, the most ever for a female athlete, including royalties from clothes she designs for Nike. She also designs shoes and handbags for Cole Haan and endorses luxury brands like Tiffany and Tag Heuer, and the electronics company Sony Ericsson.
Expanding her reach into the unexpected, she is about to announce a new partnership with Jeff Rubin, the man who helped create Dylan's Candy Bar in 2001 and a chain of candy shops inside F. A. O. Schwarz stores (called F. A. O. Schweetz) in the 1990s, to develop her own brand of candy and sweets. Gumballs will be shaped like tennis balls, and gummy candies will be packaged in containers shaped like tennis-ball cans, according to plans drawn up by Mr. Rubin, who hopes to have them ready in time for a rollout at the United States Open in August.
The name of her brand? Sugarpova.
Despite recent progress in her professional comeback, which has been regarded somewhat skeptically since a shoulder operation in 2008 took her out of the game for most of a year, Ms. Sharapova is laying the groundwork for what her life will be like after tennis. Ever the ferocious (and vocal) competitor, her victory on a clay court at the Italian Open in Rome on May 15 may have set up a possible storyline for a Sharapova revival, as she entered the French Open this week as one of the tournament's favorites.
But it is her competitiveness off the court that has made for a more riveting match in recent years, as Ms. Sharapova fights for turf among those athletes who aspire to become brands -- pushing both Nike and Cole Haan to produce more of her designs, creating the candy business and now expanding her online presence with a Facebook page with 4.3 million fans. (That's more than any other female athlete has, she pointed out.)
As she walked past the suits sitting at the white-linen-covered tables of the restaurant in the Trump SoHo hotel, in a loose, black-and-white flecked halter top and high-waisted black trousers that made her look even taller than her 6 feet 2 inches, a few early-morning diners looked up from their plates. Model? Actress? It was a few moments before her name could be recognized among their whispers. She hardly seemed to notice the attention, but then it would take a lot more than that to break Ms. Sharapova's focus.
''I've been very competitive by nature from a young age, whether it was eating a bowl of pasta faster than somebody else, or always wanting to be the first one in line,'' she said. When she was 13, training on scholarship at the Bollettieri Tennis Academy in Bradenton, Fla., a reporter from ''HBO Real Sports'' asked her if she had the chance to win Wimbledon or make $20 million in endorsements, which would she choose? She looked into the camera and said, without hesitation, ''I would choose to win Wimbledon, because then the millions will come.''
Retelling the story, Ms. Sharapova said: ''I looked at the guy -- and I remember this -- I thought to myself, 'Are you stupid? Maybe I'm not getting things. How could he even ask me this question. You can't buy Wimbledon. It's not purchasable. You have to earn Wimbledon. Second of all, if you win Wimbledon, of course you are going to get this money. I mean, it's Wimbledon.' I'm thinking this and then I find myself saying this -- not the first part, not the fact he is asking me a stupid question -- but the second part that, of course, if you win Wimbledon, then the money is going to come. Looking back on that, I thought, 'God, I had guts. I was brave to say that.' ''
Obviously, she was correct. In her own words, she now has ''money that will feed my great-grandchildren.'' (For those following her love life, Ms. Sharapova said she is looking forward to starting a family with her fiance, Sasha Vujacic of the New Jersey Nets.)
It was during her painful and frustrating rehabilitation in Phoenix, however, that her perceptions about her success began to change. A chronic shoulder injury that surfaced in 2007, and required an operation the following year, forced Ms. Sharapova to face the reality that her career on the court will someday be over. And where will she be without an opponent to face?
Coincidentally, she had read an article in USA Today that shocked her, about the financial problems facing former professional athletes. Willie Davis, the football legend, had lost millions during the recession with the closing of a California bank in which he was a large investor. A surprising number of football players had filed for bankruptcy protection a few years after the end of their careers.
Restless and ready to work, Ms. Sharapova called Mr. Eisenbud, who has managed her career since she signed with the talent agency IMG at age 11, and told him to contact all her sponsors. Their contracts typically limited each company's access to Ms. Sharapova to 10 or 12 days each year.
''I don't care what's in the contracts,'' she told him. ''Tell them I'll do whatever they want, whatever they need.''
She was determined to set Brand Maria in motion well before she was through playing tennis.
In a sense, her victory at Wimbledon came too early in the career of an athlete who was interested in blue-chip endorsements -- one who, like the Williams sisters before her, was most interested in fashion.
Ms. Sharapova often complained to Nike that the outfits they provided were not suited to her frame. She brought a sketch pad to tournaments and filled her hotel rooms with fashion magazines. She asked Anna Wintour, who has a keen interest in tennis players, for career advice -- whether she thought it was a good idea for her to design a collection. (''Be careful,'' Ms. Sharapova remembers Ms. Wintour saying. ''If you end up failing, you won't have many more chances.'')
She had also seen the example set by a fellow Russian, Anna Kournikova, who was famous for her boyfriends and for modeling in an ad campaign for shock-absorbing sports bras. She decided she would prefer to appear in a small feature in Vogue wearing a cool pair of shoes than on the cover of Maxim in a bathing suit. (Ms. Sharapova did consent to modeling for the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue in 2006, for which she appeared in several polka-dotted bikinis of the itsy bitsy variety.)
She was so sophisticated about protecting her image, Mr. Eisenbud said in a separate interview, that he had even noticed her begin to peel the labels off water bottles at appearances in clubs, or wherever she might be photographed.
Her first big deal resulted from an unscripted moment at Wimbledon. After she won, her father slipped a cellphone into her hand so she could call her mother. She dialed the number, over and over, but the call would not go through. Eventually, she gave up, apparently unaware the whole episode was shown on television.
Motorola, which was about to introduce its Razr series, signed Ms. Sharapova the next month. Commercials for Land Rover and Canon followed, and as her career advanced, Ms. Sharapova saw her name begin to appear on actual products, like sunglasses and a watch for Tag Heuer, and jewelry for Tiffany.
For her collaboration with Cole Haan, introduced in August 2009, she insisted the company include a ballet flat. (''I came in saying, 'You know what? I'm 6 foot-2 and I don't care about anyone else,' '' she said. ''I'm going to be selfish and say I love ballerinas.'') The $138 shoes are now among the top-selling items for the entire brand.
Meanwhile, designing clothes had been a much slower goal to achieve.
''When I was younger,'' Ms. Sharapova said, ''Nike would put me in the same clothes as maybe 10 other girls in the tour. We all looked like clones. I want to be different. If everyone is wearing black, I want to be wearing red.''
Two years after she won at Wimbledon, at the United States Open in 2006, her second grand slam title (she later won a third, at the Australian Open), she wore a little black dress with a round crystal collar that was inspired by Audrey Hepburn. It generated enormous publicity, but the dress, a collaboration between Ms. Sharapova and the Nike team, was never produced commercially.
''They could have sold a gazillion of those dresses,'' Mr. Eisenbud said. ''In a perfect world, I bet Nike would love her to wear something white and plain. That sells better.''
It is not as simple as that. For one thing, the custom-made black dress would have cost $600 or more to reproduce at retail.
A pale yellow dress with corsetry-inspired stitching that Ms. Sharapova wore at the French Open on Tuesday was different. It was not something she just happened to pull out of her closet that morning. Her outfit was decided more than 18 months ago, along with what she will be wearing at Wimbledon, the United States Open and other major tournaments throughout the year, with careful consideration of color trends, fashion forecasts and minute details like the time of day Ms. Sharapova is likely to play and the color of the red clay at the French Open.
As part of her new deal with Nike, the company last year finally began producing and selling a line based on her on-court attire, and dressing several up-and-coming players, like Julia Goerges of Germany and Anastasia Pivovarova of Russia, in Maria Sharapova looks.
For example, the same dress Ms. Sharapova is wearing this week, its crisscross taping inspired by the lines of the Eiffel Tower, has been at Nike.com and Tennis Warehouse for $120 for several weeks, something that took months of planning to achieve and represents a substantial investment on the part of Nike since it began to coordinate what players wear with what will be in stores.
Mr. Eisenbud said it took more than a year just to convince retailers that Ms. Sharapova and other players would actually wear the clothes as promised. But if customers respond as he thinks they will, the line could develop into something more substantial.
''Could she one day have a brand Maria Sharapova at Nike like Michael Jordan's?'' he said. ''I don't want to come across as an egomaniac. There's only one Michael Jordan. But if we did a good job with the Maria Sharapova collection, could all the young girls, in 10 years, want to wear Maria Sharapova? That's what I want to find out.''
Derek Kent, a spokesman for Nike, noted the company's history of creating products with input from athletes, from the runner Steve Prefontaine to Mr. Jordan, but the degree to which they can become brands themselves is a more sensitive subject. ''With every athlete relationship, it's always unique,'' Mr. Kent said. ''One side may want certain things. That's part of the negotiating process.''
At the risk of a stupid question, it seems relevant to ask Ms. Sharapova, at 24, if she had the chance to win Wimbledon again, or have a brand on the scale of Air Jordan, which would she choose? Just before the start of the French Open, she responded by e-mail right away:
''The answer is I would win Wimbledon over anything,'' she said. ''Wimbledon is not something you can buy. A brand is something you can build.''
Correction: June 9, 2011, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A correction last Thursday to an article about Maria Sharapova that was published on May 26 misstated the basketball team for which her fiance, Sasha Vujacic, plays. It is the New Jersey Nets, not the Los Angeles Lakers, for whom he did play.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DRESSED FOR SUCCESS: Maria Sharapova, in Paris a few days before this year's French Open. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED ALCOCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(E1)
OFF THE COURT: Maria Sharapova appears for, from left, Cole Haan shoes
Tag Heuer
Tiffany (in earrings worn later on court at the Australian Open)
and Sony Ericsson.
OFF THE COURT: Maria Sharapova appears for, from left, Cole Haan shoes
Tag Heuer
Tiffany (in earrings worn later on court at the Australian Open)
and Sony Ericsson. Extending Her Reach From First Styles Page
AND ON IT The dress Ms. Sharapova is wearing in this year's French Open, above, is already for sale. As winner of the 2006 U.S. Open, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHEL SPINGLER/ASSOCIATED PRESS
SCOTT BARBOUR/GETTY IMAGES (TIFFANY, TOP)
 MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS)(E10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS AWARDS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (89%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (89%); TENNIS (89%); SPORTS (89%); CONFECTIONERY (85%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); LUXURY GOODS (69%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (67%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (67%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (66%); FOOTWEAR (66%)

COMPANY: NIKE INC (95%); SONY CORP (81%)

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (95%); SON (LSE) (81%); SNE (NYSE) (81%); 6758 (TSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (95%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (95%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (95%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (95%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (81%)

PERSON: MARIA SHARAPOVA (94%); SERENA WILLIAMS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (76%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (76%); AUSTRALIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2011



856 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: 2 Former Employees Accuse French Official of Sexual Assault

BYLINE: By SCOTT SAYARE

 BODY:
PARIS -- Two women have brought sexual harassment suits against a junior minister here, with one saying explicitly that she was spurred by the accusations of sexual assault against the French economist Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the newspaper Le Parisien reported Wednesday. 
A state prosecutor and a lawyer for the women confirmed that formal complaints had been filed against Georges Tron, state secretary for civil service and also mayor of Draveil, near Paris. A preliminary judicial investigation has been opened.
The two women, 34 and 36, accuse Mr. Tron of repeated sexual assaults between 2007 and 2010, when they worked for him at the Draveil City Hall. They said the assaults began with foot massages. The newspaper said both women had attempted suicide.
Mr. Tron called the accusations ''outrageous,'' Le Parisien said, noting that he acknowledged giving the women foot massages, but only in the context of ''sharing knowledge'' about reflexology, an alternative massage that is often focused on the feet.
One plaintiff said the example of the ''little cleaning woman'' who accused Mr. Strauss-Kahn had encouraged her to file suit.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn was taken off an Air France plane at Kennedy Airport and arrested May 14 after a maid at the Sofitel New York said she had been attacked in his room. He resigned as director of the International Monetary Fund last week, paid $1 million bail and a $5 million bond, and is essentially under house arrest in a townhouse in Tribeca.
Mr. Tron said the complaints were probably politically motivated, adding that he was unsurprised, ''given the current context'' of Mr. Strauss-Kahn's case.
The accusations against Mr. Strauss-Kahn have prompted some hand-wringing in the French news media over their unwillingness to publish information about what they consider the private lives of public figures.
But Le Canard Enchaine, a respected weekly, defended the traditional approach in an editorial last week. ''For 'Le Canard,' '' it wrote, ''news always stops at the bedroom door.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASSAULT & BATTERY (91%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); MASSAGE SERVICES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ARRESTS (78%); BAIL (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); MAYORS (76%); SUICIDE (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); HOUSE ARREST (71%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (69%)

COMPANY: AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

TICKER: AF (PAR) (55%); AF (AMS) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



857 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Russia Is Invited to Join O.E.C.D. Anti-Bribery Pact

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER; Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from Paris.

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- A group of nations working to outlaw bribery in international trade invited Russia to join their pact at a ceremony Wednesday in Paris, after the Russian Parliament passed a law this spring prohibiting Russian companies from bribing foreign officials. 
The ceremony was the beginning of Russia's application process to join the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's anti-bribery convention, which began as an initiative to ban kickbacks and corruption in transnational deals.
It was also a step toward full O.E.C.D. membership for Russia, because acceptance into the anti-bribery convention is a requirement for aspiring members. Russia first asked to join in 2007, along with Chile, Estonia, Slovenia and Israel. The other four are already members.
All 34 members of the O.E.C.D., as well as four nonmembers, have signed the anti-bribery convention. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton attended the ceremony at the organization's headquarters in Paris, highlighting the convention's importance to the United States.
''This is an important step for Russia and for all members and partners of the O.E.C.D.,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''Russia has removed a major obstacle to doing business and advancing economic growth.''
She also spoke broadly about state-owned enterprises, without mentioning Russia specifically. ''We recognize that countries will make different choices about how much of their economies to keep in the hands of government,'' she said. ''Still -- whether they are owned by shareholders or states -- all companies should operate on a level playing field.''
A working group will now gauge whether Russia's new legislation adheres to its standards. Bribery and other forms of corruption are a scourge inside Russia. The new law, however, addresses bribery outside Russia's borders. Similar to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the United States, it criminalizes the payment of a bribe by a Russian to an official of a foreign government.
Russia has not committed to stricter measures against bribery at home. Transparency International, the anticorruption group, ranks Russia 154th in the world on its 2010 Corruption Perception index, tied with Papua New Guinea, Laos, Cambodia, a number of African countries and Tajikistan.
The United States encouraged other O.E.C.D. countries to adopt legislation similar to its own law as it became clear that however helpful it was in diminishing corruption in other countries, it was putting American companies at a disadvantage.
The O.E.C.D. convention took effect in 1999. Since then, governments have made headway in pursuing companies that pay bribes.
The new law in Russia raises the existing fines that can be levied on Russian companies that bribe foreign officials and imposes new criminal responsibility. But, recent cases have called into question Russia's commitment to transnational prosecution of bribery infractions. Even in instances where Germany and the United States have prosecuted their own citizens or businesses for bribing Russian officials, Russian law enforcement agencies have not picked up the lead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); BRIBERY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (88%); SLOVENIA (79%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CHILE (79%); ESTONIA (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (52%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011



858 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: In Memorial Day Forays, an Economic Snapshot; 
Green

BYLINE: CLIFFORD KRAUSS


HIGHLIGHT: It's unlikely that holiday motorists will reach the 2007 gasoline consumption heights again this weekend because the economy has still not fully recovered.

 BODY:
Are you going away this Memorial Day weekend, and how far are you going to drive?
 A lot of economists would like to know. The answers, when gathered for the entire population, will tell them a lot about where the nation's economy is going. 
 Most energy experts expect about as much driving as during last year's Memorial Day weekend, the opening of the summer driving season, or perhaps a bit less. The average price for a gallon of regular nationwide is more than a dollar higher than a year ago, although it has slid about 6 cents over the last month, according to AAA's Daily Fuel Gauge Report.
 Higher gasoline prices usually mean that drivers are less eager to take a spin. MasterCard Spending Pulse, which estimates national spending patterns, has found that since March, there have been small but consistent year-over-year declines in gasoline consumption due to higher prices at the pump. That pattern could well hold over the weekend, which would probably not be good news for the hotel and tourism industry.
 MasterCard Spending Pulse has offered some interesting historical perspective, correlating Memorial Day and summer driving habits with the broader economy. Take the 2007 Memorial Day weekend, for example. With a robust economy, Americans pumped nearly 37 million barrels of gasoline over that three-day weekend as prices at the pump averaged $3.20. 
Only a year later, with recessionary clouds looming and prices at the pump 69 cents a gallon higher, Americans pumped 6 percent less gas. For the 2008 summer as a whole, gasoline consumption was down more than 4 percent -- a clear sign of a slowing economy and "demand destruction" caused by higher fuel costs. 
As the economy gradually improved and with fuel prices more moderately priced, Americans gradually drove more and consumed more gasoline over the 2009 and 2010 Memorial Day weekends. But gasoline consumption was still more than 2 percent lower in 2010 than it was in 2007 for the holiday weekend.
 It's unlikely that holiday motorists will reach the 2007 gasoline consumption heights again this year. That's mostly because the economy has still not fully recovered. But slowly, the nation's car fleet is changing, too. The "cash for clunkers" program took some clunkers off the roads. Manufacturers are making cars more fuel efficient every year. Electric cars are hitting the market. SUVs are not as popular as they were four years ago.
 Maybe one year soon, the economy will be stronger and we will still use less gasoline.
An earlier version of this post misspelled the name of a MasterCard program. It is MasterCard Spending Pulse, not MasterCard Spending Plus. 

        
A Tipping Point for Oil Prices
        
How Do You Measure Green Tourism?
        
Senate Opens Hearing on Oil and Gas Subsidies
        
Skidding Oil Prices: A Blip or a Trend?
        
Dissecting This Week's Oil Price Tumble

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); GASOLINE (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); TOURISM (73%); LODGING (71%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (60%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (60%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (60%) economy; gasoline prices; Memorial Day weekend; tourism; travel; Automobiles; Economic Conditions and Trends; Fuel Efficiency; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; American Automobile Assn; United States

ORGANIZATION: American Automobile Assn

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011



859 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: The Path From Charity to Profit

BYLINE: TINA ROSENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: Social businesses require a delicate balance of the humanitarian and the financial to succeed.

 BODY:
On Tuesday I wrote about Kedai Balitaku, a for-profit company started last year by the development group Mercy Corps in Indonesia. Mercy Corps took this unusual step because it realized that its programs to educate mothers about nutrition were not changing what mothers fed their children. Healthy food is expensive, and the crowded conditions in the Jakarta slums mean that many families have no place to cook or eat. So they buy their children the cheapest street food, which is usually either sweet or deep fried. Kedai Balitaku, which usually goes by the name KeBal, aims to become a chain of street carts selling low-priced healthy food to children.
KeBal is a social business - one that exists primarily to achieve a social goal. It's easy to see why the social businesses model has become a popular strategy for attacking the problems of the poor. The impulse to create a business rather than employ traditional nonprofit work comes partly out of the notion - right or wrong - that charity creates dependency and that without the discipline of the market it often doesn't work. Development groups, moreover, are always looking for ways to make their projects live on once they've moved to other things. Creating a business is one solution.
"We were trying to get away from traditional model where everything is implemented by an N.G.O. (a non-governmental group) or by the government, and everything is dependent on the next round of funding," said Sasha Muench, Mercy Corps' economic development adviser. "As long as businesses are profitable, they have an inherent sustainability factor."
But just like any other kind of project, social businesses are useful and successful only some of the time. Not every problem lends itself to a market solution, and many social businesses fail.
Social businesses fall roughly into two different categories. Some try to employ people who wouldn't otherwise have jobs: for example, fair trade groups that buy crafts from indigenous women to sell in wealthy countries. Others provide goods or services to people who otherwise can't afford them. A few examples: Ecotact, a business started by a Kenyan entrepreneur, operates pay toilets and showers in 29 locations around Nairobi, helping to provide sanitation services to the 50 percent of Kenyans who lack them. LifeSpring runs a chain of low-cost maternity hospitals around South India, so far treating some 70,000 patients. MicroDrip, a spinoff from an Indian development organization, sells drip irrigation systems to small farmers in Pakistan to help them improve crop yields. AllLife in South Africa offers life and disability insurance to people with HIV. Grameen Danone Foods, a joint venture between the Grameen Group and the yogurt maker known to Americans as Dannon, makes nutrient-fortified yogurt for Bangladeshi children.
Many such businesses get financing from impact investment funds - organizations that connect promising social businesses with medium- or long-term investors who give priority to making a difference. One of the best known is the Acumen Fund, which supports Ecotact and MicroDrip, among many other social businesses.
For a social business, "the obstacles are similar to those of starting and running any new business," said J. Gregory Dees, a professor of Practice of Social Entrepreneurship at Duke University's Fuqua School of Business. "New ventures are risky - raising capital, attracting talent, managing the organization, attracting customers, selling your product (ideally at a profit, though most businesses take a while to reach profitability) are all difficult. And the social mission adds to the degree of difficulty by constraining your options."
Dees points out something important - success isn't instant. Many social businesses spend years receiving donations or relying on a nonprofit for back-office work before they fly solo. Grameen Bank took 18 years to stop accepting donations. This is also the case with Soluciones Comunitarias, a Guatemalan business I wrote about in late January and early February that sells reading glasses, improved cookstoves, solar lamps and other products to rural people. It was founded by a nonprofit called CE Solutions, which continues to help by lending money, proposing new products and carrying out market research and evaluation.
But no nonprofit can prop up a social business which doesn't get the basics right. "It's the same thing that makes any business successful. First and foremost they need strong management and a business strategy that understands the needs of customers," said Randall Kempner, the executive director of the Aspen Network of Development Entrepreneurs. "The thing that typifies most successful social enterprises is that they're successful enterprises."
This is usually more difficult for a social business that sells to the poor - their margins are by definition limited. KeBal faces other challenges. There is no established market for healthy food, and it is more expensive to produce - a crucial factor when consumers make decisions based largely on price. In addition, starting a social business is perhaps most difficult for large, traditional N.G.O.'s like Mercy Corps, which have a very different culture than for-profit companies.
"With an N.G.O. you get the funds and implement the project, and you get your salary whatever happens," said Sean Granville-Ross, Mercy Corps' Indonesia country director. "It's tough to find people who think like a business and not an N.G.O."
"There's always the dichotomy," said Muench. "You're thinking about profits and sustainability, and you're thinking about the humanitarian issues. It can become an internal battle. We're always inclined to shift back into humanitarian need but have to remember that to be sustainable you have to have a hard business mentality."
These two imperatives have clashed in the hiring of street vendors. Mercy Corps would like to create jobs for people who need them most - low-skilled single mothers. But the business demands vendors who have the confidence and boldness to sell, and who will take the risk of ordering a lot of inventory - not the usual profile of downtrodden women in this society. KeBal's health requirement that food must be sold the day it is made has reduced sales. Vendors order less than they think they will sell for fear of being stuck with excess inventory at the end of the day.
Mercy Corps has pushed hard to infuse KeBal with a business mentality. It spent two years doing market testing and developing and testing menus. It also had the chance to make low-cost mistakes. The group tried to start a version of KeBal in Aceh, the province in tsunami recovery where Mercy Corps has many projects. It didn't work well, mainly because Aceh doesn't have the population density of Jakarta. People have kitchens in Aceh, so the culture of street food is not as strong. KeBal's challenge now is to find the capital it needs to grow - the only way it can lower the costs of cooking healthy food.
KeBal is probably the riskiest kind of social business. Even if it fails, it's an admirable idea. There was probably no other way to solve the problem of getting healthy food to Jakarta's children. Boldness is often lacking in established nongovernmental groups, and in this case, it is something to applaud.
Join Fixes on Facebook and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes.
Tina Rosenberg won a Pulitzer Prize for her book "The Haunted Land: Facing Europe's Ghosts After Communism." She is a former editorial writer for The Times and now a contributing writer for the paper's Sunday magazine. Her new book is "Join the Club: How Peer Pressure Can Transform the World." 

        
In 'Food Deserts,' Oases of Nutrition
        
Publishers as Partners in Literacy
        
A Conversation About Food, Cooking and Alice B. Toklas
        
A Book in Every Home, and Then Some
        
Junk Food 'Guidelines' Won't Help

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); NUTRITION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); FAMILY (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); DISABILITY INSURANCE (71%); HOSPITALS (63%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (60%); JOINT VENTURES (50%) children; Diet and Nutrition; fair trade; HIV; motherhood; social businesses; Food; Nonprofit Organizations; Vendors, Street; Mercy Corps; Aceh Province (Indonesia); Indonesia; Jakarta (Indonesia); Fixes

COMPANY: DANONE SA (FRANCE) (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MERCY CORPS (94%) Mercy Corps

TICKER: DNN (BIT) (50%); BN (PAR) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%); NAIROBI, KENYA (51%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (73%) INDONESIA (94%); KENYA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) Aceh Province (Indonesia); Indonesia; Jakarta (Indonesia)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



860 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Hudson River Park Trust Picks a New Leader

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: The group, which manages the public lands along the river below 59th Street, is seeking new ways to generate revenue from the waterfront.

 BODY:
Updated, 6:33 p.m. | Madelyn Wils is trading the Coney Island boardwalk and the body shops of Willets Point, Queens, for the green patches and esplanades that line the Hudson River waterfront in Manhattan.
 Ms. Wils, a longtime resident of TriBeCa, is leaving an executive position at the New York City Economic Development Corporation to become the president and chief executive of the Hudson River Park Trust, which manages the public lands along the river below 59th Street. Ms. Wils succeeds Connie Fishman, who left the trust in February to oversee real estate for the YMCA of Greater New York.
In her new job, Ms. Wils will have to devise ways of increasing revenue from the waterfront property to help pay for the continued development of piers that make up much of the park. A critical question is what to do with Pier 40, which houses a parking garage that provides more than one-third of the trust's annual revenue. 
The trust, which has spent about $400 million to redevelop the crumbling vestiges of the city's maritime past into recreational spaces, takes in about $16 million a year. Its managers have repeatedly been frustrated by community opposition to plans for commercial uses of some of the piers, including Pier 57 at the edge of Chelsea. That pier is supposed to be turned into a cultural center, after a previous proposal was scrapped when the developer backed out. 
 Ms. Wils has plenty of experience trying to balance the dreams of developers against the hopes of neighborhood residents. She was involved in contentious negotiations to develop housing in the Seward Park section of the Lower East Side and to relocate auto repair businesses from the blocks around Citi Field in Queens. Before that, as a board member of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, she helped plan the 9/11 memorial at the World Trade Center site. 
 "She comes from the community and she knows the waterfront," said A.J. Pietrantone, executive director of the Friends of Hudson Park, a group that raises money for the park. "The park now is approaching completion so it's more expensive to operate. It's a very complex and strategic agenda that needs to be coordinated well and I think she's well suited for that."
 Ms. Wils, 55, said she would start at the trust on June 20, after overseeing the launch of ferry service on the East River, which, like the reimagining of Coney Island, was one of her projects at the development corporation. 
 "It's a big switch, but the waterfront has always been my passion," she said in an interview. "We have to look at stabilizing the park both structurally and financially. It's going to take a lot of work." But, Ms. Wils added, "I'm attracted to challenges."

        
TriBeCa Gets a Waterfront Park
        
Paddle to the Sea, but First Get the Map
        
Answers From the Waterfront Expert, Part 3
        
Journey Down the Hudson Ends on the West Side
        
Seal Soaks Up the Sun on the Isle of Manhattan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POLITICS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FERRIES (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); RELOCATIONS (68%) Economic Development Corporation; Hudson River; Hudson River Park; Hudson River Park Trust; Government & Politics; Housing & Economy

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Hudson River Park Trust

TICKER: C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Hudson River

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



861 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Demography, Design, Atom Bombs and Tornado Deaths

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: The role of population shifts in the high death counts in tornado hot zones.

 BODY:
[3:47 p.m. | Updated There's fresh tornado common sense from Chuck Doswell at the University of Oklahoma appended below.]
I encourage you to read a nice roundup of questions and answers on tornado trends by the science and environment staff of The Times. There's an excellent overview of this extraordinary season by NPR, as well.
But also make sure to catch a fresh look at the outsize death count this year taken by Kevin Simmons, an economist focused on the impacts of extreme weather, and particularly tornadoes. He's also the co-author, with Daniel Sutter, of "Economic and Societal Impacts of Tornadoes." Here's the nut of his piece and a link to the rest:
How could this happen? Is it climate change or just bad luck? I am not a climate scientist, so I will leave that question for more qualified researchers. But I do have some insight into why this year has been one that we will likely never forget. First, it has been almost 50 years since we have seen an outbreak of this magnitude. And over that time we have come to believe that outbreaks of this size are so rare that we just don't consider that they could happen in our lifetime. But, 50 years is a blink of an eye to Mother Nature. Our records and oral history only go back a few hundred years at best. The Midwest was not aggressively settled until the latter part of the 19th century so our experience with tornadoes is limited.
Secondly, we have increased the population in vulnerable areas dramatically. Land that was once uninhabited is now crammed with subdivisions. When my wife and I attended the prom in 1974 the Dallas/Ft. Worth area consisted of 2 counties, Dallas and Tarrant. It now stretches across 10 counties with a population of about 6 million. The same can be said for Oklahoma City, Kansas City, Little Rock and other metropolitan areas in "Tornado Alley"... [Read the rest.]
Below you can read an excerpt from an impassioned critique of oversimplified explanations for this year's tornado tragedies by Chuck Doswell, a senior research scientist at the Cooperative Institute for Mesoscale Meteorological Studies at the University of Oklahoma. Elsewhere in the piece, Doswell notes that in the last terrible tornado year, 1953, media pointed to atomic bomb tests as the cause: 
Really big tornado outbreaks happen at intervals of roughly 20-40 years or so. The vulnerability in any given year is increasing because of our increasing population at risk (suburban "sprawl" and increasing recreational use of some areas), but it seems that this has been mostly offset by better forecasts and warnings, improved methods of communication of the threat when it develops, and infrastructure enhancements promoting natural hazard preparation (at least until the past decade or so). But those improvements have not eliminated entirely the threat for high fatality counts, as events this year have demonstrated.
When these big fatality counts occur, it's mostly a matter of bad luck. For the most part, we've had good luck for several decades, but it seems this year that our good luck has deserted us. But there's no need to resort to "exotic" explanations for every bad event. [Read the rest.]
 Here's an encouraging addendum related to the ability, with foresight, to limit the human toll. Last night, I caught the opening minutes of CBS Evening News and was thrilled to hear the gripping account of a man in Oklahoma whose house was ripped apart but who survived in the safe room he'd built. The devastation to Oklahoma City in 1999, as this CBS report from that year showed, inspired a lot of construction of such havens.
A direct hit by the most destructive tornadoes may not be survivable in even the most reinforced space, but clearly such efforts pay off. There are plenty of pre-fabricated designs for sale, as well (see the photo).
Read Kim Severson's story, datelined Atlanta, for more on the scramble in America's tornado hot zones to build more such structures.

        
Killer Tornadoes, Horrible and Still Unknowable
        
Tough Issues With Warnings in Tornado Zones
        
More Trauma in America's Tornado Hot Zone
        
Water Barriers Mulled (Belatedly) at Leaking Nuclear Complex
        
Lessons Emerge in Varied Losses from Extreme Floods

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEATHER (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); METEOROLOGY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); TRENDS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); HISTORY (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (64%); CITIES (61%); RISK MANAGEMENT (59%) disasters; extreme weather; planning; risk; risk management; Tornadoes; Severson, Kim; Accidents and Safety; Disasters and Emergencies; Population; Weather; CBS Corp; Missouri; Oklahoma; Oklahoma City (Okla); CBS Corp|CBS|NYSE; Design

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (84%) CBS Corp

TICKER: CBS Corp; CBS; NYSE

PERSON: Severson, Kim

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (86%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (67%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (53%) OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (86%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Missouri; Oklahoma; Oklahoma City (Okla)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



862 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: Taking the Bait: On Prix Fixe, Sustainable Seafood and Restaurant Economics

BYLINE: BRUCE BUSCHEL


HIGHLIGHT: Our restaurant-owning blogger responds to his critics.

 BODY:
Here are some comments from all over the country and all over the culinary map. I am grateful for the responses to the posts about prix fixe policy, the talkative owner and the restaurant itself. It may be impossible to please all the people all the time, but all the people who take the time to write please me all the time. Thank you.
"Sustainable seafood" (an oxymoron) with a side of foie gras (torture). This place has a bizarre notion of ethical eating. The Berkeley restaurant Gather does a much better job of living up to ethical ideals. Top quality vegetable preparations (not seafood from our decimated oceans or force-fed duck) should be the cornerstone of any sustainable menu. -- Shannon, Oregon 
Shannon,For the record, Gather serves smelt, yellowtail tuna, albacore, anchovies, lamb sausage, young chickens, and Prather Ranch beef burgers. All of which are sustainable or organic. (Yellowtail is not actually tuna, but in the jack family, which is sustainable.)
Restaurateurs like this ought to think about sustaining a decent degree of gastronomy. They're living off of naive, inexperienced and uninformed customers who let them tolerate being, in essence, force fed and kept in a culinary straitjacket. --Robert Brown, New York, N.Y.
Dear Mr. Brown,The sophisticated, well-traveled and well-heeled guests who frequent Southfork Kitchen would be very surprised to hear that they are, in fact, unbeknown to them, uninformed, force fed and straightjacketed.
We had the Prix Fixe a few weeks ago and LOVED it. We thought the food was exquisite, on par or better than any restaurant in a 50 mile radius. But it was not a cheap date our bill with tax, tip, and one of the least expensive bottles of wine was over $200 for two people the restaurant fills a real fine dining niche that is not being served out here, and I think they will do very well in the summer months. -- Joe T, Sag Harbor, N.Y.
Joe T.So glad you enjoyed yourself. Thanks for sharing.
Add me to the tally of people who will not set foot in the door in the first place if my only options are a large (and not inexpensive) meal in the dining room, or a few food choices in the bar. -- MHM, N.Y.
MHM,The food served at the bar is from the same chef and served in the same ambience with the same service. The bar menu includes appetizers, entrees and desserts. Or the prix fixe.
Thank you very much for not adding the supplemental items. I find that extremely tacky. If I'm paying $n, I don't want to have to spend an extra $10-$x dollars on the supposed best item on the menu. The amuses/petit fours make the meal that much more special, more enjoyable. -- D. Whitman, New York, N.Y. 
Dear D.W.,You are very welcome.
I was skeptical of your 100 rules at first, but maybe there's something to be said for #7 (No jokes, no flirting, no cuteness.), #8 (Do not interrupt a conversation. For any reason.) and 69 (If someone wants to know your life story, keep it short.) -- Michael, Washington, D.C.
Michael,The rules were for servers, not owners. Part of my job is allow the servers to do their jobs by fielding questions and explaining our philosophy to inquisitive guests.
It's interesting that you are directly quoting a conversation that took place when you weren't actually present. -- ruth, providence
ruth,Many a fine history book has dialogue written by people who were not actually in the room or on the battlefield to hear those conversations. My source, however, is pretty reliable -- my wife, Dr. B, is a psychologist with a knack for listening and remembering conversations verbatim. Especially when they took place only two hours before telling me about them.
Most Americans are unhappy if they don't get a gut-rupturing amount of food. A fixed-price menu gives them an excuse to order an appetizer AND dessert. -- Joanne Aberdeen, Md.
Joanne,If you are saying that prix fixe is a public service, thank you.
Keep in mind that an average is just that: an average, nothing more. You can raise an average check by reducing the below-average instances, or by raising the above-average instances; pursuing the latter would seem better for business in most cases. Training staff to sell more bottles of wine, perhaps? -- MrB, Chicago
Mr. B,Training a staff to sell more bottles of wine is exactly what we do not want to do at Southfork Kitchen. Up-selling is a downer. 
Bravo, Bruce, I'm proud of you-- a real post with real information and I didn't feel like I had to read through a French novel to find it -- mhf, Houston, Tex.
mhf,Merci. Je pense.
I am afraid you are risking losing good repeat business that comes in every week for a soup and a drink to be replaced by more fickle higher ticket diners I am especially concerned in the Hamptons. Many customers might want something lighter. Maybe go prefix on weekends only. -- BD, New York
Dearest BD,It is nice to have someone worry about us. We have discussed doing the prix fixe on weekends only in the off-season, but we are going to run with this for the summer and see where it takes us.
1. It's not rocket science. 2. Is this a new industry inventing the concept of dining? 3. Prix Fixe only? 4. For "ages" the concept was a Prix Fixe offering as ONE element of a creative menu... 5.He who focuses only on the average ends up delivering just that...an "average" product or experience. -- BQ, Philadelphia
BQ,You really equate focusing on the average check to creating an average meal? This may not be rocket science, but your thinking is decidedly astral.
Bruce, I think what you're doing is smart. You've recognized you have a dollar amount you need to make per seat to cover costs (and try to make a profit) The fact that you created a bar menu for patrons who want a lighter bite gives everyone an option. -- Kris, PDX
Kris PDX,Thank you, Kris. (Do you live in the Portland Airport?)
In France, cheese is usually an option for dessert, and i am a fiend for cheese. I don't eat pastries for dessert and so it is an imposition to expect me to pay for a creme brulee, or whatever. -- anne, Washington, D.C.
Bonjour anne,We have a cheese plate -- five cheeses from Mecox Bay Dairy -- served with local honey and fruit preserves. You are welcome to have that first or last or in-between.
This is an interesting piece on restaurant economics, something that many diners -- including myself -- know nothing about. In short, it would be nice to know whether the sustainable seafood/local food ideas are worth the extra cost and whether diners really appreciate the effort. -- PorscheGuy, East Coast
PorscheGuy,It is an interesting question and one that deserves a full post. In short, yes, local organic produce costs more and tastes better and supports our neighbors and is healthier and well worth the effort and the cost.
When my wife and I consider dining, we expect to spend some money, and we might be limited in this respect so we choose restaurants carefully. You wouldn't see us often, Bruce, but if the experience were to be as good as it promises you would have received extremely grateful customers, your staff would be complimented and handsomely tipped, and we would heartily recommend your place to everyone we know. -- Fideles, new york, ny
Fideles,You sound like great guests. We look forward to serving you. Semper Fi.
Bruce, this may be the best move you have made so far. I applaud it for one basic reason; it shows that you are concerned with the economics of the restaurant. You don't have to be all things to all people. If some find it too expensive, so be it. People will always want a bargain If $55 covers your costs and you keep having a full house go ahead and raise it to $65, $75 or $100. Find what the market will bear. Maybe you would rather be 80% booked so you have room for walk-ins? -- Shylock, Virginia
Shylock,What a great idea! Thanks. Right after Memorial Day, we'll raise the prix fixe to $68.
Bruce Buschel owns Southfork Kitchen, a restaurant in Bridgehampton, N.Y.

        
Readers Offer Their Own Restaurant Rules
        
More on Hiring a Web Developer
        
Assessing a Travel Site That Competes With the Big Boys
        
Should I Give My Employees a Bonus - or Buy a Sander?
        
Questions Linger on 1099 Rules

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (91%); MENU PRICES (90%); FISHES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (78%); POULTRY (74%) comments; responding to readers; Restaurants; Seafood; Small Business; Hamptons (NY); Start-Up Chronicle

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%) Hamptons (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



863 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 1893 words

HEADLINE: Words You Don't Say

BYLINE: RACHEL NOLAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Times magazine staff enjoyed readers' response to our post about Kurt Andersen's "Words We Don't Say" so much that we posted an unabridged list of your suggestions on our office wall. It is, however, not all that practical. If we ceased to use all the words that readers don't want us to use, we might publish a blank magazine.

 BODY:
The Times magazine staff enjoyed readers' response to our post about Kurt Andersen's "Words We Don't Say" so much that we posted an unabridged list of your suggestions on our office wall. It is, however, not all that practical. If we ceased to use all the words that readers don't want us to use, we might publish a blank magazine. Some of your explanations were erudite. Others were downright funny. We know one thing: We will never use impact as a verb ever again.
The full list is below the jump. But first, a few highlights:
From Kyle of Brooklyn: "I hate 'whip-smart.' That describes a pack animal that can be driven easy with beatings. It's not the same as 'smart as a whip.'"
From Jonathan Saltzman of Santa Barbara, Calif.: "'Input,' as in seeking someone's opinion. What am I, something you plug into a computer?"
From RHayes of New York: "'Proximity' because no one uses it correctly - proximity means 'closeness' but is invariably (inexplicably) preceded by 'close.'"
From Steve of New York: "The use of 'event' to intensify any film or television release. 'A special motion picture event.' It's a verbal epicac."
From Peterpuleo of Bethlehem, Pa.: "'Sniffed' (for 'said'):reveals the author's bias rather than the subject's demeanor. Also, it's physiologically impossible to sniff, which requires sudden downward movement of both diaphragms, and speak at the same time."
24/7about exactlyactionableactually (3 votes)addicting when addictive is correctaddictive (in food/restaurant writing).additionallyadvisementafter allagencyaggregateaha momentall aboutall of the mistakes with Latin-based plurals - "the first criteria is" "the data was" "he was an alumni of"all things being equal. (they never are)a lotamazing (3 votes)ankled (2 votes)anxious to mean eager. If you have anxiety you are not eager.anything-"gate"anything-based (goals-based, peach-based) or beginning with "on a --- to -- basis"anything-centricanything-wiseappropriatearchitect as a verb (same ilk as "author", etc).arguably (3 votes)artisanal (2 votes)ask as a verb, meaning "assign."assumedas well instead of "too" or "also"at the end of the day (7 votes)awesome (4 votes)baby boomer or "boomer"baby mamabackchannel me - (versus "reply to me" or "get back to me")bad guysbake off (for "bake")bandwidthbandwidth (as in, "I don't have the bandwidth to take on that project"based out of (for "based in")basicallybear as in "he was a bear of a man"begs the question when you mean "raises the question"behaviors - when did that become a plural?bemusedbenchmarkbest in classbest practicebe that as it maybffbig __________ (e.g., big tobacco, big oil, big government)big dig (when referring to three city blocks under construction, NOT the Boston project)birth as a verbblessed (as in "powers-that-be have blessed")blowbackboffobomb-throwing anarchistboots on the groundbottom linebuild outbustedbuttonholecall out, called outcarrot and stickcautiously optimisticchaise loungechallengeschampion as a verbchastisechidecircle backclearlyclose personal friendclosure (5 votes)cloud (as in "cloud computing")coed for female studentcollateral damagecome on board, unless you're talking about a shipcome out as in "thank you for coming out to the concert tonight."comfort foodcommunity-basedcompellingcompetencycomprisecomprised ofconflict resolutioncongeriescontextualizationconversate (2 votes)cougarcould care less instead of "couldn't care less."craft a memocraftedcrispy is not a word (2 votes)crown jewelcrumbling infrastructurecurate in any context other than in relation to a museum or art gallery should be banned (2 votes)cyberde-plane-ing, as used by pilots and flight attendantsde-train-ing, as announced by the Amtrak conductordecadent (applied to food)decidedly (2 votes)decontextualizationdeeplydefine himselfdeliverable (my wife was once asked to produce "measurable deliverables" on a project)de rigeurdeservedichotomydilemma (when the writer means "problem')disinterested rather than uninterestedditherdivadiydoabledocent ("guide" will do nicely)dollarizedotcommerdrapes as a noun (use draperies)drill downdue diligenceduring the overnightdynamicedgyeducatoreffect as a verbeffortingeliteemerging (to describe an artist)empower (2 votes)enclaveending questions with "at" (as in "where's/he/she/it {cringe} ATenjoy!enormity instead of magnitude, large scope, etc.enthuseepic.eponymousespecially significantessentiallyexcellentexperience. As in "I enjoyed my shopping experience."fabulousfacilitatefail in lieu of failurefamouslyfantasticfarther instead of "further."fashionistaferventlyfidicuiary responsibiltyflat world (that one is for T. Friedman only)focus onforever as in "this will change the . . . forever."forewarn (for "warn")for freeframe (unless you are in the picture-framing business or the criminal-justice businessfranklyfridgefriend as a verb (2 votes)funfunctionalityfuture plansgalgarlickygas guzzlergeniusgestaltgift as a verb (3 votes)ginormousgo-togoal-orientedgoing forward (7 votes)golf as a verbgo tograduated collegegraduate high school, college, etc.greatgreen (as a verb)grilled (as synonym for "questioned")grinding, as in "grinding poverty."grokgrow a companygrown upsgrow the economygrow your business (3 votes)guestimateguruHarvard-educatedhangouthard for difficulthaving said thatheadlines that begin with "Whither ...".headscratcherheads uphelmed, meaning "directed": we're not on a ship (6 votes)hey dayhickshiphollerholly wood liberalholy grailhome to mean house, as in town home, home for sale, lake homeshonestly (as in "I honestly believe")hopefully as a sentence starterhoweverhugelyicon (10 votes)ideate (2 votes)if you will (2 votes)impact as a verb (12 votes)impactful (3 votes)in and of itselfin any way, shape or formincent (3 votes)incentivize (5 votes)inclement weatherincongruitiesincredibleincrediblyindividualinfo (2 votes)informed byin order toinserting any word describing unique: rather, very, more, mostin shock to mean "shocked." Unless you really do mean "a life-threatening loss of blood pressure."instant classic.instant red pencilintensive purposesinteresting (two votes)interestinglyinterface as a verbin their DNA tointoneinvite (as a noun)ironicirregardless (4 votes)islamofascismissue as substitute for "problem" (2 votes)it's the _______ stupiditerativeit is important to noteit is what it isivory towerjournalingkabuki dancekey learningskind of/sort ofkissed" in the context of food writingknowledgeableknowledge sharekudoslamelearnings (3 votes)legendarylevel-set (what DOES this mean?)level playing fieldleverageliaise (3 votes)liberal eliteslifestylelift up" (as in: "draw attention to")limnedliterally (5 votes)lower instead of "reduce"low hanging fruit (2 votes)make my daymaximize efficiencyme and her, him and me, her and Imeet up - does this mean something like "meet"?meltymen are from Mars, women are from Venusmerge togethermethodologymetrics (2 votes)milieumisappropriate (for "steal")misrepresent (for "lie" or "deceive")monetize (3 votes)moreovermother's worst nightmaremoving forwardmy bad (your bad what?) (3 votes)myriad (3 votes)needless to say - so why are you saying anything about it? (2 votes)need to when have to, ought to, should are hanging about unused.network (as a verb)new beginning (for those tired of those same old beginnings)next stepsniggardlynomno offense butno problem (2 votes)no pun intendednormalcynoshnostalgia (when it's used wrong)nothing for nothingnuancednumerousobscure trade journaloff the gridon demandongoingon the groundon the same page (3 votes)open the kimonooperationalize...and many other words that frequently get -ize attached to it (e.g. incentivize)opineorientate (2 votes)oustedoutrageout there (for available or existent)own itpantiesparadigmparadigm-shifting (2 votes)parameter instead of "limit"parenting (2 votes)parsedparty as a verbpassed instead of died (4 votes)past experiencepenultimateperfect storm (5 votes)perfect with crusty breadpersonalperusepet peeve (2 votes)phoney-baloneyphysicalityplate as a verb (2 votes)pleaded: the nuns always pounded "pled" into me until I bleaded.plethorapop as a verbpopulacepositive role modelpotentially could (for "could")powers-that-bepre-boardpre-orderpre-plannedpre-registerprecise estimatepretentious (when it's used wrong)preventativeprice pointprint out (why not just print?)prior to or subsequent to. The English language gives us "before" and "after." Use them.proactive (5 votes)program (e.g., "cocktail program")purpose-builtpurposely means "on purpose"; "purposefully," means "with great determination"pushback (2 votes)put in placeputting out firesquaintquality (as an adjective)quantum leap (unless you mean a transition between quantum states)quasi- anythingquintessentialquipquippedrandomrapturereach out to (3 votes)reality-basedreally (2 votes)real timerebootrecoupredouble - that's quadruple, right?reference is not a verb; the verb is "refer to."reimaginerelatablerelevancyremains to be seenrepurpose (2 votes)revertrevolutionary: What happened in Egypt was a revolution. Lady gaga definitely isn't.right to workrobust (3 votes)rorschach inkblot testsabermetricssame differencesammichsanssavvyscalablescrapbooking (2 votes)sea-changesecure (as verb)sensibility (2 votes)serve upshady or sketchyshare instead of "tell." (2 votes)shout out (2 votes)signagesinging from the same hymnalsituation (2 votes)skill set (2 votes)slammed---unless you're talking about doorsslatheredslowing upsnarksophomoricspace when used to describe a business or industry (4 votes)speaks out (2 votes)speak tospiraling anything (e.g., debt or conflict)stakeholders (2 votes)sticksstop short ofstoriedsupersupplement meaning some herbal garbagesurmisesusssynergy (4 votes)take - as in "Her take on that ..."take a meetingtalentedtap into - isn't "into" built in?teachable moment (2 votes)team when used to mean "the group of people that I am the boss of."temblorthat being said (2 votes)the White Stuff, as in snowthe entire passive tensethe midnight hourthe next levelthe poor man's anythingthink out of the boxthough for althoughthuslytoast meaning washed up, out of action or incapacitatedto partnerto teamto the best of my abilitytour de force (2 votes)touttowards instead of "toward."transition as a verb (2 votes)trappingstremendoustucked into, as a mealturn-keytweak (3 votes)tweetubiquitousunderserved, which looks so much like undeserved.underway (should be two words, if used at all) (2 votes)uniqueunless you've been living under a rockunpackinguse/usageutilize and all its irritating cousins. Just use "use." (6 votes)veggie/veggies (4 votes)verbageverbing nouns, in general. As Calvin once said to Hobbes, "It weirds the language."very (very overused)very unique (3 votes)vexed as in "the vexed question of..."vibrantviralvis-a-vis should be stricken from the English language, and probably the French language as wellvision for an organizationvitalvoted with their feetwalk-off home run (what was wrong with "game-winning"?)we applaud your effortswearing many hatsweather eventwelfare queenswent missing (3 votes)whatever (2 votes)where is it at?/Where are you atwhich includes and "also"white paper instead of "paper"whoppingwin-win (2 votes)with regard instead of .....in regards.woowordsmithwork-life balanceworrying instead of worrisomex is the new y (2 votes)x meets yyummyuber- anything (3 votes)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (76%); FILM (65%); RESTAURANTS (62%); BABY BOOMERS (60%)

COMPANY: ASK ASA (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



864 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: The Daughter Test

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: On Steven Levitt's approach to morals legislation.

 BODY:
Last week, Steven Levitt, of "Freakonomics" fame, articulated a perspective on public policy that often goes unspoken:It wasn't until the U.S. government's crackdown on internet poker last week that I came to realize that the primary determinant of where I stand with respect to government interference in activities comes down to the answer to a simple question: How would I feel if my daughter were engaged in that activity?
If the answer is that I wouldn't want my daughter to do it, then I don't mind the government passing a law against it. I wouldn't want my daughter to be a cocaine addict or a prostitute, so in spite of the fact that it would probably be more economically efficient to legalize drugs and prostitution subject to heavy regulation/taxation, I don't mind those activities being illegal.
On the other hand, if my daughter had good reasons to want an abortion, I would want her to be able to have one, so I'm weakly in favor of abortion being legal, even though I put a lot of value on unborn fetuses.This prompted Will Wilkinson to a meditation on the capacity of emotional anxieties like Levitt's to override the rigorous purity of cool reason. But his meditation includes an aside that I think somewhat undercuts his view of "the daughter test" as a purely irrational conceit. Wilkinson writes:Indeed, it seems almost certain that Mr Levitt's opinions are not really governed by the daughter test, as I very much doubt he endorses government restrictions on everything he wouldn't want his daughter to do. If I had a daughter, I wouldn't want her to believe in god, vote, or major in economics, but I certainly wouldn't want to pass laws against theism, electoral democracy, and the dismal science. I'm sure Mr Levitt could come up with a long list of things he'd rather his daughter not do, but which he believes we should all be left free to do.But surely this implies, in turn, that Levitt probably has reasons - unvoiced but implicit - for placing prostitution and cocaine abuse in a different category from other, lesser vices like voting and praying and majoring in economics. The idea behind the daughter test, as I see it, is to clarify which vices seem so profoundly self-destructively that they merit sanction in law as well as culture (not that the two categories can ever be disentangled anyway!), and which are merely regrettable life choices that even the most meddlesome parents must accept as part of the warp and woof of a free society. And it's also to clarify which of two competing values should hold the trump card in a particular controversy: For Levitt, applying the test to abortion demonstrates that his concern for unborn human life isn't potent enough to override his preference for personal liberty.
In both cases, thinking "what if I my daughter did this/were in this position?" is a way to take an argument from the abstract to the viscerally real, and to bring moral and legal gray areas into a sharper focus. It isn't a mathematical proof, or a system of inputs that spits out an automatic, universal answer: For instance, more pro-life father would take a different view of the abortion question that Levitt does. (Or to take the example that kicked off Levitt's riff, one could imagine someone else saying that Internet gambling doesn't pass his daughter test, because a gambling addiction can be as destructive as cocaine.) But that doesn't mean that it isn't a useful way of thinking about public policy. The fact that I would want to be able to involve the police if my daughter became a streetwalker, but not if she became a Hari Krishna, tells me something important about what kind of legal regime I should support. (There's a touch of Kantianism in it: One's (legal) preferences for one's daughter should become a universal law ...) And the fact that Wilkinson disagrees doesn't prove that he believes in logic and reason, whereas I believe in raw emotion. It just proves that his answer to the daughter test is - for now, at least - different from my own.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); DRUG POLICY (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); POKER (77%); COCAINE (74%); PROSTITUTION (74%); ABORTION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



865 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Pushing Colleges to Become More Diverse

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: The federal government, foundations and private donors can all play a role in persuading top colleges to become more economically diverse and meritocratic.

 BODY:
How can top colleges be persuaded to admit more talented low- and middle-income students? My column this week laid out a strategy for making colleges more economically diverse and meritocratic, based on policies at Amherst College and the University of California. But I didn't spent much time on the politics of getting colleges to make changes. Fortunately, several other writers have done so -- some today, in response to the column, and some long before.
The first potential lever is the federal government. It pays for and administers Pell Grants, a huge program that benefits, roughly, the bottom half of the income distribution. Goldie Blumenstyk of The Chronicle of Higher Education wrote last year:
... the chancellor of the California State University system, Charles B. Reed, ... has been pushing a proposal to reward institutions that enroll higher numbers of Pell Grant students with more federal money and withhold support from colleges whose Pell enrollments fall below 15 percent. Rich institutions should use their endowments to meet those thresholds, Mr. Reed argues, and the tax exemption on their endowments should be yanked or restricted if they fall short. 
Similarly, I've argued that Pell Grants and other federal aid should be tied to graduation rates, with colleges at risk of losing financing if their graduation rates (adjusted for their student population) are too low. Perhaps students should also be at risk of losing financing, if they do not stay on track to graduate, as is the case in West Virginia.
But the government isn't the only lever. Foundations can make a difference, too. Writing in the journal Democracy in 2008, Theda Skocpol of Harvard and Suzanne Mettler of Cornell noted:
...the efforts required will be more than just governmental. Community college students often find that few of their credits transfer to four-year institutions, a situation that could be remedied by better institutional cooperation. The Jack Kent Cooke Foundation, for example, has recently created an exemplary program to support efforts by Amherst College and seven other highly selective institutions that have formed partnerships with nearby community colleges. The idea is to identify promising potential transfers and help them make the transition to four-year college. 
And private donors can probably have even more influence than foundations, given the donors' importance to private colleges. Matthew Yglesias writes:
 ... another channel I would urge people to consider is simply social norms. Fancy colleges and universities are largely funded by charitable donations. People make these donations in part because doing so is a socially esteemed undertaking. If we, as a society, shift our idea of what kinds of activities should be valorized then donor behavior will shift and schools will find ways to be more credible ladders of opportunity. 
Obviously, some private donors might blanch at the idea of paying to make their alma mater more diverse and, in the process, potentially reducing the odds of their own children's getting in. But Amherst's experiences suggest this will not need be the case with all alumni. Its fund-raising has remained quite strong. Among other things, it received a $100 million anonymous gift recently. 
Some graduates may even be more likely to donate because they believe in their college's mission. As Aaron Carroll, a pediatrician at the Indiana University School of Medicine and an Amherst graduate, wrote on his blog Wednesday, "I don't think I've ever been so proud of my alma mater."
Georgia Levenson Keohane, a fellow at the Roosevelt Institute who advises nonprofit groups and has studied Amherst, wrote the following to me, in an e-mail:
 Amherst has proven that there can be a competitive advantage to this approach. By declaring that it selects for the best and the brightest -- not just the best and the brightest of the upper middle class -- it has attracted more applicants across the board, which in turn makes it even more selective, and a virtuous cycle ensues. The trick is paying for this, since the model relies on private fund-raising in addition to Pell Grants. In tough economic times, will full-tuition paying families and alumni who embrace an Amherst-like vision continue to give the kind of additional financial support necessary to sustain the model? And when endowments plunge, can university administrators maintain their commitment to robust financial aid in the face of competing priorities -- not just things like nice facilities, but lifeblood stuff: paying enough to attract and retain top faculty? The case of Amherst suggests yes. 
I'd like to believe that university presidents and other administrators would not need any arm-twisting on this issue. And some do not. But unfortunately, many presidents seem to, as Richard Kahlenberg of the Century Foundation suggests:
 The discouraging news is that most wealthy institutions have not followed Amherst's lead. Despite a great flurry of activity on the financial aid front, The Chronicle of Higher Education recently found that at the wealthiest 50 institutions, Pell percentages remained flat between 2004-05 and 2008-09. At thirty-one of these wealthy colleges and universities, the proportion of Pell recipients actually declined. 

        
Behind the Rise in Pell Grants
        
Economic Diversity at Harvard (Cont.)
        
Reader Response: Economic Diversity at Colleges
        
How Elite Colleges Still Aren't Diverse
        
Once Again: Is College Worth It? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); GRADUATION RATES (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); CHARITIES (75%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (74%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); WRITERS (71%); TAX LAW (68%); CHARITABLE GIVING (60%) Amherst College; Colleges and Universities; economic diversity; financial aid; higher education; meritocracy; Admissions Standards; Pell Grants

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%) Amherst College

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



866 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: To Avoid the Death Penalty, Kill Another Killer

BYLINE: CLYDE HABERMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Day: In New York, decisions about the death penalty are usually not about the killer, but rather the victim, and the case of Vincent Basciano may be no exception. Also, what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs.

 BODY:
Here's how the death penalty works - or, to be more accurate, doesn't work - in New York. It's usually not about the killer, but rather the victim. The case against one Vincent Basciano in Federal District Court in Brooklyn may be no exception. 
 Last week, a jury found Mr. Basciano guilty of having ordered a gangland killing in his pursuit of upward mobility within the Bonanno crime family. Now it must decide if he should be put to death. The alternative is to condemn him to life in prison, on top of the life sentence he is already serving for a different murder. One way or another, Mr. Basciano - Vinny Gorgeous, to his old mob mates - is going nowhere you want to be.
 The death penalty phase shifted into high gear on Wednesday with testimony from Joseph C. Massino, a longtime head of the Bonanno family, who made history of a sort in April when he became the first official mob boss to testify against an old confrere. 
 Once again, the contrasts between this star government witness and the defendant were striking. There sat Mr. Basciano, trim and impeccably tailored, his meticulous haircut suggesting that prison barbers are more skillful than any of us may have thought. Mr. Massino, on the other hand, was exceedingly peccable, dressed as if he were headed to the gym. Only he didn't look like someone who had ever seen a salad bar, let alone the inside of a health club.
 His testimony - filled with requisite forget-about-its and characters with names like Anthony Stutters and Michael Nose - was a litany of occasions when Mr. Basciano came to him seeking permission to kill someone. Each time, Mr. Massino testified, he empathically told Mr. Basciano no. Once, the intended victim was a woman. "I thought he was crazy," Mr. Massino said. "Kill her for what?"
 The prosecutors' goal was clearly to portray Mr. Basciano as a mad dog, ready to pounce on anyone - so far over the top that he even proposed killing a federal prosecutor who had angered him. That, Mr. Massino said, he would in no way permit. Eventually, he said, Mr. Basciano agreed that he should, yes, "forget about it."
 This part of the testimony may be crucial.
 Most of those said to have been on Mr. Basciano's hit parade were fellow gangsters. The history of capital cases in New York strongly suggests that if you murder someone who is every bit as repugnant as you are - a fellow mobster or drug dealer or gang member - you may go to prison till the day after forever but you are unlikely to find yourself strapped to a table with a needle in your arm. Juries here have been loath to impose a death sentence on a defendant for killing someone at least as unsavory as he is. 
 But a prosecutor? That's a different ball game. Not surprisingly, Mr. Basciano's lawyers sought to cast Mr. Massino as a man who spun fables to the government in the hope of getting a better deal for himself while he serves a life sentence of his own.
 Trying to predict what a jury might do is a fool's errand. Bear in mind, though, that no inmate in New York has been executed in a federal case since 1954, and no one in a state case since 1963.
 In recent years, only one federal defendant in this state has been condemned to die. That was Ronell Wilson, who mercilessly killed two undercover police detectives in 2003. But even he will now get to live. Early last summer, appellate judges overturned his death sentence on the grounds that prosecutors had violated his constitutional rights.
 All it takes to spare a defendant the needle is one dissenting juror. On Wednesday, Mr. Brasciano, 51, didn't look like someone steeling himself for an early end.
For full local Times coverage, including a new temporary home for Dominique Strauss-Kahn and a new team of prosecutors to try him, the surprisingly complicated pronunciation of Van Wyck, an officer's testimony during a drunken-driving trial that displays the rationale behind ticket-fixing, and a wanted psychic who was captured in Mystic, Conn., see the N.Y./Region section.
Here's what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs this morning.
An analysis by the National Center for Education Statistics indicates that while New York residents pay substantially more than people in other states for education, the performance of the New York public schools is still below the national average. [New York Post]
The prime contractor for CityTime, New York City's severely over-budget automated payroll system, fired their project manager on the ground that he violated policy when reporting his own hours. [Wall Street Journal] 
The Cobble Hill Association examined the past, present and future of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway. [Brooklyn Daily Eagle]
Work on Harold Interlocking, a system of tracks, signals and switches that will facilitate travel at the Sunnyside Rail Yards, should start next year with federal financing. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority chairman, Jay H. Walder, also attributed current levels of subway disruption to serious repairs throughout the system. [Daily News]
Opponents of concerts planned for Asser Levy Park have managed to have the shows banned based on a law that prohibits amplified sound within 500 feet of a house of worship. [Gowanus Lounge]
Twenty-eight people, including a bank worker, were indicted on charges that they forged $150,000 in checks. [Daily News]
A would-be baker who acted as a spiritual leader and called himself "the pastor" appears to have played a significant role in the recent death of an 8-year-old girl in Irvington, N.J. [Star-Ledger]
A New York painter, John Perry, is on the 18th day of a hunger strike to protest a New Yorker article from August 2010 about a dispute between Mr. Perry and the actor and artist John Lurie. Mr. Perry says he will stop when the magazine prints a retraction. [New York Post]
A study by two Columbia economists indicates that New York City groceries are actually less expensive than those in some other parts of the country. [Wall Street Journal]
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver rejected the plans of the Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, to extend existing rent laws. [Daily Politics]
Jerry Delakas, Astor Place newsstand proprietor, asks you to "like" his Facebook page so the city will let him keep his stand. [Jeremiah's Vanishing New York]
A guide to inexpensive Summer fun on Governors Island. [Brokelyn]

        
Podcast: Spies and Secrecy
        
Death Penalty Blocked Again in Wendy's Killings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (94%); TESTIMONY (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); MURDER (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); CAPITAL CRIMES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); VERDICTS (77%); WITNESSES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); GANGS (50%) death penalty; Joseph C. Massino; Vincent Basciano; Basciano, Vincent; Bonanno Crime Family; Massino, Joseph C; Murders and Attempted Murders; Organized Crime; Sentences (Criminal); New York City; Courts and Law; Crime & Public Safety; The Day

PERSON: Basciano, Vincent; Bonanno Crime Family; Massino, Joseph C

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



867 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Still Crazy After All These Months

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The OECD wants to hurt you, for no good reason.

 BODY:
A year ago I had some harsh words for the OECD, which inexplicably demanded sharp increases in advanced-country interest rates even though its own projections suggested that unemployment would remain high and underlying inflation low for years to come. 
Well, they're still at it.
The latest OECD Economic Outlook once again calls for rising rates -- the term of art now, which I see is also being used by Mario Draghi, is "normalizing" rates. Um, the economic situation remains deeply abnormal, with unprecedented long-term unemployment; why should monetary policy be normal?
Here's what the OECD is forecasting for inflation:
So the OECD believes, as it should, that headline inflation is experiencing only a temporary bump, and that core inflation will remain low -- indeed, below target. So why should we be raising rates? The report says (pdf) that
the need to keep close-to-zero policy rates for risk management reasons has now faded and an early upward adjustment in policy rates to establish a visibly positive level, as in the euro area, is merited in the United States and the United Kingdom, but not yet in Japan. This would also help to guard against a renewed buildup of financial fragilities and provide a better starting point in event of a need to react to upside inflation surprises.
What does this mean? I have no idea. Why must rates be "visibly positive"? Why does a visibly positive rate offer a "better starting point" to respond to inflation surprises? (As far as I know, it's as easy to raise rates from 0 to 1 as it is to raise them from 1 to 2). Basically, this is mumbo-jumbo, a blizzard of words to justify tighter money despite the absence of any rational argument for doing so.
To return to a regular theme of mine: we're living in a world in which Very Serious People keep inventing theories and justifications on the fly to justify policy orthodoxy in a highly unorthodox situation; meanwhile, those of us who rely on actual, coherent analysis based on standard economics are considered dangerous radicals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); EURO ZONE (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



868 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Ford Focus, Honda Civic and Nissan Juke Among I.I.H.S. Top Safety Picks

BYLINE: CHERYL JENSEN


HIGHLIGHT: The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety named six top safety picks in the small-car category on Thursday.

 BODY:
On Thursday, the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety released crash-test results for 13 small cars. Six earned top scores, bringing the total number of small cars named top safety picks by the institute to 22.
The I.I.H.S., which is funded by the insurance industry, also released a list of the 10 small cars that claim top crash-test scores as well as the highest fuel economy ratings in their class.
The six top safety picks consist of 2011 and 2012 models. They are the 2012 Ford Focus and the Honda Civic four-door, as well as the 2011 Hyundai Elantra, the Lexus CT 200h, the Nissan Juke and Toyota Prius.
Other vehicles that were tested but not named top safety picks were the 2011 Dodge Caliber, the Honda CR-Z and Insight, the Nissan Sentra and Versa, the Scion xD and Suzuki SX4.
To earn the top designation, a vehicle must receive a rating of good in all four of the institute's crash tests: front, side, rear and rollover. Electronic stability control must be available at least as an option. The institute rates on a scale of good, acceptable, marginal and poor.
The Civic, CT 200h, Elantra, Focus and Prius are all produced with at least one model or trim level that achieves an E.P.A. fuel economy rating of at least 40 m.p.g. on the highway.
"The bottom line is that small-car safety is improving, and that many of the most fuel-efficient cars that are available today are now available with very high levels of crash protection, which wasn't the case a few years ago," said David Zuby, the institute's chief research officer, in a telephone interview.
Indeed, most small cars now are equipped with air bags and electronic stability control as standard equipment, and are designed to help protect people better in front, side, rollover and rear-impact crashes.
But the laws of physics still apply, Mr. Zuby noted. People who are more interested in safety than fuel efficiency, for example, would be better served buying a larger car.
When the institute began naming top safety picks with 2006 model-year vehicles, the criteria were less stringent than today. Still, only three small cars -- the Honda Civic, Saab 9-2X and Subaru Impreza -- received the distinction.
The Hyundai Elantra is an example of the changes that have taken place in this segment. Now a top safety pick, it once earned some of the lowest crash test scores of any passenger vehicles. The institute also noted that newer small cars achieved substantially better gas mileage than their old models managed.
What prevented 7 of the 13 tested small cars from earning top marks? Five received an acceptable rating in one or more of the tests. They were the Honda CR-Z and Insight, the Nissan Versa and Sentra, and the Scion xD. Meanwhile, the Suzuki SX4 received marginal ratings for rollover and rear protection. The Dodge Caliber also was deemed marginal for side protection, but acceptable in the rollover test.
None of the small cars received a rating of poor in any tests.
For complete lists, visit the I.I.H.S. Web site.

        
With Supplies Dwindling, Some Honda Dealers Foresee Long, Dry Summer
        
Chevrolet Volt and Nissan Leaf Earn Top Marks in First U.S. Crash Tests
        
285,000 Hyundai Elantras Recalled for Air-Bag Inflation Issue
        
Hybrids Score High in Crash Safety
        
Agency Investigates 170,000 Ford Freestyle Crossovers for 'Lunging' Condition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (96%); INSURANCE (90%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (90%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (90%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); ELECTRONIC TRACTION & STABILITY CONTROL (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (68%); PHYSICS (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%) Dodge Caliber; Honda Civic; Honda CR-Z; Honda Insight; Hyundai Elantra; I.I.H.S.; Insurance Institute for Highway Safety; Nissan Sentra; Nissan Versa; Suzuki SX4; Automobile Safety Features and Defects; Automobiles; Chrysler LLC; Environmental Protection Agency; Ford Motor Company; Lexus Division of Toyota Motor Sales USA; Nissan Motor Co; Subaru of America Inc; Toyota Motor Corporation; Industry News; safety

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INSTITUTE FOR HIGHWAY SAFETY (94%) Chrysler LLC; Environmental Protection Agency; Ford Motor Company; Insurance Institute for Highway Safety; Lexus Division of Toyota Motor Sales USA; Nissan Motor Co; Subaru of America Inc; Toyota Motor Corporation

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (95%); HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%); 7201 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



869 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Heated Frenzy for Tech I.P.O.'s Fails to Ignite Freescale

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Unlike LinkedIn, the social media site that had a white-hot initial public offering last week, Freescale Semiconductor missed its $1 billion target.

 BODY:
For the last several weeks, the market for initial public offerings looked red hot, thanks almost entirely to the eye-popping debut of the professional social network LinkedIn.
Shares in the Internet darling more than doubled in their first day of trading and have stayed in the stratosphere even after an 8 percent decline on Thursday.
But it takes more than a connection to technology to cook up a sizzling I.P.O., as Freescale Semiconductor learned this week.
Shares in the chip maker closed on Thursday at $18.33, up 1.8 percent from their offering price, after having risen even higher earlier in the day. But the company's debut price of $18, set on Wednesday night, was at the bottom of an already reduced price range. It earned Freescale $783 million in proceeds, instead of the original $1 billion target.
Richard M. Beyer, Freescale's chief executive, said in a telephone interview on Thursday morning that he was pleased with the stock's performance, even at the reduced initial price.
"We seem to have priced it at a level that the investment community thinks is good," he said.
Freescale was not even the worst-performing stock debut this week. Shares of Spirit Airlines, a low-cost carrier, tumbled 3.8 percent to $11.55 in its first day of trading on Thursday even after having cut its offering's price range. And shares in the American International Group remain below the $29 price set for the long-awaited sale of stock owned by the federal government.
Mr. Beyer cited the choppier market for offerings that were not related to social media as the primary driver behind Freescale's price range.
The experience of Freescale shows how the recent frothiness in the initial offering market has been confined in part to social media companies like LinkedIn and Yandex, a Russian search engine whose $1.3 billion offering was the largest by an Internet company in the United States since Google's debut in 2004.
"We did consider changing the name of our company to 'Freescale Social Networking,'" Mr. Beyer joked.
Seriously, he added, "We're O.K. with the fact that some of those social networking company I.P.O.'s have been doing much better, but those investments weren't made with macroeconomics in mind."
Freescale is only the latest company owned by private equity firms to seek a return to the public markets. Earlier this year, Nielsen, the ratings company; the hospital operator HCA; and the oil-and-gas pipeline company Kinder Morgan all held well-received offerings. While Nielsen's stock remains well above the company's offering price, shares in HCA and Kinder Morgan have since fallen below their debuts.
All told, initial offerings by buyout-backed companies total $13.9 billion so far this year, according to data from Thomson Reuters. They account for 63 percent of all I.P.O.'s in the United States.
None of Freescale's private equity owners, including the Blackstone Group, the Carlyle Group, TPG Capital and Permira, sold shares in the offering, unlike other private equity-backed I.P.O.'s this year. Those owners are likely to wait until Freescale's stock price rises before selling their holdings, hoping to eke out even a small profit.
Freescale's offering is notable given the company's reputation as one of the more troubled takeovers of the private equity boom. It was acquired in 2006 by several buyout firms for $17.6 billion, or $40 a share.
That acquisition left the company with an enormous debt, which now stands at $7.6 billion. All of the proceeds of the initial offering will go to reducing that burden.
Freescale was also battered by the recession, which reduced demand for the products containing its chips like cars, networking equipment and consumer products.
The company reported a loss of more than $1 billion last year, though its revenue began to rise again after a slump in 2009.
Mr. Beyer said that one of Freescale's biggest priorities was cutting its debt, since the company saves about $8 million in interest expense for every $100 million in obligations it pays off. After the I.P.O., Freescale's interest expense will shrink to a little more than $500 million a year.
He added that a resurgence in two of Freescale's core markets, autos and networking, was expected to continue this year, with more than 10 percent growth in the former and about 6 percent in the latter.

        
Freescale Shares Rise in First Day of Trading
        
LinkedIn and Freescale Join Surge of I.P.O.'s

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (94%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); SOCIAL MEDIA (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (50%) Blackstone Group; Carlyle Group; Freescale Semiconductor; LinkedIn; Permira; Rich Beyer; Richard M. Beyer; Spirit Airlines; TPG Capital; Yandex; Initial Public Offerings; Freescale Semiconductor Inc; LinkedIn Corporation; LinkedIn Corporation|LNKD|NYSE; I.P.O./Offerings; Technology; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: LINKEDIN CORP (94%); GOOGLE INC (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); SPIRIT AIRLINES INC (55%); YANDEX NV (53%); KINDER MORGAN INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Freescale Semiconductor Inc; LinkedIn Corporation

TICKER: LNKD (NYSE) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); SAVE (NASDAQ) (55%); YNDX (NASDAQ) (53%); KMI (NYSE) (50%) LinkedIn Corporation; LNKD; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (50%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD M BEYER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



870 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Is College Overrated?

BYLINE: HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Is college essential, or might other types of experiences be more valuable and more worthy of pursuit?

 BODY:
A technology entrepreneur named Peter Thiel is providing seed money to create start-up companies to 24 people under 20 who agree to drop out of school, partly because he believes that higher education is generally not worth the time and expense. To you, is college essential or overrated? Would you consider applying for one of the Thiel fellowships? 
In the Bits blog post "Want Success in Silicon Valley? Drop Out of School," Claire Cain Miller reports on a fellowship awarding $100,000 each to 24 promising young people who drop out of school to pursue tech start-ups:The fellowship addresses two of the country's most pressing problems, Mr. Thiel says: a bubble in higher education and a dearth of Americans developing breakthrough technologies.
Much of the technological talent these days is going into Web sites and apps. Mr. Thiel says he has no problem with those - Facebook has made him a billionaire. But "there's a more urgent need for innovation" in other areas, he said, like biomedical technology, nanotechnology, transportation and energy.
Mr. Thiel, a contrarian investor and libertarian known for his controversial views, knows that suggesting that education is not always worth it strikes at the core of many Americans' beliefs. But that is exactly why is he doing it.
"We're not saying that everybody should drop out of college," he said. The fellows agree to stop getting a formal education for two years but can always go back to school. The problem, he said, is that "in our society the default assumption is that everybody has to go to college."
"I believe you have a bubble whenever you have something that's overvalued and intensely believed," Mr. Thiel said. "In education, you have this clear price escalation without incredible improvement in the product. At the same time you have this incredible intensity of belief that this is what people have to do. In that way it seems very similar in some ways to the housing bubble and the tech bubble."
In Silicon Valley, following in the footsteps of Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg and Evan Williams by dropping out of school might make sense. But many employers would never look at a resume that does not list a college degree, and of course some professions require advanced degrees. As the Times reporter Catherine Rampell has written, the job market is bad for college graduates right now but even worse for nongraduates.
But Mr. Thiel said the recession had opened parents' and students' eyes to the problems with the belief in higher education.
"I think a program like this would have been unthinkable in 2007, but I think you increasingly have people who are graduating from college, not being able to get good jobs, moving back home with their parents," he said. "I think there's a surprising openness to the idea that something's gone badly wrong and needs to be fixed."Students: Tell us what you think about the value of college and about programs like the Thiel fellowship and the Uncollege movement. Is college essential? Or might other types of experiences be more valuable and more worthy of pursuit? Do you agree or disagree with Mr. Thiel that it's time to rethink college?
Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name.

        
Employment Outlook Bleak for College Graduates
        
What Would You Do With a Gap Year?
        
Where Do You See Yourself in 10 Years?
        
Sputnik Redux: Creating Science Fair Projects
        
They're No. 1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STARTUPS (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (84%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); HOUSING BUBBLE (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (69%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (52%); PRICE INCREASES (50%) college; innovation; Student Opinion

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (78%); BILL GATES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



871 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Romney to Make It Official Next Week

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney will formally announce his presidential candidacy next Thursday at Bittersweet Farm in Stratham, N.H.

 BODY:
DES MOINES - Former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts intends to formally declare his bid for the Republican presidential nomination next week in New Hampshire.
 Mr. Romney, who formed an exploratory campaign last month and has been aggressively raising money across the country, will make his announcement next Thursday at the Bittersweet Farm in Stratham, N.H., a campaign spokeswoman said. The site underscores the importance that New Hampshire, which holds the first primary of the 2012 campaign, will play in his strategy.
 Mr. Romney, who is seeking the Republican presidential nomination for the second time, is also competing in other states. He is making his first visit on Friday to Iowa, whose caucuses open the nominating contest early next year.

        
Who Wins and Who Loses if Bachmann Runs in 2012?
        
Foreign Policy Looms Large as 2012 Election Issue
        
The Case for Obama Campaigning on the Economy
        
Roemer to Run as Irritant to Republicans in 2012
        
States Jockey, Again, to Vote First in 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%) 2012 presidential election; Iowa; mitt romney; New Hampshire; Romney, Mitt; Elections; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



872 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: Now Known for Strauss-Kahn, Town House Was Known for Its Renovation

BYLINE: DIANE CARDWELL


HIGHLIGHT: On the market for a couple of years now, the property was bought for $6.8 million and had $1.6 million in renovations that took about a year and a half.

 BODY:
Updated, 5:23 p.m. | Even before the luxurious town house at 153 Franklin Street came under the spotlight for its newest tenant, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, it had attracted attention in the real estate world for its long and costly renovation.
Purchased for almost $6.8 million in 2008, according to PropertyShark.com, the 27-foot-wide town house underwent a renovation that cost around $4 million and took about a year and a half, said Leopoldo Rosati, the architect who oversaw it. 
Mr. Rosati said he had gutted the house to make it feel more loft-like - "we are in TriBeCa so we needed to create open spaces," he explained. He added a kitchen enclosed by sliding wood panels, a basement gym and screening room and a planted terrace on the second floor, with much of the stone and metal work completed in Italy. 
The owner had put the house on the market in 2009 for just under $15 million, later dropping the price to just under $14 million, where it remains now. 
There had been interest in the property and a number of deals that came close but fell through for different reasons, said Robert Dvorin, who said he handled the property at Prudential Douglas Elliman and brought it to the Town Residential agency, where it was listed for rent at $50,000 a month. 
Mr. Dvorin, who represented only the property owner, said Mr. Strauss-Kahn was brought in as a renter by an agent from another brokerage. He would not discuss the transaction.
But, Mr. Dvorin said, the renewed attention could help finally sell the property.
"Who knows?" he said. "Maybe somebody somewhere in the world will see it and fall in love with the house and buy it. That would be incredible."

        
Big Deal | Hudson St. Penthouse Back on the Market
        
Landmarks Panel Approves Change to De Niro's Hotel
        
On Bloomberg Editorials, the Comptroller, and Housekeepers
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $16.6 Million
        
Strauss-Kahn Reporter Becomes Part of the Report

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); APPROVALS (65%) Dominique Strauss-Kahn; real estate; TriBeCa; Strauss-Kahn, Dominique; Housing and Real Estate; Renting and Leasing; Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate; TriBeCa (NYC); Courts and Law; Crime & Public Safety; Housing & Economy

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (95%) Strauss-Kahn, Dominique

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) TriBeCa (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



873 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: White House Looks to Cast Obama as 'Tough'

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Senior officials at the White House want to make sure President Obama is associated with one word: tough.

 BODY:
As they gear up for a tough re-election battle, senior officials at the White House want to make sure President Obama is associated with one word: tough.
Mr. Obama has been making the case since he took office that his administration has had to make tough calls on the economy, the auto industry and the war in Afghanistan. His decision to launch the Pakistani raid that killed Osama bin Laden clearly helps officials make the case.
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. became the latest administration official to deliver the message at a fund-raiser in New Hampshire on Wednesday night. 
"We have a leader with the backbone of a ramrod," Mr. Biden said in Nashua. He added that because of the Bin Laden raid, the real Mr. Obama "is coming into focus."
Mr. Biden said that he and others had counseled Mr. Obama to be more careful and cautious about the raid. But he said it was the president who made the decision to launch the daring action.
"I said 'wait another seven days for information,'" Mr. Biden said. "The American people now have a crystal-clear picture of how strong and decisive our president is, and that's the last piece of the puzzle that had to be put in place."
Before the raid, Republicans had been eagerly seeking to cast Mr. Obama as weak and indecisive. It's clear that the administration intends to use the raid as a campaign tool to counter that Republican narrative.
"Presidential elections are about strength in leadership," Mr. Biden told the Democratic crowd. He said the Republican takeover of the House offered "a crystal-clear choice for the American people."

        
Palin to Start Book Tour as Details Leak Out
        
Is the Ryan Budget a Litmus Test for 2012 Republicans?
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
Obama Blocks Release of Graphic Photos for Second Time
        
Bush Aides Walk Delicate Line on Bin Laden

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%) 2012; barack obama; Democrats; joe biden; osama bin laden; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2008; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party; New Hampshire; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOE BIDEN (92%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%) Biden, Joseph R Jr; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHUA, NH, USA (56%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



874 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: The 'Medi-scare' Revolving Door

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: How quickly the rhetoric on Medicare turns upside down in Washington.

 BODY:
How quickly the rhetoric can turn upside down in Washington.
It was just the last election cycle when Republicans were successfully using the threat of Medicare cuts to scare seniors in the midterm elections. And in the summer of 2009, President Obama led the Democrats' complaints about what he said were outrageous Republican claims of "death panels" in his health care reform plan.
"There are no so-called death panels - an offensive notion to me and to the American people," a stern Mr. Obama said during a radio address in the summer of 2009. "These are phony claims meant to divide us."
The president was reacting to mainstream Republicans who had seized on the idea of end-of-life counseling in Mr. Obama's plan. The normally understated Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa said at the time, "We should not have a government program that determines if you're going to pull the plug on grandma."
Now, however, it is Republicans who are complaining about the use of grandma as a political weapon. And an effective one, as proved by the election Tuesday night of a Democrat in a reliably Republican House district in upstate New York.
Representative Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, on Wednesday morning accused Democrats of "scare tactics" in their use of campaign ads in that House race. He pointed to an ad put out by the Agenda Project, a liberal nonprofit group, that shows an elderly woman in a wheelchair being heaved off a cliff and asks: "Is America beautiful without Medicare? Ask Paul Ryan and his friends in Congress."
"The president and his party have decided to shamelessly distort and demagogue Medicare," Mr. Ryan said on MSNBC's "Morning Joe," where he repeatedly accused Democrats of using "Mediscare" tactics.
"Look, both parties have done this to each other," Mr. Ryan said. And indeed, before 2009, Republicans had long accused Democrats of trying to scare senior citizens about Republicans' intentions to undermine Medicare and Social Security. "But if we start continuing to demagogue this program," Mr. Ryan added, "it's going to collapse - it's going to go bankrupt and we'll go into a debt crisis."
That, too, echoes what Mr. Obama has said in the past. In an interview just days before he took office in 2009, Mr. Obama said the country was "at the end of the road" and had to tackle entitlement reform.
"We have to signal seriousness in this by making sure some of the hard decisions are made under my watch, not someone else's," Mr. Obama told reporters and editors at The Washington Post.
But faced with electoral reality, both parties have abandoned such high-minded rhetoric. On Wednesday, Democrats crowed that their efforts to portray Mr. Ryan as wanting to "end Medicare as we know it" had worked brilliantly.
"There are two reasons we won tonight," Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, said after the victory of the Democratic candidate in New York. "Kathy Hochul is a great candidate and a Western New Yorker through and through. And New Yorkers of all political persuasions do not want to destroy Medicare. This election was a strong referendum on both." 
Eddie Vale, a spokesman for Protect Your Care, a liberal group formed to defend Mr. Obama's health care plan, said Wednesday that he has no regrets about employing harsh rhetoric about the Republican Medicare plan as a means to electoral victory.
"None whatsoever because what we're saying is true," Mr. Vale said. " Now of course there are scary things in here - like seniors being put back into the prescription drug 'doughnut hole' and having out-of-pocket costs double - but those are facts of what their budget would do."
Republicans, likewise, may be momentarily frustrated by the success of the Democratic efforts to use Medicare against them. But they have no intentions of taking the high road, either.
"A bigger frustration is that we haven't been aggressive enough fighting back against Democrats and putting them on the record on their plans," said one Republican official on Capitol Hill, who asked not to be named discussing the party's strategy. "The fact is, they are going to do it. We need to fight back equally and make sure we are responding."
"Our Medicare attacks last cycle worked," the Republican official conceded. "Democrats saw that. We have to hit back and call them out at every turn on their plan."
Speaking at a budget forum in Washington on Tuesday, former President Bill Clinton told reporters that Democrats "are going to have to be willing to give up, maybe, some short-term political gain by whipping up fears on some of these things - if it's a reasonable Social Security proposal, a reasonable Medicare proposal. We've got to deal with these things. You cannot have health care devour the economy."
But not everyone seems ready for such sober, conciliatory tones. Several hours later, Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the head of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, issued a statement following a Senate vote on Mr. Ryan's budget plan -- which failed after five Republicans voted against it, four of them saying it went too far, perhaps influenced by polls and feedback from constituents.
"The Republican budget is a toxic political liability for the GOP and Democrats will continue to drive the debate and play offense this cycle," she promised. "This vote will be remembered as a defining moment for the next election."

        
Obama Seeks to Reshape Debate Over Debt 
        
Obama Courts Latino Voters With Immigration Speech
        
Bush Aides Walk Delicate Line on Bin Laden
        
New Groups Form to Raise Millions for Democrats
        
Obama Speech Defends Liberal Principles

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); MEDICARE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); AGING (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); DEATH & DYING (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); DEBT CRISIS (60%) barack obama; CONSERVATIVES; death panels; Democrats; Medicare; Republicans; Senate; Clinton, Bill; Obama, Barack; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Reform and Reorganization; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party; Republican Party; New York State; Congress; Elections; The 44th President; The White House

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%) Clinton, Bill; Obama, Barack; Ryan, Paul D Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



875 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: In or Out

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington.

 BODY:
In Today's Times
Though the Republican establishment is not eager for Sarah Palin to run for the White House, evidence suggests she may be preparing to seek the Republican nomination, Jim Rutenberg and Jeff Zeleny write. However, the reporters caution that "it is by no means clear that she would be willing to give up her lucrative speaking career and her perch as an analyst on Fox News to face the scrutiny and combat that would come with her entrance into the race."
The League of Women Voters recently flexed some political muscle with a million-dollar ad campaign against two high-profile senators who face re-election next year. Carl Hulse explains that the group, known for its sober candidate debates and studious voter guides, sponsored ads in April attacking Senators Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, and Scott P. Brown, Republican of Massachusetts, over their positions on environmental regulation. The ads got the attention of lawmakers and have politicians looking at the group in a new, more critical light.
Restructuring Medicare is proving a bit trickier than House Republicans had imagined when they approved overhauling the program in their budget plan for the fiscal year 2012. The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, forced a vote on the overhaul Wednesday, to expose Republican divisions on the the issue and create a record that Democrats could use in the 2012 elections, Jennifer Steinhauer writes.
Helene Cooper and Jackie Calmes take stock of Republican efforts to exploit questions about how solidly President Obama supports Israel to chip away at Jewish-Americans' overwhelming support for Democrats.
In Britain on Wednesday, Mr. Obama told Parliament that the British-American alliance was "indispensable," Mark Landler writes. Mr. Obama is headed to France today for G-8 summit meetings.
Former Senator John Edwards is expected to face charges that he violated campaign finance laws by using donors' money to cover up his extramarital affair during the 2008 presidential campaign, Katherine Q. Seelye reports. Mr. Edwards, a trial attorney, indicated through his lawyer that he would fight the charges.
Happening in Washington:Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. will convene a bipartisan group of lawmakers again today for more discussion on how to reduce the budget deficit.
The batch of economic news on tap today includes the Bureau of Economic Analysis' preliminary estimates of the gross domestic product for January through March of this year. The data is expected at 8:30 a.m.
Ron Phipps, the president of the National Association of Realtors, is among the witnesses testifying before the Senate Banking Committee on the future of the housing finance system. The hearing begins at 10 a.m. Before that, the panel will vote on Timothy Massad's nomination to become the assistant Treasury secretary in charge of overseeing the federal bailout program.
At 2 p.m., Rosalynn Carter, the former first lady, will appear before the Senate Special Committee on Aging.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CALENDARS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WITNESSES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); TESTIMONY (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); MEDICARE (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (64%) The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); SARAH PALIN (73%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); HARRY REID (58%); SCOTT BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



876 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: The Problem With Christine Lagarde

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: France's finance minister may be the front-runner to head the International Monetary Fund, but there are good reasons to challenge her, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Simon Johnson, the former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, is the co-author of "13 Bankers."
Christine Lagarde, France's finance minister and the presumptive nominee of the European Union for the recently vacated position of managing director at the International Monetary Fund, formally declared her candidacy on Wednesday. The E.U. has just over 30 percent of the votes in this quasi-election; the United States has 16 percent and seems willing to keep a European at the fund if an American can remain head of the World Bank -- an arrangement that has stood since the early years of the organizations.
It is likely that Ms. Lagarde will now travel around the world engaging in some old-fashioned horse trading, as her predecessors and no doubt leaders of other international organizations have done, seeking support and promising not to forget it.
But Ms. Lagarde has a serious problem that may still derail her candidacy, if there is any substantive, open or transparent discussion of her merits: There is major design flaw in the euro zone, and Ms. Lagarde is the last person that non-European governments should want to put in charge of helping sort that out. (In my time as chief economist at I.M.F., from March 2007 until August 2008, I did not deal directly with Ms. Lagarde.)In a statement on Tuesday, the I.M.F. representatives of Brazil, China, India, Russia and South Africa called for a "truly transparent, merit-based and competitive process" and said that choosing a leader on "on the basis of nationality undermines the legitimacy of the fund."
Ms. Lagarde is explicitly being put forward as someone who can represent the interests of the euro zone at a time when it needs help. And it is indeed the zone as a whole -- including France -- that needs help, not just the errant countries (Greece, Ireland, Portugal and whichever country might be next in line for market fears about its government debt and growth prospects).
The founding assumption for the euro zone in 1999, which became enshrined as a mantra in the early 2000s, is that its countries would converge in terms of productivity levels -- to put it starkly, that Greece would become very much like Germany. In that view of Europe, it did not much matter if some countries within the euro zone ran current account surpluses while others ran large deficits. 
The deficit countries could finance themselves with loans from the surplus countries, the reasoning went, because they would use the money for productive investments and economic growth would allow them to keep their debt levels relative to gross domestic product under control.
None of this happened. 
The productivity gains were seen more in Germany and some other northern European countries. Unit labor costs, reflecting the net effect of productivity gains and real wage increases, rose sharply in Mediterranean Europe. French, German and other core banks facilitated this divergence with a surge in lending both to consumers and governments in the periphery -- convincing themselves, shareholders and regulators that this was low risk.
Most of this is not Ms. Lagarde's fault, of course, as she became France's finance minister in 2007. Yet she has certainly played a leading role in denying that Europe had any serious issues as the global financial crisis began to brew in 2007 and early 2008. 
The bigger issue is that more recently she and the French authorities in general have been at the forefront of efforts to deny there is any deep problem and to resist a systematic solution.
France worked long and hard to prevent increases in bank capital during the recently concluded Basel III negotiations. Bank capital is a buffer against losses; as long as this remains as low as the French government wants, there is no safe way for any euro zone country to restructure its debts. Low bank capital creates serious systemic financial risk for Europe and the world. 
In a similar vein, Ms. Lagarde has led the "no restructuring" school of thought in recent months with regard to Greece -- and presumably other euro zone countries, as well. Debt restructuring is no panacea, but to take the option completely off the table is not smart -- unless you really think there is no deeper issue that must be addressed.
The euro zone in its first iteration has failed to operate as intended. Unless you think Greece can experience a miraculous productivity transformation, the euro zone leadership needs to make a choice. Do they integrate more, including generous fiscal transfers to poorer, less dynamic member countries where people do not like to pay taxes, or do they ease some countries out of the integrated financial system, creating two tiers of participation in the euro currency area -- in which some euro zone countries cannot borrow from the European Central Bank
Either way, the International Monetary Fund could potentially help with loans and with technical advice. But such money belongs to the international community -- the 187 member countries.
And such help would take a lot of money. If Ms. Lagarde becomes head of the I.M.F., she is most likely to continue to throw loans at the euro zone problems. If there are preventive programs even for Spain, Italy or Belgium, the I.M.F. will need to tap its shareholders for at least another $1 trillion in credit lines.
Ms. Lagarde personifies the strategy of gambling for euro zone resurrection with other people's money. Why would taxpayers in the United States and elsewhere want to support her?

        
It's Not About Greece Anymore
        
How Likely Is Default in Europe? 
        
Maginot Lines and Illusions
        
Irish Miracle - or Mirage? 
        
Can Europe Save Itself?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EURO (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (84%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); WRITERS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EURO CRISIS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); DEBT CRISIS (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%) Daily Economist; euro; euro zone; Europe; European Central Bank; Greece; International Monetary Fund; Portugal; Simon Johnson; Spain; Lagarde, Christine; Euro (Currency); European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- )

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%) International Monetary Fund

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (94%) Lagarde, Christine

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); FRANCE (94%); GREECE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); PORTUGAL (91%); INDIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); SPAIN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



877 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths STEWART, JOHN MACKENZIE

 BODY:
STEWART--John MacKenzie, 79, died peacefully at home on May 19, 2011. Born in Glen Cove, NY, in 1932, he graduated from Yale University ('53) and Harvard Business School ('57). He served in the US Navy from 1953 - 1955 and as a program manager for TRW's Saturn missile project. In 1961 he joined McKinsey & Company where for 37 years, he dedicated himself to client service. In addition, he served on the Defense Science Board, Yale University Council, National Council on Economic Education and as Executive Director of the US National Commission on Productivity. 
Most recently, he was a trustee of NYU Medical Center, the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute and on the Dean's Advisory Council at Boston University School of Medicine. He also consulted with a Gates Foundation initiative to reduce HIV/AIDS in India. John's many civic commitments reflected his lifelong interest in the intersection of management with science and economics, and a deeply held belief in "giving back". Even his love of flying became a way to help others through Angel Flights. John was a great human being. He brought integrity, creativity and compassion to every endeavor with family, with friends and with professional colleagues. He had a unique way of guiding those around him to new and deeper insight. And he was a lot of fun to be around. He loved his family: his wife, Eliot; their four children: Diane Stewart, Sandi Stewart, Ian Highet and Eliot Patty; and nine grandchildren: Anna, Colin, Ali, Dash, Gil, Lisa, Andrew, Liam and Eliza. Services will be held at the Yale Club on Sunday, June 19 at 4:30pm, reception following. In lieu of flowers, donations can be sent to: John Stewart Memorial Fund, Amyloid Research Program, Boston Univ. School Of Medicine, 72 E. Concord St., Boston, MA 02188 or Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute, Fenno House, Woods Hole, MA 02543.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); OCEANOGRAPHY (75%); NAVIES (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); AIDS & HIV (70%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (69%); FOUNDATIONS (68%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (91%); NATIONAL COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC EDUCATION (57%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



878 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 7872 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.
Museums
- American Folk Art Museum: 'Quilts: Masterworks from the American Folk Art Museum' Through Oct. 16. This exhibition celebrating quilts from the museum's collection reveals the optical vitality of these eminently pictorial textiles. Ranging across a variety of patterns and techniques and nearly two centuries, the examples here effortlessly combine personal and national histories with rigorous down-home formalism, all the while making brilliant use of available, often humble, fabrics. The various geometric ins and outs, color contrasts and boldly scaled compositions confirm that quilts, like Navajo blankets, are among the earliest abstract art in post-conquest North America. 45 West 53rd Street , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)20110526
American Folk Art Museum: 'Super Stars: Quilts From the American Folk Art Museum' Through Sept. 25. In conjunction with the exhibition of quilts at the main museum, its branch is featuring 20 quilts in which stars figure in some way, whether as pieced-together geometric forms or as little tufts of thread that suggest a distant galaxy. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue, at 66th Street , (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Smith)20110526 
American Folk Art Museum: 'Eugene Von Bruenchenhein: Freelance Artist -- Poet and Sculptor -- Inovator -- Arrow maker and Plant man -- Bone artifacts constructor -- Photographer and Architect -- Philosopher' Through Oct. 9. Whether photographing his wife as a sweetly chaste pinup girl; fashioning plant forms from scrounged clay or little thrones from salvaged turkey bones; or making delicate ballpoint-pen drawings or hallucinatory paintings rife with intimations of exotic undersea or sci-fi worlds, this self-taught, self-proclaimed multitasker (as made clear in the show's subtitle) never wavered in his sense of his own greatness. Mounted 27 years after his death, his first American museum survey doesn't quite do him justice and especially shortchanges the paintings, but it presents the fruits of his ceaseless labors with a clarity that makes them feel of a piece, and like a gift. 45 West 53rd Street , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Smith)20110526
- Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum: 'Color Moves: Art and Fashion by Sonia Delaunay' Through June 19. Examining the more practical side of Delaunay's pioneering achievement, this beautiful, enlightening exhibition offers some alluring artworks, garments and accessories, especially a passel of radiant scarves. But it bets most of the house on fabric swatches -- Delaunay's textile designs -- and succeeds with a display of some 90 gouache studies for textiles and their equally vibrant commercial results: more than 120 hand-printed silks, velvets and cottons laid out in large vitrines. Patterns ranging from geometric to floral variously revisit, amplify and presage much of the history of modern painting and may even deserve a place in that history. 2 East 91st Street , (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Smith)20110526
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum: 'Set in Style: The Jewelry of Van Cleef & Arpels' Through July 4. Van Cleef & Arpels, the century-old French jewelry firm, is the primary sponsor of this show and has supplied much of its mega-carat menu: some 350 lavish pieces worn by royals, screen sirens and social swans. Although extravagance doesn't seem out of place in this former Carnegie mansion, the show often looks as if it were put together by the company's creative directors and merchandisers. The visitors lining up around the block don't seem to care, as long as they can linger over pieces like a maharani's carved-emerald necklace and large sapphire-and-diamond pendant earrings worn by Elizabeth Taylor. 2 East 91st Street , (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20110526
- Japan Society: 'Bye Bye Kitty!!! Between Heaven and Hell in Contemporary Japanese Art' Through June 12. This piquant exhibition of dark-minded work was conceived as a sharp counterweight to the cult of cuteness that has been Japan's dominant aesthetic for decades. No one could have known that the show's images of material fragility and decay would end up being seen in the light of real-life disaster. But such is the case, and the mood of anxiety that pervades the work of the 16 artists is more evident than it might have been otherwise. 333 East 47th Street , (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Holland Cotter)20110526
Jewish Museum: 'Collecting Matisse and Modern Masters: The Cone Sisters of Baltimore' Through Sept. 25. At the Jewish Museum, this exhibition samples the extraordinary trove of European art amassed by two American spinsters in the first half of the 20th century, work now owned by the Baltimore Museum of Art. Although some major collection highlights are absent, the pieces here -- presented in the order of acquisition -- generate a compelling portrait of the Cones as collectors. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20110526
Jewish Museum: 'Maira Kalman: Various Illuminations (of a Crazy World)' Through July 31. Like her fellow New Yorker magazine contributors Ed Koren and Roz Chast, Ms. Kalman offers gently humorous cartoon commentary on the trials and tribulations of modern metropolitan life. Ranging in style from faux-naive eccentricity to suave realism, the more than two decades worth of drawings and paintings on paper in this career survey make for an entertaining if not deeply provocative experience. With a flea market-like installation of nondescript objects from her personal collection, however, she tries too hard to be amazingly original. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)20110526
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Andean Tunic, 400 B.C.E.-1800 C.E.' Through Sept. 18. This small show celebrates the festive yet functional garments woven south of the equator. To the modern eye, they're wearable paintings; lovers of Keith Haring and Elizabeth Murray will find much to admire. So will anyone interested in the complex relationships among art, clothing, ritual and power. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20110526
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Anthony Caro on the Roof' Through Oct. 30. No one in the 1960s produced groovier abstract sculpture than the British artist Anthony Caro, five of whose heavy metal assemblages grace the Met's Rooftop Garden. But only one these works has that startling, newborn feeling. Sporting a brand-new coat of shiny, taxicab yellow paint, ''Midday'' (1960) has the look of a jaunty, industrial dinosaur. The others, dating from 1968 to 2010, show a development toward an increasingly conservative, ponderous monumentality. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20110526
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Guitar Heroes: Legendary Craftsmen from Italy to New York' Through July 4. The heroes of this exceptionally interesting show are three craftsmen known for producing some of the most sought-after jazz guitars of the 20th century. Part I surveys a history of Italian luthiers from 17th-century Naples to Italian immigrants producing string instruments in New York in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Part II presents lovingly made archtop guitars and mandolins dating from 1923 to 2008 by inheritors of that tradition: John D'Angelico, James D'Aquisto and John Monteleone. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20110526
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Alexander McQueen: Savage Beauty' Through July 31. A triumph for this British fashion designer -- who died at 40, by his own hand, last year -- and for the curator Andrew Bolton of the Met's Costume Institute, this career retrospective is ethereal and gross, graceful and manipulative, and poised on a line where fashion turns into something else. The operatic spectacle is pushed along by soundtrack of wind, Handel and orgiastic moans, and has a holographic image of Kate Moss spinning like a moth in a flame at the center. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20110526
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Night Vision: Photography After Dark' Through Sept. 18. It wasn't until the gelatin dry-plate process was introduced in the late 1880s that exposure time was lowered enough for photographs to be taken regularly after dark. Alfred Stieglitz was among the first to photograph New York at night. His work is shown alongside Berenice Abbott's spectral ''Nightview, New York'' from 1932, taken from the window of a skyscraper; Brassai's nocturnal views of Paris; and Weegee's high-contrast picture of a crime scene. Diane Arbus, Bill Brandt, Robert Frank, Garry Winogrand and Kohei Yoshiyuki are among the other artists included in this modest, lovely show of 40 black-and-white photographs drawn from the museum's collection, which stops a couple of decades short of the present. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Martha Schwendener)20110526
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Poetry in Clay: Korean Buncheong Ceramics from Leeum, Samsung Museum of Art' Through Aug. 14. This beautiful exhibition presents bottles, vases, bowls and dishes made by 15th- and 16th-century Korean artisans. In shades of gray, from creamy and opalescent off-whites to deep, warm blacks, the anonymous craftsmen covered vessels with loosely rendered images of flora and fauna and fine-grained patterns of dots and tiny blossoms. These infectiously lively works look as if they'd been made not centuries but only decades ago. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20110526
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Rooms with a View: The Open Window in the 19th Century' Through July 4. This compact, quietly splendid exhibition explores the window as luminous light source, as semi-abstract compositional element and as the focal point for a certain poignant, implicitly Romantic yearning. The images -- mostly by German, French and Scandinavian artists before 1830 -- depict both domestic settings and artists' studios and are passively subversive in their avoidance of large-scale, historic themes and formal portraiture. They show us a world on the verge of electricity, photography and industrialization, a moment of irretrievable, partly fictive calm that incites some yearning of its own. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20110526
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Richard Serra Drawing: A Retrospective' Through Aug. 28. Few artists have pushed drawing to such sculptural and even architectural extremes as Mr. Serra, so it makes sense that his adamantine pursuit of the medium, surveyed in an installation that he largely designed himself, is not quite like anything seen at the Met before. There are moments of off-putting starkness on Mr. Serra's side and some of the usual architectural infelicities on the Met's, but as a demonstration of this august institution's willingness to engage with genuinely radical, physically unsettling art of recent vintage, the show is cause for hope. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20110526
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Katrin Sigurdardottir at the Met' Through June 5. This Icelandic New Yorker has created a pair of fanciful, quasi-architectural constructions inspired by two of the museum's French neo-Classical period rooms. Ms. Sigurdardottir's versions are all-white abstractions of their models, made with exacting craft but with simplified details. One with skewed windows and doors in a descending spiral of abutted panels could be a Modernist set for ''Alice in Wonderland.'' At 85 percent life-size, the other, an octagonal interior viewable only through one-way mirrors, has a magical, otherworldly glow. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20110526
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Tibetan Arms and Armor From the Permanent Collection' Through fall. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Met's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Later Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, created this follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including five acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense; examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20110526
MoMA P.S. 1: 'Laurel Nakadate: Only the Lonely' Through Aug. 8. Laurel Nakadate might be on the cusp of a great new career. She is known for disconcerting, sad and sexually provocative videos that she enlisted older, worse-for-wear men to participate in, but in the past three years she has made two feature-length films. Included in this enthralling survey of her 10-year career, they focus with lingering, heart-aching care on adolescent girls, lost souls looking for love and only getting into trouble. MoMA P.S. 1, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)20110526
Museum of Biblical Art: 'Passion in Venice: Crivelli to Tintoretto and Veronese' Through June 12. This fascinating exhibition presents about 60 well-chosen paintings, sculptures and objects by famous artists and unidentified artisans, all representing a major iconic image of Christendom: Jesus as the Man of Sorrows, post-Crucifixion, pre-Resurrection. Michele Giambono's 15th-century painting pictures him in anguish with bleeding palms and blood dripping from the thorns of his crown. In a late 16th-century, classicizing painting by Paolo Veronose, he slumps in the arms of an angel like a defeated athlete. Don't miss the small, wooden head of Jesus with a tiny, spring-loaded, pop-up Man of Sorrows. 1865 Broadway, at 61st Street , (212) 408-1500, mobia.org. (Johnson)20110526
Museum of Modern Art: 'Access to Tools: Publications From the Whole Earth Catalog, 1968-1974' Through July 26. Brainchild of the visionary techno-hippie artist Steward Brand, the Whole Earth Catalog did for counterculture youth in the '60s what the Sears catalog did for children of the Great Depression and what Google does for people of the Internet age: provide a way for ordinary citizens to connect with and make use of the global economy. This modest but stirring time capsule of an exhibition presents various editions of the catalog, along with a mind-expanding array of books, magazines and ephemera that influenced or exemplified its holistic mission. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)20110526
Museum of Modern Art: 'Francis Als: A Story of Deception' Through Aug. 1. This possibly premature, hit-and-miss survey of the quixotic, politically aware, yet obstinately poetic art of this Belgian artist, who has lived in Mexico since 1986, whipsaws a visitor between engagement and boredom, serious consideration and dismissal. In the show, at MoMA and its P.S. 1 site in Queens (closes Sept. 12), the best works are videos, but the split exhibition is garnished, you might say, with sometimes appealing paintings and sculptures and also dulled with extensive backup materials: studies, notes, texts and newspaper clippings pertaining to most of the works on view. Too often the result confirms this museum's blind faith in the wan, cerebral machinations of late-late-late Conceptualism. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20110526
- Museum of Modern Art: 'German Expressionism: The Graphic Impulse' Through July 11. MoMA's largest ever survey of Germany's first modern art movement is infused with an urgent, crackling energy, by turns joyful, satiric, grim and tragic. Presenting some 250 works -- most of them little-seen prints -- it celebrates one of the 20th century's most brutally effective, socially responsive unions of medium and message and shakes up the (understandable) conventional wisdom that the museum is almost terminally Francophile. While lavish, the show reveals but a fraction of the museum's 3,200 Expressionist works on paper, all of which are newly available for digital viewing at moma.org/explore/multimedia/interactives/161. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20110526
Museum of Modern Art: 'I Am Still Alive: Politics and Everyday Life in Contemporary Drawing' Through Sept. 19. This show of contemporary drawings (most acquired since 2005) is anchored by a group of telegrams sent by the Japanese artist On Kawara to friends and associates; each one bears the message ''I am still alive.'' The artists seem to be in a permanent state of wariness and suspicion, which is sometimes the result of political instability and at other times more innate. But their efforts to process matters of life and death in short bursts of creative activity feel very of the moment. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)20110526
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Picasso: Guitars 1912-1914' Through June 6. Five years after painting his history-altering ''Demoiselles d'Avignon'' and inspired by his friend Georges Braque, Picasso left the figure behind and immersed himself in an alternative reality of still lifes that collapsed space and took him to the brink of abstraction. MoMA's subtly buzzing manifesto of a show -- made up of 70 thematically related paintings, drawings and collages, along with a pair of renowned guitar sculptures -- is a record of that moment, a brief revolution that generated some of the most challenging ideas in modern art. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20110526
Neue Galerie: 'Vienna 1900: Style and Identity' Through June 27. One of history's more fraught fin-de-siecle efflorescences of art and thought is recounted in a shifting kaleidoscope of paintings, drawings, architectural models, posters and several species of decorative arts. Among paintings by Gustav Klimt, Oskar Kokoschka and Egon Schiele, there is also a re-creation of Freud's psychoanalytic couch, an eye-popping tribute to the Vienna Secession and a crowded face-off between the designer-theoreticians Josef Hoffmann and Adolf Loos. Over all, it resembles a tasting menu with enough rich and disparate flavors that the gaps and omissions can be overlooked. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street , (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.com. (Smith)20110526
- New Museum: 'Lynda Benglis' Through June 19. This startlingly excellent resurrection of the prescient Post-Minimalist renegade and her gaudy, multidexterous, often gender-bending segues among Process, Performance and Body Art is long overdue. Carefully chosen, it includes her notorious 1974 Artforum ad, but it gives pride of place to her equally flamboyant, if abstract, evocations of the body in pigmented wax, latex and polyurethane foam. Taking tips from Pollock, these works combine the dancer and the dance, unleash painting into real space and mock the less colorful efforts of her mostly masculine contemporaries. The through line: feminist intuition, formalist excess and a reckless disregard for art-world standards and practices. Bravo. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)20110526
- Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture: 'Soulful Stitching: Patchwork Quilts by Africans (Siddis) of India' Through June 30. The 15 brilliant contemporary quilts in this show were made by women of the Siddi ethnic group, descendants of early African migrants to South Asia, including slaves brought by Portuguese colonists in the 16th century. Strips and patches of recycled cloth -- solid-colored, patterned or shot through with glittery threads -- are the basic components. Together the results look like a spring garden in bloom. New York Public Library, 515 Lenox Avenue, at 135th Street, Hamilton Heights , nypl.org. (Cotter)20110526
Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian: 'A Song for the Horse Nation' Through July 7. Including saddles, riding blankets, clothing, beaded bags and much more, this exhibition brings to light a fascinating and ultimately sad chapter in American history: the hundred-year period during which horses were central to the lives of the Plains Indians. A highly efficient form of transportation, horses enabled Navajo, Crow, Comanche, Pawnee and others to expand their territories and flourish more than they otherwise would have. It also enabled them to make war more effectively, though ultimately not effectively enough. George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan , (212) 514-3700, americanindian.si.edu. (Johnson)20110526
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Breaking Ground: The Whitney's Founding Collection' Through Sept. 18. In anticipation of its move to a new home in 2015, the Whitney is cooking up a series of six back-to-back experimental permanent collection shows at its present location. The first of them is a sampler of the earliest work in the holdings, and as a summary of the institution's initial view of American Modernism, what a curious thing it is. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)20110526
- Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Glenn Ligon: America' Through June 5. Sometimes a career survey doubles as a scan of social history. This is true of this Glenn Ligon retrospective, a tight but ample show that refers back to America's slave-holding past and forward to the Obama present, but focuses on the late 1980s and 1990s, a too-seldom-revisited stretch of recent art. Is shared culture -- being American -- in the end a stronger source of communality than race or sexual orientation? That's an important question that Mr. Ligon's beautifully made work asks. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)20110526
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Singular Visions' Continuing. With its ''one artwork per room'' rule, ''Singular Visions'' is a refreshing departure from the typical collection sampler. The show's work includes pieces by A A Bronson, Sarah Charlesworth, Robert Grosvenor, Eva Hesse, Edward Kienholz and Georgia O'Keeffe; some rooms are more intriguing than others, but on the whole the show feels like a necessary experiment. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20110526
Galleries: Uptown
- Eric Fischl: 'Early Paintings' Through June 18. Mr. Fischl produced some psychologically astounding paintings in the early 1980s. Made with a loose, expressionist touch on medium-large canvases, his emotionally raw, semi-photorealist images of adolescent Oedipal confusion still project a dreamy, penetrating acidity. ''Sleepwalker'' (1979) pictures a skinny, naked boy standing in the shin-deep water of an aqua plastic pool hunched over and masturbating in a suburban backyard. It is a classic. Skarstedt, 20 East 79th Street , (212) 737-2060, skarstedt.com. (Johnson)20110526
- 'Kota Ancestors' Through June 11. Orchestrated by the Paris dealer Bernard Dulon, this ravishing show affords a rare opportunity to study the stylistic variations and variety of Kota reliquary figures, as exemplified by 15 outstanding examples. Their large concave faces, delicately stylized features, inventive metalwork surfaces and ineffably human geometries are among the cornerstones of European Modernism, starting with Picasso's ''Demoiselles d'Avignon.'' Friedman & Vallois, 27 East 67th Street , (212) 517-3820, vallois.com. (Smith)20110526
'Nubia: Ancient Kingdoms of Africa' Through June 12. ''Nubia'' takes you deep into the history of a volatile part of Africa. The show occupies just two small galleries but spans a 500-mile stretch of the Nile River Valley (now northern Sudan and southern Egypt) and more than 2,250 years (from about 3000 B.C. through 750 B.C.). Pottery, statues and funerary objects chart the dizzying power swings between Egypt and Nubia, cultures that traded goods as well as blows. Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, New York University, 15 East 84th Street , (212) 992-7800, nyu.edu/isaw. (Rosenberg)20110526
'Soutine/Bacon' Through June 18. This intense show pairs still lifes, landscapes and portraits by Chaim Soutine (1893-1943) and Francis Bacon (1909-92). The two shared an appetite for viscera and a zest for reinterpreting the masters, but Soutine is the stronger voice here; standouts include the Tate's ''Landscape at Ceret (the Storm),'' a crackling mass of thunderheads that anticipates Pollock and de Kooning, and a glistening ''Still Life With Ray Fish,'' made in homage to Chardin's ''Skate.'' Helly Nahmad Gallery, 975 Madison Avenue, at 76th Street , (212) 879-2075, hellynahmadgallery.com. (Rosenberg)20110526
'John Storrs' Through June 30. This exhibition, by emphasizing relatively realistic works, complements the illuminating survey of the American sculptor John Storrs (1885-1956) -- best known for his Deco-ish evocations of abstracted skyscrapers -- at New York University's Grey Art Gallery. The works here include figures, portrait busts and terra cotta reliefs, as well as an array of wood-cuts, drawings and a few paintings; they present a softer, more personal side of Storrs's sensibility. Meredith Ward Fine Art, 44 East 74th Street , (212) 744-7306, meredithwardfineart.com. (Smith)20110526
- Andy Warhol: 'Colored Campbell's Soup Cans' Through June 11. This might be the most beautiful Andy Warhol show you'll ever see. In 1965, three years after creating his first paintings of Campbell's tomato soup cans, Warhol produced a series of 20 in a ravishing range of tropical colors. This exhibition, the first ever to focus on the series, presents 12 of them, every one a delicious piece of eye candy. L&M Arts, 45 East 78th Street , (212) 861-0020, lmgallery.com. (Johnson)20110526
Galleries: 57th Street
'Decadence and Decay: Max Beckmann, Otto Dix, George Grosz' Through June 24. This seductively titled show of 65 works by these three Weimar-era luminaries complements the Museum of Modern Art's current show of German Expressionist prints. Dix is the standout, with Neue Sachlichkeit portrait drawings that make figures look both vulnerable and monstrous. Also here are prints from his 1924 cycle ''The War,'' which can be seen at MoMA in its terrifying entirety. Galerie St. Etienne, 24 West 57th Street , (212) 245-6734, gseart.com. (Rosenberg)20110526
Galleries: Chelsea
- John Chamberlain: 'New Sculpture' Through July 8. In some of the largest works of his career, this venerable American sculptor uses his signature materials -- crushed car bodies and fenders -- with tremendous compositional variety, verve and his usual unerring color sense. Variously comical, stately, architectural and gestural, these pieces erupt from the gallery's expansive concrete floors like unusually well-shaped mesas, creating an exhilarating indoor landscape. Gagosian Gallery, 555 West 24th Street , (212) 741-1111, gagosian.com. (Smith)20110526
John Divola: 'Trees for the Forest' Through June 18. This mini-survey of John Divola, a Los Angeles-based conceptual photographer, reveals the depth and diversity of that city's art scene. Early shots of artistic interventions in vandalized homes have an experimental, Man Ray-meets-Gordon Matta-Clark aesthetic; other works recall Bruce Nauman and Bas Jan Ader. Wallspace, 619 West 27th Street , (212) 594-9478, wallspacegallery.com. (Rosenberg)20110526
Mary Frank: 'Transformations: Wood Sculpture, 1957-1967, and Recent Photographs' Through June 4. This exhibition rescues from oblivion 11 gruffly carved, often erotically charged wood sculptures whose forms tend to mutate surprisingly when seen from different angles. They draw variously from Brancusi, Degas and folk art and share aspects with works made at the same time by Raoul Hague, Bill King and H. C. Westermann. Here they are accompanied by recent photographs that offer some weird, distinctly Frankian wrinkles to the set-up tendency. D. C. Moore Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street , (212) 247-2111, dcmooregallery.com. (Smith)20110526
- Mark Grotjahn: 'Nine Faces' Through June 25. Full of thatches of thrashing, live-wire lines made with a surprisingly methodical palette-knife technique, Mr. Grotjahn's newest paintings are harsh, elegant things that enthrall the eye and splinter the mind. Ellipses and circles tumble about among the lines, intimating fractured features and calling attention to the nominal masklike faces of early Picasso and Matisse, Jawlensky and Brancusi. Altogether, they emphasize painting as a psychic and bodily process, fueled in part by the devouring and digesting of previous art to formulate a new synthesis. Anton Kern Gallery, 532 West 20th Street , (212) 367-9663, antonkerngallery.com. (Smith)20110526
Jene Highstein: 'New Sculpture: Towers and Elliptical Forms' Through June 16. The latest from this Post-Minimalist sculptor, long interested in tacitly organic monoliths, is a series of soaring spires and relatively earthbound orbs subtly shaped in matte sandblasted (and vaguely ceramic-like) stainless steel. Together they intimate a high desert landscape, abstracted. Danese, 535 West 24th Street , (212) 223-2227, danese.com. (Smith)20110526
- Jasper Johns: 'New Sculpture and Works on Paper' Through July 1. The centerpiece of this pleasantly miscellaneous show is a large cast-aluminum relief and six smaller two-sided ones in cast bronze and silver, which put grids of the numbers zero through nine through elaborate variations in texture, legibility and suggestion. Among the artist's first cast-metal objects in some years, they exemplify his trenchant recycling of motifs and clarify his tendency to conflate aspects of printing, painting and sculpture (and collage). Their mesmerizing combination of lapidary detail and casual process reveals the intensity of Mr. Johns's mind with unusual clarity. Matthew Marks Gallery, 522 West 22nd Street , (212) 243-0200, matthewmarks.com. (Smith)20110526
- 'Donald Judd' Through June 25. Nine large silvery, seemingly identical floor boxes, all open at the top, turn out to have markedly different and expansive interiors, articulated by various vertical divisions and planes of colors. These wells of space and color exemplify Judd's frequent use of surprise to create suspense and clarity; they also reflect his origins in painting and his lifelong admiration for the simple forms and strong colors of painters like Barnett Newman, Mark Rothko and Josef Albers. David Zwirner, 525 and 533 West 19th Street , (212) 727-2070, davidzwirner.com. (Smith)20110526
Louise Lawler: 'Fitting at Metro Pictures' Through June 11. These canny photographs of art in situ at museums, auction houses, galleries and collectors' homes are similar to those in Ms. Lawler's last couple of shows, but here she has tweaked the pictures' dimensions to make them strictly proportional to the gallery walls. She has also printed the adjusted images on adhesive wall stickers, enhancing the illusion of a gallery-within-a-gallery. The distortions are cleverly deployed, as are changes in scale; Ms. Lawler turns Degas's ''Little Dancer'' into a Goliath and makes good on the ''giant-size'' promise of Warhol's Brillo-box packaging. Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street , (212) 206-7100, metropicturesgallery.com. (Rosenberg)20110526
Carter Mull: 'The Day's Specific Dreams' Through June 11. Carter Mull's first solo show is part newsroom, part darkroom. His subject is the life of print, from birth to its current death throes, though like most artists, he's not an objective biographer. In his photographs and drawings, blobs of prismatic color encroach on accounts of revolution in Egypt (from the Jan. 30 and 31 issues of The New York Times) and illustrations of printing presses and writing tools from Diderot's Encyclopedia. Taxter & Spengemann, 459 West 18th Street , (212) 924-0212, taxterandspengemann.com. (Rosenberg)20110526
- Picasso and Marie-Therese: 'L'Amour Fou' Through June 25. While falling short of the exhibition of late Picasso paintings and prints that filled this space two years ago, the latest Gagosian exegesis into Picasso land is a wonderfully motley, almost scattershot affair, brilliantly installed. It presents works, in all mediums and several styles, that Picasso made during the late 1920s and '30s, when he was under the spell of the voluptuous, Roman-nosed, level-eyed, full-limbed Marie-Therese Walter, arguably the love of his life. Anchored by this single if perpetually mutating subject, the art on hand confirms that when Picasso told Walter she had saved his life, he meant that she had also saved his art. Gagosian Gallery, 522 West 21st Street , (212) 741-1717, gagosian.com. (Smith)20110526
Tobias Putrih: 'When Language Goes on a Holiday' Through June 25. The latest from this Slovenian artist is a flexible system of thin, mostly hexagonal, perforated sheets of black aluminum that can be bolted together any number of ways. Here they yield abstract sculpture, partitions (some used for displaying chair designs by the early modern Swedish designer Erik Gunnar Asplund) and furniture. A mordant yet genuine utopianism results. Meulensteen, 511 West 22nd Street , (212) 633-6999, meulensteen.com. (Smith)20110526
- Vladimir Tatlin: 'Monument to the Third InternAtional' Through July 30. Concocted by a founder of Russian Constructivism between 1915 and 1920, following close encounters with the Eiffel Tower and Picasso's guitar constructions in Paris, this tilting, spiraling, viaduct-like structure is one of early Modernism's most ambitious and best-known works of unrealized architecture, embodied by one of its biggest architectural models. Shown in the United States for the first time -- the oldest (1967) remake of the original model, which disappeared around 1932 -- it is dense with portents of 20th-century sculpture to come, from LeWitt's grids to Smithson's jetty. Tony Shafrazi, 544 West 26th Street , (212) 274-9300, tonyshafrazigallery.com. (Smith)20110526
Richard Tuttle: 'What's the Wind' Through July 22. Working quite a bit larger than usual, this Post-Minimalist master of seeming trifles presents a series of deftly cobbled-together thingamajigs that charm and challenge. Each presents a kind of stage-set-like open volume of sculptural events patched together from colorful, lightweight materials and objects. The result is a somewhat slovenly, art-supplies Constructivism that is characteristically light, ephemeral and full of joy. Pace Gallery, 510 West 25th Street , (212) 255-4044, thepacegallery.com. (Smith)20110526
- Gillian Wearing: 'People' Through June 24. This British artist's first New York show in eight years more than makes up for lost time. In three very different video works, she relentlessly tests the limits of what might be called narrated portraiture, coaxing forth unstated feelings and scarring experiences or, in one instance, reviewing several decades of snapshot styles to recast a demurely resentful life story. She also eerily re-enacts three famous portraits of famous photographers using her signature custom-made rubber masks and ventures into three dimensions with two small statues that pay tribute to everyday heroes. Life daunts, but the living persist. Tanya Bonakdar Gallery, 521 West 21st Street , (212) 414-4144, tanyabonakdargallery.com. (Smith)20110526
- Stephen Westfall: 'Seraphim: Paintings and works on paper' Through June 11. While there are several abstract canvases of interest in this exhibition, the centerpiece is a large wall painting felicitously framed by the gallery architecture and dominated by a tipped (diamond) square, whose bold concentric bands change color at every corner. The syncopated progression of hues, which is more intuitive than systematic, creates a wonderful, jangling destabilization, warping space and confirming scale (not size) as the living energy source that it is. You would think that related works by Frank Stella and Sol LeWitt would not have left Mr. Westfall much room to move, but he proves otherwise. Lennon Weinberg Inc., 514 West 25th Street , (212) 941-0012, lennonweinberg.com. (Smith)20110526
Galleries: SoHo
- Alvin Baltrop: 'Photographs 1965-2003' Through June 18. All but unknown in his lifetime, the photographer Alvin Baltrop (1948-2004) focused much of his energy on documenting the illicit erotic and aesthetic life on abandoned shipping piers along the West Side of Manhattan in the 1970s and '80s. Image by image the work is uneven, but there are wonderful things, and the cumulative impact is potent, not only as art produced by an exceptional eye but as a record of a turning-point moment in time, just before and after AIDS struck. Third Streaming, 10 Greene Street, second floor , (646) 370-3877, thirdstreaming.com. (Cotter)20110526
- 'Drawing and Its Double: Selections from the Istituto Nazionale per la Grafica' Through June 24. The drawings in this show take an unusual form: they are the designs etched by artists, using burins and acid, on metal plates from which prints (the ''double'' of the title) are made. The selection begins on a grand note with a set of 10 oddly shaped copper plates made for a 16th-century print version of Michelanglo's ''Last Judgment'' and concludes with expressionistic illustrations by the contemporary artist Paolo Canevari on the Ten Commandments. Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street , (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Cotter)20110526
Galleries: Other
- 'David Adamo' Through June 19. This brilliant solo debut from a young New York artist now living in Berlin forms an expansive meditation on sculpture and its materials, evocations and traditional techniques, both additive and subtractive. A New England stone wall reads as a lumpy Carl Andre floor piece. An array of cedar beams evoke both Mr. Andre's early work and Brancusi's studio, but not too reverentially. Casualness alternates with bravura precision, like the trompe-l'oeil-painted plaster casts of partly eaten fruit that are strewn everywhere and form a dispersed vanitas. There's more, and the cumulative effect is refreshingly open-ended. Untitled, 30 Orchard Street, Lower East Side , (212) 608-6002, nyuntitled.com. (Smith)20110526
Elaine Cameron-Weir: 'without true bazaars' Through June 18. In this modest yet convincing debut, Minimalist simplicity -- and several kinds of rectilinear form -- are explored with wit, physical variety and an admirable economy of means. The works include a Persian rug dipped in indigo dye; a long, gracefully curved wood dowel covered in rolling tobacco; a scent-emitting wall piece; and, best of all, ''Pedestal,'' a tall, narrow, stepped monolith tenderly worked in plaster that resembles an architectural model for a skyscraper. Ramiken Crucible, 389 Grand Street, Lower East Side , (917) 434-4245, ramikencrucible.com. (Smith)20110526
- 'Ethiopian Magic Scrolls: Talismanic Art of Ethiopia ' Through June 30. In 2005, the London dealer Sam Fogg blew us away with an exhibition of Ethiopian Christian liturgical art. Now, in association with Milos Simovic of Elizabeth Street Fine Arts, he follows up with a show of 18th- and 19th-century painted and written scrolls that emerged from Ethiopian popular religion. And they are equally, if very differently, wondrous. Figures of warrior-saints and archangels rub shoulders with demons; talismanic designs mingle with New Testament quotations. They're all tucked away like a hidden trove in the back of a shop specializing mostly in Coney Island antiques. Elizabeth Street Fine Arts, 209 Elizabeth Street, Nolita , (212) 274-9400, elizabethstreetfinearts.com. (Cotter)20110526
'Hilary Harnischfeger' Through June 19. For her third gallery solo show in New York, this artist supplements her already robust combination of materials and mediums -- which include paper, plaster, paint and minerals -- with multicolored clay. This complicates things considerably in terms of surface, form and hue, yielding in particular a series of small, truculent, impacted, free-standing works that refuse easy categorization. Rachel Uffner Gallery, 47 Orchard Street, Lower East Side , (212) 274-0064, racheluffnergallery.com. (Smith)20110526
- Matthew Miller: 'the magic black of an open barn door on a really sunny summer day, when you just cannot see into it' Through June 5. Lots of painters emulate Renaissance old masters. Few do so to such riveting effect as this young painter. Each of the five oil-on-panel works here is a self-portrait picturing the artist with closely cropped hair against a jet-black background. He is viewed straight on or in three-quarter profile with bare neck and upper shoulders; his high forehead is deeply furrowed, his eyes heavy-lidded. He could be a spiritually anguished, Lutheran monk by Lucas Cranach. Famous Accountants, 1673 Gates Avenue, between St. Nicholas and Cypress Avenues, Bushwick, Brooklyn , (917) 309-3540, famousaccountants.wordpress.com. (Johnson)20110526
John Storrs: 'Machine-Age Modernist' Through July 9. The Chicago-born artist John Storrs (1885-1956) compacted utopian, machine-age dreaming into Cubist-Art Deco-style sculptures resembling pieces of architectural ornament and models of skyscrapers. There is nothing quite like his dense, carefully wrought stone and metal sculptures in early American -- or European, for that matter -- Modernism, and this finely tuned show gives a good account of his progress from the late '10s to the early '30s. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East , (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)20110526
Public Art
Eva Rothschild: 'Empire' Through Aug. 28. At the southeast entrance to Central Park stands a colorful, tubular structure resembling a swing-set frame designed by spiders on LSD. Touching ground at 10 points on the cobbled plaza, its red, green and black striped posts rise at different angles into an airy web over 18 feet at its highest point. A playful riff on the ancient form of the triumphal arch, ''Empire'' will be a required photo-op for tourists and other visitors. Doris C. Freedman Plaza, Central Park, 60th Street and Fifth Avenue, Public Art Fund , (212) 223-7800, publicartfund.org. (Cotter)20110526
Out of Town
- Anacostia Community Museum: 'Word, Shout, Song: Lorenzo Dow Turner, Connecting Communities Through Language' Through July 24. Housed in a converted movie theater in a predominantly African-American neighborhood that is a cab ride's distance from the National Mall, the Anacostia Community Museum is one of Washington's cultural secrets. Its exhibition on the scholar Lorenzo Dow Turner (1890-1972), who documented surviving traces of African languages and customs in modern African-American culture, is both an archival homage and a well-paced drama of ideas. Smithsonian Institution, 1901 Fort Place SE, Washington , (202) 633-4820, anacostia.si.edu. (Cotter)20110526
- Princeton University Art Museum: 'Kurt Schwitters: Color and Collage' Through June 26. The German artist Kurt Schwitters, who died in 1948, is one of Modernism's true delights, though seen far less often than he deserves to be. This smallish show, his first substantial survey since the 1985 Museum of Modern Art retrospective, is made up primarily of wonderful collages spanning his career, from garrulous early examples made from the odds and ends of urban life -- tram tickets, stamps, receipts -- to the light-and-shadow late ones, done when he was in wartime exile in England and living, as he loved to be, surrounded by nature. From very first to very last, he's golden, and worth the trip to see. Princeton, N.J. , (609) 258-3788, artmuseum.princeton.edu. (Cotter)20110526
Last Chance
- African Art Museum of the SMA Fathers: 'Permanent Collection, Part I' Closes on Sunday. If you're looking for some visual magic -- a Yoruba dance mask with a mini-zoo on top; a brocaded body wrap from Ivory Coast that seems to float on air; a 10-foot-high figure of the 1960s Malian soccer hero Salif Keita -- this small, unorthodox museum in a stained-glass-windowed hall beside a church, on the residential campus of a Roman Catholic missionary order in a leafy New Jersey suburb, is for you. 23 Bliss Avenue, Tenafly, N.J. , (201) 894-8611, smafathers.org/museum. (Cotter)20110526
- Bronx Museum of the Arts: 'Stargazers: Elizabeth Catlett in Conversation with 21 Contemporary Artists' Closes on Monday. This celebration of the artist Elizabeth Catlett, 96, includes contributions by a stellar array of younger colleagues from two generations. But Ms. Catlett herself, with her formally assured and expressively commanding art, is the life of the party just by being the quietest, wisest voice in the room. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania , (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Cotter)20110526
- Guggenheim Museum: 'The Great Upheaval: Modern Art from the Guggenheim Collection, 1910-1918' Closes on Wednesday. Full of the art that Frank Lloyd Wright's spiral was built for, this meticulous and spacious installation of gems from the Guggenheim's admittedly patchy, idiosyncratic collection of early Modernist works is a trifle serene, considering its focus. There are masterpieces by Chagall, Malevich, Mondrian and others, as well as works of more purely historical interest that together indicate both the startling innovations of Modernism and the challenges these presented for lesser artists. But at times the upheaval in question seems to be unfolding in slow motion, at a remove, with the sound off. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)20110526
- 'Eva Hesse and Sol LeWitt' Closes on Friday. This beautiful duet of works by Hesse and her friend and mentor LeWitt is like a love affair between rational mind and passionate intuition. Both artists were preoccupied with the grid, but while his are strictly abstract, hers are sensual and surrealistic. His all-white, 3-D, gridded cube skeleton is Platonically pure; her cube of perforated steel with hundreds of little rubber tubes inserted to create a furry interior is weirdly sexual. Craig F. Starr, 5 East 73rd Street , (212) 570-1739, starr-art.com. (Johnson)20110526
- El Museo del Barrio: 'Luis Camnitzer' Closes on Sunday. Some stars take longer than others to come into telescopic range, as is the case with Luis Camnitzer, a pioneer of 1960s Conceptualism who is just now having his first New York museum survey. Much of what's here is based on language: cryptic propositions, lists of words, descriptive phrases -- unmoored from, or very loosely tethered to, spare-to-barely-there visual matter. The results are terse, political, funny and lyrical. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem , (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Cotter)20110526
- 'Unpainted Paintings' Closes on Friday. The 37 works in this astute if star-struck exhibition explore post-Pollock paintings that favor nontraditional materials and approaches and a great deal of chance. The generally excellent selections range from a gold-leaf painting by Robert Rauschenberg and a urine-on-canvas work by Andy Warhol to a stained and acid-eaten wool rug by Anna Betbeze, a promising newcomer. Also on hand are works by Alberto Burri, Mike Kelley, Piero Manzoni and Rosemarie Trockel. The show's single-mindedness is a tad monotonous, but this is museum-quality effort that some museum should do larger, less predictably and more ecumenically. Luxembourg & Dayan, 64 East 77th Street , (212) 452-4646, luxembourgdayan.com. (Smith)20110526

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'GERMAN EXPRESSIONISM: THE GRAPHIC IMPULSE': Through July 11. MoMA's largest survey of Germany's first Modern art movement is infused with a crackling energy, by turns joyful, satiric, grim and tragic. Presenting some 250 works -- like Erich Heckel's ''Portrait of a Man,'' above, and many little-seen prints -- it celebrates one of the 20th century's most brutally effective, socially responsive unions of medium and message and shakes the (understandable) conventional wisdom that the museum is almost terminally Francophile. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Roberta Smith) (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICH HECKEL/ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK -- VG BILD-KUNST, GERMANY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); QUILTS & QUILTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); TEXTILES (89%); PAINTING (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); FABRICS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); SCULPTURE (79%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (69%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (64%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (89%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



879 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Judge Voids Law Curbing Union Rights In Wisconsin

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Ruling that Republicans in the State Senate had violated the state's open meetings law, a judge in Wisconsin dealt a blow to them and to Gov. Scott Walker on Thursday by granting a permanent injunction that voided a law curbing collective bargaining rights for many state and local employees.
Judge Maryann Sumi of Dane County Circuit Court said the Senate vote on March 9, held after 14 Democratic senators had fled the state, failed to comply with the open meetings law, which requires at least two hours' notice to the public. 
The Wisconsin Supreme Court is scheduled to hear arguments in the case on June 6, and Republican lawmakers are hoping the court will overturn Judge Sumi's ruling and reinstate the law.
The Senate could choose to pass the bill again while assuring proper notice. But some political experts said a new vote might meet numerous obstacles. Some Democrats could flee the state again, and some Republican senators are facing recall elections.
The law, which Governor Walker proposed and vigorously pushed, and which generated huge protests in Madison, the state capital, bars public-sector unions, except those representing police officers and firefighters, from bargaining over health benefits and pensions. It allows bargaining over wages, but does not permit raises higher than the inflation rate unless they are approved in a public referendum.
The Senate's 19 Republicans approved the measure, 18 to 1, in less than half an hour, without debate on the floor or a single Democrat in the room. They rushed the vote after weeks of boisterous pro-union rallies in Madison and after hundreds of demonstrators slept inside the State Capitol and crowded and shouted outside the legislative chambers.
Scott Fitzgerald, the Republican Senate majority leader, criticized Judge Sumi's decision.
''There's still a much larger separation-of-powers issue: whether one Madison judge can stand in the way of the other two democratically elected branches of government,'' he said in a statement. ''The Supreme Court is going to have the ultimate ruling.''
Mary Bell, president of the Wisconsin Education Association Council, the state's largest teachers' union, applauded the decision, saying the law was intended to ''bust unions.''
''In the wake of this ruling, state lawmakers should back down and not take another run at this divisive legislation,'' she said in a statement. ''It is not in the best interest of students, schools or Wisconsin's future to take the voices of educators out of our classrooms.''
Republican senators asserted that they had enacted the bargaining law under emergency conditions, making it unnecessary to comply with the open meetings law. But Judge Sumi said she found no official evidence of emergency conditions or notice.
''This case is the exemplar of values protected by the open meetings law: transparency in government, the right of citizens to participate in their government and respect for the rule of law,'' Judge Sumi wrote.
She said the evidence demonstrated a failure to obey even the two-hour notice allowed for good cause if a 24-hour notice was impossible or impractical.
Cullen Werwie, a spokesman for Mr. Walker, declined to comment, saying the Senate vote did not directly involve the governor.
Judge Sumi rejected the Republicans' claims that the open meetings law did not allow bills passed by the Legislature to be struck down, only laws by lesser bodies. She also rejected the idea that the law was so important that it should stand despite the open meetings violation.
Quoting a Wisconsin Supreme Court decision from last year, Judge Sumi wrote, ''The right of the people to monitor the people's business is one of the core principles of democracy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); JUDGES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SUNSHINE LAWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); INJUNCTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (87%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (85%); SUPREME COURTS (79%); LITIGATION (79%); APPROVALS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); REFERENDUMS (71%); INFLATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%)

COMPANY: PT SUPER MITORY UTAMA TBK (58%); WISCONSIN EDUCATION ASSOCIATION CREDIT UNION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: WISCONSIN SUPREME COURT (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (52%); SIC6062 CREDIT UNIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (52%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



880 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: Serb Ex-General Accused of Massacre Is Captured

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY and DOREEN CARVAJAL; Dan Bilefsky reported from New York, and Doreen Carvajal from Paris. Marlise Simons contributed reporting from Paris, and David Rohde from New York.

 BODY:
Ratko Mladic, the former Bosnian Serb general held responsible for the massacre of some 8,000 Muslim men and boys at Srebrenica in 1995, was arrested on Thursday, signaling Serbia's intention of finally escaping the isolation it brought on itself during the Balkan wars, the bloodiest in Europe since World War II.
The capture of the former general removes a major obstacle to Serbia's becoming a member of the European Union, which had insisted that Mr. Mladic be apprehended and turned over for trial in an international court before the country could get on track to join the 27-nation union.
President Boris Tadic of Serbia gave few details in announcing the arrest but promised that Mr. Mladic would be turned over for trial at The Hague within days. ''I think today we finished a difficult period in our recent history,'' he said. For Europeans, buffeted by financial crises, the arrest of their most wanted war crime suspect has a resonance on the magnitude of the killing of Osama bin Laden for Americans. It also amounts to a significant diplomatic victory, suggesting that the incentive of membership in the world's biggest trading bloc remains a crucial foreign policy tool in the post-cold war world. 
Mr. Mladic had been at large for 15 years, and many European diplomats argued that Serbian officials could have arrested him long ago if they felt that the benefits of opening the door wider to the West outweighed appeals to virulent nationalism among some Serbs, who still regard Mr. Mladic as a hero.
Mr. Mladic was captured in the farming town of Lazarevo north of Belgrade after the authorities received a tip that a man resembling him was residing there. Serbia's interior minister, Ivica Dacic, said that Mr. Mladic had been found with his own expired identification card and an old military book. Some Serbian news reports said he had been living under the name of Milorad Komadic and had labored as a construction worker. But the Interior Ministry said Thursday that it did not have evidence suggesting he had taken on a false identity.
The massacre at Srebrenica was the worst ethnically motivated mass murder on the European continent since World War II. Mr. Mladic was also accused of war crimes for the three-and-a-half-year siege of Sarajevo, in which 10,000 people died, including 1,500 children.
While close associates had predicted that Mr. Mladic would sooner kill himself than face capture, Serbian news media reported that he was alone at the time of his arrest and had two pistols with him that he made no attempt to use. The police said he did not resist arrest. Witnesses said he appeared disoriented and tired, and that one of his hands appeared to be paralyzed, possibly because of a stroke.
Many of the 27 members of the European Union had been in favor of rewarding Belgrade for its recent tilt toward Europe and the United States by advancing its move toward membership in the bloc. But some, especially the Netherlands, had insisted that as long as Mr. Mladic remained free, Serbia could not join the union.
Mr. Mladic's crimes remained an emotional issue for the Dutch, whose peacekeepers were overrun at Srebrenica, allowing Mr. Mladic's soldiers to mow down men and boys, their hands tied behind their backs.
''His arrest gives a strong signal to the world that anyone accused of the worst crimes can be brought to justice,'' said Serge Brammertz, the prosecutor for the United Nations-based war crimes tribunal in The Hague. He said international pressure to block Serbia's entry into the European Union was a vital prod that had precipitated the arrest. According to B92, the independent Serbian broadcasting company, residents in Lazarevo said that they were unaware that Mr. Mladic was living among them, but had spotted the police early Thursday at a house reportedly belonging to Mr. Mladic's relatives. Serbian analysts said Lazarevo had had a large population of Bosnian Serbs since World War II, some of whom would have been sympathetic to Mr. Mladic. They said he had lived in the village for two months.
''Extradition is happening,'' President Tadic said, referring to The Hague. ''This is the end of the search for Mladic. It's not the end of the search for all those who helped Mladic and others to hide and whether people from the government were involved.''
Early on Thursday evening, Mr. Mladic appeared in a court in Belgrade, where a judge must decide whether all conditions have been met for Serbia to surrender him to the tribunal. But Mr. Mladic's lawyer, Milos Saljic, said the court halted its questioning of Mr. Mladic because of his poor health. Prosecutors said the court would continue to question Mr. Mladic on Friday and that he had three days to appeal an adverse ruling by the judge.
Radovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb political leader and Mr. Mladic's former boss, is being tried in The Hague on charges of genocide for his role in the Balkan bloodshed. Slobodan Milosevic, the nationalist former president of Serbia and the architect of the war, died in 2006 while his trial was under way.
Mr. Tadic, considered strongly pro-Western in the Serbian context, stressed that the arrest of Mr. Mladic ''is happening on the day Catherine Ashton is coming to Serbia,'' referring to the European Union's foreign policy chief. But it was not immediately clear how the Serbian public, which has been suspicious of the West's demands for trials of Serbs in the Balkan wars of the 1990s, would react to news of the arrest.
As evening descended on Belgrade, witnesses said small clutches of Mladic supporters had arrived near Republic Square. About 500 people also took to the streets of Novi Sad, in northern Serbia, and tried to force their way to a radio and television station, but were held back by riot police. They chanted, ''Knife, wire, Srebrenica'' -- a reference to the Srebrenica massacre -- and called for an ''uprising'' in Serbia.
On Thursday, Ljiljana Smajlovic, president of the country's Journalists' Association, said she did not expect widespread unrest to break out as it did when aggressive Serbian nationalists and followers of Slobodan Milosevic held more sway. ''The weight of evidence against Mladic is staggering,'' Ms. Smajlovic said, ''even if Serbs remain unconvinced that the Hague tribunal has been even-handed in its approach to war criminals in the former Yugoslavia.''
''I do not expect that Serbia, because of this arrest, will be destabilized,'' Mr. Tadic said. ''Whoever tries to make any trouble will end up in court.'' He said that the last remaining Serbian fugitive wanted for war crimes, Goran Hadzic , will be arrested as well. Mr. Hadzic is sought in connection with massacres of Croats in Krajina, a majority-Serb section of Croatia that tried to break away in the 1990s.
Some Serbian officials also reacted with anger, illustrating that the country was still struggling to come to terms with the past. Boris Aleksic, a spokesman for the ultranationalist Serbian Radical Party, said: ''Serb traitors have arrested a Serb hero. This shameful arrest of a Serb general is a blow to our national interests and the state.''
The arrest comes at a crucial moment. Serge Brammertz , the chief prosecutor of the United Nations war crimes tribunal in The Hague, was expected to release a report in the next few days saying that Serbia was not cooperating with the international effort to apprehend Mr. Mladic. Such a report would have further complicated Serbia's attempt to become an official candidate for membership in the European Union. Ms. Smajlovic said that the fact that Ms. Ashton was in Serbia for meetings on Thursday would ''lead to suspicion that the arrest was timed to honor her and also to underline Serbia now has high expectations of rapid E.U. integration.''
However, the European Union's struggles to manage financial crises in Greece, Ireland, Spain and elsewhere may present a new obstacle to that goal, with the bloc's drive to expand slowed in recent months. Some Serbian analysts fear a nationalist backlash if Serbia's European Union hopes are not realized.
In hiding since 1995, sometimes in plain sight at soccer matches and funerals, and sometimes deep underground in Belgrade, Mr. Mladic was believed for years to be protected by allies in the Serbian military and intelligence services. But he appeared to have spent the last few years with no more than a handful of loyalists to help him, investigators said.
A senior Obama administration official who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that the administration had been quietly pushing for Mr. Mladic's capture for years.
Mr. Mladic's arrest was welcomed by world leaders, including those gathered in Deauville, France, for the Group of Eight summit meeting. President Obama said in Deauville that the arrest was important for the families of Mr. Mladic's victims.
President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, the host in Deauville, said the Serbian government had made a ''courageous decision'' that constituted ''another step towards Serbia's eventual integration into the European Union.''
The arrest was also praised, in more somber tones, by survivors of the Srebrenica massacre and the siege of Sarajevo. ''I want to congratulate Europe and Tadic,'' said Munira Subasic, head of the Association of Mothers of Srebrenica. ''I'm sorry for all the victims who are dead and cannot see this day.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 3, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on May 27 about the capture of Ratko Mladic, the fugitive former Bosnian Serb general accused of responsibility for some of the worst atrocities committed during the 1990's Balkans conflict, misstated the number of children killed among the 10,000 victims of the siege of Sarajevo. It is 1,500, not 3,500.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ratko Mladic at a court in Belgrade on Thursday. Serbia says he will face a war crimes trial. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (A1)
 Ratko Mladic, center, observed the positions of Bosnian government forces in Gorazde in 1994. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMIL VAS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A10) CHART: Long Time on the Lam: Ratko Mladic, the former Bosnian Serb general, spent the last 15 years eluding capture on war-crimes charges. Often, he seemed to be hiding in plain sight. (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); MEN (89%); GENOCIDE (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); WORLD WAR II (77%); COLD WAR (77%); EYEWITNESSES (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); TESTIMONY (75%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%) SERBIA (97%); EUROPE (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011



881 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: For Freescale, an I.P.O. Success Falls Short of Social Media's

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
For the last several weeks, the market for initial public offerings looked red hot, thanks almost entirely to the eye-popping debut of the professional social network LinkedIn.
Shares in the Internet darling more than doubled in their first day of trading and have stayed in the stratosphere even after an 8 percent decline on Thursday.
But it takes more than a connection to technology to cook up a sizzling I.P.O., as Freescale Semiconductor learned this week. 
Shares in the chip maker closed on Thursday at $18.33, up 1.8 percent from their offering price, after having risen even higher earlier in the day. But the company's debut price of $18, set on Wednesday night, was at the bottom of an already reduced price range. It earned Freescale $783 million in proceeds, instead of the original $1 billion target.
Richard M. Beyer, Freescale's chief executive, said in a telephone interview on Thursday morning that he was pleased with the stock's performance, even at the reduced initial price.
''We seem to have priced it at a level that the investment community thinks is good,'' he said.
Freescale was not even the worst-performing stock debut this week. Spirit Airlines, a low-cost carrier, saw its shares tumble 3.8 percent to $11.55 in its first day of trading on Thursday even after having cut its offering's price range. And shares in the American International Group remain below the $29 price set for the long-awaited sale of stock owned by the federal government.
Mr. Beyer cited the choppier market for offerings that were not related to social media as the primary driver behind Freescale's price range.
The experience of Freescale shows how the recent frothiness in the initial offering market has been confined in part to social-media companies like LinkedIn and Yandex, a Russian search engine whose $1.3 billion offering was the largest by an Internet company in the United States since Google's debut in 2004.
''We did consider changing the name of our company to 'Freescale Social Networking,' '' Mr. Beyer joked.
Seriously, he added, ''We're O.K. with the fact that some of those social networking company I.P.O.'s have been doing much better, but those investments weren't made with macroeconomics in mind.''
Freescale is only the latest company owned by private equity firms to seek a return to the public markets. Earlier this year, Nielsen, the ratings company; the hospital operator HCA; and the oil-and-gas pipeline company Kinder Morgan all held well-received offerings. While Nielsen's stock remains well above the company's offering price, shares in HCA and Kinder Morgan have since fallen below their debuts.
All told, initial offerings by buyout-backed companies total $13.9 billion so far this year, according to data from Thomson Reuters. They account for 63 percent of all I.P.O.'s in the United States.
None of Freescale's private equity owners, including the Blackstone Group, the Carlyle Group, TPG Capital and Permira, sold shares in the offering, unlike other private equity-backed I.P.O.'s this year. Those owners are likely to wait until Freescale's stock price rises before selling their holdings, hoping to eke out even a small profit.
Freescale's offering is notable given the company's reputation as one of the more troubled takeovers of the private-equity boom. It was acquired in 2006 by several buyout firms for $17.6 billion, or $40 a share.
That acquisition left the company with an enormous debt, which now stands at $7.6 billion. All of the proceeds of the initial offering will go to reducing that burden.
Freescale was also battered by the recession, which reduced demand for the products containing its chips like cars, networking equipment and consumer products.
The company reported a loss of more than $1 billion last year, though its revenue began to rise again after a slump in 2009.
Mr. Beyer said that one of Freescale's biggest priorities was cutting its debt, since the company saves about $8 million in interest expense for every $100 million in obligations it pays off. After the I.P.O., Freescale's interest expense will shrink to a little more than $500 million a year.
He added that a resurgence in two of Freescale's core markets, autos and networking, was expected to continue this year, with more than 10 percent growth in the former and about 6 percent in the latter.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Beyer, right, of Freescale Semiconductor watched trading at the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (91%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (50%)

COMPANY: LINKEDIN CORP (94%); GOOGLE INC (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); SPIRIT AIRLINES INC (55%); YANDEX NV (53%); KINDER MORGAN INC (50%)

TICKER: LNKD (NYSE) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); SAVE (NASDAQ) (55%); YNDX (NASDAQ) (53%); KMI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (50%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD M BEYER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



882 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Making the Budget Work With Sleights of Hand

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY. 
rramsey@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Ross Ramsey, the managing editor of The Texas Tribune, writes a column for the Tribune.
When Texas lawmakers said they wanted to run government like a business, they left out the part about using Enron and Countrywide as their models.
Starting with a $4.3 billion deficit in the current budget and a $27 billion shortfall in the next one, lawmakers began by saying they would take care of their financial problems without raising taxes and without tapping the Rainy Day Fund, the state's $9.7 billion savings account. 
In a state where legislators are constitutionally required to balance the budget, you might think that leaves only budget cuts as a way out, and you would be wrong.
It does, of course, involve budget cuts, and big ones. Lawmakers are completing a 2012-13 budget that cuts more than $15 billion from current spending, including $4 billion from public education. That's a serious sign of hard times -- it's nearly impossible to get a Texas legislator to cut the amount of money being sent home for the children in the local school district. In fact, the biggest legislative threats to getting a state budget completed are the printouts showing how the $4 billion would be spread among the state's schools.
But budget cuts aren't enough, or aren't deep enough to balance the budget, given those other promises. Lawmakers, somewhat reluctantly, did agree to use $3.2 billion of the Rainy Day Fund savings -- that and the addition of money scrounged from elsewhere got them out of the current year's deficit. Then they started acting like real business people. Bad ones. They cheated.
At first, it was just a little fiddling with the deadlines. Lawmakers did some things they've done before, like taking the monthly payments in the 24th month of the two-year budget and pushing them into the first month of the budget that follows. That ''saves'' the money this time and can be used to balance this budget. The recipients of the money -- school districts expecting a $2.2 billion payment are the biggest group by far -- get their money 24 hours late. No biggie. The trick works because the state can either pay it back or just permanently adjust its payment deadlines.
Endless businesses have fallen apart when management booked revenue before it was actually in hand. Unlike them, the state can enact laws that require taxpayers to pay early.
So the state is dragging its feet on some big obligations, and forcing early payments from taxpayers who owe it money. That's good for an astonishing $3.5 billion, and if the state gets ahead and puts everything back as it was, the tactic can be used again.
The brassiest move would constitute fraud, except that lawmakers have been open and honest about what they're doing. They falsified an estimate of the costs of one of the most expensive programs in the budget, lowering it to make state spending fit within tight state revenue.
Federal law sets a minimum standard for Medicaid spending -- a basic level of services, and spending, below which a state can't go. That standard, however, isn't part of the equation when the state comptroller checks to see that the budget is balanced.
The state's share of Medicaid spending over the next two years will be $4.8 billion higher than it says, in black-and-white, in the new budget. We know this because the authors say it's so, openly explaining that they made their spending plans fit the available revenue by simply lowering their estimates of how many people will need those services and how much those services will cost.
Things might change over the next year or so. Federal law might change, easing the state's obligation to Medicaid recipients. If not, maybe the economy will get better -- and by so much that money will rush in like a cavalry to rescue the state from the self-made sinkhole in its health and human services budget. Or lawmakers who return for the next session, in 2013, could do what they did this year, covering their deficit with the Rainy Day Fund. It's like spending the fund now but without alarming the public or suffering any political damage.
It's not an outside possibility either. The chief budget writers, Senator Steve Ogden, Republican of Bryan, and Representative Jim Pitts, Republican of Waxahachie, both cited the Medicaid shuffle as the reason they couldn't tap the Rainy Day Fund for education spending. ''We can't kick the can down the road on school finance and Medicaid at the same time,'' Mr. Ogden said.
A few hours later, he said he'd checked all of the budget bills with the comptroller and had won her assurance that the magic had worked.
''It's all balanced,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); BUDGET CUTS (91%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); CHILDREN (73%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



883 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: The Economy Is Wavering. Is Washington Paying Attention?

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com; twitter.com/DLeonhardt

 BODY:
The latest economic numbers have not been good. Jobless claims rose last week, the Labor Department said on Thursday. Another report showed that economic growth at the start of the year was no faster than the Commerce Department initially reported -- ''a real surprise,'' said Ian Shepherdson of High Frequency Economics.
Perhaps the most worrisome number was the one Macroeconomic Advisers released on Wednesday. That firm tries to estimate the growth rate of the current quarter in real time, and it now says annualized second-quarter growth is running at only 2.8 percent, up from 1.8 percent in the first quarter. Not so long ago, the firm's economists thought second-quarter growth would be almost 4 percent. 
An economy that is growing this slowly will not add jobs quickly. For the next couple of months, employment growth could slow from about 230,000 recently to something like 150,000 jobs a month, only slightly faster than normal population growth. That is certainly not fast enough to make a big dent in the still huge number of unemployed people.
Are any policy makers paying attention?
When the economy weakened in the first quarter, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, and Obama administration officials said the slowdown was just a blip and growth would soon pick up. Today, many Wall Street economists are saying much the same thing: any day now, things will improve.
Maybe they will. But the history of financial crises shows that they produce weak, uneven recoveries, with unemployment remaining high for years. That history also shows that aggressive government action -- the kind of action Washington took in 2008 and 2009, but not for most of 2010 -- can make the situation much better than it otherwise would be.
The latest signs of weakness suggest that policy makers remain too sanguine. It is easy to see how the rest of 2011 could end up disappointing, much as 2010 did.
For one thing, there are specific forces holding back growth. Oil prices, though down in the last few weeks, are still 40 percent higher than a year ago and continue to siphon money away from the American economy to overseas economies. When I filled my gas tank last weekend, it cost $74, more than I think I have ever paid.
The housing market also remains in terrible shape. Europe is still struggling with its debt troubles. State and local governments continue to cut jobs.
These specific problems worsen the broader insecurity of both households and business executives -- insecurity that is typical in the wake of a financial crisis. Long after the crisis itself is over, businesses are slow to hire and quick to fire. Thursday's report on new jobless claims showed that they rose by 10,000, to 424,000, which is not a number associated with a solid recovery.
''Labor market gains may be faltering somewhat,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR, a New York research firm, wrote to clients after the report's release.
For households, already coping with miserly wage growth, that is another reason not to spend. The Commerce Department's updated gross domestic product figures showed that consumer spending grew at an annual inflation-adjusted rate of only 2.2 percent in the first quarter, not the 2.7 percent rate the department initially reported.
The economy does still have some bright spots, and they could grow in coming months, just as policy makers and private forecasters are, once again, predicting. If North Africa and the Middle East do not become more chaotic, oil prices may continue falling. Vehicle production will probably pick up as the parts shortages caused by the Japanese earthquake end. The falling dollar will continue to help American exporters, as well as any domestic businesses that compete with foreign importers.
But there is no doubt that the economy has performed considerably worse in the last few months than most policy makers expected. The situation is now uncomfortably similar to last year's, when the economy sped up in the first few months only to stall in the spring and summer.
The most sensible response for Washington would be to begin thinking more seriously about taking out an insurance policy on the recovery. The Fed could stop worrying so much about inflation, which remains historically low, and look at how else it might encourage spending. As Mr. Bernanke has said before, the Fed ''retains considerable power'' to lift growth.
The White House and Congress, meanwhile, could begin talking about extending last year's temporary extension of business tax credits, household tax cuts and jobless benefits beyond Dec. 31. It would be easy enough to pair such an extension with longer-term deficit reduction.
Any temporary measures will eventually need to lapse, of course. But the current moment remains a textbook time to use them -- when the economy is struggling to emerge from the aftermath of a terrible recession. The one thing not to do is to turn to deficit reduction too quickly after a crisis, as Europe is painfully learning.
Almost four years after the mortgage market first began to quiver and unemployment began to rise, Americans are understandably eager for good economic news. But wishing for it doesn't make it so. You have to wonder whether the people in Washington have learned that lesson yet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A job fair on Wednesday in Painesville, Ohio. Rising jobless claims are one of several recent signs of a sluggish economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY DEJAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



884 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Aware of Its Dependence, Napa Takes Care of Migrant Workers

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco. sjames@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Scott James writes a column for The Bay Citizen.
Nearly every drop of Napa County's world-class wine is produced by migrant labor.
This time of year, that means the workers are suckering vines -- pulling off, by hand, tiny sprouts that might hinder the growth of healthy grapes.
Just as painstakingly, civic and business leaders in the county have been working on another key element of the harvest: cultivating their own immigration policy. 
Federal laws prevent foreigners from residing or working in the United States without permission, and a sweeping national crackdown has been under way in recent years. A record one million illegal immigrants have been deported since President Obama took office. Some states are more stringent. An Arizona law against hiring undocumented laborers was upheld Thursday by the United States Supreme Court.
But Napa is taking a different approach, providing affordable basic necessities for migrant workers -- food, shelter and support -- regardless of whether they are here legally or not.
The effort was born of compassion and practicality. Without migrant labor, most of it from Mexico, the wine producers in Napa would be hard pressed to fill a carafe, much less the valley's nine million annual cases.
Experts estimate that 8,000 to 12,000 illegal migrants reside (often seasonally) in Napa, although the number is impossible to confirm. Ten years ago, they could be found living in the woods in makeshift camps, sleeping on fetid mattresses and drinking from dirty streams. Today they receive subsidized housing, or can reside in three tidy dormitory complexes near St. Helena and Yountville where up to 180 workers pay $12 a day for room and board.
Luis V. Gutierrez, a Democratic congressman from Illinois and an advocate for immigration reform who visited St. Helena last month, called Napa's approach ''unique.''
''They're being proactive in providing housing, providing counseling to the workers there,'' Mr. Gutierrez said. ''The immigrant community had a very strong fellowship with those around them.''
There is no federal financing for thumbing one's nose at Washington policy, so Napa pays for its own efforts.
Vineyard owners pay an assessment of $10 per acre to help house and feed migrant fieldworkers, a program that costs more than $1 million a year. Financing and donations, including food, also come from county and municipal governments, churches, businesses, charities and concerned citizens -- all contributing to a larger safety net that includes health care and job placement.
None of those involved appeared worried about running afoul of laws. Instead, they see a moral obligation.
Moises Sanchez, 58, has come from Jalisco, Mexico, for the past 37 years to work in Napa's vineyards, and he now has legal status. He leaves behind his wife and three children for up to 10 months at a time.
''It's very hard,'' Mr. Sanchez said.
But thanks to his labors, his family in Mexico has a house with a mango tree, 20 cows, 4 goats and 30 chickens, he said with a smile.
While in Napa, he lives frugally at River Ranch, one of the subsidized dormitories, under strict, almost monastic conditions: work six days a week, men only, two per room, no alcohol. Mr. Sanchez said he loved it, especially compared to the past when he paid more to live with six others in just one room.
Angel Calderon, manager of River Ranch, said migrant farm workers in other parts of California were routinely exploited -- paid little and charged exorbitant living expenses.
''Some guys say, 'I work 10 hours and at the end of the day I only have $10 in my pocket,' '' Mr. Calderon said.
In Napa, workers are paid about $10 an hour; taxes are frequently withheld from their wages, including Social Security, even though many of them will never be able to collect the benefits.
Thirty-five years ago, only one-third of the county's economy was tied to wine, but today it is the predominant industry, said Terence Mulligan, president of the Napa Valley Community Foundation, a philanthropic organization that is currently conducting a study of migrant workers.
''People in Napa really understand how the economy works,'' Mr. Mulligan said.
Many migrant workers who were first lured by the vineyards have stayed, and that has changed the makeup of Napa, he said. Legal or not, Hispanics represented 13 percent of the county's population 20 years ago, but are at least 33 percent today, and will most likely be the majority by 2025, Mr. Mulligan said.
Not everyone likes this shift, and some have denounced Napa's efforts to help migrant workers.
''A vocal minority has opposed any type of change,'' Mr. Mulligan said. Indeed, when local newspapers report on migrant workers, they are often flooded online with virulent anti-immigrant comments.
Yet without migrant farm workers, it's not clear that any Cabernet Sauvignon would ever make it to the glass.
Mr. Calderon said that in his 27 years of working in Napa he only once encountered a nonmigrant laboring in the vineyards: a white college student who did it for a class project. He lasted two months.
''He said he'd never complain about his life again,'' Mr. Calderon said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers, almost all migrants from Mexico, trimmed excess branches and leaves of vines on Wednesday at the Garvey Family Vineyards in St. Helena. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIANNE MILTON FOR THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIGRANT WORKERS (93%); IMMIGRATION (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); FARM LABOR (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); WINERIES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); DEPORTATION (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); PUBLIC HOUSING (68%); SUPREME COURTS (54%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); LUIS V GUTIERREZ (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



885 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Dance
Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.
- American Ballet Theater (Friday and Saturday, and Monday through Thursday) As part of a summer season emphasizing ballets about romance, the company offers a whole week of ''Giselle,'' arguably the greatest ballet of the Romantic era. It's a tale of love, class, betrayal, supernatural risings from the dead, and redemption, and it includes wonderful roles for leading female and male dancers. (Through July 9.) Friday, Monday, Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m.; Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m.; and Wednesday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center , (212) 362-6000, abt.org; $20 to $225. (Jack Anderson)20110526
A.W.A.R.D. Show! All-Stars (Tuesday through Thursday) Winners and finalists from competitive choreographic events in Chicago, Seattle and New York City show their works. (Through June 5.) At 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street , (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $15. (Anderson)20110526 
- Monica Bill Barnes & Company (Thursday) This choreographer, with a surprising sense of humor who specializes in whimsical and slyly witty creations, presents dances inspired by rock concerts, Little League games and high-school marching bands. Part of the Gotham Dance Festival. (Through June 4.) At 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $10 to $39. (Anderson)20110526
- Brian Brooks Moving Company (Wednesday and Thursday) A choreographer who likes to enhance his presentations with sculptural installations offers a program that includes ''MOTOR,'' an exploration of perpetual motion for which the set is a structure of cables extending beyond the stage and over the audience. Part of the Gotham Dance Festival. (Through June 5.) At 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $10 to $39. (Anderson)20110526
John Byrne (Thursday) ''The Transcending Form,'' a dance fable rooted in modern dance, house dance and gesture, explores ideas of life, afterlife and the soul in a production that incorporates a figurative photo installation by David LaChapelle. At 8 p.m., Theater 80, 80 St. Mark's Place, East Village , (212) 388-0388, theatre80.net; $15. (Anderson)20110526
Yanira Castro a canary torsi (Thursday) ''Paradis'' takes place under the stars in two garden locations, honoring and transforming their environments. (Through June 4.) At 8 p.m., Brooklyn Botanic Garden, 1000 Washington Avenue, Prospect Heights, Brooklyn , (212) 924-0077, dancetheaterworkshop.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Anderson)20110526
Complexions Contemporary Ballet (Friday through Sunday) Dwight Rhoden and Desmond Richardson founded Complexions in 1994, and ever since they've been making audiences cheer at the brilliantly athletic dancing and critics despair of the hyperactive choreography. This season their offerings include Mr. Rhoden's new ''Moon Over Jupiter,'' set to Rachmaninov; ''Testament,'' featuring Mr. Richardson; and ''Rise,'' to music by U2. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m., and Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $10 to $69. (Sulcas)20110526
- DanceAfrica (Friday through Monday) This annual festival directed by Chuck Davis has become a Brooklyn tradition, bringing together companies from Africa and the worldwide African diaspora. A special feature this year, as part of the Si Cuba! celebration throughout the city, will be the Santiago de Cuba-based Ballet Folklorico Cutumba, which specializes in Afro-Cuban and Haitian styles. Friday at 7:30 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 7:30 p.m. and Sunday and Monday at 3 p.m., Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene , (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $20 to $50. (Anderson)20110526
Gelsey Kirkland Academy (Thursday) Students from this ballerina's school perform excerpts from 19th-century classics, as well as George Balanchine's comic ''A la Francaix.'' At 7:30 p.m., Miller Theater, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights , ticketleap.com; $28. (Anderson)20110526
Cherylyn Lavagnino Dance (Wednesday and Thursday) This contemporary ballet company, which comments on the human condition, dances the premiere of ''Body Talk,'' a new work to an original score by Guillermo Brown that echoes our culture's obsession with video games. Other dances concern an impasse in communication and responses to photos of American mistreatment of Iraqi prisoners. At 7:30 p.m., Fifth Floor Theater, Tisch Department of Dance, New York University, 111 Second Avenue, East Village , (800) 838-3006, brownpapertickets.com; $18. (Anderson)20110526
- La MaMa Moves! (Friday through Sunday, and Thursday) No ordinary festival, this is a choreographic cornucopia stuffed with events: 60 attractions, among them 37 premieres, in three spaces of this celebrated downtown arts center. And the dance forms represented include traditional, modern, postmodern, neo-Baroque and absolutely unclassifiable. Complete schedule of events and locations at lamama.org. (Through June 21.) La MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village , (212) 475-4410; $15; $10 for students and 65+. (Anderson)20110526
Dean Moss and Sungmyung Chun (Friday and Saturday) ''Nameless Forest'' is the collaborative culmination of some intriguing names, beginning with its interdisciplinary creators and including the visual artist Gandalf Gavan (neon effects), the photojournalist Mike Kamber (diary entries) and a slew of fine dancers. At 8 p.m., the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea , (866) 777-8932, thekitchen.org; $15; $12 for students and 65+. (Claudia La Rocco)20110526
The Neta Dance Company (Friday and Saturday) A new work by Neta Pulvermacher, ''2280 Pints!,'' was inspired by the installation ''Rain Rains'' by the Brazilian artist Rivan Neuenschwander. The press materials suggest that Ms. Pulvermacher's piece ''opens the door into hidden layers of the soul.'' Perhaps. But since ''2280 Pints!'' features 57 white five-gallon buckets (and 17 dancers), it surely won't pass up the opportunity for a lot of splashing, which could be even more fun. Friday at 7:30 p.m. and Saturday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 924-0077, dancetheaterworkshop.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Roslyn Sulcas)20110526
- New York City Ballet (Friday and Saturday, Tuesday through Thursday) As usual, the company is offering dancing jewels from its balletic treasure house. And now those presentations include ''Jewels'' (Thursday), George Balanchine's three-part, full-evening ballet that evokes the smoothness of ''Emeralds,'' the glitter of ''Rubies'' and the grandeur of ''Diamonds.'' But the week's attractions also include (Saturday and Sunday) ''Tribute to Broadway,'' a triple-bill showing ties between ballet and musical theater. Balanchine's brassy ''Slaughter on 10th Avenue'' is based on a dance sequence from Rodgers and Hart's ''On Your Toes'' of 1936; Susan Stroman's ''For the Love of Duke,'' to Duke Ellington, puts a jazz band onstage; and Jerome Robbins's ''West Side Story Suite'' sums up the plot of the Stephen Sondheim-Leonard Bernstein classic musical about a modern Romeo and Juliet on the New York streets. (Through June 12.) Friday and Thursday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., and Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center , (212) 870-5570, nycballet.com; $20 to $135. (Anderson)20110526
David Parker and the Bang Group (Thursday) David Parker and Jeffrey Kazin chronicle their friendship in their new ''Misters and Sisters -- A Love Story in Song and Dance,'' a dance-theater cabaret dedicated to Mr. Parker's father, the mystery novelist Robert B. Parker, who supposedly told his son, ''Don't look for yourself in your work; look for your work in yourself.'' (Through June 4.) At 7 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village , (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $15 in advance, $20 at door. (Anderson)20110526
Murray Spalding Mandalas (Friday and Saturday) ''XIII'' honors the life and work of Mr. Spalding, creator of movement mandalas: patterned, repeated sequences resembling sacred circles that unite meditation and dance. At 8 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village , (866) 811-4111, danspaceproject.org; $18. (Anderson)20110526
360degrees Dance Company (Thursday) This company, which seeks to preserve noted older modern-dance works, is reviving two pieces by Jane Dudley that represent a time when dance was prized as a vehicle for social protest: ''Time Is Money'' (1932), a commentary on Depression-era economics, and ''Cante Flamenco'' (1944), a tribute to a heroine of the Spanish Civil War. The program also includes dances by Ricardo Flores, Alessandra Prosperi and the premiere of Martin Lofsnes's ''What Was Still Is.'' (Through June 4.) At 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 924-0077, dancetheaterworkshop.org; $20; $17 for students and 65+. (Anderson)20110526

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DANCEAFRICA: (Friday through Monday) This annual festival, directed by Chuck Davis, has become a Brooklyn tradition, bringing together companies from Africa and the worldwide African diaspora. A special feature this year, as part of the Si Cuba! celebration throughout the city, will be Ballet Folklorico Cutumba, above, based in Santiago de Cuba, which specializes in Afro-Cuban and Haitian styles. Friday at 7:30 p.m.
Saturday at 2 and 7:30 p.m.
and Sunday and Monday at 3 p.m., Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, bam.org
 $20 to $50. (Jack Anderson) (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE) (C18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (91%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); DANCE (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (79%); DANCERS (79%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (74%); OPERA (73%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (69%); POP & ROCK (65%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



886 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Euro Crisis Looms for Group of 8

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
PARIS -- The euro crisis hangs over the meeting of the Group of 8 industrialized countries that begins on Thursday, with Greece's renewed problems destabilizing markets, worrying Washington and influencing the debate over who should be the next managing director of the International Monetary Fund.
As President Obama arrived in the French seaside resort of Deauville on Thursday for what is normally more of an informal session on security issues, the continuing problems of the euro and the divisions it is causing inside Europe are threatening to harm the West's uneven recovery. 
The European Union and the I.M.F. have tried for the last year to calm the bond markets. But demonstrations against harsh austerity measures in Spain, Portugal and Greece; bickering among European leaders over Greece's financial problems; and the European Central Bank's fierce opposition to any restructuring of Greek debt have all conspired to send bond rates soaring in the last week.
Some analysts, like Bruce Stokes of the German Marshall Fund in Washington, suggest that the problems of the euro could put the recovery of the United States at risk. ''If the European crisis gets worse again, the United States will have fewer tools to fight off the contagion,'' he wrote in The National Journal.
''For the United States, the euro is a big concern,'' said Nicolas Veron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, an economics research institute in Brussels, and a visiting fellow at the Peterson Institute in Washington. ''The Americans want to avoid systemic instability.''
For that reason, Mr. Veron suggested, the Europeans want a new head of the I.M.F. in place quickly, and in keeping with tradition they want a European. They have largely united around the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, 55, an English-speaking lawyer, who announced her candidacy on Wednesday.
American officials have called for an open process and praised both Ms. Lagarde and a Mexican candidate, Agustin Carstens, as ''credible,'' Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said on Wednesday. But he also said that Washington was working with all partners to ensure that the fund ''reflects the balance of power in the world today.''
The Group of 8 has been overshadowed by the larger and more economically oriented Group of 20, in which fast-growing emerging nations like China, India, Brazil and South Africa also sit at the table, reflecting the shifting balance of power in the global economy.
''The competition for global leadership is bigger than before the financial crisis,'' said Jan Techau, the director of Carnegie Europe, the European office of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Similarly, David Shorr of the United States-based Stanley Foundation, said that ''the G-8 bears a burden of proof to show its relevance and influence in today's world of shifting political and economic power.'' As a ''club of the Western old guard,'' he asked, ''does it have enough key global players at the table to tackle the big challenges?''
In addition to economic matters -- including questions about how President Obama intends to reduce Washington's giant budget deficit -- the leaders meeting on Thursday and Friday will face new challenges concerning nuclear safety after the meltdowns at the Fukushima Daiichi power plant in Japan and how to help along the Arab Spring in North Africa and the Middle East, even as the NATO-led war in Libya drags expensively and bloodily toward stalemate.
One of the biggest issues will be how to invigorate Arab economies and create jobs in the face of a large demographic bulge of unemployed young people and continuing instability.
Mr. Obama has pledged to forgive as much as $1 billion in Egyptian debt and guarantee another $1 billion in financing for infrastructure and new jobs, even as Congress seeks to cut spending to deal with America's own ballooning deficit.
France wants to push the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was set up to help the economic and democratic transformation of Eastern Europe, to explore helping Egypt, Tunisia and other Mediterranean countries.
But Group of 8 leaders are likely to find themselves enmeshed in discussions over their own economic and political troubles, which are deepening as recovery in Europe and the United States remains feeble.
Greece's troubles -- and rising popular unhappiness with austerity programs there, as well as in Portugal and Spain -- have shaken and divided European leaders. If Greek debt is not restructured and the country has no ability to raise money at reasonable interest rates in the private market, it would end up a ward of the European Union. Bond prices for Italian and Spanish debt are rising, as investors sense disagreement and confusion about Greece among euro zone leaders.
Mr. Stokes described the euro crisis as ''a slow-motion train wreck since it erupted last year.'' Despite billions of euros in loans to Greece, Portugal and Ireland, investors seem far from reassured that these economies can reform themselves and recover, or that any new contagion spawned by Greece will not hit even bigger economies.
In Spain, where unemployment is stuck above 20 percent and two million jobs have evaporated since the economic crisis hit, thousands of protesters -- inspired by the Arab Spring -- have been camped in Madrid for more than a week. Voters handed the governing Socialist Party heavy losses on Sunday in regional and municipal elections.
After Portugal finally went to the European Union and the I.M.F. for bailout loans, European officials felt that there was a ''firebreak,'' and that Spain, which had cut its deficit, would be safe. But now it is not so clear, and European Central Bank officials are arguing that if any form of restructuring of Greek debt goes ahead, Spain and Italy will quickly come under fire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); BONDS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); GERMAN MARSHALL FUND OF THE US (55%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (59%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GREECE (91%); FRANCE (90%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); BELGIUM (79%); INDIA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



887 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Investors Upbeat Despite Troubling Data

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks gained for a second day as higher-than-estimated corporate profits at companies like Tiffany overshadowed data showing that the economy grew at a slower rate than forecast and jobless claims unexpectedly rose. 
Tiffany, the jewelry retailer, advanced 8.6 percent after raising its full-year earnings forecast as profit beat estimates. NetApp, a data management company, rallied 6.9 percent after it forecast earnings that topped projections.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 5.22 points, or 0.40 percent, to 1,325.69. The Dow Jones industrial average increased 8.10 points, or 0.07 percent, to 12,402.76. The Nasdaq composite index rose 21.54 points, or 0.78 percent, to 2,782.92.
''The bright side is that there's a clear dichotomy between the health of corporate America and the economy,'' said Mark D. Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia.. ''We've softened somewhat. Still, profits remain good and there's M.& A. activity. That tells me that we're not going to see a huge move in stocks in either direction.''
The S.& P. 500 has fallen 2.8 percent from an almost three-year high on April 29 amid concern about Europe's debt crisis and weaker-than-forecast economic data. Still, the benchmark gauge is up 5.4 percent from the end of 2010 amid government stimulus measures and higher-than-expected corporate profits.
The nation's economy grew at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the first quarter, less than forecast, reflecting a smaller gain in consumer spending than previously calculated. The revised rise in gross domestic product was the same as estimated last month and compared with a 3.1 percent gain in the previous quarter, Commerce Department figures showed. The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 2.2 percent increase.
More Americans unexpectedly filed applications for unemployment benefits last week, a sign the labor market is struggling to gain momentum.
Tiffany increased $6, to $76.04. The jeweler raised its full-year forecast as sales did better in Japan than expected after the earthquake.
NetApp rose $3.58, to $55.31. The data-management company forecast adjusted earnings of as much as 57 cents a share for the first quarter, compared with the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg of 50 cents a share.
Walgreen, the drugstore chain, retreated 1 percent to $43.70 after Goldman Sachs cut the company from its ''conviction buy'' list.
Big Lots, the discount retailer, declined 2.8 percent to $31.44 after its second-quarter profit forecast fell short of analysts' estimates.
Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 20/32, to 100 18/32, and the yield fell to 3.06 percent, from 3.13 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); JEWELRY STORES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); RETAILERS (77%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (77%); DEBT NOTES (77%); JEWELRY (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); EURO CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (71%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (59%); NETAPP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (59%); NTAP (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (71%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (71%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (59%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (59%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (59%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



888 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: A Weak Consumer Weighed on Growth in the First Quarter

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Unexpectedly weak consumer spending hobbled the nation's economy in the first quarter and fresh signs of a slowdown in the labor market pointed to a continuing struggle for the recovery.
The economy grew at an annual 1.8 percent rate in the first three months of this year, the Commerce Department said on Thursday, unchanged from an earlier estimate and weaker than most forecasts.
A separate report from the Labor Department showed the number of Americans claiming unemployment benefits unexpectedly rose last week by 10,000, to 424,000. 
Some of the slowdown in growth was linked to bad weather in early 2011 and an 11.7 percent decline in defense spending.
Economists were cautious about forecasting a rebound in the second quarter, citing the rise in jobless claims and a moderation in factory output, which has been hit by disruptions to supply chains after the March earthquake in Japan.
''The second-quarter rebound is likely to be muted,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington, Mass.
The economy expanded at a 3.1 percent rate in the October-December period. Economists had expected the first-quarter pace to be revised up to 2.1 percent.
The economy has expanded for seven straight quarters, but growth has been tepid by historical standards, leaving both the Obama administration and opposition Republicans scrambling for ideas to put it on a faster track.
Consumer spending, which accounts for more than two-thirds of the nation's economic activity, expanded at a 2.2 percent rate in the first three months of this year, slower than the previously reported 2.7 percent.
After rising at a 4 percent clip in the fourth quarter, spending in the first quarter was slowed by high food and gasoline prices, which pushed inflation to its fastest pace in two and a half years.
The personal consumption expenditures price index rose at an unrevised 3.8 percent rate in the first quarter. That compared with the fourth quarter's 1.7 percent increase. The core index, which is closely watched by the Federal Reserve, advanced at a 1.4 percent rate, the quickest rate since the fourth quarter of 2009.
Fed officials would like to see this measure close to 2 percent. The lower rate suggests that the central bank will be in no hurry to raise interest rates once it concludes its $600 billion, government bond-buying program in June, analysts said.
''This may put off the day where the Fed starts normalizing interest rates until even further down the road,'' said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in New York. ''The Fed is going to want to see G.D.P. above 3 percent certainly before taking their foot off the gas.''
Although consumer spending pulled back in the first quarter, economists hope a recent drop in gas and food prices will ease the pressure on household budgets.
The soft consumer spending overshadowed a $52.2 billion increase in business inventories, which was well above the initially reported $43.8 billion rise.
But a decline in vehicle production so far in this quarter because of shortages of parts from Japan could cause a drawdown in inventories and weigh on growth in the April-June period.
Motor vehicle output added 1.28 percentage points to first-quarter G.D.P.
The G.D.P. report also showed after-tax corporate profit fell at a rate of 0.9 percent in the first-quarter after rising at a 3.3 percent pace in the fourth quarter.
The drop in profit, the first since the fourth quarter of 2008, likely reflected a slowdown in productivity growth as businesses stepped up hiring. Economists had expected corporate profit to grow at a 2.3 percent pace.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Real Economic Growth: Annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for inflation and seasonal fluctuations. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); BONDS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (62%)

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



889 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI, PETER LATTMAN, STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF, and BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON TIES In an effort to expand its influence in the nation's capital, Facebook has hired Joel Kaplan, an executive vice president at the Texas utility giant Energy Future Holdings, to head the company's office there. 
In the last few years, Facebook has started to fill its ranks with executives with deep ties to Washington. Its chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, above, was a former chief of staff to a Treasury secretary during the Clinton administration. EVELYN M. RUSLI
and PETER LATTMAN
VIDEO INTERVIEW Bing Gordon has years of experience bridging the world of technology start-ups and venture capital. In addition to having been an executive at Electronic Arts, he is a board member of Amazon and Zynga, among other firms. Now, he is a partner with the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers.
In an interview, Mr. Gordon said that sheer volume of growth in social media meant that new ventures could become giants in their own right. EVELYN M. RUSLI
BUYOUT CONFLICT The board of Barnes & Noble is faced with managing a sale process in which Leonard Riggio, the bookseller's chairman and 30 percent shareholder, has been invited to take part in Liberty Media's proposed buyout of the Barnes & Noble.
Such buyouts are always problematic, the Deal Professor says. Management can be accused of using its position to underpay or otherwise manipulate the sale to its benefit. STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF
BANK FINES Merrill Lynch and Credit Suisse have agreed to pay fines to settle complaints about the subprime mortgage securities that they sold in the run-up to the financial crisis, Wall Street's self-regulator said Thursday.
The agency fined Credit Suisse Securities $4.5 million and Merrill Lynch $3 million, saying the firms had misled investors about the number of bad loans they placed in dozens of securities. BEN PROTESS
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTO GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (86%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (64%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (83%); ENERGY FUTURE HOLDINGS CORP (58%); FACEBOOK INC (58%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%); EA (NASDAQ) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (83%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: SHERYL SANDBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



890 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Christie Pulls New Jersey From 10-State Climate Initiative

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
Gov. Chris Christie said Thursday that New Jersey would become the first state to withdraw from a 10-state trading system, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, declaring it an ineffective way to reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
The decision delighted Republicans who have introduced bills in the New Jersey Legislature to repeal a law authorizing the state's participation in the program. But it dismayed environmental advocates, who called it a serious blow to the state's efforts to reduce emissions from power plants and foster a shift from fossil fuels to renewable energy.
Opponents were quick to ascribe political motives to the governor's decision, given that Mr. Christie is seen as a possible Republican candidate in the 2012 presidential race and conservatives have vilified cap-and-trade programs, which set limits on emissions, as an unjust tax on business. (Mr. Christie insists he is not running.) 
At a morning news conference, the governor asserted that New Jersey was succeeding in reducing its carbon dioxide emissions not because of the multistate program, known as RGGI (pronounced Reggie), but because it is relying more on natural gas and less on coal to fill its energy needs.
''RGGI does nothing more than tax electricity, tax our citizens, tax our businesses, with no discernible or measurable impact upon our environment,'' Mr. Christie said.
Critics of cap-and-trade programs say they constitute a new form of taxation because they impose additional costs on electric utilities that are then passed on to customers.
Under RGGI, 10 Northeastern and mid-Atlantic states ranging from Maine to Maryland set a ceiling on carbon dioxide emissions and require power plants to purchase credits or allowances that allow them to emit specified amounts of carbon dioxide.
To encourage the utilities to reduce those greenhouse gas emissions, companies that cut their emissions below their designated caps are permitted to sell or trade their excess carbon allowances in online auctions held four times a year.
Mr. Christie called RGGI ''a failure,'' citing a problem that has dogged the program: power suppliers have easily met their caps, and carbon allowances are trading at bottom-level prices because plants are taking advantage of cheap prices for natural gas, which is less polluting than fuels like coal.
But advocates of the system say there is a simple fix: lowering the caps to require further reductions in emissions. And carbon market experts point out that an economic recovery could cause emissions to soar again, increasing the price of carbon allowances.
''A lot of things can happen that can push emissions back up, so being in a system that caps emissions would ensure your emissions remain low,'' said Emilie Mazzacurati, a market analyst at Thomson Reuters Point Carbon.
Still, analysts predicted that the impact of New Jersey's exit would be limited, given the continuing participation of the nine other states.
Those states issued a joint statement affirming their commitment to the effort.
''With each state exercising its independent authority to achieve low-cost greenhouse gas emissions reductions, the RGGI market-based program has widespread support across the region and will continue,'' the statement said.
New York officials issued their own statement reiterating their support for RGGI, calling it ''extremely successful'' in reducing carbon dioxide emissions and financing clean energy projects.
''In New York, investment of RGGI auction proceeds in energy efficiency improvements is leading to savings for thousands of New York residents and businesses and to the creation of thousands of high-quality jobs,'' said Joe Martens, commissioner of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.
RGGI has generated more than $700 million for the participating states in less than three years, according to its office, with much of it used to invest in renewable energy sources like solar power and to expand consumer energy-efficiency programs.
A New Jersey state senator who opposes the RGGI program, Steve Oroho, a Republican, applauded the governor's move.
''Today's announcement is another step in the right direction and will continue to help make New Jersey an attractive place for businesses to locate, grow and create private sector jobs,'' Mr. Oroho said.
But Assemblyman John McKeon, a Democrat who is chairman of the Assembly's Environment and Solid Waste Committee, said he would take ''whatever legislative steps that may be possible'' to prevent New Jersey's exit from the program. It is unclear what action might be effective: New Jersey's departure from RGGI requires an administrative change in regulations but no approval by the State Legislature.
''Quite simply, this decision reeks of a governor desperate to boost his radical conservative credentials to distract from his failing policies,'' Mr. McKeon said.
Jeff Tittel, director of the New Jersey Sierra Club, said, ''Pulling out of RGGI is an environmental disaster.''
Ms. Mazzacurati, the market analyst, suggested that New Jersey's action could provide some ballast to opponents of cap-and-trade who want their states to withdraw, including some campaigners in Delaware and New Hampshire. ''The question is, will other states follow?'' she said.
Still, ''in our view the direct impact is going to be minimal,'' Ms. Mazzacurati said. ''The program doesn't depend on any given state to function.''
For now, she said, the remaining states need to provide guidelines to deal with power plants that currently hold New Jersey emissions allowances.
Mr. Christie's decision was not entirely surprising. He took more than $65 million in the state's designated RGGI money to help offset a $10.7 billion budget deficit for fiscal year 2011. The state has so far received more than $100 million in proceeds from RGGI.
Last year the governor also expressed uncertainty about whether human activity was contributing to global warming, despite a consensus among scientists that it is a leading factor.
On Thursday, Mr. Christie stepped back from questioning the science, saying that he believed that climate change was real and was caused at least partly by human activity. He said that rather than relying on the RGGI program, he was committed to increasing the proportion of electricity generated by natural gas, the sun and the wind.
RGGI states said in their joint statement that they would evaluate how New Jersey's withdrawal might affect the state's carbon allowances that are currently in circulation.
The next auction is to proceed as scheduled on June 8.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (92%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (84%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (70%); CORPORATE TAX (68%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (68%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (65%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



891 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: Lee's Pension Agreement Begins to Set the Terms for City's Mayoral Race

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH LESLY STEVENS and GERRY SHIH. 
estevens@baycitizen.org; gshih@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
At a time when public employee pay and benefits have become a flashpoint for partisan political battles around the country, Mayor Edwin M. Lee of San Francisco claimed a significant victory this week with his announcement of a consensus plan to tackle the city's ballooning pension costs.
Flanked by a phalanx of labor leaders, elected officials and business executives -- some of whom had nothing to do with the pension reform issue -- Mr. Lee spoke repeatedly of the value of working toward solutions with all members of the ''city family.''
''We've always felt that San Francisco will have a special approach,'' Mr. Lee said. ''That's consensus building, bringing everybody under the tent to talk through what these numbers mean and what we can do to contribute.''
Warren Hellman, the prominent financier who first convened the pension-reform talks six months ago, said he was ''thrilled'' that unlike other government entities that have sought ''adversarial, dictatorial'' solutions, San Francisco officials were able to reach a deal with the unions. (Mr. Hellman is the chairman of The Bay Citizen but plays no role in editorial operations.) 
The deal requires new and existing employees to pay more toward their pension benefits, and the savings to the city will amount to $800 million to $1 billion in the coming decade, Mr. Lee said. But in the coming year, the plan would only save about $60 million. The city faces ballooning annual payments to its underfinanced pension plan, and the annual tab will soon climb to $700 million.
With five months until the November election, pension reform is the prism through which every mayoral candidate and public official will be viewed.
Mr. Lee has aggressively sought to portray his plan as the only option bearing the city establishment's stamp of approval, but the stability of his coalition is not assured. Mr. Lee is effectively saying that those who do not enthusiastically endorse his plan will be cast out and suffer at the polls.
For months, Mr. Lee has been saying that he hoped to convince Jeff Adachi -- the city public defender who first brought the pension issue to the fore last year with the failed Proposition B ballot initiative, and who is gathering signatures for a new pension-reform measure for November -- to drop his initiative. But Mr. Adachi shows no sign of softening.
On Tuesday, Mr. Lee warned Mr. Adachi that he should fall in line. ''Our consensus approach here is the right thing to do,'' Mr. Lee said. ''I leave Mr. Adachi to his viewpoint, but I'm sure that he has to recognize that this is the official city family and he doesn't represent that.''
Mr. Adachi does not seem inclined to join Mr. Lee's effort, though, and Mr. Adachi's most significant supporter, Michael Moritz, a venture capitalist, was dismissive of the plan. ''Mayor Lee and Warren Hellman have produced a plan that saves one-sixth of what they said two months ago was necessary,'' Mr. Moritz wrote in an e-mail.
Political analysts, however, said the deal represented a victory not only for Mr. Lee -- who delivered on the pledge he made when he entered office in January to forge a deal with unions -- but also a win for leading mayoral candidates including David Chiu, president of the Board of Supervisors, and Dennis Herrera, the city attorney, who were both involved in the negotiations.
Mr. Adachi, who some have speculated may be considering a mayoral run, remains, notably, on the outside.
''This is still a labor town,'' said Jim Ross, a political consultant. ''The labor-backed measure, even if it's not as good, is going to be more politically salable than Adachi's measure that is maybe a little bit better. Adachi is pushed even further outside the mainstream thinking.''
The united front that the Lee administration appeared to have assembled for the Tuesday news event was impressive.
There was Sean Elsbernd, the fiscal hawk on the Board of Supervisors who might, in other circumstances, have been skeptical of the math underlying the deal.
There was Steve Falk, the president of the city's Chamber of Commerce, who stepped forward to laud the effort even though the chamber has yet to formally decide whether it would support the administration's proposal or Mr. Adachi's.
There was Gabriel Metcalf, the director of the San Francisco Planning and Urban Research Association, a high-profile nonprofit research organization, who played no role in the negotiations.
There was even a lone and wary representative from the Service Employees International Union Local 1021, the one union which has not agreed to the deal -- yet. Mr. Lee's failure to lock down S.E.I.U. is a significant failing, since it claims more than half of the city's 26,000 employees as members.
''Anybody who's not getting on the train and offering to serve as conductor runs a real risk of being run over,'' said Alex Clemens, a political consultant.
While there has been a lot of support, there have also been a few voices of dissent.
''This was a Band-Aid, a quick fix,'' said Tony Hall, a former supervisor and relatively conservative candidate for mayor. ''If you're not part of the machine, you're not part of the family.''
Supervisor John Avalos, a left-leaning mayoral candidate, said he wanted to be sure concerns of the S.E.I.U. were addressed.
And politics aside, there is still the awkward question of whether the plan does enough to address the actual budget issues.
Ben Rosenfield, the city controller who must generate economic analysis for all comers without political bias, skipped the show of unity on Tuesday. His office's preliminary estimates show first-year savings of $59 million under Mr. Lee's plan. That compares with first-year savings of $109 million under the Adachi plan, the controller said.
Mr. Lee told a group of Bay Citizen reporters and editors in February that a viable plan would need to save around $300 million to $400 million annually.
The bulk of the financial sacrifice under the plan would be borne by those not yet hired. New employees would have their retirement age raised (from 62 to 65 for most employees, and from 55 to 58 for police and fire workers); retirement benefits would be curtailed; and pensions would be based on pay over their final three years, rather than two.
The city's 26,000 current employees would have to pay as much as 12.5 percent of their paychecks (13.5 percent for police and fire workers) into the pension fund -- but only if the city's bill from the pension fund in a certain year rises to extraordinarily high levels. City employees making less than $50,000 a year would not face an increase in their contributions. The plan also requires elected officials to contribute to their retirement for the first time, and dictates that a supplemental cost-of-living adjustment that paid out $170 million to retirees earlier this year be changed so that no such payouts would happen unless the plan achieves a full financing level.
But the complexity of the actuarial math makes the long-run impacts hard to discern, and also makes comparisons with Mr. Adachi's alternative a matter of some interpretation. And thus the politics -- and not the economics -- are likely to carry the day.
''San Franciscans like when the political process works; they like to see compromise,'' said Jason McDaniel, a professor of political science at San Francisco State University.
For Mr. Adachi and others threatened with expulsion from the ''family,'' it's all a little frustrating. ''The way it's framed is, 'You're either with the labor consensus proposal or you're not,' '' Mr. Adachi said. ''The question that should be asked is, 'Does this proposal solve the problem or not?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Leaders in the pension reform debate, from left, David Chiu, Warren Hellman, Jeff Adachi and Mayor Edwin M. Lee. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BALLOTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); REFERENDUMS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



892 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking Foreign Aid

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Getting Smart on Aid'' (column, May 19):
As usual, Nicholas D. Kristof has something interesting to say about foreign assistance, in this case, that the most obvious solutions are not always the most effective. However, the examples he cites are worrying. 
Whether it's Greg Mortenson building schools in Central Asia or a Harvard economist running deworming trials in Africa, the implicit message is that humanitarianism is something carried out by Westerners on behalf of poor people elsewhere. And while this is often true, therein lies the real problem.
For until national governments in much of the ''developing world'' assume the role of serving their citizens as opposed to preying on them, external aid will continue to be a growth industry. If we wish to invest in truly ''smart'' aid, we would do well to provide far greater support to programs that enhance better and more responsive governance.
CHRISTIAN HENNEMEYER Silver Spring, Md., May 19, 2011
The writer is an international development consultant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) ASIA (87%); AFRICA (87%); CENTRAL ASIA (87%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



893 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Why a Debt Crisis Could Hit Japan

BYLINE: By ROB COX and MARTIN HUTCHINSON

 BODY:
Who would save Japan in a sovereign debt crisis? Ideally, it won't have one. But given the country's terrifying challenges, some senior Japanese financial executives and government bureaucrats are quietly considering a doomsday situation. In a theoretical credit collapse, even China could come to the rescue.
True, Japan looks incredibly unlikely to default on its debt. Ten-year government bond yields of around 1.1 percent reflect not an iota of concern among investors. And as one of the world's great creditor nations, Japan has vast resources, hard-working people and, if need be, a central bank that could fire up printing presses. 
But the numbers are frightening, especially given Japan's lack of political leadership around fiscal issues. Government debt stands at about 1,000 trillion yen ($12 trillion), with gross borrowings of around 200 percent of gross domestic product. The productive means to pay off those liabilities are shrinking as Japan's average age creeps toward 50. Thanks to scant immigration, the country also loses one million people a year.
Japan can finance itself for now; 95 percent of government debt is held domestically. But the combination of aging workers, a lack of new household formation and bank deposit growth, and corporations opting to deploy cash overseas have some economists predicting that, without drastic reforms, Japan may soon need to look abroad for financing.
That could lead to a crisis. If non-Japanese creditors demanded higher yields to compensate for low growth, the country's dependence on short-term borrowing would quickly lead to spiraling debt service costs. Even a 5 percent haircut on government debt would equate to $600 billion.
Few have pockets that deep. Europe's resources are tapped out on its problems. America is struggling, and would be even more so if Japan dumped the almost $1 trillion in United States Treasuries that it holds. The only sizable pool of capital available would probably be Chinese.
China might be willing to help out. But the money could also come with strings. Sovereignty over disputed oil-rich islands is one possibility. Some theorize China may demand independence for Okinawa, home to controversial American military bases. Perhaps that's the best reason for Japan to get its house in order: a Chinese rescue might be as uncomfortable as the debt crisis itself.
Private Sector Growth
Multinational corporations are propping up America's economic growth. While annualized first-quarter gross domestic product increased a sluggish 1.8 percent, much of it inventory buildup, the private sector expanded more strongly, as did returns from overseas investments. With the government now reining in outlays, the biggest companies are providing the economic stimulus.
The headline economic growth figure would have been 1.1 percentage points higher but for a decline in government spending. And gross private sector output grew at an annual pace of 3.6 percent in the quarter, up from a 2.6 percent growth rate for 2010 as a whole, suggesting an acceleration in productive output as the government's postcrisis efforts at stimulus are withdrawn.
Meanwhile, gross national product grew at a 3.1 percent rate in the quarter. G.N.P. is based on ownership rather than geography and so includes income from American investments abroad, net of payments to foreigners. Net receipts jumped 26 percent, to $202 billion at an annual rate. Even in a $15 trillion economy, that's a sizable contribution to growth from the country's multinationals, and demonstrates how they can overcome some of the drag from the huge domestic budget and payments deficits.
Despite that, the latest G.D.P. figures were somewhat disquieting when viewed at the consumer level. Final sales to domestic purchasers rose at only a 0.7 percent annual rate, while inventories increased by $52 billion, a potential cause of future weakness if the buildup reverses. The country's savings rate also declined further to 5.1 percent, suggesting consumers were still not rebuilding reserves.
Over all, though, the latest data hints at a healthy shift away from public spending and toward the private sector and global economy. Higher interest rates would provide incentives to rebuild America's capital base while encouraging free trade would benefit multinationals. Another lesson can be found in the private sector's ability to sustain growth even as government outlays shrink. With luck, policy makers across the spectrum will see cause to help, rather than hinder, this rebalancing.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The aging of the Japanese population is a factor in its economic stagnation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TORU YAMANAKA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (92%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); BONDS (78%); INVENTORIES (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (60%); IMMIGRATION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



894 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Tips for Graduates in a Scary Job Market

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I was struck by the repeated references to ''luck'' in the recent article about the tough job search prospects for recent college graduates (''Many With New College Degree Find the Job Market Humbling,'' front page, May 19). 
We know how people get jobs, and luck rarely has anything to do with it. One of the students quoted in the article said that some of his friends got jobs because of ''who they knew,'' as if it were a matter of happenstance rather than a strategy.
The hard work of networking early on in a college career, wisely chosen internships, using summers well (which too few students do) and other positioning activities greatly enhance the chance of a good job after graduation.
In the small liberal arts college where I work, students who on the face of it would seem to be long shots to find decent work have done so by using techniques we know can produce results.
DANA ALEXANDER Director, Office of Life Planning Westmont College Santa Barbara, Calif., May 20, 2011
To the Editor:
For the foreseeable future, this economy can no longer hold out the promise of employment to graduates leaving college without any concrete skills. The job market cannot absorb English and history majors being churned out by the thousands into an uncertain future, especially given the current levels of education debt.
Engineers, accountants, health care workers, computer scientists and highly skilled craftsmen will have a chance to achieve the American dream, but students double majoring in French and Spanish will be living in Mom's basement.
In a just world, degrees in humanities would carry a warning on the diploma: ''Earning this degree, while intellectually stimulating, may increase your chances of lifelong poverty and disillusionment.''
PETER A. KLEIN Stony Brook, N.Y., May 19, 2011
To the Editor:
I graduated in the 1970s, during another horrible job market, and I hadn't a clue what I wanted to do or how to get a job. I would have worked my heart out if someone had given me a chance. I became a career counselor to help others avoid my pain.
Now I work with employers and hear about the trouble they have finding qualified employees -- entry level on up. It's a paradox.
There are two issues: how directed candidates are and how they present themselves. For college students, the world is changing; a degree is not a panacea or a guarantee. Grades can be less relevant than specific skills, drive, people skills, relevant experience and the ability to express oneself.
Students have to prove why they should be hired over others, but it still helps to be lucky.
PHYLLIS BRUST Director Greater Chicago Midwest Higher Education Recruitment Consortium Chicago, May 20, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PING ZHU) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); HISTORY (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



895 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2969 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Movies
Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
'African Cats' (G, 1:29) About lions and cheetahs, this film's focus on mother love and its impulse to treat nature like a storybook should come as no surprise: it was made by Disneynature. (Rachel Saltz)20110526
'A Beautiful Life' (No rating, 2:02, in Mandarin) This romantic melodrama about the unlikely coupling of a heavy-drinking, Holly Golightly-like Hong Kong real estate agent (Shu Qi) and a straight-arrow Beijing cop (Liu Ye) has a charming first hour, before the balance shifts from laughs to tears. The director Andrew Lau and his charismatic stars exercise heroic restraint with a story that's alternately maudlin and, in its theme of Beijing incorruptibility versus Hong Kong decadence, wholly unconvincing. (Mike Hale)20110526
'The Beaver' (PG-13, 1:30) Jodie Foster directs and co-stars in this misfire about a depressed toy manufacturer (Mel Gibson) who, after a suicide bid, begins communicating through a hand puppet. Nasty and brutish, the beaver owns the film. (Manohla Dargis)20110526 
'The Big Uneasy' (No rating, 1:38) Harry Shearer, the actor and satirist, has written and directed a cogent 98-minute documentary that, along with Spike Lee's pair of HBO films, is an indispensable part of any history of New Orleans before, during and after Katrina. Mr. Shearer examines the human failures, specifically the design and construction of various Army Corps of Engineers projects, that put New Orleans at risk in 2005 -- and may even now leave it in jeopardy. (Daniel M. Gold)20110526
'Bill Cunningham New York' (No rating, 1:24) Richard Press has made a sensitive portrait of a spiritual man whose devotion to fashion photography, that most worldly of pursuits, has chronicled an era. In street fashion, Mr. Cunningham, a photographer for The New York Times, has found something creative, life-affirming and free: proof of humanity amid the chaos of daily life. Interspersing lively interviews with affectionate commentary from longtime friends and subjects -- socialites, editors, models, eccentrics, dandies, avant-gardists, curators and neighbors -- Mr. Press has made an intimate portrait that feels more found than it does constructed. (Carina Chocano)20110526
- 'Blank City' (No rating, 1:35) Celine Danhier's documentary looks back at the New York underground film scene of the 1970s and '80s, blending old film clips with recent interviews to create a vivid, critically informed picture of a city in crisis and the artists who thrived on its desperate, decadent energies. (A. O. Scott)20110526
- 'Bridesmaids' (R, 2:05) An unexpectedly funny comedy about a woman (Kirsten Wiig, who wrote the script with Annie Mumolo), who tries to get her life together while playing the maid of honor to her best friend (Maya Rudolph). Paul Feig directs. (Dargis)20110526
- 'Cave of Forgotten Dreams' (G, 1:30) Werner Herzog has given moviegoers a gift with this 3-D documentary, an inside, relatively muted Herzogian look at the astonishing Cave of Chauvet-Pont-d'Arc, site of some of the earliest known paintings. (Dargis)20110526
- 'City of Life and Death' (No rating, 2:15, in Mandarin, Japanese, English and Shanghainese) An unflinching fictional account of the Rape of Nanking from the Chinese filmmaker Lu Chuan, who, working in wide screen and with black-and-white images, singles out specific images that encapsulate a multitude of horrors. (Dargis)20110526
'The Conspirator' (PG-13, 2:03) Robin Wright plays Mary Surratt, who was tried by a military tribunal in 1865 as part of the conspiracy to assassinate Abraham Lincoln. The episode, rich in historical interest and topical implications, is turned into a dull and tendentious civics lesson by the director, Robert Redford. (Scott)20110526
'Cost of a Soul' (R, 1:30) Almost laughable in its determination to finish people off, Sean Kirkpatrick's first feature (shot in just 18 days on the streets of North Philadelphia) struts an undeniable noirish style. Following two Iraq War veterans (Chris Kerson and Will Blagrove) sinking in the street crime of the slum where they grew up, the film finds credible doom among characters trapped by cold concrete and old grudges. (Jeannette Catsoulis)20110526
- 'The Double Hour' (No rating, 1:35, in Italian) This diabolically clever Italian psychological thriller, the feature debut of Giuseppe Capotondi, is the best mystery of its kind since Guillaume Canet's ''Tell No One.'' (Stephen Holden)20110526
'8 Murders a Day' (No rating, 1:30) Examining the extreme violence in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, following the 2006 involvement of the military in the city's drug wars, Charlie Minn's inflamed documentary highlights official corruption and public outrage. As horrific murder statistics stamp across the screen, Mr. Minn listens to mourners and news reporters with equal respect, creating a scattered but thought-provoking diatribe against those who would ignore ''the extermination of the poor.'' (Catsoulis)20110526
'Everything Must Go' (R, 1:36) In Dan Rush's expansive, emotionally precise adaptation of a typically terse Raymond Carver story, Will Ferrell plays an alcoholic trying to hit bottom and landing on his front lawn, where he lives amid a lifetime's worth of stuff and finds companionship with a lonely neighbor (Rebecca Hall) and a neglected boy (Christopher Jordan Wallace). (Scott)20110526
'Fast Five' (PG-13, 2:03) The latest installment in the ''Fast and Furious'' franchise is an exemplar of industrial moviemaking calculation, one that combines demographic savvy with revving engines, grunting men and zooming, crashing cars. (Dargis)20110526
'The First Grader' (PG-13, 1:43) In Justin Chadwick's muddled, well-meaning, occasionally fascinating film, based on a true story, an 84-year-old Kenyan man tries to attend primary school for the first time. The ensuing controversy exposes political corruption and tribal resentments, which mingle with memories of the Mau Mau uprising against British rule in the 1950s. (Scott)20110526
'Florent: Queen of the Meat Market' (No rating, 1:29) The documentary isn't just the story of a pioneering restaurateur and his scruffy New York establishment that flourished for 23 years. It is a touching, elegiac tale of the rise (and some would say fall) of a colorful New York neighborhood under the relentless march of gentrification. (Holden)20110526
'Hanna' (PG-13, 1:51) Saoirse Ronan plays a girl raised by wolves (well, Eric Bana) who matches wits and weapons against a wicked queen (Cate Blanchett as a C.I.A. operative) in a twisted modern fairy tale directed by Joe Wright. (Dargis)20110526
- 'Harvest' (R, 1:43) During this meticulously written and exquisitely acted film, you come to sense the bonds and the wounds binding three generations of a Connecticut family whose members definitely love one another, but with reservations. (Holden)20110526
'Hesher' (R, 1:42) The sole reason for seeing ''Hesher'' is to cringe before Joseph Gordon-Levitt's sensational portrayal of its scary, hot-wired title character, a violent California drifter who barges into the home of a grieving suburban family and is given the run of the house. (Holden)20110526
'Hoodwinked Too: Hood vs. Evil' (PG, 1:34) The Weinstein Company takes another stab at children's animation with this hyperactive romp about fairy-tale espionage. A solid script and top-notch voice talent are undermined by images that don't begin to approach the nuance of a ''Rio'' or anything by the mack daddy, Pixar. But its lessons about diet and girl power are welcome and commendable. (Andy Webster)20110526
'How to Live Forever' (No rating, 1:34) Despite its title, there are no prescriptions, just explorations in Mark S. Wexler's film about aging and what it means to grow old. Though it sags a bit in places, this documentary is remarkably spry and lighthearted. (Saltz)20110526
- 'Incendies' (R, 2:10, in French, Arabic and English) Denis Villeneuve's new film is both intimate and large-scaled, and scrupulously attuned to the tragedies of recent history. A brother and sister, raised in Canada by a mother exiled from her homeland (Lebanon, though not named as such), set out in the wake of her death to unravel the mysteries of her past and their identity. The combination of allegory and realism should not work as well as it does, but the precision of the story and the skill of the performances give the movie the emotional weight and thematic density of a good novel. (Scott)20110526
'Jumping the Broom' (PG-13, 1:41) Melodrama, tame romantic comedy and class conflict between two African-American families at a wedding on Martha's Vineyard. Too tame for its own good, but smoothly directed by Salim Akil and enlivened by Loretta Devine and Angela Bassett as battling matriarchs. (Scott)20110526
'L'Amour Fou' (No rating, 1:43, in French) Much of this stately, rather detached biography of Yves Saint Laurent, narrated by Pierre Berge, his partner of 50 years, is pornography for the eye (not the body), in which the camera surveys the priceless treasures the couple collected. (Holden)20110526
'Last Night' (R, 1:30) Keira Knightley and Sam Worthington play a couple tested by other people (Eva Mendes, Guillaume Canet) and by their own doubts in a claustrophobic drama from the writer and director Massy Tadjedin. (Dargis)20110526
- 'Meek's Cutoff' (PG, 1:44) Kelly Reichardt's latest film, set in the Oregon Territory in 1845, is a stripped-down western that looks at the mythology of Manifest Destiny through a feminist lens, and with an acute eye for heroism, folly and danger. The cast, which includes Shirley Henderson, Bruce Greenwood and Will Patton, is excellent, with Michelle Williams standing out as a pioneer wife whose patience and resilience is sorely tested. (Scott)20110526
- 'Midnight in Paris' (PG-13, 1:34) This slight, elegant sketch from Woody Allen finds the perfect balance of whimsy and wisdom as it contemplates the charms and traps of cultural nostalgia. Owen Wilson is a writer on a visit to Paris who is swept back to an earlier era in that city's glory. Marion Cotillard is the woman he meets there, Rachel McAdams is his present-day fiancee, and Kathy Bates is Gertrude Stein. The large cast also includes Adrien Brody, Michael Sheen and Carla Bruni, the first lady of France, playing a museum tour guide. (Scott)20110526
- 'Of Gods and Men' (R, 2:00, in French and Arabic) The true story of a group of French Cistercian monks caught in the Algerian civil war of the 1990s, brought to vivid and intelligent life by the director Xavier Beauvois and an excellent cast led by Lambert Wilson as the prior, a brave man of conscience in impossible circumstances. (Scott)20110526
'Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides' (PG-13, 2:07) Nothing strange about it at all -- just another hectic, soulless exercise in perfectly legal, unromantic profiteering. Johnny Depp and a few other performers -- Ian McShane, Penelope Cruz and Geoffrey Rush -- do what they can to make it look like fun. (Scott)20110526
- 'POM Wonderful Presents: The Greatest Movie Ever Sold' (PG-13, 1:28) Financed entirely by sponsors whose products are promoted in the film, Morgan Spurlock's cheerfully cynical documentary is the ultimate example of what it purports to criticize. (Holden)20110526
'Potiche (Trophy Wife)' (R, 1:43, in French) Francois Ozon's adaptation of a popular French play from the 1970s -- with period appropriate music, politics and decor -- has no real reason for existing, but Catherine Deneuve, as a rich housewife on the verge of liberation, and Gerard Depardieu, as the proletarian politico who loves her, are in good humor and fine form. (Scott)20110526
'Priest' ( PG-13, 1:27) Scott Stewart's post-vampocalyptic action thriller, which grafts the plot of ''The Searchers'' onto a Korean fallen-angel comic book, is like a tour of a geek's toy box: John Ford, throwing stars, martial arts, a runaway train, schoolboy Catholic rebellion and Maggie Q in skin-tight vestments. The story is hackneyed and the action banal, but Paul Bettany makes an excellent latter-day John Wayne, and Ms. Q projects intelligence and emotion while looking scorching hot. (Hale)20110526
'Prom' (PG, 1:30) This Disney film about high school students looking forward to their prom is pure formula, but it's well enough executed that the target audience -- presumably younger teenagers -- will enjoy the goings-on. Aimee Teegarden (''Friday Night Lights'') is the center of the plot, playing the good-girl workaholic who is in charge of staging the big dance and is determined to create a memorable evening despite a disastrous fire, a bad-boy assistant and her own lack of a date. (Neil Genzlinger)20110526
'Rio' (PG, 1:38) A rich voice cast, exuberant music and a vibrant palette make this animated outing a big step forward from the ''Ice Age'' movies for Fox animation. As kids' movies go, ''Rio'' brings a lot to the party. (Webster)20110526
'Something Borrowed' (PG-13, 1:52) Is there any way they can give it back? (Scott)20110526
'Source Code' (PG-13, 1:33) Duncan Jones (''Moon'') directs and Jake Gyllenhaal stars in a nifty science-fiction thriller with a contemporary twist about a man who toggles between realities, one of which lasts eight minutes and ends with a boom. (Dargis)20110526
- '13 Assassins' (R, 2:06, in Japanese) The Japanese director Takashi Miike revisits the way of the warrior in a stirring, unexpectedly moving samurai story of love and blood set at the close of the Edo period and involving a plot against a barbaric lord. (Dargis)20110526
'Thor' (PG-13, 2:10) Marvel's blond Nordic deity takes his turn in the superhero blockbuster sun, and the result -- directed by Kenneth Branagh and starring Chris Hemsworth as the hammer-wielding muscle man -- is exemplary in its programmatic mediocrity. (Scott)20110526
'True Legend' (R, 1:56) The elite fight-choreographer-for-hire Yuen Woo Ping (the ''Matrix'' and ''Kill Bill'' films) returns to directing after a 15-year hiatus with a big, moralistic period piece about battling half-brothers in the Qing dynasty, with healthy helpings of filial piety and computer-enhanced wushu. Strictly for aficionados of martial arts and Chinese melodrama, though even they may find it a pretty pallid effort. With cameos by a radiant Michelle Yeoh and, in one of his last film roles, a haggard David Carradine. (Hale)20110526
'Tyler Perry's Madea's Big Happy Family' (PG-13, 1:46) Mr. Perry's latest comedy-drama as the garrulous, gun-toting grandmother tilts a little more to the dramatic side: a mother (Loretta Devine) tries to round up her brood to tell them of her returning cancer, but they are too busy with problems -- and secrets -- of their own. Despite a few laughs and the presence of appealing new performers, the film seems to have less Madea than usual, and Mr. Perry appears just a tad weary of the character. (Webster)20110526
'Water for Elephants' (PG-13, 1:54 ) Sara Gruen's best-selling novel about Depression-era circus life and an elephant named Rosie has been diluted into a panoramic, timid family movie cleansed of grit and fiery animal spirits. (Holden)20110526
- 'Win Win' (R, 1:46) Tom McCarthy's comedy of middle-class anxiety and scrambled good intentions is sharp and sweet, and in no hurry to reach conclusions or teach lessons. This gives plenty of room for the terrific cast -- including Amy Ryan, Bobby Cannavale and a young first-timer named Alex Shaffer supporting the sad sack in chief, Paul Giamatti -- to give the movie a scruffy, lived-in shape and texture. (Scott)20110526
Film Series
Dziga Vertov (Friday through Sunday) MoMA's exhaustive retrospective devoted to Vertov, one of the masters of Soviet montage, winds down with ''Shanghai Document,'' a 1928 feature about the nationalist upheavals in China directed by a Vertov disciple, Yakov Bliokh (Friday and Sunday at 4 p.m.), and ''For You, Front!,'' a World War II propaganda film (1943) suppressed by the censors of the time. The latter film screens Saturday at 5 p.m. with ''Song of Heroes,'' a 1932 film in the Vertov manner by the Dutch documentarian Joris Ivens. (Through June 4.) Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters , (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Dave Kehr)20110526
FilmAfrica (Friday through Tuesday) A selection of recent and classic films from Africa drawn from the traveling program of the African Film Festival. The highlights include Souleymane Cisse's marvelous 1987 tapestry of Malian folktales, ''Yeelen'' (Friday and Tuesday); Mahamat-Saleh Haroun's 2010 Cannes selection, ''A Screaming Man,'' a drama about an unemployed man caught up in the civil war in Chad (Friday and Sunday); and Michel Ocelot's 2005 animated fable, ''Kirikou and the Wild Beasts,'' drawn from a selection of Senegalese tales (Saturday). BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene , (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $12. (Kehr)20110526
Independently Animated: An Evening with Bill Plympton (Friday and Saturday) This animator with an iron constitution (he draws every frame of his films himself) and a soft touch (his pencil line is unmistakable) will be present Friday at 7 p.m. for a chat and a screening to celebrate the publication of a new book about his work, ''Independently Animated: The Life and Art of the King of Indie Animation'' (Rizzoli). The program continues on Saturday with a preview of a new documentary about Mr. Plympton, Alexia Anastasio's ''Adventures in Plymptoons!'' (3 p.m.), and two of Mr. Plympton's features, ''Hair High'' (5:30 p.m.) and ''Idiots and Angels'' (7:30 p.m.). Museum of the Moving Image, 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens , (718) 784-0077, movingimage.us; $10. (Kehr)20110526

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FILMAFRICA: (Friday through Tuesday) A selection of recent and classic films from Africa drawn from the traveling program of the African Film Festival. The highlights include Souleymane Cisse's marvelous 1987 tapestry of Malian folk tales, ''Yeelen'' (Friday and Tuesday)
Mahamat-Saleh Haroun's 2010 Cannes selection, ''A Screaming Man'' (with Youssouf Djaoro, above), a drama about an unemployed man caught up in the civil war in Chad (Friday and Sunday)
and Michel Ocelot's 2005 animated fable, ''Kirikou and the Wild Beasts,'' drawn from a selection of Senegalese tales (Saturday). BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org
 $12. (Dave Kehr) (PHOTOGRAPH BY BAMCINEMATEK/FILM MOVEMENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); FILM GENRES (79%); MOVIE RATINGS (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); ENGINEERING (68%); SUICIDE (66%); FASHION & APPAREL (66%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (66%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (63%); ARMIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) HONG KONG (90%); UNITED STATES (86%); CHAD (79%); SENEGAL (79%); MALI (79%); AFRICA (79%); CHINA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



896 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: A Hedge Fund Manager's Latest Bet: The Mets

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and AZAM AHMED; Peter Lattman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
David Einhorn made his name on Wall Street by selling short. Famously, he bet against Lehman Brothers' stock several months before the famed brokerage collapsed.
But Mr. Einhorn -- one of a handful of hedge fund managers followed by investors looking for the next smart play -- insists that he spends far more time trolling through the bargain bin, looking for companies with potential that others have dismissed, then betting on their long-term revival.
On Thursday, in announcing that he has entered into exclusive negotiations to spend $200 million for a noncontrolling stake in the Mets, Mr. Einhorn, 42, may be making one of his most intriguing long-term bets yet.
The Mets, as their principal owner said in comments published this week, are lousy, snakebitten and bleeding cash, having lost $50 million last year alone. Attendance has plummeted at Citi Field, their expensive new ballpark in Queens. Perhaps most daunting, the trustee for the victims of Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme has sued the team's owners for $1 billion. 
Mr. Einhorn did his best Thursday to sound like a friendly investor in a team very much in need of friends. He spoke fondly of dressing on Halloween as Dave Kingman, the face of the Mets during lean years three decades ago. He coaches his daughter's Little League team. He said that he had, while growing up in Milwaukee, hit home runs into the backyard of the baseball commissioner, Bud Selig.
Mr. Einhorn emphasized that his investment in the Mets was not related to any of the $8 billion or so he manages at Greenlight Capital, his hedge fund. He sent an e-mail to investors to clarify the distinction and acknowledged that he understood that rehabilitating a troubled franchise would not be swift or easy.
''Baseball is a tough sport, and everyone wants to win more games,'' said Mr. Einhorn, who would become one of a handful of financial moguls to own a professional sports team. ''Over time, there is going to be losing seasons and tough seasons and winning seasons and hopefully championship seasons. I hope to experience all of those.''
Forbes magazine values the Mets at $747 million, 13 percent less than last year. The true value of the team, though, will not be known until it is clear what percentage of the club Einhorn will get for his $200 million.
Despite the team's problems, Mr. Einhorn's proposed stake in the Mets -- which must be completed with the team and approved by Major League Baseball -- fits a pattern. He enjoys making money, and seems to enjoy almost as much crowing about how right his often blunt, often controversial investment analysis typically proves to be.
Indeed, he wrote a book detailing his prescience and some of the ills of the financial industry. It was titled, ''Fooling Some of the People All of the Time.''
Mr. Einhorn does not seem to have the makeup of a hard-charging hedge fund manager. Mild-mannered, he speaks deliberately and softly. He was born in Demarest, N.J., and his family moved to Milwaukee when he was 7. He graduated from Cornell with a degree in government, not economics or business.
While many fund managers work well into the night, Mr. Einhorn is known to leave the office early enough to get home to Westchester for his daughter's Little League games. He is active in several charities and, with his wife, Cheryl, set up a trust whose mission is to help people get along better.
But Mr. Einhorn also grew up in a financially minded home. His father is a banker who helps facilitate mergers and acquisitions. Mr. Einhorn helped found his hedge fund in 1996, when he was in his late 20s -- a young age by industry standards -- with less than a million dollars, much of which came from his parents.
He is a believer in so-called value investing, a strategy made famous by the likes of Warren E. Buffett (he once paid $250,000 to have lunch with the legendary investor), which holds that the best investments are made in good companies that are cheap. He will spend months reviewing a company's financial information, searching for hidden value. He can then bet big, sometimes on the order of hundreds of millions.
Mr. Einhorn is fond of quoting Ken Griffey Jr. when talking about his investment style: ''I don't consider myself a home run hitter. But when I'm seeing the ball and hitting it hard, it will go out of the park.''
Like Mr. Buffett, Mr. Einhorn has a shrewd, quick mind, according to several hedge fund managers, skills that undoubtedly came in handy in 2006, when he entered the World Series of Poker as a relative novice in conventional gambling. He finished 18th out of 8,773 contestants.
His brand of poker is something of a metaphor for his style of business. Playing Texas Hold 'em, Mr. Einhorn told New York magazine in 2008, is about waiting for a chance to pounce, then pressing the advantage. ''We make bigger bets every day,'' he said of his day job. ''There's more at risk in what happens in Microsoft than I could ever bet on a poker table.''
His big bets and the economics of hedge funds help explain why he can afford to spend $200 million on a money-losing team. Hedge funds invest money for the wealthy as well as pension funds and other institutions.
Mr. Einhorn charges investors 1.5 percent to manage their money and 20 percent of any profits generated, investors in the fund say. Since its inception, his fund has returned 19 percent to investors on average per year.
While some hedge funds engage in campaigns to replace executives of the companies they own, Mr. Einhorn is often quiet when dissatisfied. But when he does go public, his words can move the markets. On Wednesday, Mr. Einhorn derided Steve Ballmer, the chief executive of Microsoft, as ''stuck in the past'' and suggested its board look to replace him. Mr. Einhorn owned about nine million shares of the company as of the end of March, according to a regulatory filing, worth about $200 million.
Since his comments, the shares are trading up about 2 percent.
His investment in the Mets may be more problematic. The team, run as a family business, has not had to acknowledge outsiders in the boardroom. Some smart people on Wall Street looked at the Mets' books and walked away because the team refused to sell part of its share in SNY, its profitable cable network. Mr. Einhorn has decided to pay only for shares in the team.
The decision has some investors wondering whether he sees an angle no one else discovered.
''He's a value guy,'' said Anthony Scaramucci, a managing partner at the investment firm SkyBridge Capital, who was part of another group that looked to buy part of the Mets. ''So you'd have to look at this as a growth opportunity and hold your nose and eyes for 10 years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ALL IN ON QUEENS: David Einhorn at a 2006 poker tournament. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); WRITERS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); YOUTH SPORTS (67%); PONZI SCHEMES (67%); HALLOWEEN (51%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (78%); WISCONSIN, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



897 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: China's Farming Pursuits Make Brazil Uneasy

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Reporting was contributed by Myrna Domit from Sao Paulo, Brazil, Charles Newbery from Buenos Aires, David Barboza from Shanghai and Keith Bradsher from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
URUACU, Brazil -- When the Chinese came looking for more soybeans here last year, they inquired about buying land -- lots of it.
Officials in this farming area would not sell the hundreds of thousands of acres needed. Undeterred, the Chinese pursued a different strategy: providing credit to farmers and potentially tripling the soybeans grown here to feed chickens and hogs back in China.
''They need the soy more than anyone,'' said Edimilson Santana, a farmer in the small town of Uruacu. ''This could be a new beginning for farmers here.''
The $7 billion agreement signed last month -- to produce six million tons of soybeans a year -- is one of several struck in recent weeks as China hurries to shore up its food security and offset its growing reliance on crops from the United States by pursuing vast tracts of Latin America's agricultural heartland. 
Even as Brazil, Argentina and other nations move to impose limits on farmland purchases by foreigners, the Chinese are seeking to more directly control production themselves, taking their nation's fervor for agricultural self-sufficiency overseas.
''They are moving in,'' said Carlo Lovatelli, president of the Brazilian Association of Vegetable Oil Industries. ''They are looking for land, looking for reliable partners. But what they would like to do is run the show alone.''
While many welcome the investments, the aggressive push comes as Brazilian officials have begun questioning the ''strategic partnership'' with China encouraged by former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. The Chinese have become so important to Brazil's economy that it cannot do without them -- and that is precisely what is making Brazil increasingly uneasy.
''One thing the world can be sure of: there is no going back,'' Mr. da Silva said while visiting Beijing in 2009.
China has become Brazil's biggest trading partner, buying ever increasing volumes of soybeans and iron ore, while investing billions in Brazil's energy sector. The demand has helped fuel an economic boom here that has lifted more than 20 million Brazilians from extreme poverty and brought economic stability to a country accustomed to periodic crises.
Yet some experts say the partnership has devolved into a classic neo-colonial relationship in which China has the upper hand. Nearly 84 percent of Brazil's exports to China last year were raw materials, up from 68 percent in 2000. But about 98 percent of China's exports to Brazil are manufactured products -- including the latest, low-priced cars for Brazil's emerging middle class -- that are beating down Brazil's industrial sector.
''The relationship has been very unbalanced,'' said Rubens Ricupero, a former Brazilian diplomat and finance minister. ''There has been a clear lack of strategy on the Brazilian side.''
While visiting China last month, Brazil's new president, Dilma Rousseff, emphasized the need to sell higher-value products to China, and she has edged closer to the United States. ''It is not by accident that there is a sort of effort to revalue the relationship with the United States,'' said Paulo Sotero, director of the Brazil Institute at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. ''China exposes Brazil's vulnerabilities more than any other country in the world.''
China's moves to buy land have made officials nervous. Last August, Luis Inacio Adams, Brazil's attorney general, reinterpreted a 1971 law, making it significantly harder for foreigners to buy land in Brazil. Argentina's president, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, followed suit last month, sending a law to Congress limiting the size and concentration of rural land foreigners could own.
Mr. Adams said his decision was not a direct result of land-buying by China, but he noted that huge ''land grabs'' in Latin America and sub-Saharan Africa, including China's attempt to lease about three million acres in the Philippines, had alarmed Brazilian officials.
''Nothing is preventing investment from happening, but it will be regulated,'' Mr. Adams said.
A World Bank study last year said that volatile food prices had brought a ''rising tide'' of large-scale farmland purchases in developing nations, and that China was among a small group of countries making most of the purchases.
Foreigners own an estimated 11 percent of productive land in Argentina, according to the Argentine Agriculture Federation. In Brazil, one government study estimated that foreigners owned land equivalent to about 20 percent of Sao Paulo State.
International investors have criticized the restrictions. At least $15 billion in farming and forestry projects in Brazil have been suspended since the government's limits, according to Agroconsult, a Brazilian agricultural consultancy.
''The tightening of land purchases by foreigners is really a step backwards into a Jurassic mentality of counterproductive nationalism,'' said Charles Tang, president of the Brazil-China Chamber of Commerce, saying that American farmers had bought sizable plots in Brazil in recent years, with little uproar.
Responding to the criticism, Brazil's agriculture minister said this month that Brazil might start leasing farmland to foreigners, given the barriers to ownership.
China itself does not allow private ownership of farmland, and it cautioned local governments against granting large-scale or long-term leases to companies in a 2001 directive. China also bans foreign companies from buying mines and oil fields.
But as more of its people eat meat, China is expected to increase its soybean imports, mostly for animal feed, by more than 50 percent by 2020, according to the United States Department of Agriculture. Last month, Chongqing Grains signed a $2.5 billion agreement to produce soybeans in the Brazilian state of Bahia. Last October, a Chinese group agreed to develop about 500,000 acres of farmland in Rio Negro Province in Argentina.
In both cases, Chinese officials proposed buying large tracts of land before local officials steered them toward production agreements.
''We are never going to sell the land,'' said Juan Manuel Accatino, the minister of production in Rio Negro.
Brian Willott, an American farmer who came to Brazil in 2003, said Chinese interest in buying farms had not abated. ''Everywhere you go to look at a farm they say, 'We are considering selling to the Chinese,' '' he said.
In Goias State, nearly 70 percent of the soy grown went to the Chinese last year, and the Chinese are seeking to use about 20 million acres of pastureland that has not been cultivated for decades.
''For them, the faster the better,'' said Antonio de Lima, Goias' agriculture minister.
Farmers here say they share Chinese officials' goal of breaking the stranglehold of international trading companies like Cargill and Archer Daniels Midland.
But Tan Lin, a manager at the Chinese company involved in Goias, said he doubted Chinese companies were ready to replace them.
''I don't see that the Chinese companies working here have that expertise yet,'' Mr. Tan said. But ''if you can do that, it is good, of course.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A farmer working in his soybean field in Uruacu, Brazil. Demand for soybeans in China has brought Chinese investors here.
 A new railroad line in Uruacu, Brazil, will carry soybeans to a port for shipping to China. Brazil's economic links with China have helped it prosper, but Brazil is selling mostly raw materials. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL KFOURI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (87%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SOYBEAN FARMING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: VEGETABLE OIL INDUSTRIES CO LTD (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2046 WET CORN MILLING (55%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); CHINA (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



898 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Federal Review Finds Rules to Live Without

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration said on Thursday that it would rewrite hundreds of regulations to save businesses and consumers hundreds of millions of dollars a year, the first fruits of a review process announced in January.
To highlight the effort, the administration announced it had repealed an environmental regulation that classified milk as a kind of oil that required elaborate safeguards to prevent spills that might contaminate waterways.
That change by the Environmental Protection Agency will save $140 million a year, said Cass R. Sunstein, the Harvard Law professor appointed by President Obama to improve the quality of federal rules. 
''Large benefits can come from seemingly modest steps,'' Mr. Sunstein said in a speech on the results of the review at the American Enterprise Institute.
The review, which has become a presidential tradition, is part of an effort by the Obama administration to show engagement with business concerns. Mr. Sunstein emphasized that the effort also had broader benefits because costs imposed on business ultimately pass to shareholders, employees and customers.
The intended audience, however, was underwhelmed. William L. Kovacs of the United States Chamber of Commerce, the largest lobbying group for the business community, said the changes amounted to ''tinkering around the edges.''
''There are 180,000 regulations out there and this doesn't hit the economically significant regulations,'' said Mr. Kovacs, the chamber's vice president for environmental and regulatory policy. He praised the administration for undertaking the review, but called for much broader and deeper changes.
The business group has pushed in recent years for Congress to create a legislative process for reviewing regulations. It also suggested that the cost and benefits of proposed rules should be evaluated by third parties.
President Obama ordered federal agencies in January, with considerable fanfare, to hunt for rules that were outdated, duplicative or ''just plain dumb.''
The White House published responses by 30 federal agencies Thursday online at whitehouse.gov/regulatoryreform, ranging from the Defense Department to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, listing hundreds of proposed changes and a few that had already been made.
Many of the proposals amount to reductions in paperwork, the value of which Mr. Sunstein said should not be discounted because businesses spend considerable time and effort providing the government with required information.
Others are more tangible. The E.P.A no longer will require gas stations in some states to install a particular kind of pollution filter, saving $670 million over the next decade, because the same function is performed by standard equipment on new vehicles.
Milk storage facilities have been subject since the 1970s to federal regulations aimed at preventing spills that can contaminate water supplies. The rules grouped petroleum, animal fats and greases in a single category, and there is evidence that large-scale milk spills can cause environmental harm.
In 1995, Congress passed a law requiring regulatory agencies to distinguish between oil and what the law called ''edible oil.'' Earlier this year, E.P.A. finally granted milk a complete exemption.
Mr. Sunstein said the milk story highlighted the need for regular review of the federal rulebook, so that necessary changes would be made more quickly.
''The rule that was done very recently makes complete sense. To get people's attention to focus on whether it makes complete sense was the challenge,'' he said. ''My hope is that this hard-wiring that this is starting will make problem-solving of that kind much easier.''
Some consumer advocates, however, criticized this new emphasis on constant gardening as a distraction from the need for greater enforcement of existing regulations, and increased government oversight of long-standing problems.
Amy Sinden, a law professor at Temple University, said the administration seemed interested in appealing to people who viewed regulation as burdensome.
''The rhetoric is right out of the playbook that government is bad and industry is good,'' said Professor Sinden, who is also a scholar at the Center for Progressive Reform, which advocates for regulators to impose ''sensible safeguards.''
''At the same time that they're crowing about saving industry millions of dollars by repealing regulations, they're bowing to industry pressure to hold off on new regulations that could be saving thousands of lives each year,'' she said.
Mr. Sunstein said such criticism was misplaced, and that the administration's commitment was to evaluate the merit of individual regulations.
''The view that regulation in the abstract is a terrible or a wonderful thing is hard to defend,'' he said. ''It depends on what it does.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cass Sunstein said ending unneeded rules would save businesses and consumers money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); LOBBYING (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); GAS STATIONS (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); HISTORY (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (63%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



899 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: A State of Uncertainty For the Romney Camp As It Looks to Iowa

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
URBANDALE, Iowa -- At this point four years ago, Mitt Romney's television commercials had been running here for 13 weeks. His campaign headquarters, bustling with activity, provided one of the best jobs around for Republican operatives. He fought hard to win the Iowa Straw Poll, an early test of organizing, and he did.
This year, there are no commercials, no bulging payroll and no headquarters at all. And he has yet to signal whether he will treat Iowa with deference (as he did in 2008) or indifference (as some advisers have urged him to do). 
That is part of the expectations game for Mr. Romney, a tricky calibration of not-too-high or not-too-low anticipation for how he should approach the Iowa caucuses, whose outcome will help set the tone for the rest of the party's nominating contest.
But as Mr. Romney arrives here on Friday for his first time this year, for three public events and many more private meetings, the evidence suggests that he is leaning against a strategy of bypassing Iowa. He is the only candidate with a network of supporters in all 99 counties, many of whom say they have received calls from Mr. Romney's aides in recent days.
''We've got a lot of friends here, a lot of support here,'' said David Kochel, a veteran strategist in Iowa, who is Mr. Romney's top adviser here. ''We want to reach out to the people who were with us last time and invite them back to the campaign. But we're not going to run the same campaign we ran last time.''
The prospecting visit by Mr. Romney highlights the shifting contours of the Republican field and the myriad paths of trying to win the nomination in a campaign that remains awash in uncertainty.
While he received a measure of clarity when Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana and former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas said they would stay out of the race, new questions were raised on Thursday by Sarah Palin's signal that she is still weighing a presidential run.
''It's a wide-open situation here as far as I can see,'' said Gov. Terry E. Branstad of Iowa, who spoke to Mr. Romney by telephone this week, urging him to come to the state and focus on economic issues. ''There are some concerns about the health care issue -- I think he has to answer those -- but he's got to come here and spend some time and share his vision with people.''
On the eve of his arrival here, Mr. Romney announced that he would formally declare his candidacy next week in New Hampshire, the state that is critical to his strategy.
He has told friends that he felt burned by the process in Iowa four years ago. He invested $10 million and finished second in the caucuses to Mr. Huckabee, who spent a sliver of that amount. Mr. Romney also struggled to connect with religious conservatives and often spent more time trying to convince people that his rightward-shifting positions on abortion and gay rights were changes of heart rather than decisions of political expediency.
Still, Mr. Romney won 30,021 votes, or 25 percent. And when adding up the results of the other defeated candidates, Senator John McCain, former Senator Fred Thompson of Tennessee and former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, about 55 percent of the voters supported someone other than a religious conservative.
''There's a real opportunity for him to grab the establishment Republican vote -- 35 or 45 percent of the people are really looking for a place to go,'' said Doug Gross, the Iowa chairman of the Romney campaign in 2008, who remains uncommitted. ''I haven't come to the conclusion that I think he can win, but he could run a good solid campaign here.''
In the opening stages of the presidential race here, a heavy focus has been placed on social issues, including the Iowa Supreme Court ruling that legalized gay marriage. The forums for candidates have been sponsored by religious groups, but a coalition of business leaders came together to host a lecture series to focus on the economy that Mr. Romney is attending Friday.
Yet Mr. Romney is hardly the only candidate chasing the establishment Republican vote.
Tim Pawlenty, a former governor of Minnesota, is aggressively working to poach old Romney supporters and has opened his campaign headquarters in the same office complex in Urbandale where Mr. Romney ran his operation last time.
As Mr. Romney has delayed his determination of how extensively to compete in Iowa, several leading Republicans have sought out other candidates. The most fervent political activists relish the opportunity to be part of a presidential race every four years and are reluctant to wait.
''He can afford to keep his options open,'' said Brian Kennedy, a Republican strategist who worked as an adviser to Mr. Romney in 2008 but has remained neutral this year. ''But these activists don't just want to be for someone, they want to be all-in for someone.''
Yet the terrain facing Mr. Romney is different -- and not just the field of candidates.
Four years ago, the Romney critic with the loudest megaphone was not one of his Republican rivals. It was a man named Steve Deace, who hosted an afternoon talk show on the state's powerhouse radio station, WHO-AM. Mr. Deace devoted parts of his program nearly every day for more than six months to forcefully attacking Mr. Romney's shifts on abortion and other issues.
The effect was clear: Mr. Romney lost nearly every county in the radio station's primary listening area, though he won in the state's most conservative corridor in western Iowa.
This time, Mr. Deace is unlikely to have the same influence. His program ended when he left the radio station this spring.
Mr. Romney may, however, have to confront his own words. Four years ago, when Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani declined to actively participate in Iowa and its August straw poll, Mr. Romney delivered lectures on the importance of adhering to the traditions that have helped vet presidential candidates for years.
''If you can't compete in Iowa in August, how are you going to compete in January when the caucuses are held?'' Mr. Romney said as he and his wife, Ann, and their five sons blanketed the state four years ago. ''And how are you going to compete in November?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney in Iowa in 2007, when he ran an aggressive campaign in the state for the 2008 Republican presidential nomination. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Revisiting Iowa: Mitt Romney, who has worked to lower expecations for the Iowa caucuses, will make stops in Des Moines and Cedar Rapids on Friday. After heavy campaigning before the 2008 caucuses, he finished second over all and won the eastern part of the state, which is less conservative than other areas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); TERRY BRANSTAD (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (57%); SARAH PALIN (57%); MITCH DANIELS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (78%) IOWA, USA (96%); INDIANA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



900 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: America's Forgotten Liberal

BYLINE: By RICK PERLSTEIN. 
Rick Perlstein is the author of ''Nixonland: The Rise of a President and the Fracturing of America.''

 BODY:
Chicago
JANUARY was the 100th anniversary of Ronald Reagan's birth, and the planet nearly stopped turning on its axis to recognize the occasion. Today is the 100th anniversary of Hubert H. Humphrey's birth, and no one besides me seems to have noticed.
That such a central figure in American history is largely ignored today is sad. But his diminution is also, more importantly, an impediment to understanding our current malaise as a nation, and how much better things might have been had today's America turned out less Reaganite and more Humphreyish.
Our forgotten man was born in eastern South Dakota to a pharmacist, a trade the son took over after the family moved to Minnesota. That biographical fact was the source for the derisive title of a 1968 biography, ''The Drugstore Liberal'' -- that is to say, like a ''drugstore cowboy,'' a small-timer, not really a liberal at all, at a time, quite unlike our own, when a liberal reputation was a prerequisite for the Democratic presidential nomination. The unfairness was evident only in retrospect. 
Humphrey made his national political debut in 1948 when, as mayor of Minneapolis and a candidate for Senate, he headed the Minnesota delegation to the Democratic National Convention. There he led a faction insisting the platform include a federal fair employment commission, a controversial goal of the civil rights movement.
Segregationist Southerners threatened to walk out, a move that could have paralyzed the entire fragile Democratic coalition and handed the White House to the Republicans. The Democrats' first presidential defeat in 20 years might have been laid at the feet of this ambitious 37-year-old.
Humphrey could have been excused for quietly backing down. Instead, the man who had earned the nickname the Happy Warrior gave one of the greatest speeches in American political history.
''To those who say this civil rights program is an infringement on states' rights,'' he thundered from the convention podium, ''I say this: The time has arrived in America for the Democratic Party to get out of the shadow of states' rights and to walk forthrightly into the bright sunshine of human rights.''
The motion carried. The Southerners walked out and ran Strom Thurmond for president. When Harry S. Truman won nonetheless, Democrats were on their way to becoming the party of civil rights. Hubert Humphrey catalyzed that change.
He joined the Senate as a tireless champion of expanding the New Deal, but the exigencies of power were not kind to his liberal reputation. In June 1964 he was instrumental in passing the landmark Civil Rights Act. That August, however, President Lyndon B. Johnson turned to Humphrey to broker another deal at a Democratic convention, this time playing the opposite role: selling out a group of Mississippi civil rights activists who had hoped to be seated as delegates instead of the racist ''regular'' Democrats.
It was part of Johnson's condition for making him his running mate: he wanted someone who would do what he said without question. Soon Vice President Humphrey was the spokesman for the president's unwise war in Vietnam. He took to the role partly out of loyalty, partly out of conviction: to a certain sort of old-line liberal like him, Vietnam was a crusade against imperialist expansionism. To younger ''New Politics'' Democrats, however, the war embodied the very opposite: a racist assault by an administration that was itself practically imperialist.
It was Humphrey's misfortune to inherit the presidential nomination in 1968, with the Democratic Party split down the middle between these factions -- a tragedy sealed in blood, after Humphrey's faction won the convention, in the streets of Chicago; and at the ballot box, with Humphrey's agonizingly close loss to Richard M. Nixon in the general election.
The defeat came in part thanks to his refusal to denounce the disastrous war in a forthright and timely fashion, and in part thanks to the abandonment of the ticket by the New Politics liberals who called him a warmonger (often, heckling him on the campaign trail, to his face).
Was Humphrey really as hawkish as all that? Johnson didn't think so; he actually preferred that Nixon win the election. He didn't trust Humphrey to hold firm on the war.
Poor Humphrey could never catch a break. Resolutely committed to quiet coalition-building at a time when ideological self-righteousness was the new normal, resolutely unhip at a time when political hipness was at a premium, he was now not just a loser but an embarrassment. He came in second place for the 1972 nomination; the victor, the self-righteous but significantly more hip George S. McGovern, then came in a distant second to Nixon.
In the book by which many would remember that election, Hunter S. Thompson's ''Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '72,'' each mention of Humphrey drips with mocking vituperation. Here, then, to many, is the Humphrey of history: an also-ran, a sellout, a joke.
For progressives today, however, the joke's on us. In the 1970s the Democratic Party turned its focus from a New Deal-inspired politics of economic security toward a Watergate-inspired embrace of institutional reform. The move was explicitly anti-you-know-who: ''We're not a bunch of little Hubert Humphreys,'' proclaimed Gary Hart, the leader of the ''Watergate Babies'' Democratic Congressional class of 1974.
Their reforms, however, largely failed in their intention to liberalize the nation. Conservatives and business interests were able to bend the new campaign finance rules and Congressional committee systems to their own ends. That, in turn, helped bring about what Paul Krugman calls the ''Great Divergence'': the economic inequality that has made a mockery of ordinary Americans' aspirations to join and stay in the middle class.
The trends were already in evidence during the presidential season of 1976. The only thing missing was any organized Democratic response among the candidates -- besides, that is, Hubert Humphrey, who was once more an also-ran for the Democratic nomination.
Instead Humphrey, who had re-entered the Senate in 1971, spent the rest of the decade doggedly devising legislative solutions to the Great Divergence. His Balanced Growth and Economic Planning Act, introduced in May 1975, when unemployment was at a post-Depression high of 9 percent, proposed a sort of domestic World Bank to route capital to job creators. (It spoke to his conviction, in a knee-jerk, anti-corporate age, that pro-labor and pro-business policies were complementary.)
And at a time when other liberals were besotted with affirmative action as a strategy to undo the cruel injustices of American history, Humphrey pointed out that race-based remedies could only prove divisive when good jobs were disappearing for everyone. Liberal policy, he said, must stress ''common denominators -- mutual needs, mutual wants, common hopes, the same fears.''
In 1976 he joined Representative Augustus Hawkins, a Democrat from the Watts section of Los Angeles, to introduce a bill requiring the government, especially the Federal Reserve, to keep unemployment below 3 percent -- and if that failed, to provide emergency government jobs to the unemployed.
It sounds heretical now. But this newspaper endorsed it then, while 70 percent of Americans believed the government should offer jobs to everyone who wanted one. However, Jimmy Carter -- a new kind of Democrat answering to a new upper-middle-class, suburban constituency, embarrassed by industrial unions and enamored with the alleged magic of the market -- did not.
''Government cannot eliminate poverty or provide a bountiful economy or reduce inflation or save our cities or cure illiteracy or provide energy,'' President Carter said in his 1978 State of the Union address, a generation before Bill Clinton said almost the same thing, cementing the Democrats' ambivalent retreat from New Deal-based government activism.
Mr. Carter saw to it that only a toothless Humphrey-Hawkins law passed -- one that made fighting inflation the government's implicit policy goal while the toll of high unemployment was given much lower priority.
Hubert Humphrey died of cancer on Jan. 13, 1978, a Happy Warrior to the end. ''Sometimes I felt discouraged,'' his wife, Muriel, recalled, ''but Hubert never did.''
Argue against his supposed heresies if you will. But the post-1970s deregulatory consensus that replaced them, embodied as much by Reagan then as Robert E. Rubin today, has hardly done a great job either. With unemployment once again at 9 percent, inflation minimal, corporate profits at record levels even in the face of criminal perfidy by bankers, the trade deficit at $48.2 billion and racial resentment running as high as ever, shouldn't we perhaps spare a thought, on Hubert Humphrey's 100th birthday, for his road not taken?

CORRECTION-DATE: June 8, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An Op-Ed essay on May 27, about the legacy of Hubert H. Humphrey, misstated the length of time in 1948 since the Democrats had lost a presidential election. It was 20 years, not 16.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX GROSS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); HISTORY (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2011



901 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Kraft Aims Kool-Aid Ads at a Growing Hispanic Market

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
IN a 2010 report by the Association of Hispanic Advertising Agencies that rated the top 500 American advertisers, Kraft Foods earned the rating of ''follower.'' Had Kraft, which had spent 3.8 percent of its ad budget on Hispanic media in 2009, spent just 3.6 percent, it would have been rated a ''laggard.''
The top rating, ''best in class,'' went to 40 companies -- including State Farm, J. C. Penney and Levi Strauss -- that spent more than 11.8 percent on the Hispanic market, which at the time corresponded to the portion of Hispanics in the population. 
This year, Kraft says it will triple spending on Hispanic marketing over last year. Kraft declined to provide figures, but confirmed that the percentage of overall spending would be in the double digits.
Kool-Aid, in a first for any Kraft brand, has allocated the majority of its 2011 marketing budget to reach Hispanics. Television commercials that began running this week on networks including Univision and Telemundo feature families drinking the beverage at festive occasions.
In one spot, at a backyard pool party, Kool-Aid Man, the brand mascot, jumps off the diving board as the slogan ''Donde esta la diversion, esta Kool-Aid'' (''Where there's fun, there's Kool-Aid'') appears on the screen.
The commercials are by Ogilvy Rojo, part of Ogilvy & Mather, a WPP agency. The family settings in the spots grew out of consumer research indicating that Latina mothers like to ''organize sessions for bonding, like eating dinner together or going to the park,'' said Sivonne Davis, Kool-Aid senior brand manager.
Depictions of family get-togethers appeal to Latino parents ''who are really worried about how fast-paced the American way of life is today, and that kids could be growing up too fast and being pulled away from home,'' said Ms. Davis.
Other aspects of the campaign actually facilitate family gatherings. For 10 weeks starting June 5, Kool-Aid will sponsor a new family-friendly movie night, Cine en Casa, to be shown on Telemundo.
And, in a collaboration with Univision Radio, beginning July 23, Kool-Aid will sponsor outdoor screenings of Spanish-language movies in public parks in Los Angeles, Chicago, San Antonio, Dallas and Houston.
While Kool-Aid historically has developed commercials for the general market, then translated them into Spanish, in this case it may reverse the process.
''Typically we took a general market spot and translated it to the Hispanic market, but these are launching among Hispanic consumers and we're testing to see if they could then be used for the general market as well,'' Ms. Davis said.
Almost 20 percent of Kool-Aid drinkers are Hispanic, while slightly more than 20 percent are African-American, according to the brand. Sales are split about evenly between powdered mixes and ready-to-drink versions.
Hispanic adults are second only to African-Americans in consumption of fruit drinks, with 40 percent drinking powdered drinks (compared with 46 percent of blacks and 32 percent of whites) and 45 percent drinking prepared versions (compared with 46 percent of blacks and 27 percent of whites), according to Mintel, a market research firm.
Kool-Aid is forgoing television advertising for the general market for the rest of the year, focusing instead on in-store marketing and digital and print advertising.
Kool-Aid spent none of its total of $14.3 million in advertising on Hispanic media in 2008. In 2009, it spent $3.4 million of its total ad spending of $17.9 million on Hispanic media, and last year, it spent $2.8 million of $23.7 million, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP.
Both the economic downturn and the Hispanic population surge are prompting brands to rethink their strategies, said Alain Groenendaal, chief executive of Wing, a unit of the Grey Group, owned by WPP, that focuses on Latino marketing.
''As the economy has not been so strong, brands have been digging into their numbers more to see where growth is going to come from,'' he said.
''Most of the growth from one census to the next has been in nonwhites, and if brands are spending the same amount of money on a smaller and smaller group, they're getting worse and worse R.O.I.,'' said Mr. Groenendaal, referring to the return on investment from advertising.
A major initiative to court Hispanics encompasses 10 Kraft brands, including Kraft Singles, Oreo, Ritz and Trident gum.
Christine Montenegro McGrath, senior director of the Latino Center of Excellence at Kraft, a team formed two years ago to develop marketing strategies, said efforts to broaden the appeal of Kraft Singles had already paid off. When it conducted focus groups a couple of years ago, Kraft learned Latinos were choosing cheaper brands, but were willing to pay more for the cheese when they realized it was made with real milk, unlike some cheaper brands.
In a promotion with Univision that began in 2009 on Dec. 28, Dia de los Santos Inocentes, the Hispanic equivalent of April Fool's Day, the brand fabricated news stories that appeared on Univision.com, including one involving the women who were then Miss Universe, from Venezuela, and her runner-up, from the Dominican Republic.
The ruse, by Lopez Negrete Communications, led online readers to a Kraft Singles Web site with the message, ''Don't be fooled'' (or ''Descubre la verdad,'' which translates literally as ''Discover the truth''), which also was the theme of Kraft Singles TV spots and in-store events aimed at Hispanics.
The campaign resulted in a 12 percent increase in sales of Singles to Hispanics in 2010, according to Ms. McGrath, who said it was part of a concerted effort for the company to reach Hispanics.
After starting a Spanish Web site, ComidaKraft.com, in 2001, and a cooking magazine, Comida y Familia, in 2003, ''we kind of lost our way in being that consistent across the board,'' she said.
''Now we're changing the trajectory of Kraft's business presence in the Latino market.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kraft is stepping up its marketing of products, including Kool-Aid, to Hispanics. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); FAMILY (87%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); BRANDING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); BUDGETS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (63%); FILM (60%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%)

COMPANY: WPP PLC (84%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (58%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (57%); STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (57%)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (84%); WPP (LSE) (84%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (84%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



902 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Survival Guide

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Sometime this summer, the Democrats and the Republicans will go toe-to-toe over whether to raise the debt ceiling. At the height of the confrontation, President Obama may well address the country and say that even though he has offered the Republicans more than $1 trillion in spending cuts (unspecified), the Republicans have not been willing to compromise on a deal. He will then announce that, even without an agreement, the U.S. will still have enough money to continue payments to its creditors.
Unfortunately, he will go on, the government will not have enough money to continue with many other programs. Federal agencies will send out letters advising parents that because of the deadlock in Congress, student loans will be suspended. Other letters will advise seniors to make arrangements with banks for credit lines until their Social Security checks can resume. National panic will ensue. 
A few weeks ago, the Republicans might have been able to withstand this. Then it was possible to argue that Americans are so fed up with runaway spending and unsustainable debt that they would support a party brave enough to put the country on a sound fiscal footing. After the Republican defeat in New York's 26th Congressional District, it is harder to argue that. After these results, 2012 looks more like a regular election -- whichever party can be accused of cutting entitlements will get pummeled.
Already many consultants are telling Republicans to drop austerity and go back on offense: Spend 2012 accusing the Democrats of sponsoring death panels. The Democrats will spend 2012 accusing Republicans of ending Medicare. Whichever party demagogues best wins.
But, over the past few days, I've spoken with a number of Republicans -- in Congress and elsewhere -- who don't want to do that. They fervently believe the country is in peril. They want to find a way to reduce the debt without committing political suicide.
Doing that is a two-step process. First, Republicans have to make a grand offer on raising the debt ceiling. This offer should include a bipartisan commitment to reduce the growth of Medicare spending. Republicans need Democratic fingerprints on a plan to restrain entitlements. In exchange, Republicans should offer to raise tax revenues on the rich. They should get rid of the interest deductions on mortgages over $500,000 and on second homes. They should close corporate loopholes and cap the health insurance deduction. They should offer a plan that follows the outline of the Simpson-Bowles report and what the now ''Gang of Five'' in the Senate is working on. (Senator Mark Kirk has a proposal roughly on this latter point.)
Democrats may not agree to this offer. Since the election, Democrats have gone into the fiscal fetal position, hoping to offend no one while Republicans catch all the flak. This week, Senate Democrats voted on four separate budget proposals and not a single Democrat voted for a single one. Even President Obama's budget received zero votes. The Democrats don't want to be on record for any governing choice that might be painful.
Moreover, President Obama may use this occasion to pummel the Republicans mercilessly on Medicare, no matter what the consequences for the country.
But if the Republicans made an offer that included revenue increases, they would at least show they are willing to compromise to prevent a national catastrophe. And Democrats might take them up on it. Many Democrats understand the fiscal peril. Many Democrats don't want to go down in history as the people who did nothing while bankruptcy loomed.
More broadly, Republicans need to reconnect with the working class, the sort of people who live in upstate New York Congressional districts. Republicans won in 2010 because the working class fled from the Democrats' top-down big government liberalism. But these families have seen the pillars of their world dissolve -- jobs, family structure, neighborhood cohesion. They understandably reject any new proposals that introduce even more risk and uncertainty into their lives. Republicans need to be the party of order, stability and steady growth.
They need to lay out the facts showing that Medicare is unstable and on a path to collapse, as Representative Paul Ryan is doing. But they also need to enmesh Medicare reform within an agenda to build solid communities: more money for community colleges and technical schools, an infrastructure bank, a values agenda to shore up marriage and family cohesion, tax holidays to help the unemployed start businesses, tax reform to limit special interest power.
The Boston Consulting Group foresees a manufacturing renaissance as Chinese wages rise and workers in low-cost states like Mississippi find they can compete once again. If Republicans can help foster that, and if they can cut a bipartisan deal that illustrates that we are all in this together, they can do good for the country while doing well politically. If not, it's the same old story: whoever is bravest on entitlements will lose.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); MEDICARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); MARK STEVEN KIRK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



903 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Obama Seeks Aid for Egypt and Tunisia at Meeting

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Liz Alderman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
DEAUVILLE, France -- President Obama tried to marshal global economic support for Egypt and Tunisia at a gathering of industrialized countries on Thursday, even as some European allies were privately urging him to increase the United States' role in the military campaign in Libya.
These crosscutting pressures show the complexity of the Arab upheaval and the responses it is drawing from major powers. While the United States is emphasizing the need to stabilize the economy of Egypt, its major Arab ally, France and Britain are eager to intensify the NATO airstrikes on Libya's leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. 
These goals are not mutually exclusive, American and European officials said. The United States said it expected the Group of 8 countries -- France and Britain, among them -- to express strong support for efforts to generate jobs and revive growth in Arab countries.
''Chancellor Merkel, President Sarkozy, a number of leaders, have all stressed the importance of using these meetings to show a unified front in providing support for Egypt and Tunisia,'' Benjamin J. Rhodes, Mr. Obama's deputy national security adviser, said of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France.
Libya and the Arab world dominated the meeting of world leaders in this fashionable seaside resort in Normandy. Mr. Sarkozy, the host, is still pushing for the United States to deploy A-10 attack aircraft and AC-130 gunships in Libya, said a French official, though he said Mr. Sarkozy was making his pitch privately.
At a news conference here, the French president reiterated his call for Colonel Qaddafi to relinquish power. ''We're not saying he should go into exile,'' Mr. Sarkozy said. But he ''cannot stay in power.''
Mr. Obama, who has rejected calls for more combat aircraft, is trying to keep the focus on economic stability and jobs in Egypt and Tunisia. At the same time, he is relying on European governments and international financial institutions to supply much of the capital.
Prime Minister David Cameron told Mr. Obama on Wednesday that Britain would support the effort, and it would pledge $178 million. American officials said they had gotten encouraging signs from Germany and France, even if neither has made a concrete pledge.
The International Monetary Fund, which has had a team in Egypt for the last week, is readying a package worth $4 billion to $5 billion to help it bridge a financing gap, a fund official said. Egyptian officials said their economy, damaged by unrest that halted trade and tourism, will need an infusion of $12 billion just this year to steady itself.
Last week, Mr. Obama announced $1 billion of debt relief and $1 billion in loan guarantees for Egypt. The European Union plans to increase its aid by $1.75 billion.
The United States and Europe have played down expectations of a big dollar total, saying this is not a pledging conference. That partly reflects the bitter experience of past summit meetings, where tens of billions of dollars were pledged to alleviate poverty and many countries dragged their feet in delivering on their promises.
It also reflects the fact that the most cash-rich countries -- as well as the ones with the most incentive to support stable Arab countries -- are their neighbors in the Persian Gulf. The Obama administration is focusing much of its efforts on persuading Saudi Arabia and other gulf countries to make pledges to Egypt and Tunisia, officials said.
The Group of 8 is also expected to take a harsh stand against Syria's crackdown on pro-democracy protesters, officials said. That may require some arm-twisting, however, since Russia has opposed efforts to impose United Nations sanctions on the Syrian government.
Conceding those differences, Mr. Rhodes said, ''We want to have a strong and unified voice that we're speaking with our allies and all who share concerns for the rights of the Syrian people.''
The Libyan campaign was high on the agenda when Mr. Obama met for 90 minutes with Russia's president, Dmitri A. Medvedev. But they also discussed Russia's bid to enter the World Trade Organization and efforts to settle disagreements over the deployment of an American missile-defense system in Eastern Europe.
Russia is less bitterly opposed to missile defense than it was a year ago, an American official said. But he said the Russians remained suspicious that the most advanced version of the system -- not scheduled to be deployed until 2020 -- would threaten their nuclear defenses.
''They have a perception that when we get to that phase, that there may be some capability to threaten what we call strategic stability,'' said Michael McFaul, senior director for Russia at the National Security Council. ''We have no intention of doing that.''
Mr. Medvedev and Mr. Obama appeared stern-faced after their session, but American officials insisted it went well. Their expressions, one said, reflected only the stuffiness of the room.
Despite much anticipation, the leadership void at the I.M.F. did not figure much in hallway chatter. The French government is promoting its finance minister, Christine Lagarde, as a candidate to succeed Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who has been charged with the sexual assault of a hotel maid in New York.
The Obama administration remains noncommittal on her candidacy, saying only that it wants the most qualified person. But a French official said he was confident that Ms. Lagarde, who did not attend the meeting, had amassed enough support to win the managing director post.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama met on Thursday in France with President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); RESORTS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); BANKING & FINANCE (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (89%); ANGELA MERKEL (67%); DAVID CAMERON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASSE-NORMANDIE, FRANCE (92%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (59%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); EGYPT (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



904 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan And China: 2 Friends Hit a Bump

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

 BODY:
BEIJING -- This is officially the Year of Pakistan-China Friendship, and in a four-day visit to Beijing last week -- the third in just 17 months -- Pakistan's prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, proclaimed that the two best friends ''are like one nation and two countries.'' Chinese officials were reported to have presented Mr. Gilani with 50 fighter jets as a welcome gift.
So it raised eyebrows when this week the two nations politely disagreed over whether Mr. Gilani had given the Chinese a gift that would be hard to mislay: an entire naval base, right at the mouth of the Persian Gulf. 
Pakistan's defense minister, Ahmad Mukhtar, who accompanied Mr. Gilani on the state visit, announced the deal after Mr. Gilani returned home on Saturday.
''We have asked our Chinese brothers to please build a naval base at Gwadar,'' a deepwater port on Pakistan's southwest coast, he told journalists.
Moreover, he said, Pakistan had invited China to assume management of the port's commercial operations, now run by a Singapore firm under a multidecade contract.
On Tuesday, however, China's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Jiang Yu, disagreed, saying the port had neither been offered nor accepted.
''China and Pakistan are friendly neighbors,'' she said at the ministry's twice-weekly news conference. ''Regarding the specific China-Pakistan cooperative project that you raised, I have not heard of it. It's my understanding that during the visit last week this issue was not touched upon.''
Some analysts were at a loss to explain the discrepancy.
''Maybe there were some discussions between the two sides when Gilani was up in China last week, bearing on some kind of future Chinese stewardship of the port,'' said Michael Kugelman, a South Asia scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center in Washington, in a telephone interview. ''Maybe there was some speculative discussion. Perhaps the Defense Ministry simply got its signals wrong.''
''We're seeing a lot of incompetence in the Pakistani government these days,'' he added.
Others, however, saw Mr. Mukhtar's announcement as a pointed, if graceless, effort to send a message to the United States that Pakistan had other options should its foundering relationship with Washington prove beyond repair. Ties between the two nations, never very warm, have been icy since American commandos killed Osama bin Laden in a raid inside Pakistan that went undetected by the nation's military and intelligence establishments.
Pakistan has an interest in sustaining ties with the United States, which has given the nation billions of dollars in economic and military aid in return for Islamabad's help in combating terrorism.
But China has long been its closest major ally, with political, economic and military ties that extend to the founding of the People's Republic of China more than 60 years ago.
China regards Pakistan as a strategic bulwark against its longstanding rival, India, and it needs Pakistan's help to combat Islamic separatists in the Xinjiang region, which abuts Pakistan's northern border.
Indeed, China contributed much of the millions of dollars that have been spent to build Gwadar, the only port in Pakistan big enough to handle the largest cargo ships.
Some analysts say China stands to gain from the rift between Pakistan and the United States. In an editorial this month, Global Times, a major Communist Party newspaper, took pains to praise Pakistan's commitment to the fight against terrorism and to note that China had been an unswerving friend.
That was an unspoken gibe at the United States, which many Pakistanis fear will abandon them once the war in Afghanistan winds down.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); NAVIES (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); HARBORS & PORTS (67%); COUNTERTERRORISM (63%); TERRORISM (63%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (60%)

PERSON: YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) CHINA (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



905 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
ATTACKS BY SHIITE MILITANTS
IN IRAQ HAVE INTENSIFIED
On a United States outpost in southern Iraq, rocket attacks by Shiite militants have grown so fierce that Americans there had to hunker down in a concrete bunker for several hours one recent night. Soldiers have curtailed missions to train Iraqi security forces, and American officials have debated closing the outpost ahead of schedule. Page A4
A DISAGREEMENT OVER A GIFT
During a visit to China last week, Pakistan's prime minister proclaimed that Pakistan and China ''are like one nation and two countries.'' So it raised eyebrows when they politely disagreed over whether Pakistan had given the Chinese a gift that would be hard to mislay: an entire naval base, right at the mouth of the Persian Gulf. Page A4 
U.S. HAD TALKS WITH TALIBAN
American officials have met with a senior aide to the fugitive Taliban leader, Mullah Muhammad Omar, at least three times in recent months in the first direct exploratory peace talks, officials said. Page A4
PRAISE FOR KOREAN LEADER
President Hu Jintao of China praised North Korea and its ailing leader, Kim Jong-il, for giving ''top priority to improving people's lives,'' according to a report by Xinhua, the state news agency. Mr. Hu made his remarks during a six-day tour of China by Mr. Kim. Page A3
OBAMA'S PLEA AT MEETING
President Obama tried to marshal global economic support for Egypt and Tunisia at a gathering of industrialized countries in France, even as some European allies were privately urging him to increase the United States' role in the military campaign in Libya. Page A7
8 NATO SOLDIERS KILLED
Eight NATO soldiers were killed in Afghanistan, seven of them in an attack in the southern part of the country, which was the deadliest attack involving hidden explosive devices so far this year, officials said. Page A9
ISRAELI COMPANY SANCTIONED
Even as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu praised the United States for imposing tougher sanctions on Iran for its nuclear activities, the State Department announced that it was imposing sanctions on a leading Israeli company for activities supporting Iran's energy sector. Page A7
National
TOWN WITH WITCHY HISTORY
WORRIES ABOUT ITS PSYCHICS
In 2007 the City Council of Salem, Mass., eased its restrictions on the number of psychics allowed to practice in the city, where self-proclaimed witches, angels, clairvoyants and healers still flock 319 years after the notorious Salem witch trials. But a drastic increase has psychics and city officials worrying that the city is overloaded. Page A11
ADVICE FOR A NEW NEIGHBOR
Alaska may have a midnight sun, but Arizona's burns a little hotter. So the first advice that Sarah Palin's new neighbors have for her is wear sunscreen and watch out for scorpions, rattlers and cactus thieves. Moving from the tundra to the desert will be a significant change for the former governor and vice-presidential nominee. Page A11
U.S. SEEKS TO KEEP A SECRET
The Obama administration sought to prevent a lawyer for a former C.I.A. officer, convicted in Italy in the kidnapping of a radical Muslim cleric, from privately sharing classified information about his case with a Federal District Court judge. Page A13
IMAGE OF THE MOON CHANGES
Scientists analyzing tiny fragments of hardened lava from long-ago eruptions on the Moon report that the fragments contain about as much water as similar magmas on Earth, meaning there is plenty of water inside it, too. Page A13
New York
BLOOMBERG GIVES ADDRESS
IN FAVOR OF GAY MARRIAGE
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, declaring that ''near-equality is no equality'' for gay couples, delivered an uncharacteristically forceful and sweeping speech in which he called on New York to ''lead the American journey forward'' by legalizing same-sex marriage this year. Page A21
Obituaries
JOHN DELANEY, 42
He was an Irish businessman who founded Intrade, an online prediction market that allows customers to bet on world political, entertainment and financial events. Mr. Delaney died after almost reaching the summit of Mount Everest. Page A23
Business
SONY CHIEF STILL TROUBLED
BY SEARCH FOR TURNAROUND
Howard Stringer's stint as chief executive of Sony, the electronics and entertainment giant has been a case of upswing, stumble, repeat. Six years after taking the helm in a surprise appointment, Mr. Stringer has yet to show much more than a glimmer of a turnaround at the troubled company. Page B1
GOOGLE AIMS AT WALLETS
Google has introduced Google Wallet, a mobile application that will allow consumers to wave their cellphones at a retailer's terminal to make a payment instead of pulling out a credit card. The app will also enable users to redeem special coupons and earn loyalty points. Page B3
KRAFT AND HISPANIC MARKET
In 2009, Kraft Foods spent just 3.8 percent of its advertising budget on Hispanic media, according to a report by the Association of Hispanic Advertising Agencies. This year, Kraft says it will triple spending on Hispanic marketing over last year. Kool-Aid, in a first for any Kraft brand, has allocated the majority of its 2011 marketing budget to reach Hispanics. Page B3
MAPLE GROUP'S HOSTILE BID
The Maple Group has announced that it would take its $3.7 billion bid for the TMX Group, the parent of the Toronto exchange, directly to shareholders even as TMX and the London Stock Exchange have set the date for a stockholder vote on their proposed merger. Page B7
Weekend
A LITTLE 1960'S LAS VEGAS
SPLASHES ONTO BROADWAY
''The Best Is Yet to Come: The Music of Cy Coleman,'' at the 59E59 Theaters, is a finger-snapping, hard-charging, small-scale revue, writes Charles Isherwood. A Broadway composer whose glory years began in the heyday of the Rat Pack, Mr. Coleman's career does not make for easy anthologizing. Page C1
THE MUSE AND THE MACHINE
''Pro Tools,'' the new exhibition from Cory Arcangel, the digital wunderkind, artist-musician and inveterate hacker, has opened at the Whitney Museum of American Art. The show includes mostly new works and barely any taste of his funkier early digital efforts, or artistic development, writes Roberta Smith. Page C19
Sports
IN SPAIN, A FARMHOUSE
THAT GROWS SOCCER PLAYERS
A stone farmhouse, known as La Masia, is the symbolic home of Barcelona's youth soccer academy, which helped develop eight of the team's projected starters for this weekend's match in London against Manchester United in the final of the European Champions League, the world's most prestigious club tournament. La Masia has become an international model for the financial, athletic and social benefits of growing players on home soil. Page B9
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A25
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (86%); CITIES (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MILITARY BASES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RELIGION (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); NAVIES (72%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); WITCHCRAFT (60%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (75%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (55%); KIM JONG IL (52%); BARACK OBAMA (51%); SARAH PALIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (71%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); CHINA (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (92%); EGYPT (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



906 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Announces Sanctions Against Israeli Company

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER; Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from Deauville, France.

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Even as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was praising the United States in a speech on Tuesday for imposing tougher sanctions on Iran for its nuclear activities, the State Department announced that it was imposing sanctions on a leading Israeli company, Ofer Brothers Group, for activities supporting Iran's energy sector.
While the State Department's decision caused Israel considerable embarrassment, it was the timing that created the greatest stir. It came soon after Mr. Netanyahu's friction with Mr. Obama over using the 1967 borders as a basis for solving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. 
''Nobody wants to over-interpret the choice of timing,'' said an Israeli official who was speaking on the condition of anonymity for diplomatic reasons, ''but there was no objective reason for the State Department to come out with the announcement on that precise day.''
''Does this carry meaning? I am unable to tell you. But you cannot blame anybody for being suspicious,'' he said.
The Obama administration dismissed any connection between the sanctions and Mr. Netanyahu's visit. ''These sanctions take months'' to work through the Department of Treasury's vetting process, a senior administration official said. ''There is a process.''
Still, the awkward fact remains that a corporation owned by one of Israel's most prominent business families has been blacklisted for dealings, however indirect, with Iran.
According to the State Department, the Ofer Brothers Group and its Singapore-based subsidiary, Tanker Pacific, are being sanctioned along with Associated Shipbroking of Monaco for their roles in a September 2010 transaction that provided a tanker valued at $8.65 million to the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines.
The shipping company has been cited by the United States and the European Union for its role in supporting Iran's proliferation activities. Deputy Secretary of State James B. Steinberg told reporters in Washington that ''Iran uses revenues from its energy sector to fund its nuclear program, as well as to mask procurement of dual-use items.''
The State Department determined that Tanker Pacific and Ofer Brothers Group ''failed to exercise due diligence and did not heed publicly available and easily obtainable information'' that would have indicated that they were dealing with the Iranians. As a result, the two companies are barred from security financing from the Export-Import Bank of the United States, from obtaining loans over $10 million from American financial institutions and from receiving United States export licenses, the State Department said.
Tanker Pacific issued a statement saying that it was ''startled to learn'' of the sanctions over the sale of one of its tankers, the MT Raffles Park, and that it believed the American decision was taken ''in error.''
The company said that it had been working closely with American authorities since it first received inquiries relating to the sale, and that it had taken ''all appropriate action'' at the time of the transaction to ensure that the parties involved were not connected with Iran.
Motti Scherf, the media adviser of the Ofer Brothers Group, at first went on Israeli television and described the allegations as a misunderstanding. Reached by telephone on Thursday, Mr. Scherf refused to comment.
The Israeli news media have reported that the tanker eventually ended up in the hands of Crystal Shipping, a company based in the United Arab Emirates, and that from there it went to Iran.
The Tel Aviv-based Ofer Group, founded by the brothers Sammy and Yuli Ofer in 1956, is a multibillion-dollar global holdings group. Its growth is ''a classic tale of a family's journey from rags to riches,'' according to its Web site.
There have long been grumblings in Israel about how a small business elite wields disproportionate power in the national economy. The Ofers are counted among the top 20 families, which together control 25 percent of the country's listed companies.
However, the Israeli official said that the Ofer family would have to deal with American authorities themselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); EXPORT TRADE (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (63%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (60%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (50%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN SHIPPING LINES (81%); EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE US (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (81%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (81%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (62%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (62%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%); MONACO (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



907 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeks to Withhold Secret Data From Judge

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration sought Thursday to prevent a lawyer for a former C.I.A. officer convicted in Italy in the kidnapping of a radical Muslim cleric from privately sharing classified information about the case with a Federal District Court judge. 
In a hearing before the judge, Beryl A. Howell, the Justice Department said that only the executive branch has the power to make decisions about classified information, including whether the lawyer, Mark S. Zaid, can tell the judge what he knows.
''There is no right for the plaintiff to give the court classified information at all,'' said Brigham J. Bowen, a Justice Department lawyer. He said Mr. Zaid's ''obligation is to protect against all disclosures, including to the court.''
Mr. Zaid, who has represented many Central Intelligence Agency officers, holds a security clearance. As a federal jurist, Judge Howell is authorized to see classified information that is necessary to resolve a case.
The judge pronounced herself ''literally speechless'' at the government's assertions. But she directed Mr. Zaid to answer, in writing, the government's objections to his request for a closed hearing to convey the classified information, saying she would rule later on whether to order such a hearing.
The dispute came in a lawsuit filed by Sabrina De Sousa, one of 23 people convicted in Italy in the kidnapping of the cleric, known as Abu Omar. Prosecutors said all 23 were C.I.A. employees.
In one of the best-known cases of the C.I.A. practice known as rendition, Abu Omar was seized on a street in Milan in 2003 and flown to Egypt, where he said he was tortured.
Former colleagues say Ms. De Sousa was a C.I.A. officer posing as a diplomat, the most common kind of cover for intelligence agents working abroad. She has declined to say whether she worked for the agency, noting that she was officially posted to Italy as a State Department employee.
In 2009, Ms. De Sousa sued the State Department, the C.I.A. and several officials in an attempt to force the American government to invoke diplomatic immunity on her behalf in the hope of blocking her prosecution by the Italian authorities.
The State Department did not assert immunity, though it ultimately agreed to pay a lawyer in Italy to represent Ms. De Sousa. She was convicted in absentia in Italy of helping to oversee the kidnapping conspiracy and sentenced to seven years in prison.
The case is on appeal, but Ms. De Sousa could face arrest if she travels to Europe. She said in a brief interview that she is unemployed and believes her conviction in Italy has hindered her ability to find work.
Judge Howell expressed sympathy for Ms. De Sousa's situation, asking whether the government simply had left her ''high and dry.''
Judge Howell asked Mr. Bowen, the Justice Department lawyer, several questions about an earlier episode in which Mr. Zaid was accused of inadvertently disclosing classified information in court papers, including which intelligence agency was involved. ''I can't fully answer those questions publicly,'' Mr. Bowen said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); JUDGES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); IMMUNITY (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); SENTENCING (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); PRISONS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); INTERVIEWS (67%); DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY (67%); APPEALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



908 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Judicial Nominee

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In your May 23 editorial ''Breaking Faith,'' you claim that I ''falsely'' accused Goodwin Liu, President Obama's judicial nominee, of holding the view that the United States Constitution somehow guarantees a European-style welfare state. Yet in a 2006 Yale Law Journal article, Mr. Liu argued: 
''On my account of the Constitution's citizenship guarantee, federal responsibility logically extends to areas beyond education. ... Beyond a minimal safety net, the legislative agenda of equal citizenship should extend to systems of support and opportunity that, like education, provide a foundation for political and economic autonomy and participation. The main pillars of the agenda would include basic employment supports such as expanded health insurance, child care, transportation subsidies, job training and a robust earned income tax credit.''
I believe that the professor's words speak for themselves, and that my characterization was fair.
JOHN CORNYN U.S. Senator from Texas Washington, May 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); TAX LAW (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INCOME TAX (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN CORNYN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



909 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 661 words

PERSON: John Delaney 

HEADLINE: John Delaney, 42, Founder of Intrade

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
John Delaney, an Irish businessman who founded Intrade, an online prediction market that allows customers to bet on world political, entertainment and financial events, died on Saturday after coming within 50 yards of the summit of Mount Everest. He was 42.
His death was announced on the Intrade Web site. 
Mr. Delaney, whose wife gave birth to a child prematurely while he was scaling the mountain, was part of an expedition trying to reach the summit on the north side of Everest when he became ill, said Pat Falvey, a friend of Mr. Delaney's who has been in contact with the expedition's base camp. No further details were provided.
Intrade, based in Dublin, is an online exchange that allows customers to buy and sell contracts, wagering on the outcome of a future event. Intrade and other similar markets serve as an aggregator of individual opinions that are then boiled down to signal the direction of popular wisdom.
Intrade bettors accurately anticipated the resignation of Donald H. Rumsfeld as defense secretary in 2006 as well as the capture of Saddam Hussein in 2003.
Intrade market participants are currently betting that there is a 61 percent chance that President Obama will be re-elected in 2012; a 20 percent chance that Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, will step down before the end of the year; and a 50 percent chance that the forthcoming third ''Twilight'' movie, ''Breaking Dawn,'' will have the highest box-office returns for 2011.
In 1999, Mr. Delaney founded Trade Exchange Network, which operated online gambling exchanges, including Tradesports.com and Intrade.com. As it grew, the company raised millions of dollars from investors in Europe and the United States, including several large American hedge fund firms, according to documents filed with Ireland's Companies Registration Office. Tradesports.com was later sold.
''What Intrade did is that it carved out a niche for itself in developing a whole site devoted to nonsports betting,'' said Robin Hanson, an associate professor of economics at George Mason University.
Eric Zitzewitz, an associate professor of economics at Dartmouth who has studied prediction markets, said Intrade was one of the biggest players in the field and ''by far the most quoted market for elections as well as obscure things, like 'Will Osama Bin Laden be caught?' ''
Intrade says that it has more than 100,000 registered users and that it handles hundreds of millions of dollars in trades annually.
Mr. Delaney was born in 1969 near Dublin. He was an accountant early in his career, and earned an M.B.A. in finance from University College Dublin. .
In an e-mailed statement, Carl Wolfenden, an operations manager at Intrade, said it had been Mr. Delaney's lifelong ambition to climb Mount Everest, the world's highest peak.
''A keen mountaineer who had scaled several of the world's highest peaks, John was on his second expedition to Everest, having been beaten back by bad weather on his first attempt five years ago,'' the statement said.
Late Friday evening, a team of eight climbers, eight sherpas and two guides left high camp at 27,230 feet, trying to reach the summit, Mr. Falvey said, relaying an e-mail message he had received from Alex Abramov, the leader of 7 Summits Club, which organized the expedition.
At around 28,870 feet , however, in the early morning, Mr. Delaney began having problems.
He was moved down to 28,700 feet, where he collapsed and was later pronounced dead. Because of the dangerous conditions at that elevation, Mr. Delaney's body will remain on the peak, Mr. Falvey said.
Mr. Delaney is survived by his wife, Orla; his mother, Marcella Delaney; a brother, Christopher; a sister, Geraldine Cohen; two sons, Caspar and Alexander; and a daughter, Hope, who was born three days before he died.
''Her birth came prematurely,'' Mr. Falvey said. ''The family didn't want to worry him, so they decided to wait until his return from the summit so that they could relay the good news to him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Delaney, center rear, on a climb of Mount Aconcagua in Argentina in 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAT FALVEY COLLECTION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); MOUNTAINS (90%); MOUNTAIN CLIMBING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); GAMING (73%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); TICKET SALES (68%); IRAQ WAR (67%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (82%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%)

BARACK OBAMA (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (51%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%); STEVEN JOBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%) HIMALAYAS (94%); MOUNT EVEREST (94%); ANDES (79%); ACONCAGUA (79%) IRELAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



910 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: China Hails North Korean Leader as He Tours Country

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

 BODY:
BEIJING -- President Hu Jintao of China praised North Korea and its ailing leader, Kim Jong-il, for giving ''top priority to improving people's lives,'' according to a report on Thursday night by Xinhua, the state news agency. Mr. Hu made his remarks during a six-day tour of China by Mr. Kim, and they reflected China's hopes that North Korea would move toward major economic reforms.
The same Xinhua report commented on Mr. Kim's reaction to the economic prosperity he saw throughout China, where he traveled in a private armored train: ''He said the Chinese people are now engaged in economic and social development and he marveled at the amazing changes he saw during the visit.'' 
China is North Korea's closest ally, and Mr. Kim's visit, his third since May 2010, comes at a critical time. North Korea is facing a severe food shortage and is casting about for aid. A team of officials from Washington is in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, to assess the extent of the crisis.
Mr. Kim is also seeking to shore up Beijing's support for his heir apparent, Kim Jong-un, his third and youngest son. The trip also gives Mr. Kim an opportunity to talk to Chinese officials about moving his nation's command economy more toward market reforms, but it is unclear how sincere Mr. Kim is about pushing such changes.
In his frequent trips to China, Mr. Kim has often toured prosperous coastal areas. But he has not put in place fundamental changes to the North Korean economy, and some analysts believe his interest in China stems primarily from his desire for cheap, reliable supplies of food and energy and diplomatic protection from the United States, Japan and South Korea, which are seeking to roll back North Korea's nuclear weapons program.
Last Sunday, South Korean officials said Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China had commented during a summit meeting in Japan that Mr. Kim was visiting China to study its model of economic development. Mr. Wen made those remarks to President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea.
''Kim Jong-il's visit is a resounding demonstration of how strong China-North Korea ties are at present,'' John Delury, a China scholar at Yonsei University in Seoul, South Korea, said in an e-mail. ''The clear emphasis on China's economic development is a signal of renewed interest by Pyongyang in some kind of reform and opening with North Korean characteristics -- although by no means does it guarantee that we'll see a real push along those lines upon Kim Jong-il's return.''
Mr. Kim has said that North Korea will become a ''strong and prosperous'' nation by 2012, a promise that, under the current circumstances, would be difficult to meet. The question is whether Mr. Kim will overhaul policies to begin moving the country toward that goal.
He started his visit last Friday, when his train rolled across the China-North Korea border in the northeast. Mr. Kim met with Mr. Hu on Wednesday, and Xinhua first confirmed Mr. Kim's trip on Thursday. A photograph posted on the Xinhua Web site of the two men shaking hands shows Mr. Kim as a frail man, his skin sagging and his eyes staring dimly into the distance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); TRAINS (70%); COASTAL AREAS (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (92%); HU JINTAO (90%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (58%); KIM JONG UN (58%); WEN JIABAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (89%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (75%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011



911 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Podcast: Signs of Economic Weakness, Groupon's Rise and Driverless Cars

BYLINE: JEFF SOMMER


HIGHLIGHT: Jeff Sommer with David Leonhardt on signs of economic weakness; Phyllis Korkki and David Streitfeld on the rise of Groupon; Tyler Cowen on prospects for driverless cars; and the docile bond market.

 BODY:
Drawing an accurate picture of an entity as complex and changeable as the modern economy is no simple matter.In the United States, it's fairly clear that the growth rate of the economy slowed in the first quarter of the year. But what is the rate of growth now, and is the economy in danger of slipping further, perhaps even back into a recession, in the months ahead?
There are certainly some danger signs, and in the new Weekend Business podcast, I discuss some of them with David Leonhardt, a Times economics writer and a recent recipient of the Pulitzer Prize for commentary. He says a great deal of evidence suggests that the economy is weakening, yet officials in Washington do not seem to have taken much notice.
Meanwhile, in a separate conversation with Phyllis Korkki, I point out that the bond market does not seem to mind that the United States is bumping up against its debt ceiling. The Treasury Department has taken emergency measures to buy some time, but it estimates that the United States will default on its debt if Congress doesn't raise the statutory limit by Aug. 2.Despite this and other problems, the rally in United States Treasuries continues. As I write in the Strategies column in Sunday Business, compared with the rest of the world, the United States appears to many bond investors to be a very stable place to put their money. Whether that will continue, of course, remains to be seen.
The ability of the United States and other societies to innovate rapidly may depend on a rethinking of our attitudes toward technology, according to Tyler Cowen, the George Mason University economist. In a separate conversation in the podcast, drawing on arguments he makes in the Economic View column in Sunday Business, Mr. Cowen cites driverless cars as an example of an innovation for which our legal system is not yet ready.
Countless laws and regulations impede the testing of these vehicles on public roads, making it difficult to assess whether they will be able to speed traffic, cut down on pollution and energy waste, and save lives. Removing barriers to technological development ought to be a public preoccupation, he said, yet there is still relatively little debate about it.
And in another podcast conversation, David Streitfeld tells Phyllis Korkki of the rapid rise of Groupon, the marketing company that distributes discount offers online. Groupon is now estimated to be worth billions of dollars, an assessment that reflects the fascination -- some say mania -- that many investors have for hot Web companies and social networks. Mr. Streitfeld explains how Groupon works, in an article on the cover of Sunday Business.
You can find specific segments of the podcast at these junctures: 
David Leonhardt: 29:40
News: 21:04
David Streitfeld: 18:31
Tyler Cowen: 12:12
Jeff on bonds: 6:05
The Week Ahead: 1:56
As articles discussed in the podcast are published during the weekend, links will be added to this posting.
You can download the program by subscribing from The New York Times's podcast page or directly from iTunes.

        
Podcast: Insider Trading, Robo-Signing and Food Claims
        
Podcast: Jobs, Economics and a Retail Makeover
        
Podcast: The Fed, Law Schools and Black Swans
        
Podcast: Credit Ratings, Ponzi Schemes and Data
        
Podcast: Good Euros, Bad Euros and Market Worries

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PODCASTING (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); WRITERS (75%); CALENDARS (72%); DEBT CEILING (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (55%) cars; podcast; Treasury bills; United States Economy; Automobiles; Treasury Department

COMPANY: GROUPON INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Treasury Department

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



912 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1509 words

HEADLINE: Why I.P.O.'s Get Underpriced

BYLINE: STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF


HIGHLIGHT: Academic research can give a number of possible explanations for LinkedIn's underpricing. But perhaps another reason is the publicity a one-day pop brings.

 BODY:
The debate over the pricing of initial public offerings has been vigorous. 
In his op-ed column in The New York Times, Joe Nocera wrote on Saturday that LinkedIn "was scammed by its bankers," who underwrote LinkedIn's initial public offering. The evidence: the money LinkedIn "lost" by underpricing its I.P.O.
On Monday Andrew Ross Sorkin disagreed on DealBook, offering several reasons why LinkedIn may have benefited from such underpricing and inviting a dialogue on the issue. 
Who's right? 
Luckily for all of us, there are academics who have devoted their entire careers to studying I.P.O. underpricing. That is, why do companies' repeatedly go public at a price significantly lower than the first-day closing price? In LinkedIn's case, the underpricing was more than 100 percent, the amount LinkedIn's shares rose on the first day of trading. 
Academics have found that I.P.O. underpricing is ubiquitous. Jay Ritter has documented underpricing over the years. According to Professor Ritter, the average underpricing for I.P.O.'s in the United States was 14.8 percent from 1990 to 1998, 51.4 percent from 1999 to 2000 and 12.1percent from 2001 to 2009. 
Over the last 50 years, I.P.O.'s in the United States have been underpriced by 16.8 percent on average. This translates to more than $125 billion that companies have left on the table in the last 20 years. 
I.P.O. pricing is also a worldwide phenomenon. In China, the underpricing has been severe, averaging 137.4 percent from 1990 to 2010. This compares with 16.3 percent in Britain from 1959 to 2009. In most other countries, I.P.O. underpricing averages above 20 percent.
What explains this widespread phenomenon? There are a number of overlapping and nonexclusive theories:
 Information Asymmetry
The most prominent explanation and the one with the most empirical support is that I.P.O. underpricing occurs because of informational asymmetry. 
The information asymmetry theory assumes that the I.P.O. pricing is a product of information disparities. 
This theory takes a variety of forms, but the most influential one was put forth by Kevin Rock almost a quarter-century ago. He theorized that uninformed investors bid without regard to the quality of the I.P.O. Informed investors bid only on the offerings they think will gain superior returns. But with weak I.P.O.'s only uninformed investors will bid and lose money. The losses are so great that the uninformed investors will eventually leave the I.P.O. market.
If you were an economics major, you might recognize this problem as a "lemon theory" -- named after George Akerlof's famous paper on how used cars are priced when information is uncertain. 
The underwriters, however, need the uninformed investors to bid since informed investors do not exist in sufficient number. To solve this problem, the underwriter reprices the I.P.O. to bring in these investors and ensure that uninformed investors bid. The consequence is underpricing.
This theory has found empirical support in papers that have found that when investment banks can allocate shares in greater measure to informed investors, the underpricing is reduced since the compensation needed to draw uninformed investors is lower. 
Underpricing has also been found to be lower when information about the issuer is more freely available so that uninformed investors are at less of a disadvantage. 
Another informational-based theory for I.P.O. underpricing is known as informational revelation. This theory centers on the book-building process, the mechanism by which an underwriter builds a book of potential investors and the prices and number of shares they are willing to purchase. 
The book-building process is intended for the underwriter to assess demand and obtain information from potential buyers about what price buyers are willing to pay. In order to incentivize investors to disclose sufficient information about the price they believe is appropriate, underwriters allocate fewer shares to potential purchasers who bid low. 
But underwriters still discount the stock to incentivize aggressive bidding and to ensure that the bids are not even lower since the more bids there are, the more information is revealed about the appropriate price for the stock. Issuers accept this underpricing because it allows underwriters to better gauge a higher sale price. This theory too has found empirical support in the academic literature. 
A third strand of the informational asymmetry theory asserts that underpricing is associated with the weakness of the issuer. The underpricing is intended to compensate the purchasers for this weakness. This theory has found weak evidential support.
Investment Banking Conflicts
The investment bank conflict theory, the one Mr. Nocera supports, posits that investment banks arrange for underpricing as a way to benefit themselves and their other clients. There is some mixed evidence to support this argument. 
A number of papers have found that investment banks do respond to appropriate incentives to reduce underpricing. Higher I.P.O. commissions have been found to reduce underpricing. At least one paper has found that underpricing is reduced by more than 40 percent when an American bank and American investors are involved. This is attributable to the higher underwriting fees that American investment banks charge.
In addition, the greater the underwriter's stake in the I.P.O. through ownership of the offered shares, the less underpricing, though there is conflicting evidence on this point. Papers have also found that underwriters who incorrectly underprice their business do lose the chance for future I.P.O.'s. 
Managerial Conflicts
The managerial conflict theory posits that management is the primary cause of the underpricing. In its principal form, the manager conflict theory postulates that management creates excessive demand for I.P.O. shares in order to ensure that management can sell their holdings after a contractual 180-day lockup for a higher price. 
Alternatively, management allows underpricing to ensure that there are many purchasers of the shares. This means there are no large shareholders created by the I.P.O., shareholders who may be more incentivized to replace management. There is not much evidence to support either form of this theory. 
Litigiousness and Regulation
This theory posits that the underpricing is because of American securities laws that impose strict liability on the issuer and underwriter for material misstatements and omissions made in connection with the I.P.O. The underwriter deliberately underprices the I.P.O. to ensure that even if there is such a misstatement or omission the purchasers do not have a claim since these failures are priced in the I.P.O. This theory has not found much support primarily because regulatory schemes in other countries are much laxer yet I.P.O. underpricing happens there as well.
Behavioral Explanations
These theories have gained attention in the wake of the technology bubble. One form of this theory posits that either institutional investors or managers gain from taking advantage of retail shareholders who act irrationally or otherwise against their economic interests. And that both institutional shareholders and managers therefore underprice I.P.O.'s to lock in these gains. A variation of this theory posits that it is the institution that allows this underpricing as a result of its own inability to recognize the loss. There is uncertain evidence for these behavioral theories, but they do help in explaining extreme rises like LinkedIn's. And these are but a few of the competing theories for I.P.O. underpricing. They may explain I.P.O. underpricing of 10 percent to 20 percent, but they don't explain the extreme underpricing of a debut like LinkedIn's. 
Mr. Sorkin discusses some reasons why this may be appropriate, including a need to show a successful I.P.O. rather than a price drop and the fact that LinkedIn may gain by selling its shares later at a higher price. 
These may be the reasons, or perhaps Mr. Nocera is right. But I have my own theory that overlaps a bit with Mr. Sorkin's. 
If LinkedIn had sold the same number of shares as it did last week at about $100 per share, it would have made an extra $200 million or so. But this assumes that there were enough investors willing to buy shares at that level. LinkedIn and the other shareholders sold less than 10 percent of the firm's outstanding shares. A sale at $100 a share would have reduced demand and certainly wouldn't have given the company the publicity it did. 
Now, LinkedIn can wait and sell shares later at this higher price, gaining more money in the aggregate. 
The company, meanwhile, received national publicity for its Web site, something that may be worth the tens of millions of dollars alone, if not more.
(For more on this subject, much more, see: IPO Underpricing: A Survey and A Review of IPO Activity, Pricing and Allocations.)

        
Heated Frenzy for Tech I.P.O.'s Fails to Ignite Freescale
        
Yandex's Surge on Debut Stirs More Talk of Tech Bubble

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%) LinkedIn; pricing; underwriters; Initial Public Offerings; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); LinkedIn Corporation; LinkedIn Corporation|LNKD|NYSE; Deal Professor; Financial Services; I.P.O./Offerings; Top Headline 2

ORGANIZATION: LinkedIn Corporation

TICKER: LinkedIn Corporation; LNKD; NYSE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



913 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: Outside Elaine's, Another Closing

BYLINE: COREY KILGANNON


HIGHLIGHT: Warren Cofield has spent every night for the past dozen years at Elaine's, but he has never been inside; he has worked the door crowd, angling for tips.

 BODY:
Of all the folks who will be disappointed at the closing of Elaine's, one must include Warren Cofield, 49, who has been as much a regular as anyone at the famous Second Avenue boite, mingling among the swells.
Mr. Cofield has spent every night for the past dozen years at Elaine's - but he has never been inside. "Just working the door crowd, looking for tips, that was my role here," Mr. Cofield said Wednesday night as he did his usual routine under the familiar yellow awning, with the restaurant packed with people seeking one last hurrah there before Elaine's would close its doors for good Thursday night, five months after the death of Elaine Kaufman, the owner and the soul of the place.
Mr. Cofield, who grew up in East Harlem, a short walk but a long way from Elaine's block of Second Avenue at 88th Street on the Upper East Side, has been homeless for many years, he said, and has survived on the tips he wrangled from Elaine's customers. 
It was an interesting place to solicit change, he said, as he stood at his usual spot at the intersection of the revelers walking the avenue, between bars, and the stream of customers departing Elaine's and seeking a cab. 
As usual, he offered a song - The Temptations' "My Girl" - and he kept having cameras thrust into his hands by customers seeking snapshots of themselves in front of Elaine's for posterity.
He said he would remember the Elaine's customers - the celebrities, the regulars, the status seekers, the tourists - and the good tippers - Don Rickles and Bill Murray came to mind on Wednesday night. But he will remember Ms. Kaufman herself most of all.
"Elaine was a nice lady," Mr. Cofield said, hailing a cab for a well-dressed couple. "She could be touchy. She had me shooed away from here lots of times, until she got used to seeing my face. Once she knew you, she was nice to you. 
"I hated to see her pass. For one thing, the people stopped coming."

        
'What's Your Sign?' Is Panhandling's New Pickup Line
        
Living on the Street With His Art
        
45 Years Later, Everyone Still Comes to Elaine's
        
M.T.A. Chief Says Panhandlers Exist, but in Smaller Numbers
        
Au Revoir, Elaine's

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PANHANDLING (89%); RESTAURANTS (76%); HOMELESSNESS (72%) Elaine's; homelessness; panhandlers; panhandling; Upper East Side; Kaufman, Elaine; Upper East Side (NYC); Business; Food and Drink; Housing & Economy; People & Neighborhoods

ORGANIZATION: Elaine's

PERSON: Kaufman, Elaine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Upper East Side (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



914 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bats)

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011

SECTION: SPORTS; baseball

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Mets' Partner Was Critical of Carelessness on Madoff

BYLINE: AMY PADNANI


HIGHLIGHT: In an article, published in The New York Times, David Einhorn took note of how warnings about Bernard L. Madoff were not heeded by the authorities or his investors.

 BODY:
In January 2009, roughly a month after Bernard L. Madoff's arrest, David Einhorn wrote an opinion article with Michael Lewis, the author who was then working on a book about the financial collapse of Wall Street. It was headlined "The End of the Financial World as We Know It."
In the article, published in The New York Times, Einhorn took note of how Harry Markopolos, an investment officer with a Boston financial firm, had spent nine years unsuccessfully trying to persuade the Securities and Exchange Commission that Madoff was up to no good.
Einhorn then looked back on the Madoff scandal and wondered how it had not come to light far earlier, given the substantial number of people who had grown wary of Madoff's investment operation. This week, Einhorn announced that he had become a partner in owning the Mets with Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, longtime investors with Madoff.
Wilpon and Katz have said they were innocent victims of Madoff's fraud, and have cited the S.E.C.'s failure to uncover the fraud in their defense. A court-appointed trustee for Madoff victims has taken a different view of the Mets owners: he has accused Wilpon and Katz of having failed to heed numerous warnings about Madoff, in part because they had grown too dependent on the considerable profits their investments had yielded over the years.
In the article, Einhorn and Lewis wrote:
"What's interesting about the Madoff scandal, in retrospect, is how little interest anyone inside the financial system had in exposing it. It wasn't just Harry Markopolos who smelled a rat. As Mr. Markopolos explained in his letter, Goldman Sachs was refusing to do business with Mr. Madoff; many others doubted Mr. Madoff's profits or assumed he was front-running his customers and steered clear of him.
"Between the lines, Mr. Markopolos hinted that even some of Mr. Madoff's investors may have suspected that they were the beneficiaries of a scam. After all, it wasn't all that hard to see that the profits were too good to be true. Some of Mr. Madoff's investors may have reasoned that the worst that could happen to them, if the authorities put a stop to the front-running, was that a good thing would come to an end."

        
Carter Brain Tumor Appears Malignant
        
Tough Task Awaits Yanks in Seattle
        
Devastating Injury for Giants' Posey
        
Answers to Readers' Baseball Questions, Part 2 
        
A Memorable Debut for Hector Noesi

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); WRITERS (90%); SCANDALS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%) Baseball; bernard madoff; David Einhorn; New York Mets; Madoff, Bernard L

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) New York Mets

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (95%) Madoff, Bernard L

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



915 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Waiting for the New Mobile Payments Frontier

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: Mobile phones replacing wallets is clearly in the future, but the type of technology we use and how long it takes for it to be adopted is still up for debate.

 BODY:
The mobile phone will eventually take over your wallet, replacing your credit cards, cash and coupons. But it could be some time before this new type of transaction becomes an everyday reality.
Although the mobile payments trumpet has been sounded many times, Thursday's announcement by Google that it will soon begin allowing customers to make mobile payments with an Android phone is just one of a string of similar things consumers will hear about over the next year. Others are expected from Apple, Microsoft and Nokia, and there are a number of payment start-ups, including Venmo and Square.
There are also the big banks, who are heavily invested in this service. For example, MasterCard offers PayPass, a service that allows people to tap a small device against an electronic reader at checkout; this technology is expected to be integrated into mobile phones soon too. 
It seems everyone wants a piece of the mobile-payments pie. And rightly so. As my colleagues Tara Siegel Bernard and Claire Cain Miller reported in March, "The stakes are enormous because small, hidden fees that are generated every time consumers swipe their cards add up to tens of billions of dollars annually in the United States alone."
"This is a big business, the stakes are incredibly high," said Drew Sievers, chief executive of mFoundry, which makes mobile payment software for merchants and banks. "The fact that PayPal sued Google just hours after they announced the Google Wallet shows you just how much is at stake here."
Just how long mobile payments will take to become mainstream is still up for debate. Charles Golvin and Thomas Husson, analysts with Forrester Research, said in a recent paper titled "Google Wallet Is Not About Mobile Payments" that it would take some time before the right payment products become available and are adopted by the public.
Mr. Golvin and Mr. Husson note in the paper that a lack of phones with the right built-in payment technology and the small number of merchants with the right tools to perform these transactions will clearly slow mobile payment growth. The paper also says that consumers will need more incentives to sign up for a new service or product.
"Google's vision of incorporating loyalty, coupons, and digital receipts will add meaningful value for consumers but will also require significant integration by merchants and their vendors," the paper said.
Mr. Sievers of mFoundry is more optimistic about timing and believes it could take as little a year for the technology to take off. Mr. Sievers cited the recent introduction of a project his company started with Starbucks, where people pay for beverages with a mobile application. "We've had millions of transactions to date, and it's not just geeky nerdy people, it's everyday consumers," he said.
Although these mobile payment products are still relatively new in the United States, it is only a matter of time before they do become mainstream. Who survives the ascent to the top of this payment ladder is still a very open-ended question.

        
No Cash? No Problem!
        
Holding Companies Accountable for Privacy Breaches
        
Smartphone Market Expected to Soar in 2011
        
Apple Patents a Stylus to Reach Students
        
Now at Starbucks: Buy a Latte by Waving Your Phone

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (92%); MOBILE PAYMENTS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONTACTLESS PAYMENTS (78%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%); SMARTPHONES (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (77%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); EXECUTIVES (51%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (50%) Apple; Citi; MasterCard; Microsoft; NFC; Square; SquareUp; Venmo; Cellular Telephones; Google Inc; Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ; Advertising and E-Commerce; Company News; Phones and Mobile Devices; Start-ups

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); PAYPAL INC (54%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%) Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



916 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Key to a Successful Fraud Defense: a Red Hanky

BYLINE: KAREN DONOVAN


HIGHLIGHT: The lawyer Barry H. Berke used a red hanky and an aggressive defense to clear a former Deutsche Bank broker of tax fraud, even as four other defendants were convicted. 

 BODY:
Raymond Craig Brubaker can thank his lawyer's red hanky, and some aggressive questioning, for his freedom.
Mr. Brubaker, a former broker for Deutsche Bank in Dallas, spent two and a half months on trial with four other defendants who were accused of marketing fraudulent tax shelters over 10 years ending in 2005, generating more than $7 billion in false tax losses.
His four co-defendants were convicted of conspiracy, fraud and tax evasion charges in Federal District Court in Manhattan earlier this week. But Mr. Brubaker, who sold the tax shelters to about 150 Deutsche Bank clients, was acquitted, as his New York lawyer, Barry H. Berke of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel, demonstrated that he was actually a victim of the scheme. 
Mr. Berke faced a hurdle in mounting a defense. The government's star witness was Erwin Mayer, a former partner in the tax practice of the now-defunct law firm of Jenkens & Gilchrist.
Mr. Mayer was indicted in June 2009 with the other defendants in the case. They included Paul M. Daugerdas, the head of the tax practice at Jenkens, and Donna M. Guerin, another partner in the firm's tax practice, as well as Denis M. Field, the former chief executive of the accounting firm DBO Seidman, and David Parse, another former Deutsche Bank broker. Those four were convicted on Tuesday.
But Mr. Mayer made a deal to avoid prosecution before the trial, becoming a prosecution witness in a plea bargain. That was important because, for many years, Mr. Mayer was Mr. Brubaker's primary contact on these tax strategies. 
And on the witness stand, Mr. Meyer was going to say that "it was a sham and illegal and he believed that our client had the same view and knowledge," Mr. Berke said. "We saw that as both a challenge and an opportunity."
Mr. Berke is a rising star in the white-collar defense, whose array of clients has included Bear Stearns; the owners of the 1933 Double Eagle gold coin, the rare coin that President Franklin D. Roosevelt ordered melted during the 1930s bank crisis; and professional boxers and promoters. At this trial, Mr. Berke used a prop to seize the opportunity: his red hanky.
His cross-examination of Mr. Mayer lasted four days. On the first day, Mr. Berke showed the witness the red handkerchief and asked him to role-play with him. When the hanky went into the lawyer's breast pocket, the witness was to answer questions as if responding to a potential client, a real estate developer, back in the days when the Jenkens law firm was pitching these tax shelters. 
"He fought me at first," Mr. Berke said. Mr. Mayer said he would have told the potential client that the tax shelters could work, but do not really work. Upon hearing these kinds of answers, Mr. Berke would pull the red hanky out of his pocket and become a lawyer again: "That's not what you said at all, because you would not have persuaded these hundreds of people and their lawyers and their accountants and financial planners. You had a pitch you sold them. Tell me what your pitch was."
Eventually, it clicked. The witness began to sell Mr. Berke - and the jury - on how these tax strategies worked and why people like Ted Turner had done these transactions. "This was the government's star witness sitting there, very persuasively, very eloquently, describing why these transactions worked - exactly the opposite of what he said in his direct testimony for the government," Mr. Berke said. Ultimately, Mr. Mayer admitted this was the exact pitch he gave to Mr. Brubaker, "though he never shared with Brubaker his secret doubt that these didn't work."
Mr. Berke calls this a "key moment" in the trial, when the jury began to see his client in a different light, "as someone who was led to believe that these transactions worked, just like the taxpayers the prosecution was calling as witnesses."
The prosecution, in its opening and throughout the trial, had emphasized that Mr. Brubaker was a lawyer and certified public accountant, but Mr. Berke countered that his client had gone to law school 20 years ago, but had never practiced law.
With every witness whose testimony touched on Mr. Brubaker's role in the scheme, Mr. Berke and his co-counsel, Paul H. Schoeman, returned to the theme that their client was acting in good faith in these tax shelters at the time they were marketed.
The government called five former clients of Mr. Brubaker, and on cross-examination, the defense showed them documents dating back more than 10 years, prompting them to recall that contrary to their testimony for the prosecution, they in fact believed these tax strategies were not merely for tax savings, but an investment. They recalled talking with Mr. Brubaker about "how to make money in doing this investment as part of the tax strategy," Mr. Berke said. 
The trial made use of large screens and computer technology, and in his closing argument, Mr. Berke showed more than two dozen witnesses on the screen who could have been called by the prosecution to testify against Mr. Brubaker, among them his colleagues from the Dallas office of Deutsche Bank. With each screen, the witnesses kept disappearing, until only one flashed on the screen: Mr. Mayer, described as "witness who makes deal to avoid jail and keep $3 million."
In the end, the prosecution's case was not enough to convince the jury of eight women and four men that Mr. Brubaker was guilty.
Mr. Berke spoke with Mr. Brubaker the day after the verdict, who told him that this was the first in seven years, since the Internal Revenue Service began an investigation, that he was still asleep when the alarm clock rang. After all, if Mr. Brubaker had been convicted on all nine counts, he faced up to 70 years in prison.

        
Yandex Is Set for $1.3 Billion Stock Offering
        
Takeda to Buy Nycomed for $13.7 Billion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (94%); TAX LAW (92%); LAWYERS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); WITNESSES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); INDICTMENTS (77%); ACCOUNTING (77%); VERDICTS (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); TAX PLANNING (72%); REAL ESTATE (72%); ACQUITTAL (72%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); BOXING (50%) Barry H. Berke; Deutsche Bank; Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel; Tax Evasion; Decisions and Verdicts; Tax Shelters; Deutsche Bank AG; Jenkens & Gilchrist; Deutsche Bank AG|DB|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: KRAMER LEVIN NAFTALIS & FRANKEL LLP (91%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (91%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Deutsche Bank AG; Jenkens & Gilchrist

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (91%); DBK (FRA) (91%); DBK (BIT) (91%); DBETN (JSE) (91%); DBA (ASX) (91%); DB (NYSE) (91%) Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



917 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: N.Y.U. Lands Top Economist for Cities Project

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Paul Romer, a Stanford professor, will join New York University's economics department and run the new Urban System Project.

 BODY:
New York University has landed a star economist: Paul Romer, a leading expert on economic growth, who has been at Stanford for the last 15 years. Mr. Romer has been a visiting professor at N.Y.U. this year.
Perhaps most interesting, Mr. Romer will run a new project -- the Urban System Project, based at N.Y.U.'s Stern School of Business. As Mr. Romer recently wrote:In the last 10,000 years, humans built cities to house 3 billion people. In this century, we will make room for another 3 to 6 billion. Because both the worldwide and urban population will stabilize this century, humans will never again have this chance to remake our system of cities.
Many of the people who will shape this process - national policy makers, mayors, corporate strategists, and managers of sovereign and private wealth - now see the city as a fundamental unit of social analysis. To use an analogy from software, cities are the modules of the modern world. Externally, they connect via such standardized interfaces as the shipping container, the airplane, the Internet. Internally, they can be diverse, experimental, and innovative. As they respond to technological and environmental change, new and restructured cities will be our most important source of social progress.Mr. Romer is known as one of the developers of "new growth theory," which emphasizes the role of technology in economic growth. (David Warsh, the former Boston Globe columnist, wrote a book about new growth theory in 2006, and Paul Krugman reviewed it for The Times.)Recently, Mr. Romer has been been an advocate of a concept he calls "charter cities," in which a poor country would turn over a piece of land to be managed by a more affluent country or countries. One model is Hong Kong. Sebastian Mallaby had a delightful article about the concept in The Atlantic last year, which included this description:Rather than betting that aid dollars can beat poverty, Romer is peddling a radical vision: that dysfunctional nations can kick-start their own development by creating new cities with new rules... By building urban oases of technocratic sanity, struggling nations could attract investment and jobs; private capital would flood in and foreign aid would not be needed.Honduras has shown significant interest in the concept, as David Wessel explained in a recent column in The Wall Street Journal.
Mr. Romer notes that the N.Y.U. faculty includes two former Stanford economists who have helped shape his thinking about cities: Peter Henry, dean of the business school, and Michael Spence, a Nobel laureate.

        
What We're Reading: Goldman Still More Disliked than BP
        
What We're Reading...
        
More Debate on the Economics Nobel 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); WRITERS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%) charter cities; N.Y.U.; new growth theory; Paul Romer; Romer, Paul M; Appointments and Executive Changes; New York University

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: New York University

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (79%) Romer, Paul M

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); HONDURAS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



918 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: French Press

BYLINE: PETER CATAPANO


HIGHLIGHT: Why can't the French and the Americans just get along?

 BODY:
There were a lot of shockers this week.
For instance, did you know that America's top colleges were largely for the elite? No, it's true! Or that conditions in California's prisons were considered subhuman - so subhuman that the Supreme Court ordered that some prisoners be released early to reduce the population. Or that bafflement followed Justice Antonin Scalia's dissent, when he said that the prisoners who would be released were not likely to be in need of medical care but rather "fine physical specimens who have developed intimidating muscles pumping iron in the prison gym" (good thing or bad thing?), an image so un-SCOTUS-like that it must have been a subliminal nod to the fact that California had actually been run for years by a man with intimidating muscles, and we all know how that turned out. 
But perhaps the most shocking revelation this week is that the French and the Americans still don't quite understand, or apparently, even like each other.You'd think it would be different. The mutual revulsion defies history - a history suggesting that each country owes its existence at least partly to the other, with the French Enlightenment guys cheering on the American Revolution, jazzing up the new patriots here in the 1770s, and the Yanks some 170 years later winning the war at a devastating human cost that let France keep being France, and not a beleaguered outpost of a Greater Germany.
But when Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the head of the International Monetary Fund and the person most likely to become the next president of France, was taken off a Paris-bound plane at J.F.K. airport on May 14, arrested and charged with the sexual assault of a hotel housekeeper, the ensuing arguments, drama and trans-Atlantic tabloid extravaganza just seemed to stir the old Franco-American grievances, and did little to clarify or mend.
So what is it really about? Herewith, a sampling of views.
It's about Paris and New York.
Foster Kamer at The New York Observer : "The D.S.K. scandal has reinforced cultural differences between America and France in the most striking instance since that unfortunate period when French fries somehow became freedom fries in more conservative parts of the country. Yet, the charges against Mr. Strauss-Kahn - currently awaiting trial under a Lindsay Lohanesque house arrest in Manhattan, on a $1 million bail and a $5 million bond - are fundamentally serious and have highlighted clashes, not just between Americans and the French, but also between New Yorkers and Parisians of both nationalities. It would seem the two cities and their denizens have much in common, as liberal bastions of the mostly progressive. Yet, in recent weeks, the lines between them have become sharper."
It is about delighting in watching the rich and powerful getting their comeuppance.
Jay McInerney in The Independent: "For blue-collar New Yorkers, no doubt, the prospect of seeing a French banker in handcuffs was deeply pleasing, particularly in the wake of the recession, which many blame on the big banks of Wall Street. And we can't entirely discount Francophobia, which is far less prevalent here than in the heartland but which is fanned and fomented on a regular basis by the Rupert Murdoch-owned New York Post, which famously, in the run-up to the Iraq war, branded the entire nation 'Cheese Eating Surrender Monkeys.' At that time the Post eagerly promoted stories about boycotts against French products, printing pictures of patriots pouring bottles of Bordeaux in the gutter, although it's doubtful that any Chateau Margaux was lost in the process."
It's about American barbarism.
The inflammatory French philosopher Bernard-Henri Levy, in one of his much-derided recent broadsides: "I maintain that we have seen a tribunal of public opinion install itself around the presumably innocent Strauss-Kahn, one which, contrary to the other, doesn't bother with evidence or proof or contradictory accounts. And I maintain that this pseudo-tribunal is too noisy, too spectacular, too powerful not to exercise a tremendous influence on the other one, the real one, the one that strives to establish the facts, just the facts, nothing but the facts, when the time comes. The United States dreads and sanctions any pressure on witnesses, and justly so; what can one say about this other pressure, none the less criminal, exercised on the judges by the self-styled DAs of the scandal sheets and, it unfortunately follows, the press in general?"
It is about vulgar middle-aged men ruining the French ideal.
Katha Pollitt at The Nation, laments the end of the infatuation: "France, I don't like you anymore. Because what is the point of having all those smart, cultivated, social-democratically inclined secular people if it turns out they are such self-satisfied creeps? You should listen to yourself sometime: smug, paunchy, powerful middle-aged men parading across the media going on about how Dominique Strauss-Kahn was just engaging in some typically Gallic flirtation in that Sofitel suite in Manhattan. 'It was just a quickie with the maid,' said the famous journalist Jean-Francois Kahn, using an antiquated idiom (troussage de domestique) that suggests trussing up a chicken. Former culture minster Jack Lang was outraged that DSK was not immediately released on bail since after all, 'no man died.' (He probably didn't mean to, but he did say 'no man' - Il n'y a pas mort d'homme - not 'no one'). And let's not forget Bernard-Henri Levy, whose pretentious drivel has to be the worst thing you've exported to us since pizza-flavored La Vache Qui Rit. Levy can't get over the way the New York justice system is treating his friend: 'I hold it against the American judge who, by delivering him to the crowd of photo hounds, pretended to take him for a subject of justice like any other.' Treating a master of the universe the same as anyone else - even the African immigrant who cleaned his hotel room, quoi - isn't that what justice is? Didn't they teach you that in high school philosophy, M. Levy?"
It is about the future of U.S.-French relations.
Paul Berman at The New Republic: "And if the man turns out to be innocent? The damage, in that case, will end up greater yet, though maybe not so long-lasting, as when the U.S. Air Force bombed the Chinese embassy in Belgrade during the Kosovo War. (We apologized.) But assuming the general accuracy of what has already been reported, Strauss-Kahn's own ardor for defending himself will only succeed in compounding the original crime with a political crime. I suppose there is no point in asking him to interrogate his conscience, any more than there is in asking the editors of the New York tabloids to rethink their headlines. Maybe there might be a point in asking Strauss-Kahn's champions in the French press and among the politicians to reflect on what they themselves are doing. The more he is defended, the thicker and chillier will be the trans-Atlantic fogs, in the future. Dear champions of DSK, [reflechissez!] But no one is going to reflect. Anyway, a bit more caution on the part of his loyalists would scarcely help, at this point. The ocean-liner of American justice and the ice floes of French conspiracy theories are already bobbing in one another's direction, and nothing is to be done about it, and, oh dear, has anyone figured out what to do next, post-collision?"

        
Sex and the Politician
        
A Dangerous Neutrality
        
There Won't Be Blood
        
Bonfire of American Vanities 
        
Curse of the Scorned Class

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCANDALS (88%); LIBERALISM (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); HOUSE ARREST (77%); BAIL (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); WEIGHTLIFTING (70%); SEX OFFENSES (68%); ARRESTS (68%); CONSERVATISM (67%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (63%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (50%) Dominque Strauss-Kahn; France; United States; Strauss-Kahn, Dominique; The Thread

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (90%); ANTONIN SCALIA (57%) Strauss-Kahn, Dominique

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (96%); GERMANY (72%) France; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



919 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: In Iowa, Romney Hears Applause, and Alarms

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney's first visit to Iowa this year was cut short when burned popcorn set off fire alarms, but not before assuring voters that he was "fully committed" to competing in the state's caucuses.

 BODY:
10:06 p.m. | Updated DES MOINES - Mitt Romney's first Iowa campaign visit of the year was not foiled by controversial subjects on Friday afternoon, but by a bag of burned microwave popcorn.
 Just as he was answering a question about what makes him a better candidate in his second bid for the Republican presidential nomination, a fire alarm sounded at the Iowa Historical Building here. Mr. Romney paused and asked if he should exit the premises.
 "I wasn't trying to get out of tough questions," he said with a grin, "I promise."
 When the wailing siren subsided, the moderator asked, "Do you really think you can win Iowa, given the strength of social conservatives in the state?"
 "Do I think I can win Iowa?" Mr. Romney said. "Can I win Iowa?"
 As a crowd of a few hundred people began to applaud, giving Mr. Romney a warm reception, the fire alarm sounded again. He urged his audience to evacuate and he led a procession out the door, signing autographs and posing for pictures along the way.
There are many metaphors that could be conjured up for the scene of Mr. Romney's debut in Iowa, where caucuses open the presidential nominating contest early next year. But the candidate kept a wide smile on his face and looked on the bright side.
 "I'll take my message to the street if I need to," he said, standing on a crowded sidewalk surrounded by well-wishers as fire trucks headed to the scene. By the time the all-clear signal was given, after firefighters determined that a smoldering snack was to blame for the commotion, time had run out in his schedule and he was en route to his next stop.
 His appearance was abbreviated, but offered enough time for a few revealing moments as Mr. Romney weighs how extensively to compete in Iowa, where he spent nearly $10 million four years ago. He said he was "fully committed" to campaigning in the state and appearing in debates. 
 But Mr. Romney did not say whether he would participate in the Iowa Straw Poll in August -- an event that tests a candidate's organization -- which he won four years ago, only to finish second in the caucuses to Mike Huckabee. At the time, Mr. Romney criticized rivals for skipping the straw poll, but on Friday suggested the event was part of "campaign tactics" and was optional.
 "You'll see me more than you like in Iowa," he said, speaking to a crowd that included many supporters from 2008. "You'll get to know me even better than the last time."
 Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor who has purposefully taken a low-key approach to campaigning this year, will become a fully declared candidate when he announces his bid for the Republican presidential nomination next week in New Hampshire. He is making the case to voters that he would be the strongest nominee to challenge President Obama next year on a message of improving the economy and creating jobs.
 His introduction here, before it was cut short, contained repeated references to Mr. Obama. 
 "I want to win that final race and say to Mr. Obama, 'You're a nice guy, we like you, you have a lovely family and you've done your best,'" Mr. Romney said. "But frankly, it's time for somebody who understands how the country works."
 Mr. Romney appeared at a presidential lecture series, sponsored by a coalition of business groups that is worried the political dialogue in the state has become overtaken by social issues. Four years ago, he struggled to connect with religious conservatives and often spent more time explaining his rightward-shifting positions on abortion and gay rights.
 Jose Laracuente, who owns an agricultural software business that Mr. Romney toured earlier Friday outside Des Moines, said that he and other Republicans were more interested in hearing proposals to improve the economy, rather than dwelling on social issues. He said that he was leaning toward supporting Mr. Romney, but added, "It's very important for him to be here in Iowa."
 For his part, Mr. Romney did not venture into many specifics. In a question-and-answer session with reporters, he declined to say whether, if he were president, he would sign into law the House Republican budget plan, sponsored by Representative Paul D. Ryan, that seeks to reduce spending by replacing Medicare with a voucher-based system for voters under 55. 
 "That's the kind of speculation that is getting the cart ahead of the horse," he said. "I'm going to propose my own plan. And my plan will be somewhat different than what the Paul Ryan plan is, but I support the objectives of the Paul Ryan plan in terms of keeping Medicare alive, keeping it solvent and keeping the nation solvent."
 The site of Mr. Romney's event here on Friday was where Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota, announced his presidential candidacy on Monday. In addressing the nation's budget burdens, Mr. Pawlenty said he supported an end to programs like ethanol subsidies, which have been politically popular in this corn-producing state.
 A woman approached Mr. Romney on the sidewalk here on Friday and asked his position. He took a different approach from Mr. Pawlenty, saying: "I support the subsidy of ethanol."
 In addtiion to his appearance hear, Mr. Romney held a series of private meetings with influential activists before speaking at a picnic Friday evening near Cedar Rapids. At each turn, he saw people he seemed to recognize from 2008, when he spent months campaigning in Iowa. 
 "I see so many friends here," Mr. Romney said. "It's good to be home."

        
Romney to Make It Official Next Week
        
Who Wins and Who Loses if Bachmann Runs in 2012?
        
Foreign Policy Looms Large as 2012 Election Issue
        
Bachmann Plans Iowa Announcement
        
Trump Cancels Iowa Dinner

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (74%); CELEBRITIES (66%) 2012 presidential election; Iowa; mitt romney; Romney, Mitt; Elections; Primaries and Caucuses; Republican Party

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



920 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: The Case for Higher Taxes

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Eventually voters will have to choose between tax increases or steep cuts to spending programs that they embrace, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton.
Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, opined on "Meet the Press" last month that to cope with the growing federal deficit the United States should go back to the federal income tax rates of the Clinton years. Such a step would raise tax rates for all American taxpayers.
I was reminded of that remark earlier this week at this year's Princeton Conference on Health Policy, organized by the Council on Health Care Economics and Policy, housed at Brandeis University's Heller School for Social Policy and Management.
In a session on "Future Health Care Spending: Political Preferences and Fiscal Realities," Henry J. Aaron of the Brookings Institution presented this fascinating chart:
Dr. Aaron was quick to add that he took the chart directly from an analysis by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. The chart illustrates how prominent a role the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 have played in the buildup of deficits and public debt in the United States.
An additional factor, of course, has been the economic downturn (dark blue), along with two wars. Evidently, the stimulus package (the bulk of the "recovery measures") played a role as well, although probably not nearly as prominent a role as seems to have been widely assumed.
This next chart, taken from a report by the Congressional Budget Office, illustrates more clearly the shock that the deep recession brought on by the financial crisis dealt to American fiscal policy, on top of dubious decisions in that policies.
It can be seen that the "politics of joy" - granting tax cuts without commensurate cuts in government spending - began in earnest in the 1980s. That strategy was briefly interrupted by President Clinton who, as legend has it, was converted by his Treasury secretary, Robert Rubin, to worship the bond market and therefore sought to keep interest rates low by sharply lowering the federal deficit.
In that lapse into fiscal responsibility the Clinton-Rubin duo found support, after 1994, with a Republican Congress and a House of Representatives firmly led by Newt Gingrich.
Sadly for fiscal policy, the politics of joy was revived with the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003. To my mind, the piece de resistance of that era was the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, which bestowed on the nation's elderly, known to be active voters, a large and generous entitlement that was entirely financed by the deficit. It is projected to add close to $1 trillion to the federal deficit during the current decade alone, and much more in decades beyond.
Starting in 2008, the deep recession saw federal tax revenues plummet as federal outlays soared, driven in part by economic stabilizers such as unemployment insurance. Large deficits are a natural byproduct of deep recessions.
As early as January 2009, two weeks before President Obama took office, the Congressional Budget Office projected in its "Budget and Economic Outlook" a federal deficit of close to $1.2 trillion. As the chart above shows, the federal government now budgets with red ink as far as the eye can see.
The chart demonstrates a chronic affliction of American politics aptly diagnosed by Douglas W. Elmendorf, director of the Congressional Budget Office:The United States faces a fundamental disconnect between the services that people expect the government to provide, particularly in the form of benefits for older Americans, and the tax revenues that people are willing to send to the government to finance those services.Note that Mr. Elmendorf does not accept the usual folklore -- that Americans are inherently mature and fiscally responsible and are victimized by a sinister, alien force called government. Rather, he asserts that we, the people, have time and time again favored at the ballot box politicians who promise tax cuts, even though a mature people would have noticed long ago that government spending will never be cut commensurately - mainly because, as voters, we do not countenance major spending cuts, either.
We are now seeing this adolescent posture on fiscal policy playing out once again, as voters angrily react to the recently passed House of Representatives budget plan. And it explains why my friend and fellow economist Eugene Steuerle of the Urban Institute, who served at the Treasury under President Reagan, has aptly and with exasperation named his periodic column on United States fiscal policy: The Government We Deserve."
Looking at the Congressional Budget Office's chart, I came away convinced that Mr. Greenspan had it right: given what we, the people, expect the federal government to deliver - including, once again these days, a social insurance program called "federal disaster relief" -- the only way to avoid a looming fiscal disaster would be to return to the higher taxes across the board that prevailed during the Clinton administration. (An alternative would be to bite the bullet and adopt a value-added tax, as other nations have done.)
Would this make America a relatively overtaxed nation? Not by international standards, as can be inferred from data regularly published by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
There is little evidence of a strong, negative correlation between total taxes as a percentage of G.D.P. and economic growth, as is suggested by the chart below (for a similar perspective, see this).
This is not to say, of course, that a nation's rate of economic growth is impervious to the composition of its total tax burden - what fraction of taxation comes from levies on business income compared with that on individual incomes, the level of marginal income-tax rates and so on.
One should think, for example, that judiciously targeted investment tax credits would encourage economic growth, or tax preferences for start-ups.
On the other hand, it has never been clear to me in what way granting tax preferences to gains from trades in already existing assets -- like those on long-term gains on already issued stock certificates or gains on speculating on the value of already built real estate -- fuels economic growth.

        
Would Privatizing Medicare Lead to Better Cost Controls?
        
Medicare's Soviet Label
        
The Perennial Quest to Lower Health Care Spending 
        
Lost in the Shuffle: The Overarching Goals of Health Reform
        
In Health Care Overhaul, Language Matters

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); RECESSION (89%); POLITICS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MEDICARE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); BONDS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Alan Greenspan; Daily Economist; health care; health insurance; Income Tax; politics; Taxation; U.S. health care costs; Uwe E. Reinhardt; Federal Budget (US); Federal Taxes (US); Congressional Budget Office

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (82%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (56%) Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (88%); BILL CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



921 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Higher Prices Eat Into Consumer Spending Gains

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- The nation's economy remained sluggish early in the second quarter as high gasoline prices crimped consumer spending and bad weather helped push pending home sales to a seven-month low in April.
Consumer spending increased 0.4 percent in April for a 10th consecutive month of gains, the Commerce Department said on Friday, after rising 0.5 percent in March. 
But prices rose 0.3 percent, leaving spending up just 0.1 percent and incomes stagnant when adjusted for inflation.
Tornadoes and floods, which lashed parts of the country last month, were blamed in part for an 11.6 percent decline in contracts to buy previously owned homes last month.
''We see the soft patch of the first quarter bleeding, at least, into the first half of the second quarter,'' said Robert Dye, senior economist at PNC Financial Services in Pittsburgh.
''We will see again a consumer that can keep pace with the economy, but cannot drive the economy forward.''
Recent data including retail sales and industrial output have been soft, prompting economists to lower their growth forecasts for the second quarter. Further cuts are likely next week should May auto sales come in very weak.
Second-quarter forecasts for the rate of growth in gross domestic product are ranging from 2.5 to 3 percent.
The government reported on Thursday that consumer spending -- which accounts for about 70 percent of the nation's economic activity -- grew at a 2.2 percent annual rate in the first quarter, slowing from a 4 percent clip in the final three months of 2010.
That contributed to holding back overall economic growth to a 1.8 percent rate during the quarter after a 3.1 percent rate in the October-December period.
With much of the slowdown attributed to what United States policy makers see as temporary factors, like high commodity prices and supply chain disruptions because of the earthquake in Japan, the Federal Reserve is not expected to worry too much about the rate of recovery.
The central bank is expected to keep interest rates low after it wraps up its $600 billion government bond-buying program in June before it starts looking at ways to withdraw some of the stimulus it has lent the economy.
The high gasoline prices swallowed almost all the increase in incomes from tax cuts enacted in December.
Economists worry that stagnant incomes, which have failed to keep up with inflation, will continue to impede spending even though fuel prices are starting to fall.
So far, consumers have resorted to saving less, and some are tapping into their savings to maintain spending. Incomes rose 0.4 percent last month, but disposable incomes adjusted for inflation were flat for a second consecutive month.
Real incomes have not grown this year and the saving rate stayed at a two-and-a-half-year low of 4.9 percent in April. According to the Commerce Department's chief economist, Mark Doms, Americans saved $82 less over the last four months.
The retreating price for gasoline helped to lift consumer spirits this month and lower their inflation expectations.
The final version of the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey showed sentiment among Americans rose this month to 74.3, from 72.4 in the preliminary May reading.
High gasoline prices pushed up the year-on-year inflation rate to 2.2 percent, the biggest rise in a year, after increasing 1.8 percent in March.
Excluding food and energy, prices increased 1 percent, the largest gain since September, after rising 0.9 percent in March.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shopping for cherries at a Superior Grocers store in Los Angeles. Economists worry that stagnant incomes, which have failed to keep up with inflation, will continue to impede spending. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMIAN DOVARGANES/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Personal Income: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); WEATHER (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PROPERTY PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); BONDS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RETAIL SALES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (65%)

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011



922 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Ailing Megachurch Is Selling Its Property

BYLINE: By IAN LOVETT

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Crystal Cathedral Ministries, known for the towering Orange County megachurch where ''Hour of Power'' is taped, has agreed to sell its campus to a real estate investment group as part of a plan to emerge from bankruptcy. 
The real estate group, Greenlaw Partners, is paying $46 million for the property -- almost exactly the same as the amount that the Crystal Cathedral owes its creditors. The sale will allow the church to ''immediately eliminate'' most of its debts, while continuing religious services at its current location and broadcasts of ''Hour of Power,'' according to church officials.
''We are pleased that we are able to honor the debt,'' Sheila Schuller Coleman, the church's senior pastor, said in a statement. ''To pay them back 100 percent has always been a top priority, and we are grateful to God for providing the resources to be able to do just that.''
Founded by the Rev. Robert H. Schuller in 1955, the church in Garden Grove, Calif., is considered the nation's first modern megachurch by many church historians. Mr. Schuller's upbeat, optimistic message resonated with people across the country. At the church's peak in the 1980s, two million viewers tuned in to the program every week, while more than 10,000 worshipers filled the pews.
Since Mr. Schuller stepped down as senior pastor in 2006, however, Crystal Cathedral has been shaken by crises. Plans to hand the pulpit to his son, the Rev. Robert A. Schuller, quickly went awry, and Mr. Schuller's daughters and their husbands took control of the church in 2008.
Meanwhile, changes in the religious broadcasting industry and overly ambitious building at the campus combined with the economic downturn to land the church in severe financial trouble. Last year, Crystal Cathedral laid off workers, canceled its ''Glory of Easter'' pageant and filed for bankruptcy protection in October. The church owes debts to around 550 creditors.
The sale of the 40-acre campus includes an exclusive lease agreement that will allow Crystal Cathedral Ministries to continue to operate at its current location. After four years, the church will also have an option to buy back almost all of the property it is now selling. However, the church will likely lose its Family Life Center, which represented $16 million of the total sale price and can be resold at any time.
The church filed its reorganization plan in bankruptcy court on Friday.
If the plan is approved, all creditors will be paid back within 42 months, church officials said in the statement.
Crystal Cathedral did not respond to multiple requests for comment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Crystal Cathedral is selling its campus in Garden Grove, Calif., to help pay off $46 million in debts, but will remain at the site. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RELIGION (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); APPROVALS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); FAMILY (62%); HISTORY (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011



923 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Studying Housing Through Distorted Indexes

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
THE American housing market seems to be getting worse as time passes.
The Federal Housing Finance Agency reported this week that its national index of home prices fell 2.5 percent in the first quarter, or 9.6 percent at an annual rate.
That was the sharpest decline for any quarter since 2008, at the worst of the credit crisis. 
''In the last two or three quarters, we have seen a deterioration,'' said Andrew Leventis, a senior economist at the agency. ''This is probably due to the homebuyer tax credit going away.'' That credit, worth up to $7,500 for first-time homebuyers, ended Sept. 30.
The agency's index of home purchase prices peaked in the first quarter of 2007, later than some other home price indexes. Since then, the national index has fallen in every quarter.
The index is based on sales whose mortgages are guaranteed by either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, the two government-sponsored enterprises that are regulated by the housing finance agency.
The top chart in the accompanying graphic shows the quarterly changes in the national index from 2000 through the first quarter of 2011. It shows a strong market early in the decade that went into overdrive in 2004 and 2005, only to plunge thereafter.
Over the four years since the peak, the national index has fallen 19.3 percent, including a 5.5 percent fall over the most recent four quarters. Such a fall would mean that an average home purchased in the first quarter of 2007, with a 20 percent down payment, would now be worth little more than the amount borrowed. Many homes, of course, have fallen much more than the average.
The charts also show state indexes, with the worst performance since the peak in Nevada, where prices are down by more than half. Houses in Arizona, California and Florida have lost more than 40 percent of their value.
There is some reason, however, to think that the recent price declines may be overstated by the index. The figures are based on sales of the same home over time, but there is no way to measure changes in the quality of a home.
With many homes now being sold in distress, either because of foreclosure or as ''short sales'' in which the sales price is below the amount owed and all the proceeds go to the lender, it is likely that some of the homes were in poor condition. In addition, such sales are often made for lower prices than comparable homes could obtain if sold without time pressures. If and when nondistress sales become a larger part of the market, that could cause the index to rise even if the overall market is not getting stronger.
For smaller states, the accuracy of the figures may suffer from having a relatively small number of transactions on which to base the index. The states with the fewest sales are noted in the chart.
The housing finance agency also maintains indexes that are based on both sales and appraisals used in refinancings. Those indexes show smaller declines over the last year in some states, with prices in Idaho, for example, off just 9.1 percent rather than the 15.7 percent fall recorded in the purchase-only index, and Hawaii's decline at 1.4 percent, far less than the 8.7 percent decline shown.
But while using refinancings provides more data, it may also provide its own distortion. The only homes that can be refinanced now are those that are worth more than the amount owed on the existing mortgage, and thus are likely to have held their value better than many others.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Four years after home prices peaked in the United States, the decline may be accelerating. The Federal Housing Finance Agency reported this week that its national index of prices paid for homes fell at an annual rate of 9.6 percent in the first quarter, the sharpest decline for any quarter since late 2008, when the credit crisis was at its worst. Over the past four quarters, the index is down 5.5 percent. (Source: U.S. Federal Housing Finance Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011



924 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Oil Hidden in Shale Sets Off a Boom in Texas

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
CATARINA, Tex. -- Until last year, the 17-mile stretch of road between this forsaken South Texas village and the county seat of Carrizo Springs was a patchwork of derelict gasoline stations and rusting warehouses.
Now the region is in the hottest new oil play in the country, with giant oil terminals and sprawling RV parks replacing fields of mesquite. More than a dozen companies plan to drill up to 3,000 wells around here in the next 12 months.
The Texas field, known as the Eagle Ford, is just one of about 20 new onshore oil fields that advocates say could collectively increase the nation's oil output by 25 percent within a decade -- without the dangers of drilling in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico or the delicate coastal areas off Alaska. 
There is only one catch: the oil from the Eagle Ford and similar fields of tightly packed rock can be extracted only by using hydraulic fracturing, a method that uses a high-pressure mix of water, sand and hazardous chemicals to blast through the rocks to release the oil inside.
The technique, also called fracking, has been widely used in the last decade to unlock vast new fields of natural gas, but drillers only recently figured out how to release large quantities of oil, which flows less easily through rock than gas. As evidence mounts that fracking poses risks to water supplies, the federal government and regulators in various states are considering tighter regulations on it.
The oil industry says any environmental concerns are far outweighed by the economic benefits of pumping previously inaccessible oil from fields that could collectively hold two or three times as much oil as Prudhoe Bay, the Alaskan field that was the last great onshore discovery. The companies estimate that the boom will create more than two million new jobs, directly or indirectly, and bring tens of billions of dollars to the states where the fields are located, which include traditional oil sites like Texas and Oklahoma, industrial stalwarts like Ohio and Michigan and even farm states like Kansas.
''It's the one thing we have seen in our adult lives that could take us away from imported oil,'' said Aubrey McClendon, chief executive of Chesapeake Energy, one of the most aggressive drillers. ''What if we have found three of the world's biggest oil fields in the last three years right here in the U.S.? How transformative could that be for the U.S. economy?''
The oil rush is already transforming this impoverished area of Texas near the Mexican border, doubling real estate values in the last year and filling restaurants and hotels.
''That's oil money,'' said Bert Bell, a truck company manager, pointing to the new pickup truck he bought for his wife after making $525,000 leasing mineral rights around his family's mobile home. ''Oil money just makes life easier.''
Based on the industry's plans, shale and other ''tight rock'' fields that now produce about half a million barrels of oil a day will produce up to three million barrels daily by 2020, according to IHS CERA, an energy research firm. Oil companies are investing an estimated $25 billion this year to drill 5,000 new oil wells in tight rock fields, according to Raoul LeBlanc, a senior director at PFC Energy, a consulting firm.
''This is very big and it's coming on very fast,'' said Daniel Yergin, the chairman of IHS CERA. ''This is like adding another Venezuela or Kuwait by 2020, except these tight oil fields are in the United States.''
In the most developed shale field, the Bakken field in North Dakota, production has leaped to 400,000 barrels a day today from a trickle four years ago. Experts say it could produce as much as a million barrels a day by the end of the decade.
The Eagle Ford, where the first well was drilled only three years ago, is already producing more than 100,000 barrels a day and could reach 420,000 by 2015, almost as much as Ecuador, according to Bentek Energy, a consultancy.
The shale oil boom comes as production from Prudhoe Bay is declining and drilling in the Gulf of Mexico is being more closely scrutinized after last year's Deepwater Horizon disaster.
What makes the new fields more remarkable is that they were thought to be virtually valueless only five years ago. ''Everyone said the oil molecules are too large to flow in commercial quantities through these low-quality rocks,'' said Mark G. Papa, chief executive of EOG Resources.
EOG began quietly buying the rights to thousands of acres in the Bakken and Eagle Ford after an EOG engineer concluded that the techniques used to extract natural gas from shale -- fracking, combined with drilling horizontally through layers of rocks -- could be used for oil. Chesapeake and a few other independents quickly followed. Now the biggest multinational oil companies, as well as Chinese and Norwegian firms, are investing billions of dollars in the fields.
The new drilling makes economic sense as long as oil prices remain above $60 a barrel, according to oil companies. At current oil prices of about $100 a barrel, shale wells can typically turn a profit within eight months -- three times faster than many traditional wells.
But water remains a key issue. In addition to possible contamination of surface and underground water from fracking fluids, the sheer volume of water required poses challenges, especially in South Texas, which faces a severe drought and rapidly diminishing water levels in the local aquifer.
At the rate wells are being drilled, ''there's definitely going to be a problem,'' said Bay Laxson, a local water official.
Dave Thompson, regional production superintendent for the oil company SM Energy said the industry knew that water issues were ''an Achilles heel.'' He said his company was building a system to reuse water in the field.
But unlike Pennsylvania and New York, where fracking for natural gas has produced organized opposition, the oil industry has been mostly welcomed in western and southern states.
Thanks to the drilling boom, the recession bypassed North Dakota entirely. Here in Dimmit County, Tex., the unemployment rate has fallen in half, and sales tax receipts are up 70 percent so far this year, allowing the county to hire more police officers and buy sanitation and road repair equipment.
''In my lifetime, this is the biggest thing I've ever seen,'' said Jose Gonzalez, 78, a retired teacher and son of migrant farm workers, who leased mineral rights to Chesapeake for $27,000 and sold another plot for $100,000 to a company building an RV park for oil workers. ''You can see I'm happy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An RV park has sprung up near a road in Carrizo Springs, Tex., to house an influx of oil field workers because of a lack of housing and hotels in the area.
 A Chesapeake Energy drilling site, above, near Big Wells, Tex. Such companies have bought land rights from Texans like Bert Bell and made them better off. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAS STATIONS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); COUNTIES (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); MINERAL LEASES (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (72%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); COASTAL AREAS (68%); REAL ESTATE (66%); RESTAURANTS (64%); JOB CREATION (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (50%)

PERSON: AUBREY K MCCLENDON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (97%); ALASKA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011



925 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: A Storybook Ascent For One Actress

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
Meeting Nina Arianda in person for the first time is very different from meeting her onstage. Instead of the high-pitched ''WHA-A-A-A-T?'' with which she announces her entrance as Billie Dawn, the classic dumb blonde she plays in the revival of ''Born Yesterday'' at the Cort Theater, Ms. Arianda offers a low-key, low-throated pleased-to-meet-you. Her honking version of hello -- which Charles Isherwood described in The New York Times as a cross between Jean Harlow and Cyndi Lauper -- has helped to turn Ms. Arianda, 26, into Broadway's newest darling and won her a Tony nomination for best actress.
But it is also giving her vocal cords a workout. She is finally off steroids (thank goodness), but the overuse of her voice is taking a toll, especially on matinee days, when there are two performances.
''In the morning I steam. Then there's the warming up before the show. And I do stretches at night,'' she recounted after ordering a cup of hot tea on a recent sunny afternoon near her apartment in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. ''It's an Olympic sport.'' 
Her Broadway debut comes just about a year after an even more demanding vocal role Off Broadway as Vanda, an aspiring, domineering actress in ''Venus in Fur,'' which earned this theatrical newcomer nodes on her vocal cords. (Vanda did her yelling in a lower register.) Her astonishing performance in ''Venus,'' written by David Ives, captured the industry's attention.
''It's that moment, you know it when it happens, when the next Meryl Streep walks through the door,'' said Walter Bobbie, who directed the play. ''Nina's performance started a brush fire. The word was you have to see this girl.''
He added: ''Right out of N.Y.U. she got this job, and five minutes later she booked four films and she's now starring on Broadway. That's not luck.''
Woody Allen cast her in his new film, ''Midnight in Paris,'' though she skipped the screening at the Cannes Film Festival earlier this month. With pre-Tony Award publicity to manage and the danger of being infected by a stray germ on a long international flight, Ms. Arianda decided to stay put. As she said: ''This month is nutso.''
Despite the long blond hair and pouty lips, Ms. Arianda does not have classic glamour-girl looks. She can stretch her rubbery features into contorted expressions of manic excitement and disgust. Her rounded face has the uncanny ability to look simultaneously young and old. And at 5 feet 8 inches, with broad, square shoulders and large hands and feet on a thin frame, Ms. Arianda can instantly dominate a stage.
She received an M.F.A. from New York University two years ago, but Ms. Arianda has been hooked on the theater ever since attending an acting class at the age of 4.
In the family home in Paterson, N.J., Ms. Arianda's parents spoke Ukrainian to ensure that their daughter would know the language of her grandparents. ''The only English I heard was from our neighbors in Jersey, and 'Sesame Street,' '' Ms. Arianda said. ''But when my mother heard me say, 'Where wuz you?' she knew she had to do something, so she signed me up for this children's theater. It was love at first sight.''
Ms. Arianda did not have a typical childhood. ''I wasn't allowed to have toys with batteries, so I had to use my imagination,'' she recalled. ''Every day was so adventurous for me. I would stay home and pretend and play.''
When she was in seventh grade her family moved to Germany for a year. Ms. Arianda's mother, an artist and a teacher, decided to home-school Nina during their stay. ''We would travel, read and write,'' Ms. Arianda said. ''It kind of changed my life.''
In New Jersey she attended Roman Catholic schools, a miserable experience, she said, because teachers undermined her confidence. '' 'You really think you're going to amount to anything?' '' she recalled one teacher telling her. '' 'You're just wasting your time.' ''
Her mother helped rebuild her self-esteem. ''Both my parents are really incredible,'' Ms. Arianda said. The erstwhile Catholic school girl said she was able to use the feeling of insecurity in her current role: ''It helped me with Billie a lot. People tell Billie that she has a certain lot in life, that she's stupid.''
The storybook zoom to Broadway has not been without uncomfortable moments. After Ms. Arianda's debut in ''Venus,'' well-known agents and managers were suddenly eager to sign her and she made the painful decision to leave the small agency with which she started. She is now represented by ICM.
In ''Born Yesterday'' her co-stars are two veteran celebrities, Jim Belushi and Robert Sean Leonard, both of whom were passed over by the Tony committee. ''It's bittersweet,'' Ms. Arianda said, adding that everyone in the cast has been supportive.
And then there are friends from acting school and elsewhere who are still waiting tables and standing on audition lines. Fred Arsenault, who knew Ms. Arianda at N.Y.U. and appears in ''Born Yesterday'' as a bellhop and Mr. Leonard's understudy, said that his colleague is handling her success well. ''She is not doing anything that any of us wouldn't have done,'' he said.
''You can be your typical actor and sulk about that or you can get behind her,'' he said. ''I know everyone from N.Y.U. is rooting for her.''
Ms. Arianda said she was aware of how rare her journey had been, but it was what she had always worked for. ''I'm very comfortable because this is what I want to do,'' she said, ''and I don't want to apologize for that.''
As for what comes next, Ms. Arianda said that to protect her voice, a film probably makes the most sense, though she would jump at the chance to perform in ''Venus in Fur'' again. Given the economics of Broadway, putting on a new play like ''Venus'' often depends on getting a marquee name, said Mr. Bobbie, so he is also anxiously waiting to see whether Ms. Arianda takes home a statue on Tony night, June 12.
''We already know she is a star,'' Mr. Bobbie said. ''The question is whether she can become a celebrity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The actress Nina Arianda poses along the East River waterfront on Thursday in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, where she lives.(C1)
Ms. Arianda at a subway station in Brooklyn.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Jim Belushi and Nina Arianda in the revival of Garson Kanin's ''Born Yesterday,'' above. Below, right, a scene from ''Venus in Fur.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); FILM (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); STEROIDS (68%); FESTIVALS (67%); OLYMPICS (65%); THEATER (57%)

PERSON: MERYL STREEP (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011



926 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: A New Flood, Some Old Truths: The Mississippi tells us, again, to change the way we manage water

 BODY:
The thousands of people forced to abandon their homes in recent weeks to floodwaters are victims not just of nature but of human error as well. Years of mismanagement of the vast Mississippi River ecosystem -- the relentless and often inadvisable construction of levees and navigation channels, the paving over of wetlands, the commercial development of flood plains -- have made the damage worse than it might otherwise have been. 
The Obama administration is now completing an overhaul of the guidelines governing dams, levees and other water-related projects built with federal money. In 2007, Congress ordered the guidelines, unchanged since 1983, rewritten to require federal agencies to take environmental as well as economic concerns into account.
Historically, projects had been shaped by two main factors: the Army Corps of Engineers' conviction that nature can be subdued by levees and dams, and its reflexive green-lighting of any flood control project that encouraged commercial or agricultural development. The new rules, Congress said, should require the Corps and other federal agencies to give equal weight to less easily measurable benefits like wildlife habitat and to ''nonstructural'' solutions to flood control like preserving wetlands, flood plains and other ''natural systems.''
To give the Corps its due, it has performed nobly in the present emergency. Its main-stem levees have held. Its decision to blow holes in levees guarding the New Madrid floodway in Missouri clearly saved Cairo, Ill., and other places downstream; similar maneuvers in Louisiana helped protect New Orleans. These tactics had long been part of Corps emergency plans, and they worked.
The question the environmental community and many in Congress are asking is whether this would have been necessary if the river had been better managed. In populated areas, levees were a necessary response to the cataclysmic floods of the 1920s. But some were built solely to attract more development, while others closed off flood plains that could have acted as a natural safety valve.
Meanwhile, over the years, the upper Mississippi watershed has lost millions of acres of wetlands that could have served as a natural sponge for floodwaters. Some experts also believe that dikes, jetties and other structures designed to channel the river and speed navigation have also helped raise water levels to dangerous levels.
So-called 100-year floods seemed to be hitting the Mississippi with scary regularity -- a $16 billion flood in 1993, a bad one in 2001, another in 2008, and now this one. Climate change, which some suspect of causing torrential downpours, may be part of the problem, though the connection is unclear. What is clear is that we should learn from our mistakes, let nature help out where it can, and not build or farm in places where it makes no sense to do so. As the saying goes: Nobody ever beats the river.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); FLOOD ZONES (90%); FLOOD CONTROL (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); WETLANDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (90%); ENGINEERING (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (77%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (74%); WILDLIFE (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); ARMIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



927 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: World Leaders' Optimism On Economy Lifts Shares

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks rose Friday as comments from the Group of 8 industrial nations about the global economy's strength offset a slump in home sales in the United States.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold advanced 2.7 percent as copper rallied after Standard Chartered Bank predicted price gains. Wells Fargo and Bank of America increased at least 1.5 percent, pacing a rally in financial shares, as Nout Wellink, a member of the governing council of the European Central Bank, said he expected Greece to receive aid from the International Monetary Fund next month. The Marvell Technology Group surged 11 percent after projecting higher sales than analysts had estimated.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 5.41 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,331.10. The Dow Jones industrial average added 38.82 points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,441.58. The Nasdaq composite index rose 13.94 points, or 0.5 percent, to 2,796.86. 
The Dow Jones and S.& P. indexes fell for a fourth consecutive week, while the Nasdaq fell for a third consecutive week.
Volume on United States exchanges was 19 percent lower than a week earlier at 5.47 billion shares before the Memorial Day holiday.
''The resilience of riskier assets is linked to the fact that we're still going to have easy monetary policy,'' said Bruce A. Bittles, chief investment strategist at Robert W. Baird & Company of Milwaukee. ''The Federal Reserve's program of quantitative easing has helped bolster stock prices but has not helped the housing market.''
The S.& P. 500 has fallen 2.4 percent from an almost three-year high on April 29 on concern about Europe's debt crisis and weaker-than-forecast economic data. Still, the gauge has risen 5.8 percent from the end of 2010 amid government stimulus measures and higher-than-forecast corporate profits.
Global stocks rose after the Group of 8 leaders said that a strengthening global economy would pave the way to cuts in the debt built up during the recession after the 2008 financial crisis.
Europe vowed to fight its fiscal woes with ''determination,'' while President Obama promised a ''clear and credible'' United States deficit-reduction strategy. Japan was allowed to put off savings measures until its economy rebounded from the March earthquake and tsunami.
The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment increased to a three-month high of 74.3 from 69.8 in April. Economists had forecast a reading of 72.4, the same as the preliminary figure issued earlier this month, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.
Copper rose in New York as increased premiums signaled stronger demand in China and Standard Chartered predicted price gains. Freeport advanced $1.34, to $51.73.
Banks had the biggest gain in the S.& P. 500 out of 24 industries, rallying 1.5 percent. Wells Fargo, the home lender, advanced 1.6 percent to $28.14. Bank of America rose the most in the Dow, rallying 2 percent to $11.69.
Marvell Technology surged 11 percent, to $16.17. The company forecast second-quarter profit of 35 to 39 cents a share, excluding some items. Analysts projected 33 cents, according to the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
A report showed that the number of Americans signing contracts to buy previously owned homes plunged more than forecast in April.
Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 4/32, to 100 14/32, and the yield rose to 3.07 percent, from 3.06 percent late Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); RECESSION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); TSUNAMIS (50%)

COMPANY: FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%); MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD (71%); ROBERT W BAIRD & CO INC (66%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK ZIMBABWE LTD (58%); STANDARD CHARTERED AUSTRALIA LTD (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK (THAI) PCL (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); MRVL (NASDAQ) (71%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (91%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (91%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (91%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (91%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (91%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (91%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (91%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (91%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (91%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (91%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (71%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (58%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: BRUCE BITTLES (56%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GREECE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011



928 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Youth, With Hopes and Bliss Intact

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:
All over the world, teenage boys and young men are a problem. With their irrepressible energies and strengths, they are always ripe for industrial, military and other kinds of services. But when they are uneducated, unemployed and unsupervised, many of them get into trouble. They join feral gangs and terrorist groups or become freelance criminals, dissipated addicts, deadbeat fathers, suicides.
In stable, wealthy nations, schools and vocational programs provide guidance and protective incubation for many youths during the pre-adult years. But in areas afflicted by war and poverty, they can be exceptionally vulnerable to exploitation and bad luck. Along with other Southeast Asian countries, Thailand -- in spite of a development boom in recent decades -- has been one such unfortunate place. For most of the 20th century and continuing into the 21st, it has been racked by social and political strife that has consumed the lives of countless young men. 
This is the background to keep in mind while viewing ''Primitive,'' an expansive video installation at the New Museum focusing on teenage boys in Thailand by the Thai filmmaker Apichatpong Weerasethakul. Organized by Massimiliano Gioni, the museum's associate director, it is by turns beautiful, tedious, opaque and affectingly poetic.
Mr. Weerasethakul, who directed the recent critically celebrated movie ''Uncle Boonmee Who Can Recall His Past Lives,'' was born in Bangkok in 1970 and trained as an architect before going on to study filmmaking at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. In the mid-to-late '90s, he made short films in the tradition of experimentalist and Structuralist filmmakers of the '50s and '60s like Stan Brakhage, Michael Snow and Paul Sharits. The influence of the Relational Aesthetics movement is evident in his penchant for participatory engagement with nonprofessionals in the creation of this exhibition's films.
Occupying all of the New Museum's third floor, ''Primitive'' has the patience-testing, anti-entertainment effect we've come to expect of avant-garde moviemaking. Of its seven parts, the most immediately engaging is a single-screen, 11-minute film of some two dozen youths in casual, Western-style attire joyously running on a dirt road to a catchy Thai rock soundtrack. They are recorded by a camera held by someone running along with them. At one point, closeups of jostling bodies blur into a passage of delirious, hallucinogenic abstraction. Then some of the boys get into the back of a moving pickup truck, whip off their shirts and dance exultantly while speeding along past the verdant countryside.
Why they are so happy remains unexplained, but it seems a moment of blessed freedom. In its apparently unpremeditated spontaneity and strikingly attractive subjects, it is also very stylish, like an commercial for Abercrombie & Fitch.
The exhibition's main attraction, a quartet of loops projected on four different walls in the gallery's central space, is less readily comprehensible. The longest piece, at 28 minutes, is ''Making of the Spaceship,'' which takes place in a rural village. Scenes of boys devising plans and beginning to build an orb-shaped construction of wood planking over a metal armature are interspersed with views of ordinary life. Though not explained in the film, the exhibition catalog tells us that they are creating a time-traveling machine.
Another projection shows people at night setting off fireworks that appear to be detonated by bolts of lightning from the sky. An alarming sound like gunfire fills the gallery. A silent loop on the opposite wall shows boys practice-firing rifles out the windows of a house. In intermittent views of fields in the distance a walking figure falls as if shot by a gun, like a duck in an amusement-park shooting gallery. In the fourth loop, we behold a dark, murky landscape where the time machine periodically rises above the tree line and then lowers into the shadows.
For the patient viewer, all this comes together as an elegiac, cinematic poem about the fearful weight of the past and the fragility of hope in a still insecure time. Much depends on your willingness to endure and make sense of what seems a disjunctive randomness.
Mr. Weerasethakul often creates wonderful images. Nocturnal scenes of boys kicking around a flaming soccer ball in ''Nabua,'' a single-screen film, and dreamy pictures of the youths sleeping in the glowing orange, womblike interior of the orb in ''Primitive,'' a two-screen installation, have an almost mythic resonance. A lyrical tenderness animates lingering meditations on rain falling on trees and houses, and a brief observation of small dogs playfully wrestling in ''Making of the Spaceship.''
But it is also hard not to feel impatient and to wish Mr. Weerasethakul would go the extra miles to give his vision the kind of narrative and metaphorical coherence of his more conventional but also more captivating ''Uncle Boonmee.''
This is an old problem. The defender of the avant garde will argue that breaking with tradition enables the emergence of new forms of consciousness that the kitschy conventions of popular entertainment usually block. Be that as it may, Mr. Weerasethakul's fragmenting, multiscreen approach is conventional in its own way. It focuses attention as much on how we experience projected moving imagery and puzzle together narrative in our own minds as it does on its ostensible subject matter. In that respect, its appeal is academic. But it doesn't do anything much more advanced than Mr. Weerasethakul's experimentalist heroes did back in the 1960s.
What is more disappointing is that in its self-consciously anti-stylish style, it muffles its own heartbeat: the story of young men caught in the unpredictable flux of history trying to imagine a better future.
''Apichatpong Weerasethakul: Primitive'' is on view through July 3 at the New Museum, 235 Bowery at Prince Street, Lower East Side; (212) 219-1222; newmuseum.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Apichatpong Weerasethakul: Primitive: A scene from the video installation at the New Museum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHAISIRI JIWARANGSAN/KICK THE MACHINE FILMS AND ILLUMINATIONS FILMS, 2009)(C1)
Above, a viewing area for ''Apichatpong Weerasethakul: Primitive'' at the New Museum. Below, an image from ''Making of the Spaceship,'' one of the seven videos the installation exhibits. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENOIT PAILLEY
 KICK THE MACHINE FILMS AND ILLUMINATIONS FILMS, 2009)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FILM (89%); EXHIBITIONS (87%); VISUAL ARTISTS (87%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (87%); FILM SCHOOLS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); TERRORISM (57%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (57%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (54%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (60%); AFT (FRA) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (60%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) ILLINOIS, USA (54%) THAILAND (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



929 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Arrest Follows Serbia's Uneven Path to Break With Its Past

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

 BODY:
BELGRADE, Serbia -- The tall building that served as the headquarters for the late Slobodan Milosevic's political party, bombed by an American cruise missile in the 1999 Kosovo war, has been privatized and rebuilt, covered now in blue-green glass. Before 1990, it was home to the Communist Party Central Committee; now it houses offices, including Western banks, and a modish shopping center.
The building is a kind of metaphor for Serbia's steady move toward reintegration into Europe and the West, but also for its painful and incomplete transition. The sale of the building was considered by many to be corrupt, a political gift to a crony of a former prime minister, Zoran Djindjic. 
The arrest on Thursday of the wanted war crimes suspect Ratko Mladic after 15 years of quiet protection and hiding is also regarded as a mixed blessing. It is a major victory for Serbia's democratic president, Boris Tadic, and his supporters, who see it as vindication of moral values and the closing of another chapter of a bloody past.
Mr. Mladic's inevitable extradition to face charges of genocide is bound to jump-start Serbia's request to join the European Union. That could pay off politically for Mr. Tadic, who reorganized intelligence gathering and deployed the police on a nationwide manhunt for Mr. Mladic, in an attempt to remove that barrier to membership.
But for many Serbs, who are struggling with a very weak economy and high joblessness rates of some 20 percent, the arrest of Mr. Mladic is an ambivalent, even irrelevant moment for their near future.
European Union membership would be years away in any case, and Serbs have been watching the financial crises that have rocked the union.
''We see that the Europeans don't want to pay for the Greek unemployed, let alone for the Serb unemployed,'' said Aleksandar Mitic, chairman of a Belgrade research institute, the Center for Strategic Alternatives. Mr. Mitic says that Mr. Tadic will get a boost from the Mladic arrest and consequent steps by the European Union, but that they may not make a very big difference electorally with Serbs hit hard by an economic crisis and unhappy about further concessions to the United States and Europe.
And while Serbia has moved closer to the West by satisfying the demands for retribution for Balkan war crimes, it remains apart on issues crucial to Europe: Bosnia and Kosovo, which prompted NATO's bombing of the Serbs.
In Kosovo, Serbia is firmly opposed to independence for a state that it legally considers a province of Serbia. And in Bosnia, Serbia backs the Serbian entity within Bosnia, the Republika Srpska, to maintain its strong autonomy. These nationalist tensions lead some Western experts to worry that the Dayton Accords that ended the Bosnian war -- in which Mr. Mladic was the Bosnian Serb commander -- are being undermined.
Mr. Tadic has made some symbolic progress, especially on Kosovo. He began talks in February, mediated by the European Union, with the Kosovo government in Pristina.
While these talks are covering supposedly technical issues, such as whether Belgrade will recognize Kosovo postage stamps, license plates and tax documents, for many in Serbia's vocal opposition this is a slippery slope toward tacit recognition of Kosovo's independence.
As for the arrest of Mr. Mladic, who had been kept secretly in a house owned by his cousin, Serbs were somewhat ambivalent.
To some, it is a clear triumph. ''I believe political will was demonstrated to get rid of the past, to close that chapter for those who not only want to face the past, but who want Serbia to be a modern, democratic European country, said Sonja Licht, a well-known advocate for democracy here and president of the foreign affairs council of the Foreign Ministry. ''With Mladic free, we couldn't do that.''
But others see a mixed picture.
''For a lot of people here now, Mladic was a symbol, almost a myth, considered neither a hero nor a criminal,'' said Srdjan Bogosavljevic, a noted pollster here. ''People didn't see him as a real person. When relations were good with the international community, he was less popular, and when they were bad, he was more popular.''
At the same time, Serbs are not fans of the International Court of Justice in The Hague.
''The Hague is extremely unpopular, perceived as inefficient, biased and an anti-Serb political institution,'' with judges and prosecutors viewed similarly, Mr. Bogosavljevic said.
These sentiments are unlikely to derail Mr. Mladic's extradition, however. No one would object to Mr. Mladic's facing Serbian justice, he said, but even Serbs who hate the court in The Hague will not make a major protest over Mr. Mladic.
''For people what is important is how to survive, month to month,'' he said. Polls show that if they rank their key concerns, Mr. Mladic is not among them, while the status of Kosovo often is.
The most nationalist opposition party, the Serbian Radical Party, whose leader, Vojislav Seselj, is facing charges in The Hague, has come out strongly against the arrest of Mr. Mladic.
Dragan Todorovic, the party's deputy president, said that the arrest ''was one of the most shameful things this traitor government led by Tadic has done.'' He called for a demonstration in Belgrade on Sunday evening, but few expect a large turnout.
The feelings of most Serbs were probably well expressed by Bozo Prelevic, who served for a time as a co-minister of police after the fall of Mr. Milosevic. Mr. Mladic, he said, ''was a heavy stone'' on Serbian backs, and now it is nearly gone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The building in Belgrade, Serbia, that once housed Slobodan Milosevic's political party and was bombed in the 1999 war. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Police officers patrolled near Parliament in a calm Belgrade on Friday, while in Pale, Bosnia, ethnic Serbs rallied for Ratko Mladic. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
AMEL EMRIC/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 President Boris Tadic of Serbia in Belgrade on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARKO DJURICA/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); WAR CRIMES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); EXTRADITION (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); RETAILERS (71%); GENOCIDE (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (95%) SERBIA (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); EUROPE (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011



930 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Gay Marriage Studies, and Coverage of Gay Issues

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Wrong Reasons for Same-Sex Marriage'' (Op-Ed, May 16):
Jaye Cee Whitehead implies that my co-authors and I contribute to dehumanizing lesbian and gay people with our studies showing the positive economic impact of allowing same-sex couples to marry. 
Citizens and decision makers offer many arguments in this debate, but I doubt that they base their views solely on the financial bottom line. However, some people argue in courts and legislatures that states can't afford to use scarce resources for equal rights -- at least when it comes to lesbians and gay men. With states struggling to balance budgets, the inaccurate claim that equality is too expensive gains additional power.
As researchers, we could ignore those inaccurate claims. But we believe that democratic debate will be better for drawing on findings from careful research rather than claims rooted in misleading assertions and stereotypes.
M. V. LEE BADGETT Amherst, Mass., May 16, 2011
The writer is research director for the Williams Institute on Sexual Orientation, U.C.L.A. School of Law, and a professor of economics at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
To the Editor:
Most mornings, while my 10-year-old daughter and her other father are still sleeping, I slip down to our front door to prescreen the morning Times. As a fourth-grade teacher, I quickly determine which articles in my home copy and the 25 copies donated to my class by Times subscribers are fit to share with my pupils and later at home with my own daughter.
Articles detailing the coming out of the president of the Phoenix Suns, Rick Welts, and the CNN anchor Don Lemon, along with the account of Erica Diaz confronting her grandfather, State Senator Ruben Diaz Sr., at his anti-gay marriage rally, ran in the same issue as ''The Wrong Reasons for Same-Sex Marriage.''
Such reporting raises the irony of teaching about the causes of the American Revolution, the history of civil rights and gender equality while not discussing the continuing debates around marriage equality. Your reporting, editorials and Op-Ed articles inspire still cautious teachers to come out in our own classrooms.
MICHAEL KANDEL Douglaston, Queens, May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (97%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (91%); MARRIAGE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); COHABITATION (78%); BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); GENDER EQUALITY (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011



931 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: A Second Fujimori Contends For Peru's Presidency

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
LIMA, Peru
KEIKO FUJIMORI'S father, Alberto K. Fujimori, Peru's former president, sits in prison here serving a 25-year sentence for human rights abuses. Her mother, Susana Higuchi, has shown scars on her neck that Ms. Higuchi said resulted from torture by Mr. Fujimori's intelligence agents after Ms. Higuchi accused her husband of tolerating corruption in his midst.
If that were not enough, Mr. Fujimori's former spymaster, Vladimiro Montesinos, has testified that he illegally used state funds to pay for Ms. Fujimori's Boston University tuition in the 1990s. Between semesters there and after graduating, she served as Peru's first lady, assuming a visible role in her father's corruption-addled government after her parents divorced.
In some countries, such a complicated family history might be an obstacle for someone seeking election as president. But not in Peru, where Ms. Fujimori, who turned 36 this month, holds a narrow lead in a tight race over Ollanta Humala, a former military officer who led a rebellion against her father in 2000. The election is June 5. 
The choice between two extreme candidates, after centrists split the vote in the first election round, has shocked many who are familiar with the ambitions of Mr. Humala, who espouses a nationalist ideology of asserting state control over natural resources, and of Ms. Fujimori, who wants her disgraced father released from prison.
''It would be like Tricia Nixon running for president at age 35, if her father had received the jail time he deserved, with a program that consisted of nothing more than pardoning him,'' Dennis Jett, a former United States ambassador to Peru, said in an essay in The Miami Herald comparing Ms. Fujimori to the elder daughter of Richard M. Nixon.
In an interview at her home here, Ms. Fujimori repeatedly insisted that her father, who is still admired by some Peruvians for delivering crushing blows against Maoist insurgents and for stabilizing Peru's economy, was an innocent man.
Peru's Supreme Court convicted Mr. Fujimori, 72, in 2009 of various crimes, including his government's creation of an assassination squad that killed 25 people, one of them an 8-year-old boy. An Aug. 23, 1990, State Department cable cited a Peruvian intelligence source who said that the squad, called the Colina Group, had ''the tacit approval of President Fujimori.''
When asked about her father's conviction and his decision to move his children from the presidential palace, the target of car bombs in 1990, to the National Intelligence Service's bunker where they lived next to the luxurious quarters of Mr. Montesinos, the shadowy espionage chief, Ms. Fujimori said, ''Those were difficult years, not just for us but for all Peruvians.''
MS. FUJIMORI famously said in 2008 that her ''hand would not tremble'' to sign a pardon for her father if she were elected president, pleasing Mr. Fujimori's followers who still adoringly call him Chino, in a nod to his Asian ancestry. But she has recently backed away from that stance.
''That was a spontaneous statement as a daughter,'' she said. Instead, Ms. Fujimori now says she would prefer to see her father freed through court appeals.
That prospect, in a country with fragile judicial institutions still recovering from the disarray of Mr. Fujimori's 10-year rule, has put judges on edge. Prominent supporters of Ms. Fujimori and her father, including Martha Chavez, a former legislator, have begun issuing veiled threats against those who ruled against the former president, saying they will have to answer for their actions.
Some of the tension surrounding the candidacy of Ms. Fujimori, who took 23.6 percent of the first-round vote against Mr. Humala's 31.7 percent, seems expected by the daughter of a man who polarized Peru. In an extraordinary political career, he burst onto the public stage in 1990 as an unknown agronomist and won plaudits for his uncompromising stand against leftist guerrillas before fleeing into exile in Japan in 2000.
Japan always loomed large for Ms. Fujimori, the eldest of four siblings who were born into Peru's small Japanese-Peruvian community, which numbers about 80,000 in a country of 29 million. Still, when the time came for her to study abroad, she opted for the United States.
First, during the tumult of her father's government, she studied at Boston University (she rejects accusations that her expenses there were paid out of public funds). Then, after Mr. Fujimori's resignation, she went to Columbia University's business school, where she met Mark Villanella, a self-described ''Jersey guy'' from Berkeley Heights, N.J. They wed in 2004 and now have two daughters.
At their spacious home here, photos of Ms. Fujimori's parents in happier times were on display. They showed her father, bursting with youthful vigor, before he fell into disgrace and went to prison. Alongside him was Ms. Fujimori's mother, Ms. Higuchi, before she accused Mr. Fujimori of allowing his henchmen to torture her.
Ms. Higuchi's accusations have been corroborated by a former Peruvian intelligence agent who said she witnessed Ms. Higuchi in 1995 naked and cowering in an army intelligence cell. But Ms. Fujimori played down her mother's claims, saying a court in Chile, which extradited Mr. Fujimori to Peru in 2007, had not moved ahead with an inquiry into the torture claims.
From exile in Japan in 2002, Mr. Fujimori dismissed his ex-wife's accusations, saying her scars were the result of moxibustion, a traditional Asian therapy for back pain. Either way, Ms. Fujimori said she and her mother, who rarely appears in public and did not respond to an interview request, now had a ''warm'' relationship.
''What's more, she said she would vote for me,'' Ms. Fujimori said.
OTHERS here who said they would vote for Ms. Fujimori are prepared to do so either out of fears of her rival, Mr. Humala, or admiration for her jailed father. ''He gave peace to this country,'' said Oscar Arrunategui, 37, a businessman. ''He gave poor people water, electricity and sewage; this country is how it is thanks to Fujimori.''
When confronted with less shining assessments of her father, who was also convicted of overseeing the kidnappings of Samuel Dyer, a businessman, and Gustavo Gorriti, a prominent journalist, Ms. Fujimori has learned to pause and take a moment to straighten her spine. (Like her rival, Mr. Humala, she is making an effort to hew to more moderate ideas.) Then she smiles broadly and delivers a well-rehearsed response.
''I'm aware that big mistakes were made,'' she said, while insisting her father was innocent of any crimes. In Ms. Fujimori's view, the blame for such transgressions lies elsewhere. ''I reject and lament the errors and crimes that were committed by officials in my father's government,'' she said.
It is a delicate political dance. She embraces her father's legacy while disowning his government's authoritarian excesses and burnishes her own law-and-order credentials by hiring Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, as an adviser.
In a race that is evoking old political ghosts, little seems to faze many Peruvians, including the revelation this month that Mr. Fujimori himself was helping to manage his daughter's campaign from his spacious prison cell.
In fact, her strategy of paying homage to her disgraced father may just work to deliver her the presidency of a country where deep dissatisfaction persists with the political status quo, side by side with fond memories, among some, of Mr. Fujimori's rule. Those loyal to Ms. Fujimori's cause sum up their visceral feelings, more for her father than his daughter, in a few words.
''I'm Fujimorista,'' said Romulo Rojas, 68, a retired shoe repairman. ''So I chose Keiko a long time ago.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: KEIKO FUJIMORI (PHOTOGRAPH BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (87%); TORTURE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); FAMILY (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); TESTIMONY (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); TUITION FEES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); PARDONS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); TERRORISM (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011



932 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: Investment Advice For Small Fry

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
Most of us have no business managing our own investments.
We buy when prices are high and sell just as the markets are bottoming out. Or we cannot bring ourselves to sell investments that have done well to buy more of what hasn't. Or we buy on impulse, picking up individual stocks of companies we like and think we understand without much regard for how they may fit into an overall investing strategy.
Some of this behavior springs from a red-blooded insistence that we are all above average and can easily pick stocks and other investments that will outperform the market.
But our collective failure is also a result of the fact that we are literally left to our own devices. Advice from a human being is sorely lacking when we sign up for workplace retirement plans, and there is a severe shortage of moderately priced financial advisers who will help nonmillionaires and put customers' interests ahead of their own. 
Someone will make a lot of money by coming up with a streamlined way to serve these investors, and two services called Betterment and Flat Fee Portfolios are among the latest to try.
Betterment is notable for an almost radical simplicity and its insistence that even someone with just $1,000 is welcome. The Flat Fee Portfolios model is built around a fixed price for advice no matter how big your portfolio is -- a far cry from the usual method of having customers pay, say, 1 percent of their assets each year in fees to the adviser.
Neither one may have cracked the code, but they are different enough from most of what's come before to be worth a look for those of us who recognize that we are constitutionally incapable of managing our own money.
First, a bit more about Betterment, which began operations last year. Once you decide how much to invest, you have only one choice to make: the amount of risk you want to take on. Once you've figured that out, there is just one portfolio to invest in (a mix of exchange-traded funds, which are index-fundlike investments that Betterment makes in United States stocks and government bonds).
The company lets anyone use the service, which is admirable in an industry where many financial advisers won't work with you unless you have more than $500,000 or $1 million, and even ''discount'' brokers may not manage your money for you unless you meet some kind of account balance minimum.
Betterment is pretty costly, on a percentage basis, for people with less than $25,000, though. Customers pay 0.9 percent in annual fees, which the company takes out of their investment account. The fee declines in three incremental tiers from there. For any money beyond $500,000, the fee is 0.3 percent.
Betterment's portfolio consists of six United States stock funds and two bond funds, which invest in short-term Treasury bonds and inflation-protected bonds. The company makes its portfolio public on its Web site, so there is nothing stopping you from mimicking it on your own. The company charges no trading fees beyond its annual fees, however, and it rebalances your portfolio for you. So Betterment is betting that enough people are willing to turn everything over to its service and will pay for the privilege.
But Betterment has two glaring weaknesses. First, there are no individual retirement accounts available, so you can't set up a Roth I.R.A. there or roll over money from a retirement plan you have at a former employer. Second, the portfolio has no international stock funds, a risky choice given all the questions about the American economy. Betterment's chief executive, Jon Stein, says the company will fix both of these problems this year.
He remains insistent, however, about sticking to just one blueprint for customers' investments. ''We don't want to break that glass box and start having multiple portfolios,'' he said. ''People will start picking things that have gone up the most recently, and that is a terrible choice. We want to be simple.''
Flat Fee Portfolios offers a few more investment choices and even simpler pricing than Betterment. It's also aimed at more affluent customers, people who have six figures in money to invest but don't have the kind of broader financial planning needs that might merit an adviser who charges more money.
The fee is $199 a month if you have more than $250,000, and it does not grow no matter how much money you have. If you have less than that, you can enroll in a different program with fewer choices and less service for $129 a month.
At the $199 level, you can choose among three types of portfolios. There is one made up of actively managed mutual funds, an indexed portfolio of passively managed funds like the one that Betterment offers, or a portfolio that is more tactical and temporarily moves money to the sidelines when the markets get crazy. A real human adviser reviews your investments with you twice a year, and Flat Fee does the trades for you. At the $129 level, the portfolios are simpler and fewer in number and you have only one meeting a year.
Mark A. Cortazzo, Flat Fee's founder, named the service after the price offering in an attempt to hint at its conflict-free nature. Like a growing number of investment advisers, Flat Fee earns money only from customers, not from commissions from mutual fund companies.
But even that is no guarantee of a lack of conflicts. ''If you have half a million dollars and I'm charging you 1.5 percent of your assets each year, and you call me wanting to take $100,000 to pay off your mortgage, the advice you are getting is conflicted,'' he said.
That is not how pricing usually works when advisers charge annual fees to customers. A financial services software company called PriceMetrix recently surveyed its clients who charge annual fees, from Morgan Stanley on down to smaller firms. It found that 37 percent of individual advisers were charging management fees of more than 1.5 percent a year on portfolios of $250,000 to $500,000 that have an even mix of stocks and bonds. Meanwhile, just 23 percent levy fees of less than 1 percent.
''There is no typical price,'' said Doug Trott, the president and chief executive of PriceMetrix. ''It's a well-supplied industry, but it's not very competitive.''
Whether Betterment and Flat Fee Portfolios can afford to stay in business in the lower pricing tiers is an open question. Betterment has about 4,000 accounts but the average balance is roughly $5,000 right now. It's hard to imagine that it will ever make money unless it attracts many more people.
Mr. Cortazzo, of Flat Fee Portfolios, said he had already made investments in the six figures in staff and his Web site, and he figured he would be spending more than he made for at least 18 months more. His financial planning firm, Macro Consulting Group, has $500 million under management; profits from that line of business allow him to invest in the Flat Fee part of the operation.
But he says he believes that his challenge is more about streamlining his service and efficiently finding his target customer than it is about competition. ''Most small advisory firms don't have the staying power to get to critical mass to make this profitable,'' he said. ''And the big financial services firms who could do this would cannibalize their existing business by coming up with model-based solutions with lower costs.''
That said, there are some similar services. I've written about MarketRiders and AssetBuilder in the past. Folio Investing is another one worth considering.
Meanwhile, Vanguard, Fidelity, Charles Schwab, TD Ameritrade and E*Trade all have their own offerings. If you're considering any of them, check the fees and ask whether there's an investment minimum, whether they will trade and rebalance for you and whether they're using the very best funds or ones that the firm has created. (As usual, links to every service I've mentioned are in the online version of this column.)
Again, it's not at all clear which of these services, if any, is built to last. But their proliferation is a welcome development at a time when the number of advisers and institutions interested in helping people with smaller balances continues to shrink.
''A whole segment of customers is being dislocated,'' Mr. Trott said. ''And there will be new opportunities for companies to satisfy their demands.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jon Stein, right, is the founder and chief executive of Betterment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Mark A. Cortazzo started Flat Fee Portfolios to offer financial advice to smaller investors. The fee is $199 a month for accounts over $250,000, or $129 a month for smaller accounts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES LEYNSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (73%); BONDS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011



933 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Avoiding Legal Problems When Managing a Household Staff

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
HOUSEKEEPERS have been in the news lately. Look no further than former Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, who recently admitted that he had a child more than 10 years ago with his former housekeeper.
But this column is for the other people who employ household help -- housekeepers, nannies, chefs, butlers and estate managers. Their problems are more about being compliant with employment and tax laws and ensuring low turnover.
''There is no rocket science in our business,'' said Travis Dommert, chief operating officer of the Lindquist Group, one of the oldest placement firms for household help in the country. ''It's about how you hire, manage and retain good people and not get sued in the process.''
Yet otherwise smart, wealthy people seem to have a harder time managing their household employees than the people they work with in their day jobs. Here are some tips for people planning to hire household help. 
NECESSITY VS. LUXURY During the recession, the market for household help was the inverse of other markets: middle- and upper-middle-class consumers kept it afloat, while the wealthiest cut back.
''Housekeeping and nanny requests are what kept us going through the recession,'' said Keith Greenhouse, president of the Pavillion Agency, a 50-year-old domestic staffing firm in New York.
The reason, said Mr. Greenhouse and others, is that many middle- and upper-middle-class couples need a housekeeper or a nanny so they can work.
''For most families with household staff, help is not a luxury but a necessity,'' said Kathleen English, who has worked with members of the Rockefeller family and now runs the English Household. ''Let's look at what we're talking about here. This category encompasses your babysitter, your cleaning lady, the helpmate for your mom, the folks who cut your grass and help keep your house running smoothly while you work.''
She said many of her clients had tried hard to retain their help during the downturn.
Among the wealthiest, though, a full accoutrement of servants is either less appealing or an expense they no longer want.
''I think people's lifestyles have changed,'' Ms. English said. ''While Prince Charles employs several hundred staff, William and Kate are more modern, live with less and are more casual in their lifestyles. Household staffing needs are beginning to reflect this modern view.''
Acknowledging this, Mr. Greenhouse said his firm had added a training school that employers could use to teach their existing household workers different skills -- and reduce the need to hire additional people. He cited the example of a longtime housekeeper who doesn't have the skills to serve a formal dinner.
COMMON MISTAKES Many affluent Americans are apt to skip over the logistical details when they deal with their household employees. They may rush the hiring process, run afoul of labor laws or create an unnecessarily stressful situation.
In interviewing candidates, the most common mistake people make is not being thorough. ''They overlook qualifications and background checks,'' said Kim Cassford, a former private chef and house manager who co-founded the staffing firm Cassford Management. ''You want to look at someone holistically. Check all their references. Are they stable emotionally? What's their credit history? Do they know C.P.R.? Just one isolated incident can ruin a child's life.''
The best-known problems, though, are hiring undocumented workers and not paying household help legally. Staffing firms say that while they make sure the people they place have proper documents, it is not their responsibility to address how the workers are paid.
''We offer a payroll service that is geared toward domestic staff,'' Mr. Greenhouse said. But some clients, he said, do not want to be told how to pay the people they employ.
''They want their staff and want to pay them however they want,'' he said. ''We don't advise that. But you can't twist their arms. They want to do it the way they want to do it.''
It is hard to believe that anyone thinks it is all right to employ illegal household staff or pay them under the table. But the chances of getting caught are low.
Timothy F. Geithner's confirmation hearings for Treasury secretary got bogged down in 2009 when it came out that he had employed a housekeeper whose working papers expired while she worked for him. And plenty of people in the wealthier suburbs around New York, where Mr. Geithner lived, blithely ignore the requirement to withhold income taxes for their nannies. But why?
''There is a knowledge gap and this perceived hassle factor,'' said Mr. Dommert of the Lindquist Group.
He said he had heard that more employers were caught during the recession because household workers filed for unemployment benefits and governmental agencies found there was no record of their past jobs.
The other big problem is with how people treat their employees. The State of New York is leading the way with labor laws intended to give greater protections to domestic workers, including overtime pay and vacation days. But many employers are uncertain how to comply with the laws.
''People have been asking me on the client side about the new labor laws,'' said Steven Laitmon, co-founder of the Calendar Group, a placement service based in Westport, Conn. ''That's tricky. Yet you need to respect your housekeeper's time as well.''
Inside the home, the employer often struggles with keeping the professional and the personal relationship separate. After all, these people are caring for your children or cleaning your bedroom.
''You should be friendly but not familiar,'' Ms. Cassford said. ''Try to maintain your distance. Your obligation is to pay them a timely wage. Once you open up an invitation to have that relationship that's too friendly, you've started a pattern. You can't go back.''
DISCUSS THE RULES FIRST Treating someone who works in your house as you would a subordinate at work may be difficult given the more intimate setting, but it is best for everyone involved, experts agreed. The consensus among staffing firms is that a house will function more smoothly when specific expectations are laid out.
''Whether it's middle class or ultrahigh net worth, one page of house rules could save your life, your marriage, your family,'' Mr. Dommert said. ''House rules start a dialogue around topics the employees are reluctant to ask: 'Where may I go? Where may I not go? What are topics I can discuss with you? When will I be paid and how will I be paid? Where should I park?'''
It is no different from any other workplace, he said. ''To hire people, not tell them the rules and expect them to meet your expectations is ludicrous, but that happens every day in people's homes.''
Once those expectations are laid out, the best way to keep everyone content is to have regular meetings. Assuming that someone will read your mind and intuitively know what needs to be done is a recipe for frustration and disappointment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kim Cassford, of Cassford Management. She says homeowners often fail to perform due diligence on candidates for household jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (79%); FAMILY (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (56%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (73%); PRINCE CHARLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011



934 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Once Again, U.S. Finds China Isn't Manipulating Its Currency

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration said Friday afternoon that China was not manipulating the value of its currency, choosing once again to avoid any escalation in the long-running trade dispute between the two countries. 
The Treasury Department said the renminbi was ''substantially undervalued'' relative to the dollar. It said that the Chinese government worked to hold down the value of its currency by purchasing large amounts of foreign currencies.
But the Treasury said that did not rise to the level of manipulation, which would have put the United States on a road to economic retaliation.
The judgment was expected. Successive administrations have made the same finding every six months since 1994. Moreover, China has allowed its currency to rise about 9 percent against the dollar over the last year, including the effects of inflation.
The Treasury was careful to describe that progress as ''insufficient,'' and to say that ''more rapid progress is needed.'' The depressed value of the renminbi makes Chinese goods cheaper here and American goods more expensive there.
But Eswar S. Prasad, a professor of trade policy at Cornell University, said the issue had been reduced ''from a flashpoint to an irritant'' in the relationship between the countries.
''Tensions on this issue continue to simmer but the administration clearly wants to call a truce and instead focus on more substantive elements of the bilateral economic relationship,'' like increased access for American companies, Professor Prasad said.
The Treasury must tell Congress twice a year whether countries that trade with the United States are suppressing the value of their currencies to gain a competitive advantage. No nation has been cited since China was named in 1994.
Members of Congress from both parties have pushed the administration to take a harder line, arguing that China's obvious manipulation has deleterious consequences for the American economy. China spent roughly $197 billion on foreign currencies in the first quarter of 2011 to hold down the value of its currency.
Releasing the report on the cusp of a holiday weekend, however, kept immediate criticism to a minimum because most members of Congress already had left town.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Counting renminbi. Despite complaints from Congress, the U.S. hasn't asserted manipulation by China for the last 17 years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011



935 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: In Tense Post-Bin Laden Trip to Pakistan, Clinton Seeks Firm Action on Extremists

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton warned Friday that relations between the United States and Pakistan had reached ''a turning point,'' and called on Pakistan's leaders to take urgent measures against Islamic extremists in the wake of the killing of Osama bin Laden.
Mrs. Clinton, the highest-ranking American official to visit Pakistan since a Navy Seal team found Bin Laden hiding in a garrison town 35 miles from the capital, did not get public pledges of cooperation from the Pakistanis. But she argued that it was in the interest of both countries to jointly pursue terrorists operating from havens in Pakistan. 
''We will do our part,'' she said in remarks at the American Embassy here, ''and we look to the government of Pakistan to take decisive steps in the days ahead.''
Mrs. Clinton was joined by the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Adm. Mike Mullen, who traveled to Pakistan separately. The carefully orchestrated diplomatic encounter was intended both to cajole the Pakistanis and to reassure them of political support at a time when Congress has threatened to cut economic and security aid. Pakistan has received $20 billion in aid from the United States since 2001.
The Pakistanis promised ''some very specific actions'' in the near future to show their commitment to fighting terrorism, Mrs. Clinton said in her public remarks, without elaborating.
A senior official traveling with her later, speaking only on condition of anonymity, following diplomatic protocol, said the actions included ''specific operations'' against individuals. The official said that for security reasons, their names could not be disclosed in advance, and might never be made public.
It remains to be seen whether the meetings eased the tensions and suspicions that have haunted relations with Pakistan so badly that American officials dared not notify its leaders in advance of the raid against Bin Laden. Many people in Pakistan see that raid less as a victory in fighting Al Qaeda than as an affront to the country's sovereignty and pride.
''They had no idea we could or we would do what we did,'' said another senior administration official traveling on Mrs. Clinton's airplane. ''That has changed their perspective in ways that we're still evaluating, and they're still trying to come to grips with.''
Friday's meetings did not appear to go well at first. Mrs. Clinton and Admiral Mullen appeared awkward and unsmiling when they met at the presidential palace with President Asif Ali Zardari, Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani and the army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani.
In brief remarks directed to Mr. Zardari, Mrs. Clinton said the Obama administration recognized ''the sacrifice that is made every single day by the men and women of your military and the citizens of your country,'' according to a video of that initial encounter. Mr. Zardari's response was inaudible because his staff had banned microphones from the room and had strictly limited access for journalists traveling with Mrs. Clinton.
The Americans and the Pakistanis did not otherwise appear together publicly or make a joint statement after the meetings, which also included the chief of Pakistan's intelligence service, Lt. Gen. Ahmed Shuja Pasha, who has denounced the killing of Bin Laden before Parliament as a ''sting operation.''
Mr. Zardari's office issued a brief written statement after Friday's meeting, saying the two countries agreed to ''work together in any future actions against high-value targets in Pakistan,'' The Associated Press reported from Islamabad. That appeared to reflect Pakistan's demand that the United States stop carrying out unilateral missions like the one that killed Bin Laden.
For their part, Mrs. Clinton and her aides played down the initial awkwardness and said that in private both sides discussed their concerns frankly but constructively, displaying an eagerness to cooperate against a threat that afflicts both countries.
She said again on Friday that she had ''absolutely no evidence'' to suggest that senior Pakistani civilian or military leaders knew Bin Laden was hiding in Abbottabad, north of the capital. But it was not clear whether the Pakistanis shared with Mrs. Clinton the results of the investigation they promised into who else might have known he was there.
Mrs. Clinton had postponed the visit as the Obama administration gauged Pakistan's reactions to the raid. The delay allowed her to coordinate her visit with Admiral Mullen's to maximize the impact of the administration's message. In the end, their visit lasted six and a half hours.
''Now is not the time for retreat or for recrimination,'' Admiral Mullen said in remarks with Mrs. Clinton at the embassy. ''Now is the time for action and close coordination, for more cooperation, not less.''
Since Bin Laden was killed, Pakistan has taken steps that appeared intended to undercut cooperation, not increase it. In addition to a flurry of anti-American statements from senior government figures, officials in Islamabad leaked the name of the C.I.A.'s station chief, and asked the Pentagon to withdraw some military advisers.
Mrs. Clinton's advisers decided to proceed with the visit after the Pakistanis allowed C.I.A. officers to interview Bin Laden's wives and then to scour the walled compound where Bin Laden was found for additional evidence. ''We've had some positive actions,'' another senior administration official aboard the secretary's plane said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss diplomatic matters.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters burned an American flag in Multan, Pakistan, on Friday during Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton's visit. Many see the U.S. raid that killed Osama bin Laden as an affront. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MK CHAUDHARY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); NAVIES (76%); RANKINGS (72%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); RELIGION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (59%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011



936 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Don't Scorn Paul Ryan

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
I hadn't realized until I met him on Tuesday that Paul Ryan had been a protege of Jack Kemp. But the minute I heard him talking about his late mentor, everything suddenly made sense.
Kemp -- the former pro football quarterback, longtime Republican congressman, secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and vice presidential candidate (on Bob Dole's 1996 ticket) -- was, above all else, a man of Big Ideas. Especially big economic ideas. An early advocate of supply-side economics and tax cuts for the rich, Kemp did as much as any single person to create the modern Republican gospel.
''Jack used to talk about the battle of ideas,'' Ryan told me. In fact, he lived for those battles. 
Ryan clearly views himself as Kemp's natural successor. At 41, he's been in Congress most of his adult life, where he has pushed the boundaries of Republican economic orthodoxy, just as Kemp did. He has the same kind of ''happy warrior'' mentality. (''I'm a walking pinata,'' he said with a smile.) And he's finally latched onto a Big Idea that could reshape the country even more than the Kemp-Roth tax cuts did in 1981 -- namely, the Republican budget he masterminded, particularly its radical vision for turning Medicare into, essentially, a do-it-yourself voucher program.
It was pure coincidence that I met Ryan on the same day that the Democrats were winning a special Congressional election in upstate New York that had been fought almost exclusively over his Medicare plan. The interview itself was not terribly enlightening; I got his standard talking points about how ''we can't keep kicking the can down the road,'' because ''Medicare will be bankrupt in nine years and the status quo is unsustainable.'' He was, not surprisingly, largely dismissive of the political importance of the Congressional race in New York. His most memorable line came as we were parting ways, when he shook my hand and said, ''We're heading toward a debt crisis. I don't want to be on the wrong side of history.''
I was not won over, just as I had not often been won over by Jack Kemp's various enthusiasms. Not that I expected to be. The Ryan plan, which would give seniors a fixed amount they can use to buy health insurance, would undoubtedly shift the cost burden over time from the government to seniors themselves, making health care far less affordable for millions of people. Ryan says that ''empowering'' health care consumers will help control costs, but that's absurd: Medicare itself has far more pricing power than the people who actually need treatment.
''It is a rejection of the social insurance principles that are at the root of Medicare,'' said Theodore Marmor, whose 1973 book, ''The Politics of Medicare,'' remains the classic work on the subject. ''Its pro-market conception is standard Republican orthodoxy.''
Yet I found myself disheartened as I read about the Democrats' gleeful reaction to the victory in New York. They had a strategy now: bash the Republicans into submission over the Ryan plan. In the Senate, the Democratic leadership forced a vote over Ryan's budget purely to force Republicans to cast a vote ''against'' Medicare. Clearly, the Democrats are going to make hay over the very idea that Republicans were trying to mess with Medicare, the most sacrosanct federal program of them all.
Why is this discouraging? Because even if Ryan's solution is wrongheaded, he's right that Medicare is headed for trouble. It might not be in nine years, but as health care costs continue to rise uncontrollably, and as baby boomers continue to age, Medicare will gobble up an ever larger percentage of the federal budget. ''The problems are real,'' said Alice Rivlin, the Brookings Institution fellow and former Congressional budget director (and a Democrat).
To put it another way, while the Democratic Party might be well served in trying to use the Ryan plan to bury their political opponents, the country itself is not. The debate we need is not about whether Medicare should be reformed, but how.
Marmor, for instance, says that the root problem is not with Medicare itself but with the larger phenomenon of rising health care costs. And he finds himself in philosophical agreement with Ryan about, as he puts it, ''the need to put Medicare on a budget,'' though he would approach it differently. Rivlin, along with former Senator Pete Domenici, a Republican, has come forth with a less-mean-spirited variant of Ryan's voucher plan. There are also parts of the Ryan plan that deserve serious consideration, like means-testing -- that is, forcing the elderly wealthy to pay more for health care than everyone else. At the very least, it shouldn't be dismissed out of hand.
It would be nice if we could treat the Ryan plan not as an object of derision but as a launching off point for a serious debate. That way, maybe for once we could avert a crisis instead of acting shocked when it finally arrives.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); TAX LAW (75%); ATHLETES (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); CITIES (57%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011



937 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: For Romney, a Fresh Start and a False Alarm

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
10:06 p.m. Updated DES MOINES - Mitt Romney's first Iowa campaign visit of the year was not foiled by controversial subjects on Friday afternoon, but by a bag of burned microwave popcorn.
-Just as he was answering a question about what makes him a better candidate in his second bid for the Republican presidential nomination, a fire alarm sounded at the Iowa Historical Building here. Mr. Romney paused and asked if he should exit the premises.
-''I wasn't trying to get out of tough questions,'' he said with a grin, ''I promise.'' 
-When the wailing siren subsided, the moderator asked, ''Do you really think you can win Iowa, given the strength of social conservatives in the state?''
-''Do I think I can win Iowa?'' Mr. Romney said. ''Can I win Iowa?''
-As a crowd of a few hundred people began to applaud, giving Mr. Romney a warm reception, the fire alarm sounded again. He urged his audience to evacuate and he led a procession out the door, signing autographs and posing for pictures along the way.
There are many metaphors that could be conjured up for the scene of Mr. Romney's debut in Iowa, where caucuses open the presidential nominating contest early next year. But the candidate kept a wide smile on his face and looked on the bright side.
-''I'll take my message to the street if I need to,'' he said, standing on a crowded sidewalk surrounded by well-wishers as fire trucks headed to the scene. By the time the all-clear signal was given, after firefighters determined that a smoldering snack was to blame for the commotion, time had run out in his schedule and he was en route to his next stop.
-His appearance was abbreviated, but offered enough time for a few revealing moments as Mr. Romney weighs how extensively to compete in Iowa, where he spent nearly $10 million four years ago. He said he was ''fully committed'' to campaigning in the state and appearing in debates.
--But Mr. Romney did not say whether he would participate in the Iowa Straw Poll in August -- an event that tests a candidate's organization -- which he won four years ago, only to finish second in the caucuses to Mike Huckabee. At the time, Mr. Romney criticized rivals for skipping the straw poll, but on Friday suggested the event was part of ''campaign tactics'' and was optional.
-''You'll see me more than you like in Iowa,'' he said, speaking to a crowd that included many supporters from 2008. ''You'll get to know me even better than the last time.''
-Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor who has purposefully taken a low-key approach to campaigning this year, will become a fully declared candidate when he announces his bid for the Republican presidential nomination next week in New Hampshire. He is making the case to voters that he would be the strongest nominee to challenge President Obama next year on a message of improving the economy and creating jobs.
-His introduction here, before it was cut short, contained repeated references to Mr. Obama.
-''I want to win that final race and say to Mr. Obama, 'You're a nice guy, we like you, you have a lovely family and you've done your best,''' Mr. Romney said. ''But frankly, it's time for somebody who understands how the country works.''
-Mr. Romney appeared at a presidential lecture series, sponsored by a coalition of business groups that is worried the political dialogue in the state has become overtaken by social issues. Four years ago, he struggled to connect with religious conservatives and often spent more time explaining his rightward-shifting positions on abortion and gay rights.
-Jose Laracuente, who owns an agricultural software business that Mr. Romney toured earlier Friday outside Des Moines, said that he and other Republicans were more interested in hearing proposals to improve the economy, rather than dwelling on social issues. He said that he was leaning toward supporting Mr. Romney, but added, ''It's very important for him to be here in Iowa.''
-For his part, Mr. Romney did not venture into many specifics. In a question-and-answer session with reporters, he declined to say whether, if he were president, he would sign into law the House Republican budget plan, sponsored by Representative Paul D. Ryan, that seeks to reduce spending by replacing Medicare with a voucher-based system for voters under 55.
-''That's the kind of speculation that is getting the cart ahead of the horse,'' he said. ''I'm going to propose my own plan. And my plan will be somewhat different than what the Paul Ryan plan is, but I support the objectives of the Paul Ryan plan in terms of keeping Medicare alive, keeping it solvent and keeping the nation solvent.''
-The site of Mr. Romney's event here on Friday was where Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota, announced his presidential candidacy on Monday. In addressing the nation's budget burdens, Mr. Pawlenty said he supported an end to programs like ethanol subsidies, which have been politically popular in this corn-producing state.
-A woman approached Mr. Romney on the sidewalk here on Friday and asked his position. He took a different approach from Mr. Pawlenty, saying: ''I support the subsidy of ethanol.''
-In addtiion to his appearance hear, Mr. Romney held a series of private meetings with influential activists before speaking at a picnic Friday evening near Cedar Rapids. At each turn, he saw people he seemed to recognize from 2008, when he spent months campaigning in Iowa.
-''I see so many friends here,'' Mr. Romney said. ''It's good to be home.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney in Des Moines on Friday. ''You'll see me more than you like in Iowa,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE NEIBERGALL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (76%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (74%); CONSERVATISM (71%); CELEBRITIES (66%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%) IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2011



938 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Inflation and Debt (Wonkish)

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Applying that can't-do spirit.

 BODY:
As I mentioned in an earlier post, the latest OECD Economic Outlook is a remarkable document -- and I mean that in the worst way. I've already pointed to the report's insistence that we must raise interest rates, because foofa grrzt bumble shazam -- OK, that's not quite what the report says, but it makes at least as much sense as the justification the report does offer.
More broadly, what the report does is to encapsulate in a particularly pure form the can't-do spirit that has gripped much of the world's policy elite (and which I've heard a lot of over the past two days). In his remarks presenting the report, the OECD's head admits that high unemployment is a terrible problem, which risks inflicting permanent damage; but he goes on to say that 
The room for macroeconomic policies to address these complex challenges is largely exhausted; therefore, we have to "go structural". 
How do we know that the room for macroeconomic policies is exhausted? Why should we "go structural" if the problems are mostly not structural (and unemployment definitely isn't structural to any large extent)?
Well, it's just that can't-do spirit. 
I've been focusing today on one special exemplar of that spirit in action. Chapter 1 (pdf) of the report has a box dismissing the possibility that a higher inflation target, which has been advocated among others by Olivier Blanchard and even Greg Mankiw, could do any good. The report does some arithmetic on the likely reduction in public debt burdens, finding that
a sustained increase in inflation by 2 percentage points would be required over a 10-year period to erode the average crisis-induced increase in the debt ratio in the OECD area
which the OECD takes as evidence that inflation can't be a useful response.
So, what's wrong with this? I see at least three things wrong.
First, the report writes as if a period of 4 percent inflation rather than 2 percent inflation would be a terrible thing, highly disruptive to the economy. Um:
Yes, it would be really horrible if we had inflation at the same rate as prevailed during Morning in America.
Second -- and this is technical but important -- the OECD assumes that higher inflation would be reflected one-for-one in higher interest rates. This is a good assumption in normal times -- but the whole reason we're in such a mess is the fact that short-term rates are up against the zero lower bound, that is, that we're in a liquidity trap. This means that short-term rates would not rise at all for some length of time if we had higher inflation, and that long rates, which reflect expected short rates, should rise less than one for one. In fact, that's one of the main arguments for higher inflation when you're facing a zero lower bound: it would reduce real interest rates. So the benefits for the public debt burden would be larger than the estimates suggest.
Third, public debt is not our only problem -- in fact, it's not the core problem. The key problem is, instead, the overhang of private debt:
And a period of modestly higher inflation would help reduce that private debt overhang, which would help promote economic recovery, which would in turn raise revenues and help the fiscal situation.
In sum, the case for higher inflation is vastly better than the OECD is willing to acknowledge. Again, it's that can't-do spirit.
Learned helplessness can be a terrible thing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INFLATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (63%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



939 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Breakfast Menu, May 29

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Some of this week's shows honor Memorial Day by focusing on the issues facing military personnel and veterans.

 BODY:
On this Memorial Day weekend, CNN's "State of the Union" and TV One's "Washington Watch" are recognizing the holiday by exploring the challenges facing military personnel and veterans.
CNN features Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington and chairwoman of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, who will discuss how unemployment troubles are plaguing veterans. She is joined by General Peter Chiarelli, the Army's vice chief of staff; Paul Rieckhoff, founder and executive director of Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans for America; Tim Tetz, legislative director for the American Legion; and Dale Beatty, a founder of Purple Heart Homes. The guests will shed light on the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder and housing options for wounded veterans, among other topics.
Also on CNN: Gov. Jay Nixon, Democrat of Missouri, updates viewers on the devastation and recovery efforts in Joplin, Mo., following last week's tornado.
Major General Vincent Brooks, who was the first African-American to command Fort Riley and will soon assume command of the Third Army at Fort McPherson in Georgia, is a guest on TV One this weekend. Joining him and other military personnel on the show is retired First Sgt. Albert Curley, one of the last surviving Buffalo Soldiers who served in the Army during World War II, the Korean War and the Vietnam War.
Senator John McCain, ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, appears on "Fox News Sunday," as will Representatives Allen West, Republican of Florida, and Donna Edwards, Democrat of Maryland.
Following another week of build-up toward the 2012 election, former Governor Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, who has announced he will run for president, and Governor Mitch Daniels of Indiana, who has announced he will not run, will be on ABC's "This Week."
CBS's "Face the Nation" and NBC's "Meet the Press" are also talking about 2012 and the implications for that election the current budget negotiations may have. On CBS, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor and Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, face off on the Republican jobs plan and the politics of Medicare. Meanwhile, NBC has the Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democratic Policy Committee chairman.
C-Span's "Newsmakers" features key player Senator Tom Coburn, the Republican of Oklahoma who recently dropped out of the Gang of Six, the bipartisan group tasked with forging a budget agreement.
South Carolina Representative Jim Clyburn, who is the third-highest ranking Democrat in the House of Representatives, also weighs in on the subject on Bloomberg's "Political Capital."
And at the end of a week that saw the Supreme Court uphold Arizona's law enforcing harsh punishments for employers of illegal immigrants, Univision's "Al Punto" has Ana Hernandez Luna, a Democratic state representative of Texas, which is in the process of passing a strict anti-immigration laws. Ms. Hernandez Luna recently became a face of the issue when she shared her story of once being an undocumented immigrant on the floor of the state Legislature.
Correction, May 29, 2011
An earlier version of this post misidentified the future command of Major General Vincent Brooks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (95%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); KOREAN WAR (72%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); WORLD WAR II (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (69%); BUDGETS (66%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%) The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

PERSON: JAY NIXON (58%); PATTY MURRAY (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); TOM COBURN (57%); MITCH MCCONNELL (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); DONNA F EDWARDS (57%); CHET EDWARDS (57%); ERIC CANTOR (56%); JAMES CLYBURN (56%); DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (56%); TIM PAWLENTY (55%); MITCH DANIELS (55%); ALLEN WEST (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



940 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: The Weekend Word: Brash

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington.

 BODY:
Today's Times
 It's only his freshman year, but Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, has made no secret of his anti-tax zeal, his dislike of government intervention and his willingness to stand alone. Mr. Rand was alone this week when he became the only Republican to delay voting on the U.S.A. Patriot Act with an attempt to squeeze in his libertarian-leaning amendments, which failed by wide margins. The Times's Jennifer Steinhauer reports on the senatorial peacock, who, at least for now, seems to be more interested in making points than laws.
 A federal judge in Virginia declared a century-old law banning political contributions from corporations to be unconstitutional, arguing that if corporations and people have an equivalent right to free speech under Citizens United, they also have an equivalent right to contribute to candidates. If upheld, The Times's Nicholas Confessore reports, the ruling could have major implications for the regime of rules governing campaign fund-raising and spending.
 Mitt Romney continued his bid for the Republican presidential nomination on Thursday with an appearance in Iowa that offered insight into his 2012 campaign, The Times's Jeff Zeleny reports. "You'll see me more than you like in Iowa," Mr. Romney told supporters. "You'll get to know me even better than the last time."
 President Obama wasn't in Washington on Thursday to sign legislation extending the Patriot Act, but the White House had a Plan B. For the first time in United States history, a bill has been signed into law by a mechanical autopen with Mr. Obama's official signature affixed, The Times's Michael D. Shear reports.
Weekly Addresses Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. took over for the president on Saturday to deliver this week's address and herald signs of recovery in the American automobile industry. Six years ahead of schedule and two years after emerging from bankruptcy, the Chrysler Corporation announced that it is repaying its loan from the federal government. Mr. Biden pointed to that and the addition of a third shift and 2,500 jobs at a General Motors plant as another victory for the Obama administration. "And because of what we did, the auto industry is rising again. Manufacturing is coming back. And our economy is recovering and it's gaining traction," he said.
 Eric Cantor, House Majority Leader and Virginia Republican, delivered his party's address this week, asking constituents which they would prefer: more taxes and more government or more growth and more jobs. "We saw the former when Democrat-controlled Washington enacted the nearly trillion-dollar stimulus program, which drove up our debt and failed to get people back to work," he said. "We've got to shift from a government that smothers new jobs and business growth to one that nurtures an environment for getting people back to work and back to what Americans do best: innovate, compete and lead." He unveiled his party's plan of action for economic growth: help the nation's job creators by adjusting the tax code, increase the export of American goods through recent trade agreements and repeal regulations that are deemed "barriers to growth and prosperity."
Around the Web For Newt Gingrich, the threat of climate change is cyclical. He didn't believe the "new Ice Age" theorists of the 1970s, and he doesn't believe the global warming activists of today, Politico reports. "I mean, if Al Gore had been able to in the 1970s, we could have been building huge furnaces to warm the planet against this inevitable coming ice age," he said.
Happenings Around Washington The Rolling Thunder motorcycle rally and "ride for freedom" will pay homage to the country's veterans, particularly those still prisoners of war or missing in action from all wars. Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates are scheduled to speak at the rally.
 Sarah Palin, the former governor of Alaska, will begin her One Nation Tour in Washington on Sunday.

        
The Early Word: Setting a Precedent
        
The Early Word: Heated
        
The Early Word: Running?
        
The Early Word: Tension
        
The Weekend Word: Nonnegotiable

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PATRIOT ACT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (75%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (74%); JUDGES (70%); FUNDRAISING (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (62%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (62%) The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (81%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); RAND PAUL (73%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



941 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Why Medical School Should Be Free

BYLINE: By PETER B. BACH and ROBERT KOCHER


HIGHLIGHT: Peter B. Bach, a senior adviser at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services from 2005 to 2006, is the director of the Center for Health Policy and Outcomes at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Robert Kocher, a special assistant to President Obama on health care and economic policy from 2009 to 2010, is a guest scholar at the Brookings Institution. They are both doctors.

 BODY:
DOCTORS are among the most richly rewarded professionals in the country. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that of the 15 highest-paid professions in the United States, all but two are in medicine or dentistry.
Why, then, are we proposing to make medical school free?
Huge medical school debts -- doctors now graduate owing more than $155,000 on average, and 86 percent have some debt -- are why so many doctors shun primary care in favor of highly paid specialties, where there are incentives to give expensive treatments and order expensive tests, an important driver of rising health care costs. 
Fixing our health care system will be impossible without a larger pool of competent primary care doctors who can make sure specialists work together in the treatment of their patients -- not in isolation, as they often do today -- and keep track of patients as they move among settings like private residences, hospitals and nursing homes. Moreover, our population is growing and aging; the American Academy of Family Physicians has estimated a shortfall of 40,000 primary care doctors by 2020. Given the years it takes to train a doctor, we need to start now.
Making medical school free would relieve doctors of the burden of student debt and gradually shift the work force away from specialties and toward primary care. It would also attract college graduates who are discouraged from going to medical school by the costly tuition.
We estimate that we can make medical school free for roughly $2.5 billion per year -- about one-thousandth of what we spend on health care in the United States each year. What's more, we can offset most if not all of the cost of medical school without the government's help by charging doctors for specialty training.
Under today's system, all medical students have to pay for their training, whether they plan to become pediatricians or neurosurgeons. They are then paid salaries during the crucial years of internship and residency that turn them into competent doctors. If they decide to extend their years of training to become specialists, they receive a stipend during those years, too.
But under our plan, medical school tuition, which averages $38,000 per year, would be waived. Doctors choosing training in primary care, whether they plan to go on later to specialize or not, would continue to receive the stipends they receive today. But those who want to get specialty training would have to forgo much or all of their stipends, $50,000 on average. Because there are nearly as many doctors enrolled in specialty training in the United States (about 66,000) as there are students in United States medical schools (about 67,000), the forgone stipends would cover all the tuition costs.
While this may seem like a lot to ask of future specialists, these same doctors will have paid nothing for medical school and, through their specialty training, would be virtually assured highly lucrative jobs. Today's specialists earn a median of $325,000 per year by one estimate, 70 percent more than the $190,000 that a primary care doctor makes. (Although a large shift away from specialty training may weaken the ability of our plan to remain self-financed, the benefits would make any needed tuition subsidies well worth it.)
Our proposal is not the first to attempt to shift doctors toward primary care, but it's the most ambitious. The National Health Service Corps helps doctors repay their loans in exchange for a commitment to work in an underserved area, but few doctors sign up. The National Institutes of Health offers a similar program to promote work in research and public health, but this creates more researchers, not more practitioners.
Many states have loan forgiveness programs for doctors entering primary care. The health care reform law contains incentive programs that will include bonuses for primary care doctors who treat Medicare patients, and help finance a small increase in primary care training positions.
Our proposal is certain to raise objections. Because some hospitals that provide training to specialists are not associated with medical schools, we will need a system to redistribute the specialty training fees and medical school subsidies. Several entities that have not collaborated before, including the organizations that license specialty training programs and medical school associations, would have to work together to manage this. For the plan to work, it will also be critical that medical schools do not start raising tuitions just because people other than their students are footing the bill.
Our plan would not directly address the chronic wage gap between primary care providers and specialists. But efforts to equalize incomes have been stymied for decades by specialists, who have kept payment rates for procedures higher than those for primary care services. When Medicare has stepped in, most of the increases given to primary care have been diluted by byzantine budgetary rules that cap total spending.
Nothing in our plan would diminish the quality of medical school education. If anything, free tuition would increase the quality of the applicants. Neither would our approach quash the creativity of medical schools in developing curriculums. Medical students would still be required to pass the various licensing examinations and complete patient care rotations as they are today.
Critics might object to providing free medical education when students have to pay for most other types of advanced training. But the process of training doctors is unlike any other, and much of the costs are already borne by others. Hospitals that house medical residents and specialist trainees receive payments from the taxpayer, through Medicare. Patients give of their time and of their bodies in our nation's teaching hospitals so that doctors in training can become skilled practitioners.
We need a better way of paying for medical training, to address the looming shortage of primary care doctors and to better match the costs of specialty training to the income it delivers. Taking the counterintuitive step of making medical education free, while charging those doctors who want to gain specialty training, is a straightforward way of achieving both goals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MEDICARE (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (79%); CANCER (79%); NURSING HOMES (79%); FAMILY PRACTICE (79%); STATISTICS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); MEDICAID (77%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (75%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); NEUROSCIENCE (72%); DENTISTRY (72%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (70%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (59%); CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%); MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (59%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF FAMILY PHYSICIANS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



942 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: THE CHATTER

 BODY:
''I look for companies that solve problems in intelligent and friction-free ways and break boundaries.'' Ashton Kutcher, who has become a smart early investor in some of the most talked-about Internet start-ups. 
''Everyone is taking their own position, and as a result cooperation has become an impossibility.'' Paul De Grauwe, an economist in Brussels, on the deepening debt crisis in Europe.
''We need a living wage where we can get by.'' Sonia Williams, a Target logistics employee in Valley Stream, N.Y., who says she earns $11.71 an hour, plus a $1-an-hour night differential. Some Target workers in New York are trying to unionize; the company says its wages are competitive.
''People with e-readers buy more books. That's an opportunity.'' Markus Dohle, chairman and chief executive of Random House, as BookExpo America, an annual trade show, was held in New York.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIVING WAGE (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); STARTUPS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); INTERNET & WWW (57%); EURO CRISIS (55%); DEBT CRISIS (55%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (87%) NEW YORK, USA (68%) EUROPE (87%); BELGIUM (87%); UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



943 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THEATER REVIEW WESTCHESTER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: You Call This a Golden Age? 1950s TV, via Neil Simon

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

 BODY:
There's something about New York City in the 1950s. It was a horrible time in crucial ways (sexism, racism, the Communist witch hunts). But on the surface, it was lovely. Americans dressed up for the office, took three-hour lunches and seemed to smoke and drink blithely with little thought of the consequences. All that postwar confidence!
So the Schoolhouse Theater's new production of Neil Simon's ''Laughter on the 23rd Floor'' had a lot going for it from the start. 
The play, which opened on Broadway in 1993 and was turned into a television movie in 2001, was inspired by Mr. Simon's early television career, working as one of the writers for Sid Caesar's variety-comedy series ''Your Show of Shows.'' The golden age of television wasn't all about earnest dramas on ''Playhouse 90.''
''Laughter'' is set in the writers' room of the fictional ''Max Prince Show,'' which of course bears a strong resemblance to the Caesar series. Mr. Simon's alter ego, Lucas, is the new guy, the youngster hoping to become a permanent part of the team. Israel Gutierrez, who plays Lucas, is well cast (he looks like every actor who has ever played a character based on the young Neil Simon), but he doesn't have much to do besides observe his wacky colleagues.
They include Val (Neal Mayer), a Russian emigre; Ira (Daniel Damiano), an annoying hypochondriac; Milt (Michael Basile), who wears berets just to stand out in a crowd; Kenny (Kevin Cristaldi), nicknamed the Genius; and Brian (Christian Thom), whose dream is to sell out to Hollywood.
The lone woman on the staff is Carol (Carmen Lamar), who spends most of Act II very pregnant. Carol, inspired by Lucille Kallen, part of the real-life ''Your Show of Shows'' writing team, is tough and irreverent like the guys, but she doesn't consider the blacklist a fit subject for humor. After all, any one of them could be accused of Communist sympathies and declared unemployable.
Mr. Simon doesn't try to turn the subject into comedy either. The closest thing to a joke about Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, who led the witch hunts, is Milt's description of him as ''a United States senator who giggles like Porky the Pig.''
Elsewhere the play, nicely directed here by Pamela Moller Kareman, has its share of one-liners. Asked whether his homeland, Russia, has television yet (this is early 1953), Val says: ''Television? They don't have doorbells yet.'' Kenny comments on another man's useless pets: ''Those dogs don't hunt. They point to food in supermarkets.''
The man the staff writes comedy for is Max Prince (Steve Perlmutter). When Nathan Lane played the role on Broadway, critics suggested that he sometimes seemed a lot like Jackie Gleason. Mr. Perlmutter bears a greater physical resemblance to the young Sid Caesar, and he succeeds in making a rather slight man the unpredictable terror and object of fear that powerful bosses can be.
''Laughter on the 23rd Floor'' is undeniably funny. It doesn't belong on the A-list of Mr. Simon's works, which include ''The Odd Couple,'' ''The Sunshine Boys,'' ''Brighton Beach Memoirs,'' ''Barefoot in the Park,'' ''Promises, Promises'' and his Pulitzer Prize winner, ''Lost in Yonkers.'' But it has a strong undercurrent of nostalgia, of youthful-paradise lost, which characterizes so many of his plays.
Although ''The Max Prince Show'' is smart and funny, it's in trouble. First, the network wants to cut it to an hour from 90 minutes. Then the bosses insist that they trim the budget by firing one of the writers. By the time of the 1953 Christmas party, the situation has deteriorated. (And although Sid Caesar and many of his writers went on to other series, ''Your Show of Shows'' ran only from 1950 to 1954.)
As Kenny says, ''Maybe we'll never have this much fun again in our entire lives.''
''Laughter on the 23rd Floor,'' by Neil Simon, is at the Schoolhouse Theater, 3 Owens Road, Croton Falls, through June 5. Information: (914) 277-8477 or schoolhousetheater.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GREAT CAESAR'S GHOST: In ''Laughter on the 23rd Floor,'' by Neil Simon, from left: Steve Perlmutter, Christian Thom, Israel Gutierrez and Michael Basile. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT STINE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); WRITERS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (74%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (69%); THEATER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



944 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: Survival Strategies For Orchestras

BYLINE: By VIVIEN SCHWEITZER

 BODY:
FROM the recent string of crises at symphony orchestras you might conclude that orchestral business models are as outdated as the musicians' Victorian attire. The Philadelphia Orchestra filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in April; the Honolulu Symphony and the Syracuse Symphony Orchestra recently folded; and musicians of the Detroit Symphony had their pay cut after a six-month strike. In a turbulent economy that has carried a wide range of organizations, including arts groups, banks and newspapers, to the brink, orchestras are being forced to re-examine their missions and structures to accommodate a changing fiscal and social landscape.
''Music Makes a City,'' an engaging documentary from last year about the Louisville Orchestra that was just released on DVD, offers an inspiring and cautionary tale of creative chutzpah and financial mismanagement. The orchestra, which itself filed for bankruptcy in December, was founded shortly after the floods that crippled Louisville, Ky., in 1937. 
It began as a ragtag ensemble that rehearsed, according to the film, ''in a gloomy room that smelled of stale beer.'' A young conductor, Robert Whitney, quickly drummed the ensemble into shape, but financial problems loomed from the start. Charles Farnsley, the mayor of Louisville from 1948 to 1953, suggested that the orchestra, instead of spending money on glamorous soloists, commission new pieces: a policy that the board, though initially shocked, adopted. The endeavor was facilitated in 1953 by a $400,000 grant from the Rockefeller Foundation to commission and record 52 compositions a year for three years. The DVD features lively interviews with some of the composers chosen, including Elliott Carter.
This remarkable venture, which resulted in works by Lukas Foss, Paul Hindemith, Roy Harris, Gunther Schuller and many others, put Louisville and its orchestra on the international cultural map and attracted luminaries like Shostakovich and Martha Graham to visit the city. But that wasn't enough to fend off the regular financial crises that have dogged the orchestra over the decades since, until its recent bankruptcy filing.
This perennial instability has stemmed in part from an overreliance on bailouts from private sponsors and large corporations, some of which reduced donations during difficult economic periods or moved out of town. ''No one wanted to face the reality that one day support would end,'' said Jorge Mester, the orchestra's current music director, in a telephone interview.
One solution being discussed is to reduce the Louisville Orchestra's 71 salaried players to 55 and fill in the gaps with freelancers. ''The musicians, of course, don't want to abandon their colleagues,'' Mr. Mester said. While the ideal is an orchestra that plays 52 weeks a year, he added, ''it's not a calamity'' to use freelancers. He doesn't fear that quality would suffer.
A reliance on freelancers is growing increasingly prevalent in many industries. Some first-rate orchestras, like the New York ensembles Orpheus Chamber Orchestra and Orchestra of St. Luke's, have long had freelance structures. But even with lower overhead many freelance music organizations are now playing fewer concerts and producing less income for the musicians.
Stewart Rose, a horn player with St. Luke's since 1983, also plays with Orpheus and the New York City Opera Orchestra and is currently on a temporary arrangement with the New York Philharmonic. He enjoys ''the variety that comes along with freelancing,'' he said in a telephone interview. But the time lag between performances during a slow stretch can be demoralizing, he said. ''It's really been tough for everyone with the decline in the amount of work out there.''
While the freelance model can be perilous for musicians, the upside for orchestras is a more flexible operating system. The rotating work force of the excellent Orchestra of St. Luke's, for example, makes it easier to survive challenging times.
''One of the things that makes us resilient is our flexibility,'' said Katy Clark, the orchestra's president and executive director. ''We don't spend what we don't have. We don't guarantee work to our musicians and don't require that they turn up. Even though you might think this would be anarchic, we have very stable personnel to an amazing extent.''
Another benefit of freelance orchestras, Ms. Clark added, is that they tend to have more inclusive management styles and thus suffer less labor friction.
St. Luke's currently has balanced budgets, no operating deficit and a new revenue stream from the DiMenna Center for Classical Music, a complex for performance and rehearsals that opened in March, with rooms for rent by outside groups at affordable rates. The orchestra, which is often presented by Carnegie Hall and other organizations in collaborative partnerships that Ms. Clark described as fundamental to its success, has not cut any of its self-produced programs but has received fewer fee engagements during the recession.
''Orchestras need calibrating for a different world with different priorities,'' Ms. Clark said. ''I don't feel pessimistic, but it's a grueling process to have to go through redefinition and recalibration.''
Grueling but potentially beneficial, according to Alan D. Valentine, president and chief executive of the Nashville Symphony, which went through bankruptcy in 1988 and streamlined its operations. ''Chapter 11 bankruptcy is not the end of the world,'' Mr. Valentine said. ''It's a tool that businesses use every day to restructure debt and their operations.''
After the orchestra moved into the new Schermerhorn Symphony Center in 2006, Mr. Valentine said, ticket sales increased from $2.6 million in the 2005-6 season to more than $7 million in 2006-7. Sales have remained strong.
New buildings like the Schermerhorn and DiMenna centers may justify their cost. But the high fees paid to music directors seem unsustainable.
True, a vibrant and innovative director -- Gustavo Dudamel in Los Angeles, David Robertson in St. Louis, Alan Gilbert in New York -- can attract new audiences with adventurous programming. The New York Philharmonic's Web-savvy promotional campaign for its terrific production of Ligeti's modernist opera ''Le Grand Macabre'' last spring created a buzz for the orchestra, and an unusually youthful audience attended the sold-out concerts.
But conductors (some of whom hold multiple positions and most of whom earn extra money from guest-conducting gigs) often receive 10 to 30 times the salaries of the musicians in their orchestras. According to tax documents, in the 2008-9 season Lorin Maazel was compensated $3.3 million as music director of the New York Philharmonic; Michael Tilson Thomas, $1.6 million as music director of the San Francisco Symphony; Charles Dutoit, $1.2 million as chief conductor of the Philadelphia Orchestra. Executive directors can earn up to $1.5 million. In comparison base pay in the 2010-11 season for players in top orchestras like the New York Philharmonic, the Los Angeles Philharmonic and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra averaged around $130,000 to $136,000. (A few musicians received up to $500,000.) Members of regional orchestras earn less; at the Nashville Symphony musicians receive a minimum of $53,000 and benefits.
The highly trained musicians, you could argue, deserve every penny of their salaries. But as with extravagant conductor fees, it also seems unsustainable to pay star soloists huge fees. According to a former employee of the major agency Columbia Artists Management with knowledge of contracts, top performers like the pianist Lang Lang and the violinist Anne-Sophie Mutter often collect $75,000 or more for three subscription concerts with a major orchestra. Fees for their solo recitals are usually in the $65,000 range.
Starry names sell tickets, but a reliance on subscription sales is outdated, given that members of the keep-your-options-open generation seldom commit to events months in advance. Orchestras also need to increase their relevance to their local audiences, although at a recent discussion hosted by the radio station WQXR, Raymond M. Hair Jr., the president of the American Federation of Musicians of the United States and Canada, said musicians often resent having their job descriptions expanded to include education and outreach activities. That proved a major issue in the Detroit Symphony strikes, after which minimum salaries were cut from $104,650 to $79,000.
Alan Pierson, the recently appointed artistic director of the Brooklyn Philharmonic, which has also seen its fair share of financial woes, said in the discussion: ''It doesn't mean that every member of the orchestra should be out there talking to kids. But as these great orchestras are facing trouble, we as organizations have to work harder to make a case that we need to exist, that these organizations have a vital role in the community.''
In ''Music Makes a City'' the narrator says that Mayor Farnsley believed in the Confucian principle that high culture would attract wealth and power, an idea borne out when General Electric cited the cultural attractions of Louisville in its decision to move there in the 1950s. And the arts still attract business: Paula Angelo, a spokeswoman for Nissan, said in a telephone interview that Nashville's ''robust cultural environment'' was a factor in the company's decision to relocate its headquarters there from Los Angeles in 2006.
Orchestras have been slow to adapt to changing times, but a younger generation of prodigiously talented, hard-working and forward-thinking musicians are fostering innovative ways to attract fresh audiences and remain vital to their communities. New, streamlined ensembles, we may hope, will rise from the ashes of old ones. Perhaps they'll even lose the white tie and tails.
Correction: June 12, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption with an article on May 29 about survival strategies for urban orchestras misidentified the man holding a record album. He is Robert Whitney, a former conductor of the Louisville Orchestra, not Charles Farnsley, who was mayor of Louisville from 1948 to 1953 and an enthusiastic supporter of the orchestra.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Louisville Orchestra (above in 1950, led by Robert Whitney, left foreground) revived its fortunes by commissioning new works in the 1950s. Louisville's mayor, Charles Farnsley, right, was a booster. Below, a recent concert of the Orchestra of St. Luke's, with the conductor Ivan Fischer and the violinist Nikolaj Znaider (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LOUISVILLE ORCHESTRA
CHARLES FENTRESS, JR./COURIER-JOURNAL
 JENNIFER TAYLOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); FOUNDATIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (95%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (91%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%) KENTUCKY, USA (95%); HAWAII, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: Music Makes a City (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



945 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Why Are Investors Still Lining Up for Bonds?

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
THERE is nothing more intimidating than the bond market, once it starts flexing its muscles. So said James Carville, the Democratic political strategist, after finding himself on the losing side of some bruising budget battles in the 1990s.
''Who the hell knew it was so powerful?'' he said. ''If it gets nervous, everybody has to calm it down. If I'm ever reincarnated, I want to come back as the bond market,'' Mr. Carville continued. ''Then everybody will be afraid of me and have to do what I say.''
But where is that fearsome bond market now? It has been docile, to say the least. Consider these events.
In mid-April, Standard & Poor's placed United States debt on negative watch, saying there was a one in three chance that over the next few years it would actually downgrade the Treasury's pristine triple-A rating. The agency cited concerns about the ability of Congress and the White House to agree on a plan to reduce the budget deficit. 
On May 16, the Treasury hit its statutory debt ceiling -- the point at which the government cannot borrow more money without Congressional action. But Congress didn't act. To keep the government operating and bondholders paid, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner announced a series of maneuvers that bought some time. The clock is ticking, however. If Congress doesn't enact legislation by Aug. 2, he said, the United States will default on its debt.
Has this melodrama shaken the bond market? Not a bit.
Since April 18, the prices of Treasuries haven't fallen. To the contrary. They've risen while yields, which move in the opposite direction, have plummeted. On Friday, the 10-year Treasury yield dipped as low as 3.05 percent, its trough for the year. Despite a mounting debt burden and a dithering government, Treasuries have rallied.
Factor in the pronouncements of the Federal Reserve, and the situation is even more puzzling. In its program of ''quantitative easing,'' aimed at stimulating the economy and driving up asset prices -- QE2, as it has been called -- the Fed has been buying longer-term Treasuries. But it says it will end the program on schedule next month.
Any economics student knows that when you cut demand -- in this case, when the Fed ends QE2 -- all things being equal, prices ought to decline. And yet, despite the Fed's announcement, prices have risen and yields have fallen to extraordinarily low levels. Inflation-protected Treasuries, also known as TIPS -- those with terms ranging up to six years -- actually have negative real yields, meaning their yields are even less than the rate of inflation. Buyers are essentially paying the Treasury for the privilege of owning them.
''There's something wrong with this picture,'' said Scott Minerd, chief investment officer of Guggenheim Partners. He adds, however, that the picture is bigger than this. ''Examine the rest of the world for a moment,'' he said in a recent interview. ''Compare it to everyplace else, and the United States starts to look a lot better and a lot of this starts to make more sense.''
Europe and Japan, the two other large advanced economies, face crises that are, arguably, far more acute. In the aftermath of an earthquake, a tsunami and a still unfolding nuclear disaster, Japan is struggling through a recession.
In Europe, the probabilities have risen that Greece will need another bailout or will need to restructure its debt or default on it. Ireland and Portugal, which have also needed bailouts, are also troubled, and the European Union has so far been unable to come up with a solution. Leaders of the Group of 8 nations meeting in Deauville, France, on Thursday and Friday failed to make significant headway on these issues.
Meanwhile, growth in red-hot emerging market countries like China has begun to slow, as their central bankers raise interest rates to limit inflation.
Given the alternatives, the bond market has found United States debt quite appealing. The market is convinced that in the end, Washington politicians will trim the budget deficit, Mr. Minerd said. If that perception were to change, the market would react with vehemence, he said. ''I think everyone expects that Congress will come to its senses before it's too late,'' he said.
With signs that economic growth is slowing -- rattling the stock and commodity markets -- the Fed is likely to hold interest rates near zero for months, he said, and Treasury yields are likely to dip even lower, meaning more profits for bond traders.
By this summer, industrial growth will be visibly slowing around the world, said Lakshman Achuthan, the managing director of the Economic Cycle Research Institute, a private forecasting group. The markets have probably reacted to early indications of that slowdown, he said, bolstering bonds and hurting stocks and commodities. ''Until there are signs of another pickup in economic growth,'' he said, ''I wouldn't be buying on dips in the stock market.'' In this context, he said, Treasuries may seem a safer bet.
William H. Gross, the co-chief investment officer of the Pacific Investment Management Company, or Pimco, the world's biggest bond manager, ruefully compared investors in Treasuries to complacent frogs sitting in a pot of slowly heating water. ''Bond investors are receiving almost nothing for their money, and the situation is getting worse and worse. But they've gotten used to it. They don't realize how bad it is. And before they know it, well, they'll be cooked.''
Since early this year, Mr. Gross has been making statements like this, predicting the imminent end of the Treasury rally. ''I was premature,'' he said, adding, however, that his arguments were valid, if not well-timed.
At some point, he said, bond investors will realize that by accepting low -- and even negative -- real yields, they are being ''skunked.'' Using a fancier term, he said, they are experiencing ''financial repression,'' a hidden tax that is of great benefit to the government, which will be able to pay back its debt more cheaply as time goes on.
IN a situation like this, wealth is transferred from investors to a debtor government without investors entirely realizing it, said Carmen M. Reinhart, an economist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. Ms. Reinhart, who has written extensively on the subject, says financial repression is still common in the developing world. Until the onset of the financial crisis, though, it had all but vanished from developed countries.
Now, she said, with debts mounting and central banks holding down interest rates, ''We are beginning to see financial repression once again in developed countries like the United States.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INFLATION (86%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); DEBT CEILING (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); LEGISLATION (72%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



946 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 2807 words

HEADLINE: 20 Weeks in Which the Budget Held Sway

BYLINE: By THE TEXAS TRIBUNE

 BODY:
The 82nd Texas Legislature's regular session ends as it started, with lawmakers arguing about a shrunken state budget and redistricting.
With Republicans operating with a supermajority in the House and a commanding majority in the Senate, there was little doubt that the G.O.P. would be able to impose its will.
What was new was the power exerted by the Tea Party movement, which helped propel dozens of new lawmakers into the Capitol to hold the line on solving the budget mess without raising significant new revenue or tapping the state's sizable Rainy Day Fund.
As a result, legislators have made serious cuts to education, health and human services, and other state programs that will be felt over the next two years. They also hammered out political maps for everything except, notably, the state's Congressional delegation. 
During the last 20 weeks, they made some expected stops on issues like abortion, voter ID, and immigration, and some unexpected ones for shooting hogs from helicopters, regulating puppy mills and making it legal to pull catfish out of the water with your bare hands, a feat known as noodling.
Here's a rundown on some of the key issues.
Budget
It's hard to write a budget when the state is short of money and lawmakers insist up front that they will stay out of the state's savings account and not raise taxes.
They did it, but only by cutting a record $15.2 billion from current spending, including a $4 billion reduction in what public education would get under current law, and setting aside $4.8 billion in expected Medicaid spending in hopes that the federal laws or the economy will change before they have to spend that money in 2013.
The budget process limped to the end of the session -- with lawmakers approving the budget on Saturday -- dependent on related legislation pulling $3.2 billion from the state's Rainy Day Fund so the state wouldn't default on bills for the current budget, but using none of it to help close the huge shortfall for 2012-13. That balancing act required some money from a combination of deferred payments and accelerated tax collections and other tricks, cuts to programs throughout state government, and rosy forecasts that lower the price tags on programs where costs are rising with the state population, inflation and participation rates.
As local school districts write their own budgets and decide their tax rates for the coming school year, state lawmakers will learn how their public education cuts and new formulas for state aid to local schools translate back home. And they will face re-election -- in new political maps -- on the basis of the reactions to those and other provisions of the two-year spending plan.
KEY PLAYERS Representative Jim Pitts, Republican of Waxahachie and chairman of the House Appropriations Committee; Senator Steve Ogden, Republican of Bryan and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee; Gov. Rick Perry; Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst; and Speaker Joe Straus.
-- ROSS RAMSEY
Immigration
It was supposed to be the session of birther bills, criminalizing an illegal immigrant's presence in the state (as opposed to being only a federal civil violation), limiting an illegal immigrant's access to courts, mandating electronic employment verification and even stripping babies born in Texas to illegal immigrants of their birthright citizenship. But the 82nd Legislature, as a whole, did not have the stomach for the most draconian proposals.
Even the so-called ''sanctuary cities'' legislation, which some called ''Arizona lite,'' failed to make much headway. (It would have prohibited communities from adopting policies that would prevent law enforcement officers from inquiring about the immigration status of people detained or arrested.) It did not pass the Senate after Democrats, 12 in all, voted against bringing up the bill for a floor debate.
Some immigration measures are on their way to the governor's desk, including a bill that would allow counties to adopt stricter rules for legal immigrants who apply for indigent health care. And it is possible that some of the tougher proposals may yet be resurrected in the final hours of the session.
KEY PLAYERS Representative Burt R. Solomons, Republican of Carrollton, who got the sanctuary cities bill out of the House, and Senator Thomas D. Williams, Republican of The Woodlands, who sponsored the bill in the Senate but did not try to circumvent the two-thirds rule when Democrats stopped it from coming to the floor for debate.
-- JULIAN AGUILAR
Redistricting
Texas Republicans couldn't have timed their huge victories in November any better, increasing their numbers in the State Legislature and the Congressional delegation just before it came time to institutionalize those results with new redistricting maps. Lawmakers drew maps for the State Board of Education, for the State Senate and for the State House, but not for Congressional districts.
The Senate map is a classic incumbent-protection plan, with only one of the 31 senators -- Wendy Davis, Democrat of Fort Worth -- in a hostile new district, which will be vulnerable to a court challenge because it splits minorities in a way that opponents say violates the federal Voting Rights Act. As for the House, the new map puts 90 to 93 incumbents in districts where Republicans ordinarily beat Democrats.
Unless there's a special session with cartography on the agenda, the Congressional maps will be drawn by the federal courts. Texas gets four new seats as a result of its growth over the last decade. Republicans have a claim on at least two. But 89 percent of the state's growth was in minority populations, giving rise to counterclaims for those new seats.
KEY PLAYERS Representative Burt R. Solomons, Republican of Carrollton, and Senator Kel Seliger, Republican of Amarillo, the chairmen, respectively, of the House and Senate redistricting committees.
-- ROSS RAMSEY
Public Education
The legislative session brought public schools one drastic change -- $4 billion less in state financing -- but not much else.
Many lawmakers entered the session with hopes that the spartan budget could propel reform in school finance and education policy. But even legislation billed as a method to help school districts cope with the deep cuts stalled. Measures that singled out often-criticized ''unfunded mandates'' -- state regulations on class size, furloughs and layoffs championed by education leaders in both chambers but fiercely opposed by teachers associations -- died one after another.
Lawmakers did succeed in passing a bill that expands the definition of bullying, an issue that has drawn much public attention after a spate of bullying-related suicides. But they declined to include any mention of bullying related to sexual orientation or perceived sexual orientation -- the cause of some of the recent suicides. H.B. 1942 from Representative Diane Patrick, Republican of Arlington, does add cyberbullying to the books, however, and gives school districts more flexibility in how they address aggressive behavior in the classroom.
As of Saturday morning, chief negotiators from both chambers had reached agreement on school financing formulas. The plan, which awaits approval from the full Legislature, avoids any extensive policy overhaul, leaving that for lawmakers to study over the interim and take up during the 83rd Legislature.
KEY PLAYER State teachers associations. They lost the financing battle, but flexed their muscles and defeated a score of measures -- the final body count will likely include charter schools and teacher evaluation bills -- initially popular with the Republican majority.
-- MORGAN SMITH
Higher Education
Members of the state's higher education community grappled with how to raise productivity -- higher graduation rates, more efficiency in teaching -- while cutting their budgets as a result of reductions in state financing.
The cuts, though not quite as deep as originally proposed, still sting. A 25 percent reduction in money for special items not contained within basic financing formulas hit the state's smaller universities particularly hard. Lawmakers tried to provide relief by eliminating some unfunded mandates.
Additionally, they approved the development of a financing system for colleges and universities that rewards outcomes like higher graduation rates. They also consented to giving high-achieving students priority access to the state's primary need-based grant program, which will be available to nearly 29,000 fewer would-be students in the next two years.
But the real excitement occurred outside the legislative chambers. Actions by the chairman of the University of Texas System Board of Regents, Gene Powell, unexpectedly provoked an intense statewide examination into the behind-the-scenes influence of a small group of individuals -- Gov. Rick Perry and his allies at the Texas Public Policy Foundation, a conservative research organization, who have pushed the state's public university systems to embrace a set of proposals that they say would increase transparency, efficiency and accountability.
Critics of the proposals say they are anti-intellectual and would be especially damaging to the state's flagship institutions. The controversy prompted the formation of a new Joint Oversight Committee on Higher Education Governance, Excellence and Transparency led by Representative Dan Branch, Republican of Dallas, and Senator Judith Zaffirini, Democrat of Laredo.
KEY PLAYERS Jeff Sandefer, an Austin businessman, Perry donor and Texas Public Policy Foundation board member, who wrote the so-called ''breakthrough solutions.''
-- REEVE HAMILTON
Criminal Justice
For the first time, Texas will shutter a maximum-security prison unit. Lawmakers decided to close the Central Unit in Sugar Land, a Houston suburb. For years, city leaders had asked for the facility to be closed, and the state's multibillion-dollar budget hole made that wish come true. Lawmakers estimate that the closing will save the state $50 million over two years.
A new agency, the Texas Juvenile Justice Department, will take on the duties of the Texas Youth Commission and the Texas Juvenile Probation Commission, which will be eliminated (and three youth detention facilities could be closed). The goal, lawmakers said, is to keep young offenders closer to their homes and rehabilitation services in urban areas. Combining the agencies should save about $150 million.
The Windham School District, which provides education for the state's 150,000 prisoners, unexpectedly came under attack. Lawmakers said there was not enough accountability in the program and questioned whether inmates could take online classes instead. They threatened to eliminate the school district, but it survived, although its budget was slashed.
Advocates for the rights of people accused of crimes made significant headway with measures that will reform how the police make use of eyewitness identification and expand prisoners' access to postconviction DNA testing. The Legislature also passed a bill to ensure that those who were wrongfully convicted are compensated for their time behind bars.
KEY PLAYER Senator Rodney Ellis, Democrat of Houston and chairman of the Innocence Project, saw to the passage of bills intended to stop and to correct wrongful convictions.
-- BRANDI GRISSOM
Health and Human Services
The big story was the budget -- and the Medicaid rate cuts inflicted on the hospitals, doctors and providers who treat Texas' neediest patients. Other health-efficiency legislation sharply altered how hospitals are financed, expanded managed care and authorized pay-for-performance pilot programs for medical providers.
But the political drama surrounding abortion and money for family planning programs threatened to overshadow all of it. After passing legislation requiring women who are seeking abortions to get a sonogram and to hear a description of the fetus 24 hours before the procedure, Republican lawmakers removed tens of millions of dollars in financing for contraception and reproductive health screenings for low-income women. (On Friday, the Medicaid Women's Health Program, which gets $9 in federal money for every $1 the state spends, had been quietly revived in the state budget.)
As with similar efforts in Washington and in other states, the Republicans' goal was to put Planned Parenthood -- which provides abortions in some of its clinics, but none of the ones that receive state dollars -- out of business.
By Saturday morning, bills banning or curbing the carrying out of the new federal health care overhaul were dead or dying. But a measure to ask Washington for control of Medicaid and Medicare had new life.
KEY PLAYERS Representative Lois W. Kolkhorst, Republican of Brenham, pushed for state sovereignty in health care, while Representative John M. Zerwas, Republican of Simonton, an anesthesiologist, served as her more moderate foil. In the Senate, Jane Nelson, Republican of Flower Mound, shepherded Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst's health overhaul plan, while Senator Robert Deuell, Republican of Greenville and a family physician, kept Planned Parenthood in his cross hairs.
-- EMILY RAMSHAW
Energy
''Landmark'' is how politicians are describing legislation that will require disclosure of the chemicals used in the drilling practice known as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. The legislation, which has passed both houses, will mandate well-by-well disclosures on a public Web site, and oils and gas drillers say it could serve as a model for other states, although environmentalists remain concerned about provisions that allow companies to exclude ''trade secrets'' from disclosure.
A bill that would make changes to the oil and gas industry's regulator appeared dead on Saturday. Lawmakers had sought to change the name of the Railroad Commission to the more accurate Texas Oil and Gas Commission and also alter its structure.
On water, lawmakers passed legislation to clarify that landowners have a ''real property right'' to Texas groundwater.
They also approved expansion of a planned radioactive-waste dump in West Texas and handed significant rate-setting authority for some waste to the site's operator, Waste Control Specialists, a company majority-owned by Harold Simmons, a Dallas billionaire, and his family.
KEY PLAYER Representative James L. Keffer, Republican of Eastland, who pushed for the fracking legislation.
-- KATE GALBRAITH
Surprises
It's the Texas Legislature: Expect the unexpected. Among the biggest head-scratchers? In the face of the largest budget shortfall in state history, lawmakers left billions of dollars in the Rainy Day Fund. In the end, it was a school finance meltdown that jeopardized lawmakers' summer plans by threatening a special legislative session. And, despite entering the 2011 session with a supermajority in the House, Republican lawmakers still struggled to get some key measures through.
A lockup over windstorm insurance -- pitting Gov. Rick Perry against trial lawyers who have spent millions against him -- came down to the wire, creating another threat of legislative overtime. Other surprises include Republican lawmakers' determination to gut contraception and family planning (anything connected to Planned Parenthood) though budget experts believe such efforts will cost the state money in additional Medicaid births and loss of federal dollars. And the higher education ''research vs. classroom'' sideshow saw key lawmakers tangle with the University of Texas System Board of Regents and Mr. Perry.
Nothing's dead until Monday. But in the waning hours of the session, efforts to allow concealed handguns on college campuses and to ban so-called ''sanctuary cities'' for illegal immigrants appeared to be fizzling.
KEY PLAYERS Gov. Rick Perry: This session, when the governor set an agenda, lawmakers took note; on Saturday morning they were well on their way to passing all but one of his emergency items. And they followed his budget wishes -- balancing the shortfall without the Rainy Day Fund -- even in the face of pressure from financially beset schools and angry parents and health care providers.
Representative David Simpson, Republican of Longview: The freshman engaged in quixotic battles, opposing bills regulating puppy mills and banning ''salvia'' and got crosswise with the federal government over his bill to criminalize ''groping'' by airport security agents.
-- EMILY RAMSHAW and BRANDI GRISSOM
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
Correction: June 5, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an earlier version of an article assessing the Texas legislative session had an incorrect name for the operator of a planned radioactive-waste dump in West Texas. It is Waste Control Specialists, not Waste Energy Specialists.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As legislators argued points on bills, plotted strategy and voted on measures, other Texans took their concerns to the streets of Austin. Among the demonstrations during the regular session of the 82nd Legislature were ones against abortion and proposed cuts in spending on education. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CALEB BRYANT MILLER/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE
MARJORIE KAMYS COTERA FOR THE TRIBUNE
CALEB BRYANT MILLER/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE
RIGHT, BOB DAEMMRICH FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) (27A)
 The Capitol was a busy place as the session wound down. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CALEB BRYANT MILLER/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) (27B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REDISTRICTING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); APPROVALS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (64%); IMMIGRATION (53%); DOGS (52%); HELICOPTERS (52%); KENNELS & PET BREEDERS (52%)

PERSON: JOSEPH R PITTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011



947 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 245 words

HEADLINE: Eleanor Shephard, Ty Buckelew

 BODY:
Eleanor Margaret Shephard and Ty Richard Buckelew were married Saturday at the Carlyle Hotel in New York. The Rev. Gregory P. Fryer, a Lutheran minister, officiated. 
The bride, 33, is keeping her name. She is a vice president for human resources in the asset management division of JPMorgan Chase in New York. She graduated from Cornell, from which she also received a master's in industrial and labor relations.
She is a daughter of Caroline B. Shephard and Harold C. Shephard, both of Lawrence, Kan. Her parents, who are retired, founded a real estate development company in Lawrence.
The bridegroom, 41, is the executive director for the Institute for Civic Leadership, a nonprofit organization in partnership with the Dwight School, a private school in New York that encourages high school students to become involved in community service. He graduated from Columbia and received a Master of Public Administration in nonprofit management from Baruch.
He is a son of Katherine Picken Buckelew and Richard K. Buckelew of Dunwoody, Ga. The bridegroom's father retired as a physical education teacher at Hackensack High School in Hackensack, N.J. In the 1970s and 1980s, he was a scout for three professional basketball teams coached by Hubie Brown: the New York Knicks and the Atlanta Hawks as well as the Kentucky Colonels of the American Basketball Association. The bridegroom's mother retired as a home economics teacher at West Milford High School in West Milford, N.J.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); BASKETBALL (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (55%); ATLANTA HAWKS (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (72%); JPM (LSE) (72%); 8634 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (67%); KANSAS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



948 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Can I See License, Registration And C.P.U.?

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
MOST of us don't trust computers completely, and for good reason. Our smartphones freeze and our hard drives crash with disconcerting regularity. Yet we frequently place our lives in the hands of computers, which are embedded in our cars, operate airplane navigation systems and even help conduct robot-guided laser surgery.
Inescapably, computers will be playing an ever larger role in our lives. But exactly what tasks will they be allowed to perform, and how will we use government regulation to evaluate the risks associated with new technologies? These questions will be increasingly pressing as innovations strain the longstanding rules that regulate modern life. 
Consider one potentially important technology, the driverless car. The idea is simple: a computer drives the car for you, based on input from the surrounding environment. Putting a computer behind the wheel may sound scary, but in road tests performed by Google and other companies, the cars have had a good safety record.
The benefits of driverless cars are potentially significant. The typical American spends an average of roughly 100 hours a year in traffic; imagine using that time in better ways -- by working or just having fun. The irksome burden of commuting might be lessened considerably. Furthermore, computer-driven cars could allow for tighter packing of vehicles on the road, which would speed traffic times and allow a given road or city to handle more cars. Trips to transport goods might dispense with drivers altogether, and rental cars could routinely pick up customers. And if you worry about the environmental consequences of packing our roads with cars, since we can't do without them entirely, we still can make those we use as efficient -- and as green -- as possible.
The point is not that such cars could be on the road in large numbers tomorrow, but that we ought to give the cars -- and other potential innovations -- a fair shot so that a prototype can become a commercial product someday. Michael Mandel, an economist with the Progressive Policy Institute, compares government regulation of innovation to the accumulation of pebbles in a stream. At some point too many pebbles block off the water flow, yet no single pebble is to blame for the slowdown. Right now the pebbles are limiting investment in future innovation.
The driverless car is illegal in all 50 states. Google, which has been at the forefront of this particular technology, is asking the Nevada legislature to relax restrictions on the cars so it can test some of them on roads there. Unfortunately, the very necessity for this lobbying is a sign of our ambivalence toward change. Ideally, politicians should be calling for accelerated safety trials and promising to pass liability caps if the cars meet acceptable standards, whether that be sooner or later. Yet no major public figure has taken up this cause.
Enabling the development of driverless cars will require squadrons of lawyers because a variety of state, local and federal laws presume that a human being is operating the automobiles on our roads. No state has anything close to a functioning system to inspect whether the computers in driverless cars are in good working order, much as we routinely test emissions and brake lights. Ordinary laws change only if legislators make those revisions a priority. Yet the mundane political issues of the day often appear quite pressing, not to mention politically safer than enabling a new product that is likely to engender controversy.
Politics, of course, is often geared toward preserving the status quo, which is highly visible, familiar in its risks, and lucrative for companies already making a profit from it. Some parts of government do foster innovation, such as Darpa, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, which is part of the Defense Department. Darpa helped create the Internet and is supporting the development of the driverless car. It operates largely outside the public eye; the real problems come when its innovations start to enter everyday life and meet political resistance and disturbing press reports.
About 40,000 Americans die each year in car accidents. Would driverless cars reduce this toll? We'll need further tests and development to know for sure. But the way things stand now, we may never get the chance to find out.
Consider this thought experiment. Assume that driverless cars could certainly reduce deaths by avoiding accidents caused by people who drive while intoxicated or who simply make stupid driving decisions, like driving on the wrong side of the road. Add in the likelihood that even after they are perfected and well inspected, driverless cars would lead to special problems, perhaps if the computers don't respond properly to some unusual situations.
To continue this experiment, imagine that the cars would save many lives over all, but lead to some bad accidents when a car malfunctions. The evening news might show a ''Terminator'' car spinning out of control and killing a child. There could be demands to shut down the cars until just about every problem is solved. The lives saved by the cars would not be as visible as the lives lost, and therefore the law might thwart or delay what could be a very beneficial innovation.
Furthermore, a company with deep pockets might be reluctant to take on the legal liability associated with selling driverless cars and in the meantime wouldn't invest heavily to improve the technology.
IN the meantime, transportation is one area where progress has been slow for decades. We're still flying 747s, a plane designed in the 1960s. Many rail and bus networks have contracted. And traffic congestion is worse than ever. As I' argued in a previous column, this is probably part of a broader slowdown of technological advances.
But it's clear that in the early part of the 20th century, the original advent of the motor car was not impeded by anything like the current melange of regulations, laws and lawsuits. Potentially major innovations need a path forward, through the current thicket of restrictions. That debate on this issue is so quiet shows the urgency of doing something now.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); LOBBYING (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); MEDICAL LASERS (57%); AIRCRAFT COMMUNICATION & NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (57%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



949 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SUMMER 2011; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: Rocked Hard

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
WHEN crowds flock to the Williamsburg Waterfront concert series this summer, most will pass the home of Genya Wolowacz on North Eighth Street, where she has lived since 1957. She will watch them as if eyeing 6,500 barbarian invaders.
On a recent evening, Ms. Wolowacz, 67, practically shook with anger as she described what it was like to live near the outdoor concerts last summer: the rivers of trash strewn along the street and on her stoop, the thunderous noise, the drunken revelers using the street as a toilet. And did she mention the noise?
''You can't hear yourself think. Not only do they come feeling good, they leave feeling better,'' she said.
''We want them to stop,'' Ms. Wolowacz said, adding that she spoke for her neighbors and family. 
For many New Yorkers, outdoor concert series are a staple of summer in the city, and for strapped parks, they are a vital source of revenue. But they also exacerbate the tensions that run through any diverse community: not just between noisemakers and neighbors, or between old and new residents, but also between competing ideas about who should determine the use of public lands.
In Williamsburg the concerts, which are scheduled to begin on June 11, have added to a conflict that has escalated since the city rezoned the waterfront for high-end development in 2005.
This season, some residents are pushing back. At fractious community board meetings in April and May, residents called first for a moratorium on new liquor licenses in the neighborhood and then for severe restrictions on the concert series, arguing passionately for a return to the quiet, sober Williamsburg that perhaps never was.
The rate of churn now can be heard in the local lexicon.
''I lived in Manhattan in the '80s and we used to talk about 'bridge and tunnel' people,'' said Sunny Chapman, 60, a dance instructor and artist who moved to Williamsburg 16 years ago. ''Now we talk about bridge and tunnel people coming in from Manhattan.''
The crush of outsiders in the neighborhood ''absolutely is Topic A,'' Ms. Chapman said. ''One person will mention an episode of rudeness and the floodgates will open. They walk into me when they walk down the street texting.''
That is not all. ''Don't get me started on their giant $800 strollers running over my ankles in King's Pharmacy,'' she said
She added: ''A lot of people from the old days carry guns. One of these days one of these suburban kids is going to say the wrong thing to the wrong person.''
If these sound like familiar complaints from the annals of gentrification, rehashing the battles of Harlem, the East Village or even Williamsburg of a few years back, in reality they reflect a more voracious process of change, said Neil Smith, an anthropology and geography professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center who has written extensively about gentrification.
''The big perspective is that gentrification has changed tremendously since the '70s and '80s,'' Professor Smith said. ''It's no longer just about housing. It's really a systematic class-remaking of city neighborhoods. It's driven by many of the same forces, especially the profitable use of land. But it's about creating entire environments: employment, recreation, environmental conditions.''
In Williamsburg, in addition to co-ops, that means a local economy of bars and clubs feeding on dollars from visitors, he said. As New York itself has moved away from making products to making experiences for outsiders, so has the once-industrial neighborhood of Williamsburg.
In this economy, noise becomes a commercial commodity, enriching some interests while leaving others to stew in their homes.
''Gentrification today has become all about attracting capital to the city, not least from tourism,'' Professor Smith said. When public land like the waterfront park becomes part of the equation, he said, community groups often find themselves in a struggle against an adversary with a momentum all its own. ''In this struggle,'' he said, ''the interests of private capital rarely lose.''
The land in question, East River State Park, is a former shipping dock and garbage transfer station that opened in 2007, after community groups fought off plans to build a permanent garbage facility. The space is still a work in process, with large strips of concrete dominating one side and a soccer field under construction on the other. A glassy new condominium complex called the Edge towers over the southern end. The views of Manhattan are spectacular.
On a recent morning, Stephanie Thayer walked across the soft surface of the park's lawn to the concrete pads, where contractors were preparing to install solar-powered lights, paid for with $260,000 from the concerts. Ms. Thayer, 46, is the executive director of the Open Space Alliance for North Brooklyn, a nonprofit organization that runs the concert series to raise money for parks in Williamsburg and Greenpoint (she also works for the city parks department).
Choosing her words cautiously, she said that she had not seen unruly crowds or excessive litter after the concerts, and that she received only three noise complaints all last summer, one of them from a Manhattan resident who objected to the sound carrying across the river.
The vehemence of neighbors like Ms. Wolowacz had taken her by surprise, she said, but she thought she understood where it was coming from.
''People's frustrations about changes in the neighborhood are taken out on us,'' she said. ''People have gotten mixed up in their feelings about development and gentrification, and we make a friendly target.''
For Sarah Porter, a landscape architect who was involved in the lobbying efforts against the garbage facility, the concerts are not only a nuisance but also a misuse of public space by a nonprofit group that does not answer to the community.
''From my point of view, it's a public park, and they're closing it off and privatizing it for people to make money,'' Ms. Porter said.
''They erect a giant stage. You can't use the concrete pads, which are good places for children to play. And then the south edge of the park is all porta-potties. Who wants to have a picnic there?''
She said, ''Parks are supposed to be about the quality of life, so why are we ruining people's quality of life for the parks?''
Last summer, which was the second season since the concerts moved to the waterfront from McCarren Pool about eight blocks away, the park was closed to residents for 20 concerts, with sound checks starting around 10 a.m. and crowds lingering long after being disgorged onto the streets at 10 p.m.
This year the promoters agreed to limit the concerts to 15, with no weekend shows in July and August, and to begin the sound checks at noon. Five of the concerts will be free, including four that are intended to be quiet: two children's shows, a comedy performance and a classical concert.
Proponents of the concerts maintain that a little noise is a necessary tradeoff for raising money for the parks, especially as the state and the city are looking to cut spending. In two years, the concerts have generated $290,000 for the state park and $138,000 for city parks, according to the alliance's reports.
''Can you think of any other way?'' said Stephen K. Hindy, chairman of the Open Space Alliance and president of Brooklyn Brewery. ''OSA does lots of small-scale fund-raisers: parties, art auctions, film screenings. But there's nothing that raises money like concerts do.''
Brooklyn Brewery donates $50,000 to be a sponsor of the concert series, and its products are sold at the events, with all profits going to the alliance, Mr. Hindy said.
In Cleaner, Greener NY, a position paper issued last year when he was running for governor, Andrew M. Cuomo called for more collaborations like that between the Open Space Alliance and the city and state parks departments, singling out the money contributed to parks by the alliance.
On the ground, though, the improvements are subtle. During a tour of parks in Williamsburg and Greenpoint, Ms. Thayer pointed to a new cluster of portable toilets in McCarren Park and a repaired set of boxes there used for watering, which allowed a new garden to be established. On weekends, she said, the alliance pays cleanup crews to work after city workers have gone home. If residents only knew, she said, they would see the good provided by the concerts.
''OSA hasn't gotten its message out,'' she said. ''I haven't done that, and it leads to a vacuum of skepticism where people come up with their own theories.''
But for Ms. Wolowacz and her daughter, Laryssa, 26, there was nothing theoretical about the concerts' impact on their lives.
''It has to do with sound levels, trash, disrespect,'' Laryssa Wolowacz said. ''I like meeting new people and I like new blood. But do I like meeting them on my stoop, after four hours of drinking?''
She paused to let the question hang. ''It's like they unleash beasts at 10 p.m.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NEW HOME: In 2009, a concert series moved to the neighborhood's waterfront. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
 COMPLAINTS: Some residents told the Williamsburg community board this month that concerts were a major annoyance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (70%); SUBURBS (66%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (62%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



950 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: When Warnings Don't Work

BYLINE: By HENRY FOUNTAIN

 BODY:
TORNADO experts had seen it all before: whole neighborhoods obliterated, big-box stores flattened, even a hospital badly damaged.
But what really shocked them about the powerful storm that struck Joplin, Mo., last week was the toll in lives: more than 125 and counting. ''We thought we were done with the 100-dead tornadoes,'' said Thomas P. Grazulis, a tornado historian in St. Johnsbury, Vt. ''With warnings and Doppler radar, there was a lot of feeling that we were done with this stuff.''
Experts are not sure yet why the toll was so high. Forecasts were made and warnings were issued, and this was an area, in the heart of Tornado Alley, where people knew what to do to protect themselves. ''But something didn't work the way we'd like it to,'' said Harold Brooks , a research meteorologist with the National Severe Storms Laboratory in Norman, Okla.
Experts say there will always be deaths when a strong tornado scores a direct hit on a heavily populated area. The question -- for all disasters, not just twisters -- has been how low casualty figures can go. 
''The fundamental characteristic of a major disaster is that there is going to be loss,'' said Dr. Irwin Redlener, a professor at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University and director of the National Center for Disaster Preparedness. ''The goal of preparedness is to make that loss as minimal as possible, to optimize survival.''
During the 20th century, strides were made in optimizing survival from tornadoes. In the early part of the century, yearly deaths from twisters in the United States averaged a little less than 2 per million population, or about 200 per year in the 1920s. Beginning that decade, as awareness of the dangers increased and forecasting technologies were developed and improved, the death rate declined by an order of magnitude, reaching about 0.2 per million in the mid-1990s, or about 60 people per year.
Since then, Mr. Brooks said, it has leveled off, and while no one is certain why, researchers think the rise in mobile-home living is one reason. Lightly built and poorly anchored, mobile homes can be death traps in the extreme winds of a tornado.
This year, with more than 500 deaths already -- including about 320 in an outbreak of several hundred tornadoes across Alabama and other states in late April -- is an aberration, experts said, much like 1974, when there was a similar outbreak, and 1953, when strong tornadoes hit three cities: Waco, Tex.; Flint, Mich.; and Worcester, Mass. All of last year, only 45 people died, and in 2009 the number was 21. The toll next year is expected to be more like those figures than this year's.
Mr. Brooks said the timing of the storm last week -- 5:30 p.m. on a Sunday -- may have had something to do with the 100-plus deaths. He compared the Joplin event to a tornado that struck Oklahoma City in 1999 and killed about one-fourth as many people. That twister hit after 7 p.m. on a Monday, when most people had settled in for the evening. ''That's not a bad time to get information to people,'' Mr. Brooks said. But in Joplin, he added, ''late Sunday afternoon, maybe there's some issues with communication going on.''
Complicating the situation in Joplin was the fact that a high school graduation had occurred that afternoon, and more people were out and about, at parties or other events. And many people ended up in large stores, which tornado warnings say should be avoided because of the strong risk of collapse.
''Did people not receive the message?'' Mr. Brooks said. ''Did they not internalize the message in some way? Or did they make bad choices?''
While the tornado forecasting system works well, Mr. Brooks said, ''we have to work on finding ways of communicating the messages better.''
''Perhaps we don't do that in ways that people understand the threat,'' he added.
And there is the possibility of issuing so many alerts that people become inured to the danger. Jasper County, where Joplin is located, receives many tornado warnings every year. ''We've had no evidence in the past that people were overwarned,'' Mr. Brooks said, ''but we don't know what the threshold of that is.'' Beyond any improvements in forecasting and communication, getting even closer to zero deaths would require additional steps, said Stephen Flynn, president of the Center for National Policy, a Washington research group that studies preparedness issues. The destruction and deaths at the Joplin hospital, he said, pointed to one: replacing conventional windows with safety glass.
''Are you going to do that for a raised-ranch house?'' he said. ''No. But for a hospital facility where people are vulnerable, yes. And is that a huge cost issue? No, it's not.''
But other efforts, like building community shelters for people in mobile-home parks or in areas with slab housing that lacks basements, can be costly. And the issue of cost, always major, has grown larger as economic conditions have worsened and governments have had to tighten their belts, Dr. Redlener said. ''Dollars are limited,'' he added. ''States have to make decisions -- are we going to provide health insurance for more children, or are we going to do better preparation for a disaster that may never happen?''
Beyond cost, though, are other considerations. In the case of community shelters, Mr. Brooks said, ''you need to make sure that the shelter is open when people need it, but make sure it's not open all the time, where your neighborhood pervert can do something in it.'' Potential liability issues have forced many communities to abandon the idea of group shelters, he said.
Individuals can always build shelters for themselves, and one of the truths about natural disasters is that afterward, many people rush to make safety precautions they had ignored before.
Mr. Grazulis, the historian, said that no doubt some people in Joplin would rebuild their homes and include storm shelters, which can cost about $5,000 or more. ''But I bet Joplin will not be hit again for a hundred or a thousand years,'' he said. ''The people that build these shelters -- generations are not going to have to use them.''
Instead, the next disaster will happen elsewhere. And right now, Mr. Grazulis said, ''the next town that needs them has no idea it needs them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AFTERMATH: A rescue worker and his dog search for victims in the wreckage of a nursing home in Joplin, Mo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROGER NOMER/THE JOPLIN GLOBE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(WK1)
 TORNADO ALLEY: A twister sweeps across the southern plains of the central United States, where thunderstorms can produce violent whirlwinds. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARSTEN PETER/NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC/GETTY IMAGES)(WK4) CHART: Tornado Deaths: Per one million U.S. population (Source: NOAA)(WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TORNADOES (90%); WEATHER (79%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (79%); METEOROLOGY (79%); DISASTER PLANNING (79%); NATURAL DISASTERS (79%); HISTORY (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (76%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (74%); RETAILERS (73%); RADAR SYSTEMS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (50%); FLINT, MI, USA (50%) MISSOURI, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



951 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Retro Russian Import Lures Older, Easier Riders

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER; Norman Mayersohn contributed reporting.

 BODY:
IRBIT, Russia -- This is the story of how a dying Soviet-era industry and an aging biker population in the United States met and found happiness together on the streets and highways of America.
Think of it as Easy Rider, the golden years.
It started as a matter of survival for the Irbit Motor Works, which for decades had churned out its signature Ural motorcycle with sidecar attachment, but which discovered that its business was sputtering into the Post-Communist sunset like so many other Soviet enterprises.
Irbit found salvation in an unlikely niche market: older American riders seeking utility, not thrills or spills. Suddenly the sidecar, a seemingly anachronistic product evoking a World War II newsreel, had a new life among the late middle-aged.
The company shifted its sales strategy overseas in the 1990s and today, despite its deep roots in Russia as the purveyor to the Red Army, it sends 60 percent of its output to the United States. 
For the target male consumer, the born-to-run ideal of a motorcycle mama on the back has given way to a spouse or girlfriend riding alongside, holding the dog or the groceries.
Irbit and its dealerships say older bikers represent their core market, but the bike-sidecar combination has also begun to catch on with a younger generation of riders, couples who find its retro look appealing.
''In the Soviet Union, our motorcycle was a workhorse,'' said Vladimir N. Kurmachev, Irbit's factory director. ''Now it is an expensive toy.''
David Reich, 65, a retired carpenter in Salem, Ore., bought a white Ural Patrol from a dealership there last year.
''It's something my wife and I can both enjoy,'' he said in a telephone interview. They considered buying two bikes, he said, but decided on the sidecar so his wife, Jeanne, would not have to get a motorcycle license. Also, they could chat while touring.
''I am having a ball!'' Jeanne Reich wrote in an e-mail. ''I enjoy cruising along a few inches off the road with nothing to do but take in the view.''
Peter terHorst, the spokesman for the American Motorcyclist Association, said the average age of its 230,000 members was 48. As people's strength and coordination wane, he said, ''you see them transitioning to the sidecar.''
''Older couples say it's just not comfortable to double up,'' Mr. Kurmachev said during a tour of the shop floor, where sidecars are polished, painted and installed standard on nearly every bike.
Irbit, known by its Russian acronym IMZ, says it is the only motorcycle manufacturer in the world selling stock sidecars in volume; some BMW and Harley-Davidson dealers have sold them as options, though Harley is discontinuing sidecar production.
Sidecars, while popular with some riders, still account for a fraction of the motorcycle market in the United States, said Ty van Hooydonk, a spokesman for the Motorcycle Industry Council, a trade group. The makers do not disclose sales figures, he said.
Irbit's factory sits on the rim of a ramshackle town of wooden buildings and rutted dirt roads on the Siberian side of the Urals, with a statue of Lenin still in the main square. It is operating, but at greatly diminished capacity compared with its 1970s heyday, when it produced up to 130,000 vehicles a year. Assembly lines have closed and the motorcycles are now built by hand.
A ride in a sidecar can be either exhilarating or, for those not accustomed to the sensation, terrifying. Set low to the ground, the sidecar tends to rise into the air on right-hand turns. The bike is street legal in all 50 states. But because the entire three-wheel contraption is legally a motorcycle, no seat belt is provided or required. With United States sales rising, Irbit says it is studying an air bag for the sidecar.
The Ural is a heavy, 40-horsepower motorcycle whose two cylinders jut sideways from the frame. It is modeled after a late-1930s BMW sidecar bike called the R71, which Nazi Germany provided to the Soviet Union after the countries signed a nonaggression pact in 1939. When the Nazis broke this pact and invaded, the Russians used the bike to fight them.
Irbit stopped building military models in 1955 and began focusing on a civilian market of hunters, outdoor enthusiasts and owners of summer homes.
With the end of the command economy, subsidized steel and cheap labor, the factory was forced to raise its prices, and sales in Russia fell sharply. Older sidecars can still be seen in Russia carrying hay, heads of lettuce and planks of wood. But Irbit sold only 20 motorcycles in Russia last year, and the owners say that the factory would have died without sales to the United States.
Before the recent recession, Irbit sold 650 Urals a year in the United States, and says it is on track to reach that level again this year, through 48 dealers around the country. A low-end Ural-sidecar combo sells for about $10,000. Over all, the factory plans to build 1,100 units in 2011.
The popularity of the sidecar in America was nurtured by motorcycle enthusiasts in the Pacific Northwest, where the bikes were first imported in 1993 in small numbers.
Bikers were mesmerized by the Ural's highly retro design, and some got a kick out of the machine gun mount on the model exported to America -- a feature that had long since disappeared from the Soviet civilian machines.
''We had customers who put on fake machine guns,'' Jim Petitti, the owner of Raceway Services in Salem, Ore., a Ural dealership, said by telephone. ''It kind of faded because the cops gave them such a hassle.''
Sales of the Ural picked up as dealers identified the bike's appeal to older couples no longer happy riding on the same seat.
''Husbands and wives have been riding together for years,'' said Mr. Petitti, characterizing typical Ural clients. ''Finally, the old solo bike becomes too heavy to hold up. The wife doesn't want to ride behind the husband. She can't see. Present her with her own cockpit, and she's ready to rejoin the adventure.''
Irbit says that while older bikers carried it through a difficult spell, younger American couples are also drawn to it.
''They are good-looking bikes,'' Elena Gonzalez, 24, a registered nurse, said in a telephone interview from Miami, where she lives with her new husband, John, a firefighter. The couple rode their Ural to their wedding.
''We were going to get a limo, and then we thought, 'let's just go on the motorcycle, it will be fun,' '' Ms. Gonzalez said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David Reich and his wife, Jeanne, out for a ride in Oregon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Assembly lines at the Irbit factory, on the Siberian side of the Ural Mountains, have closed and the motorcycles are built by hand.
 A Ural bike outside the factory town. Irbit sold only 20 bikes in Russia last year, but older sidecars are still put to use for cargo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAXIM MARMUR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); AGING TRENDS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MOTORCYCLES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MOTORCYCLE DEALERS (76%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (75%); SALES PLAN (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (71%); MEN (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALEM, OR, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



952 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: A Generation Of Slackers? Not So Much

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
YOU'D think there would be a little sympathy. This month, college graduates are jumping into the job market, only to land on their parents' couches: the unemployment rate for 16- to 24-year-olds is a whopping 17.6 percent.
The reaction from many older Americans? This generation had it coming. 
Generation Y -- or Millennials, the Facebook Generation or whatever you want to call today's cohort of young people -- has been accused of being the laziest generation ever. They feel entitled and are coddled, disrespectful, narcissistic and impatient, say authors of books like ''The Dumbest Generation'' and ''Generation Me.''
And three in four Americans believe that today's youth are less virtuous and industrious than their elders, a 2009 survey by the Pew Research Center found.
In a sign of humility or docility, young people agree. In that 2009 Pew survey, two-thirds of millennials said older adults were superior to the younger generation when it came to moral values and work ethic.
After all, if there's a young person today who's walked 10 miles barefoot through the snow to school, it was probably on an iPhone app.
So is this the Laziest Generation? There are signs that its members benefit from lower standards. Technology has certainly made life easier. But there may also be a generation gap; the way young adults work is simply different.
It's worth remembering that to some extent, these accusations of laziness and narcissism in ''kids these days'' are nothing new -- they've been levied against Generation X, Baby Boomers and many generations before them. Even Aristotle and Plato were said to have expressed similar feelings about the slacker youth of their times.
But this generation has had it easy in some ways.
They can access just about any resource, product or service anywhere from a mere tap on a touch screen. And as many critics have noted, it's also easier to get A's. The typical grade-point average in college rose to about 3.11 by the middle of the last decade, from 2.52 in the 1950s, according to a recent study by Stuart Rojstaczer, professor emeritus at Duke, and Christopher Healy of Furman University.
College students also spend fewer hours studying each week than did their counterparts in 1961, according to a new working paper by Philip S. Babcock of the University of California, Santa Barbara, and Mindy Marks of the University of California, Riverside. That doesn't mean all this leftover time is spent on PlayStation 3's.
There is ample evidence that young people today are hard-working and productive. The share of college students working full time generally grew from 1985 onward -- until the Great Recession knocked many millennials out of the labor force, according to the Labor Department.
And while many college students today -- like those of yesterday -- get financial help from their parents, 44 percent of students today say that work or personal savings helped finance their higher educations, according to a survey of recent graduates by Rutgers University.
''I don't think this is a generation of slackers,'' said Carl Van Horn, a labor economist at Rutgers. ''This image of the kid who goes off and skis in Colorado, I don't think that's the correct image. Today's young people are very focused on trying to work hard and to get ahead.''
Defying the narcissism stereotype, community service among young people has exploded.
Between 1989 and 2006, the share of teenagers who were volunteering doubled, to 26.4 percent from 13.4 percent, according to a report by the Corporation for National and Community Service. And the share of incoming college freshmen who say they plan to volunteer is at a record high of 32.1 percent, too, U.C.L.A.'s annual incoming freshman survey found.
Perhaps most important, many of the behaviors that older generations interpret as laziness may actually enhance young people's productivity, say researchers who study Generation Y.
Members of Gen Y, for example, are significantly more likely than Gen X'ers and boomers to say they are more productive working in teams than on their own, according to Don Tapscott, author of ''Grown Up Digital: How the Net Generation is Changing Your World,'' a book based on interviews with 11,000 millennials.
To older workers, wanting help looks like laziness; to younger workers, the gains that come from teamwork have been learned from the collaborative nature of their childhood activities, which included social networks, crowd-sourcing and even video games like World of Warcraft that ''emphasize cooperative rather than individual competition,'' Mr. Tapscott says.
Employers also complain about millennials checking Facebook and Twitter on the job, or working with their ear buds in.
Older workers have a strong sense of separate spheres for work and play: the cubicle is for work, and home is for fun. But to millennials, the boundaries between work and play are fuzzier, said Michael D. Hais, co-author of ''Millennial Makeover: MySpace, YouTube, and the Future of American Politics.''
Think of the corporate cultures at prototypical Gen Y employers like Facebook and Google, he says, where foosball, volleyball courts and subsidized massages are office fixtures.
The prevailing millennial attitude is that taking breaks for fun at work makes people more, not less, productive. Likewise, they accept that their work will bleed into evenings and weekends.
Some experts also believe that today's young people are better at quickly switching from one task to another, given their exposure to so many stimuli during their childhood and adolescence, said John Della Volpe, the director of polling at Harvard's Institute of Politics. (The jury is still out on that one.)
Of course, these explanations may be unconvincing to older bosses, co-workers and teachers on the other side of this culture clash. But at least they can take comfort in one fact: someday, millennials will have their own new generation of know-it-all ne'er-do-wells to deal with.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX NABAUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENERATION Y (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); GENERATION X (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ETHICS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); WRITERS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); GRADES & GRADING (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



953 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: When Virtues Collide: Quiet vs. Tidy

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
GREENWICH, CONN.
GAS-POWERED leaf blowers scour the suburban landscape here to great effect. In a community known for its showy houses, pride of ownership beams from one neatly trimmed lawn to the next, their accompanying driveways blown clean of debris.
But Gretchen Biggs derives little pleasure from the tidy yards surrounding her home in a dense neighborhood in central Greenwich. All that manicuring comes at the price of her sanity, she says. Because blowers are used not just for leaves, but to remove grass clippings from lawns and to spiff up driveways, she says the motorized whine rises to such heights some days that she has a difficult time hearing telephone callers even inside her house. 
A former animal rights lawyer, Ms. Biggs is now advocating for what she says should be the right of property owners to garden or barbecue in peace. With her newly organized group, Citizens Against Leafblower Mania, or CALM, she is pressing Greenwich officials to ban the blowers from April 15 to Oct. 15. Her objections go beyond noise to the potentially harmful dust being blown into the air.
''They're hideous, they're horrible, and I'd like to see them destroyed,'' Ms. Biggs said. ''But we've tried to be reasonable about it.''
Many Westchester towns already have seasonal bans on leaf blowers. Greenwich would be the first Connecticut town to adopt such a ban, Ms. Biggs said.
The town's Board of Health has assigned a subcommittee to study the issue. A noise ordinance already on the books restricts operation of blowers to certain hours, and during the summer months allows no more than one blower per property.
But the prospect of putting away blowers completely and taking up rake and broom dismays landscapers, particularly when it comes to maintaining properties of two acres or more.
''The problem is, once you get rid of the blowers, how do you take care of a property like this?'' Rocco Grande said recently as he unloaded mowers and blowers onto the sweeping lawn before a brick house on Lake Avenue. A landscaper in Greenwich for 25 years, Mr. Grande estimated it could take two to three times as long to achieve the same effect manually, and expressed concern that his customers might balk at the higher price.
Blower opponents counter that the yard aesthetic has reached obsessive extremes. ''Everything doesn't have to be squeaky clean,'' said Dick Roberts, a CALM supporter who lives in Riverside. ''Three hours of audio devastation versus, what? A few pebbles in the driveway?''
Mr. Roberts made a similar argument about 20 years ago, when he organized a campaign called Project Quiet Yards. The group advertised heavily for a seasonal blower ban, using slogans like: ''It must be summer in Greenwich. I can't hear myself think.''
The ads did not amuse landscape workers, who viewed the campaign as a threat to their livelihood. At a public hearing on the ban proposal, workers packed the hall; tensions ran so high, ''it was almost a brawl,'' Mr. Roberts recalled. The ban was defeated.
This time, proponents of a ban are armed with studies suggesting that the particulates kicked into the air by blowers are hazardous to respiratory health. The director of the Mount Sinai Center for Children's Environmental Health, Dr. Philip J. Landrigan, wrote a letter to Greenwich selectmen citing the link between blowers and air pollution as a primary reason for imposing a ban.
But it is the noise that incites the most passion -- and sometimes hostility. In the town of Fairfield earlier this month, a man allegedly stood in his doorway waving a rifle because landscapers across the street refused to turn off their blowers. According to Fairfield Patch, a local Internet site, the man was arrested for breach of the peace.
In Ridgefield, Amy Bock has grown so frustrated with the racket that she is following Ms. Biggs's lead and starting a CALM of her own. Letters to the editor and pleas to selectmen yielded no results, she said. A dedicated gardener, she even tried approaching noisier neighbors directly, but to no avail.
''I've definitely noticed an increased usage in the last five years,'' Ms. Bock said, ''and it's reached this exponential point. People are getting a little too concerned about perfection in nature.''
The town of Rye, across the border in New York, adopted a seasonal ban in 2008. According to the police commissioner, William Connors, enforcing it has presented some challenges. Officers responding to complaints often arrive after lawn crews have finished, or discover that the noise was coming from a machine not covered by the ordinance, like a weed trimmer. Also, some residents make it their business to walk around looking for violators, and call in many times in one day. The department is trying to reduce complaints, he said, by using signs and e-mail blasts to remind residents to observe the new rules.
Some cities have decided that limiting decibel levels makes more sense than adopting a ban, said Larry Will, a spokesman for Echo, a blower manufacturer, in an e-mail. Quieter blowers -- those below 65 decibels from 50 feet away -- have been available since 1995, he said. (In a test by Consumer Reports last year, some electric models came in at that decibel level, which the magazine equated with a window air-conditioner on high. But most blowers, at 50 feet, tested closer to 70 decibels or higher.)
Greenwich's ordinances already go far enough to reduce noise levels, in the opinion of Michael Creamer, who has been a landscaper here for 22 years. The fine for violating the one-blower rule is a significant enough deterrent that he uses machines that catch grass clippings, reducing the need for blowers.
''If everything has to be done by hand again,'' Mr. Creamer said, ''it's going to be a cost passed on to the consumer. And in this economy, do you really want to raise prices?''
Since losing the blower battle the first time around, Mr. Roberts has found a way to keep the peace on his street. He and most of his dozen or so neighbors have agreed to coordinate their leaf blowing and lawn mowing whenever possible. On their street, the fifth day of the week is now known as ''noisy Thursday.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THEY WANT TO BAN WHAT? Jim McMurray, a landscaper, uses a leaf blower to neaten a parking lot in Greenwich. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SULLIVAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORDINANCES (78%); NOISE POLLUTION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (67%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (52%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



954 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Buzz Is Back at Brickyard for the 100th Anniversary of the Indy 500

BYLINE: By DAVE CALDWELL

 BODY:
INDIANAPOLIS -- Tony Kanaan, the gregarious racecar driver from Brazil, began hearing the stories from the old-timers and hangers-on not long after he arrived for his first Indianapolis 500 nine years ago. There was one common thread: the Indy 500 used to be a lot better.
Sometimes, particularly when wide patches of the enormous gray grandstands were noticeably empty three years ago, Kanaan wondered if he would ever feel the excitement the way that the veterans had described it.
But this year, as the race celebrates its 100th anniversary, Kanaan and other longtime participants in the event have seen signs of a revival. Kanaan said it took longer for him to get in and out of the racetrack. Forty-one cars were entered to qualify for the 33-car field, the most since 2002. Kanaan said he was noticed at local restaurants by many people, not just one diner. 
''I didn't become more famous because I started doing back flips or I'm doing a TV show,'' said Kanaan, who will drive in his 10th Indy 500 on Sunday.
Ticket sales for the race are up by 10 percent over a year ago, and retail sales are up by nearly 30 percent, Jeff Belskus, the president and chief executive of Indianapolis Motor Speedway, said last week.
Some of the extra business can be attributed to the 100th anniversary of Ray Harroun's winning the first race on May 30, 1911 (he needed 6 hours 42 minutes to rumble 500 miles in his Marmon Wasp), but not all of it.
The Indianapolis 500 has been battling sliding television ratings. A record low number of viewers, some 4.1 million, watched the 2010 race nationally, a drop from the 4.4 million who watched the race in 2009. An estimated 9.7 million watched the Indy 500 in 2005, when Danica Patrick became the first woman to lead the race.
This year's field has no clear favorite and greater parity than in years past. All but one of the last 10 races at Indianapolis have been won by cars owned by Roger Penske, Michael Andretti or Chip Ganassi. Of the top 15 cars to qualify for the race this year, only three are owned by Penske, Andretti or Ganassi. There are five race teams represented in the top six on the grid, including two cars owned by Sam Schmidt, a former driver who was paralyzed in a 2000 racing accident. In 2010, Penske and Ganassi had five of the top six qualifiers.
''I'm in the trenches, and it's a whole new way that people are talking about the race,'' said Mario Andretti, who won the race in 1969 and whose grandson Marco is in Sunday's race. ''I think people who have stayed away for several years are coming back. The buzz gets to them.''
Andretti laughed, as if this development was improbable. Speedway officials are hoping to extend the buzz by stuffing the calendar with family-friendly activities and offering free tickets to children 12 and younger if accompanied by a paying adult.
Since the Nascar boom and a bitter dispute between open-wheel racing factions in the mid-1990s, there is a perception that a generation of fans was lost. So officials are trying to recruit a new one.
Belskus said the Indy 500 was not as popular as it was 20 years ago, when it was a hot ticket. ''This tough economy hit us pretty hard,'' Belskus said. ''We recognize that for customers this is discretionary spending.''
But he added, ''It's headed in a real positive direction.''
Suites and boxes to the race are sold out, Belskus said, but general-admission tickets are available for $30. As he crossed a street near the speedway recently, John Andretti, a veteran driver who is Mario's nephew and an Indianapolis native, was asked if he had any extra tickets.
Scott Goodyear, who finished second in two Indy 500s as a driver and is now a television analyst, said he had done more prerace radio interviews this year, some with stations he had never heard of -- perhaps because a fellow Canadian, Alex Tagliani, won the pole position.
Last week, the team owner Michael Andretti, Mario's son, bought a spot in the race from the team owner A. J. Foyt for Ryan Hunter-Reay, who had failed to qualify. Three or four years ago, few people outside Indianapolis would have noticed, but this year the transaction became a controversy.
Bob Kravitz, a sports columnist for The Indianapolis Star for 10 years, wrote about the deal between Andretti and Foyt last week, labeling it ''The Greatest Spectacle in Swapping,'' and said he was invited onto a nationally televised show to explain the issue. Kravitz usually appears on such shows to discuss the Indianapolis Colts.
''That tells you it's kind of gone beyond central Indiana and the hard-core gearheads,'' Kravitz said.
He said he remembered when there was little action on Bump Day, in which drivers scramble to qualify. But the last 80 minutes of Bump Day last Sunday included Patrick, the poster girl for open-wheel racing, earning a spot in the field after a nerve-racking rain delay; Alex Lloyd knocking out Marco Andretti, then Andretti taking a run at the last minute to bump Hunter-Reay, his teammate.
It is widely believed that an exciting race Sunday would attract more interest in the IndyCar Series. This is the closest-matched field in Indianapolis 500 history, by one measure. The fastest driver, Tagliani, was separated from the slowest, Ana Beatriz, by less than three seconds over their 10-mile qualifying runs.
Beatriz is one of four women in this year's field. Among that group is Patrick, who in 2005 became the first female to lead the race. The series has pushed Patrick in its marketing campaigns ever since, but now the perception is that the sport has other things to sell.
Referring to the 100th anniversary, she said: ''I think that's really just a powerful story line that drives home the depth of this event. It kind of reaffirms to everybody why this is such a big race. It's been around for so long.''
Patrick is among a wide group of racing drivers and officials who say that landing Izod as the title sponsor 18 months ago gave the series an enormous lift.
Helio Castroneves, a three-time Indy 500 champion, said the series still had miles to go. After winning ''Dancing With the Stars'' in 2007, Castroneves received far more attention than anything he did at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway.
The buzz seemed to fly everywhere at the Brickyard last week. Mario Andretti said he knew that people who were not necessarily race fans would want to be a part of the 100th-anniversary scene. As part of prerace festivities Sunday, Andretti will drive one of 11 vintage cars that have won the Indy 500.
His 48-year-old nephew, John, was one who never thought the buzz left. The two-and-a-half-mile oval has been paved over many times, and generations of drivers have come and gone, but as he said: ''You can't ever discredit what happens at Indianapolis. This is still the mecca of racing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Helio Castroneves, despite the numerous fans seeking his autograph May 19 at Indianapolis Motor Speedway, says the Indianapolis 500 has still not fully bounced back. Ray Harroun, left, during his victory in the inaugural Indy 500 in 1911. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE BAKER/REUTERS
 ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (92%); ANNIVERSARIES (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (72%); SALES FIGURES (71%); TICKET SALES (70%); RESTAURANTS (68%); RETAIL SALES (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

PERSON: ROGER S PENSKE (69%); DANICA PATRICK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (97%) INDIANA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



955 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: The Balance of Power

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Max Frankel's May 15 review of ''On China,'' by Henry Kissinger, is marked by one glaring absence in its portrayal of a world centered on China and the United States: the role of the European Union, which has the same gross domestic product as the United States with a larger population, more leisure time, greater productivity and just as much freedom, something lacking in any appraisal of China.
The review presents a 2-D assessment in a 3-D world where Europe is the third dimension. The future is not along the Pacific Rim but across the Atlantic.
MICHAEL BOYAJIAN Fishkill, N.Y. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (55%) UNITED STATES (91%); CHINA (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



956 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2234 words

HEADLINE: When Everything Is Gone, Including a Sense of Direction

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY, RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. and A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
Where is Dude's Daylight Donuts, whose glazed treats made mornings better? Where is the Elks lodge, the place to go on Friday nights for a meal, a few beers and a lot of laughs?
Where is St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church, and the parochial school always by its side, like an obedient child?
Where is the El Vaquero restaurant, with its tangy margaritas? And Jack's barber shop, where the world's problems were solved snip by snip? And the Glory Days music store, with those drum sets daring would-be Ringos to find the beat? And the houses? The thousands of houses?
Where is one-third of Joplin? 
All this was here last Sunday afternoon, rooted in the Missouri ground and in the Joplin psyche, as permanent as anything of concrete and routine can be. Down at the donut shop, Dude Pendergraft looked forward to another predawn Monday of rolling dough and making coffee for his early-bird pals. At St. Mary's school, Monday's lunch was to be Mexicali chicken, Spanish rice and golden corn. Now all this is gone.
The tornado that carved through southwestern Missouri last Sunday leveled parts of this city of 50,000 so completely -- taking landmarks, street signs, everything -- that the community's inner GPS remains out of whack. Longtime residents, including the mayor, will tell you that even when on the central thoroughfare of South Main Street, they are not always sure where they stand.
Theirs is a splintered landscape, defined by remnants of houses, overturned cars and bark-stripped trees that jut from the earth like hands reaching for help. The devastation can become one endless, numbing landfill, blurring into all the other disturbing images the country has seen in this spring of tornadoes, spinning their deadly havoc through the South and the Midwest.
But then some stray piece in the sprawl of brokenness will catch the eye, demanding context: a small oxygen tank, a full jar of oregano, a Kermit the Frog doll. And the context is Joplin, a specific place with a specific American history. Though some of its damage includes a boulevard of brand-name commerce that might be found anywhere in this country, including a Home Depot and a Wal-Mart, much of what was lost was Joplin's and only Joplin's.
''It just cut our heart out,'' said Bill Scearce, a city councilman.
In the collective memory of Joplin, the Sunday evening tornado arrived quickly and left slowly, as if taking its time, even with 200-mile-an-hour winds, to underscore the Robert Burns reference to the best-laid plans of mice and men. Twisting and howling, widening and narrowing, it mowed east across the city's midsection, just below the revitalized downtown where the streetlights evoke the lamps used by the underground miners of Joplin's raucous past.
The mayor, Mike Woolston, 57, thought he was hearing one of the freight trains that move through Joplin every several hours -- a familiar comparison to what a tornado sounds like. But Mr. Pendergraft, 79, who scrambled just in time into the basement of his slate-blue house, directly behind his doughnut shop, could summon only the fantastic in trying to describe what he heard: ''It sounded like two or three giants, 50 feet tall, going at each other.''
The tornado was democratic in its wrath. It wiped out at least 5,000 houses and apartment buildings, from high-priced subdivisions like Sunset Ridge to the more tired housing stock near Cunningham Park. It clobbered more than 400 businesses, from a modest pawn shop to big-box stores, that help generate the sales tax revenues that Joplin relies on to function as a municipality.
''We think about 25 percent of the businesses licensed in the city are damaged or destroyed,'' Mr. Woolston said. In three or four months, he added, ''we'll see a fairly significant dip in sales tax revenue'' -- the money needed to pay the police, to sweep the streets, to keep a staggered Joplin running. The estimate of damage done to Joplin remains guesswork, with some suggesting that it will be as high as $3 billion or more.
Scattered Photographs
The tornado killed at least 139 people, the young and the old, according to the latest count from city officials, and dozens more remain missing. It destroyed one of the city's two hospitals and its only public high school. And, in ravaging the gray-stone house at 2430 South Main, it blew black-and-white bits of the city's past into the air -- the images assembled by its last occupant, Joplin's unofficial photographer, Murwin Mosler, who died in 2003.
These photographs of Joplin's sons and daughters are now exposed to the elements, framed by jagged debris. Here, on the wet ground, is a portrait of an older woman, circa 1940. There, a dozen wallet-size graduation photos of a young man, circa 1950. Over here, a wedding portrait, circa 1960. Each one a Mosler. Each liberated from a house packed with thousands of photographs and negatives that his daughter, Marcia Long, never mustered the will to throw out.
The many photographs of Mr. Mosler and his studio, amid the rubble and in a collection assembled by The Joplin Globe and the Joplin Museum Complex, capture midcentury Joplin and convey some of what was lost last Sunday.
These photos convey an American place, as much South as Midwest, that developed in the late 19th century around the valuable minerals in its ground -- lead, then zinc. A prosperous, rowdy town, host to parades and the occasional lynching, Joplin became a regional hub, with railroads and Route 66 passing through.
Mr. Mosler and his assistants chronicled the city from the 1930s to the 1960s, as it thrived during wartime, as demand for its zinc waned. The Joplin Junior Beef Shows at the stockyards. The exploits of the Joplin Miners baseball team, for whom a young, scrub-faced Mickey Mantle once played. The bowling leagues and building fires and Easter Sunday births and the costumed performances by Mary Ann Hatley's Dance School.
The other day, while sitting in a car that moved slowly down South Main Street, past a ruined stretch sprinkled with black-and-white portraits from the past, Mr. Woolston, the mayor, picked up the Joplin story pretty much where Mosler had left it. A familiar enough story: a gradual decline, a nearby mall draining downtown's lifeblood, a community seeking the next big thing.
Mr. Woolston said that a quarter-century ago, Joplin committed itself to economic development, seeking to capitalize on its handsome old buildings. It created a historic district as one way to lure businesses and people back downtown.
Today -- or, just a week ago -- Joplin was a commercial hub for a half-million people, a solid Republican bloc, with many employed in health care, trucking and manufacturing. Close to Oklahoma, Arkansas and Kansas, it is ''the middle of the wheel'' of North America, according to Herbert Schmidt, the president of Con-way Truckload, a long-haul carrier and one of the city's largest employers.
But these days, even Joplinites have trouble navigating their transformed city. Mr. Woolston, for example, grew up in Joplin, went to a local middle school (now damaged), went to the local high school (now destroyed), left for a career in the military and returned more than two decades ago. He knows Joplin -- or knew it.
''Particularly at night, but also during the daytime, areas that you've gone through thousands of times -- you just don't recognize,'' Mr. Woolston said. ''I have to stop and get my bearings to realize where I am at, simply because everything is just completely altered.''
Gary Box, 60, the coordinator of business retention and expansion for the Joplin Area Chamber of Commerce, shared the mayor's spinning compass. ''I've always relied on my sense of direction and memory,'' said Mr. Box, who spent 14 years as a Joplin police officer. ''But I now realize I was always basing it on landmarks, and they're all gone.''
Where is one-third of Joplin?
Heading south on Main Street, you pass intact buildings and a seemingly undisturbed way of life, save for the inordinate number of people wearing shirts that say Red Cross or Federal Emergency Management Agency or Army Corps of Engineers. An honor guard of flapping American flags urges you on.
All seems fine, until about 15th Street, when unnerving signs of damage come into view. It is slight at first, a blown sign here, a damaged roof there, laid out as if to prepare the visitor, however gently, for what is ahead. Five short blocks later, a wasteland.
Destruction's Path
The tornado's black wall, at points nearly a mile wide, erased the low-slung cityscape, providing unobstructed views of the scarred rise of Hampshire Terrace to the east and the eerie, block remnant of St. John's Regional Medical Center to the west. Traffic crawls at a stunned pace, with cars carrying the traumatized and those who need to see to believe. The stillness of the piles along the roadside is disturbed only by people, digging.
Where is Dude's Daylight Donuts, with those maple bars and glazed doughnuts so tasty that former Joplinites returning home would stop here first? It had a doughnut-shaped blue sign above its door that had been announcing ''Fresh Donuts'' since the Eisenhower years, a couple of antique cash registers on the shelf, and Dude himself in the back, making doughnuts when he was not chasing noncustomers from his parking lot.
Gone. But Dude is still here, hip-deep in the rubble of the business he ran for more than a half-century, standing right where he used to stack his sacks of flour. ''I'm a Christian, have been for 52 years,'' he says, adjusting his glasses with soiled work gloves. ''I believe things happen for a purpose. I have to take it that way.''
Where is Jack's barber shop? Blended into the ruins of other storefronts, including a place where several grandfather clocks stand guard, their hands frozen in surrender.
Where is the Glory Days music store, with its Saturday night routine of live music? Those drum sets have been silenced, along with the guitars and speakers and other musical equipment. But the co-owner, David Peterson, 46, and his wife, Leah, 42, are here, busying themselves with small duties, they say, until full realization comes.
Mr. Peterson tells a dramatic but now-familiar tale: of barely making it into the basement; of huddling with wife, son and dogs; of emerging in the tornado's wake to find, amid the wreckage, a dead person -- in his case, it was in that silver Suzuki over there, the one with Kansas plates.
Then his wife chips in to remind him of the other body, the one found in that silver Scion, the smashed one awkwardly parked on the sidewalk, just steps from their obliterated house. ''It was a lady,'' she says, before searching for towels to salvage in the pile. ''With curly gray hair.''
Farther south on South Main, the Arby's is gone, and El Vaquero, where two waiters are said to have died, is gone, and the usefulness of the used cars at Auto Advantage is gone. Scattered about its lot are these black-and-white photos, many of them stamped on the back with the studio name of Murwin Mosler. Says the car lot's owner, Dave Hicks: ''These pictures are everywhere.''
Turning right or left on any street leads to houses gone or close to it, as well as to stories and moments of heartbreak, weirdness and resolve.
Here, one day, is a distraught man who describes how, while helping to dig in search of the living, he heard the distant cry of a little girl. ''Don't worry, honey, I'm getting there!'' he called out, again and again, digging so frantically that his hands began to bleed. Then, suddenly, he was there. He uncovered a talking doll, and he wept.
Then he dug elsewhere, he says. This time he uncovered a dead girl, and he wept.
Here, on another day, outside the sacred shambles of St. Mary's, where the wood pews are crumpled, the organ smashed and the baptismal font filled with ripped-away insulation, four out-of-town police officers speed up in two golf-cart vehicles, blue lights flashing.
''Is this St. Paul's?'' demands one officer, who has no GPS device but does have an assault rifle slung across his shoulder. He is from Pine Bluff, Ark., and, like so many others, he is not quite sure of his whereabouts.
Informed that this is St. Mary's and not St. Paul's, he explains that they have received reports of a disruptive drunk outside St. Paul's, which is where? Given directions, the officers race away in their carts to investigate one of the few reports of law-breaking in Joplin these days.
Finally, here, on yet another day, a few Elks gather on the hill where their beloved Joplin Elks Lodge No. 501 once stood. A place for fish fries and bingo, for New Year's Eve parties and Kansas City Chiefs games -- ''Cold beers and wings and ten tons of B.S.,'' as an Elks member, Randy Bell, puts it -- is now a mishmash mound of playing cards and concrete, hula-girl decorations and steel. Three lodge members and a bartender died here on Sunday, their absence magnified by the presence of three damaged cars.
Places like the lodge and Dude's Daylight Donuts and El Vaquero matter. To Rob O'Brian, the president of the Chamber of Commerce, they were ''pieces of the fabric of the community that are going to be very hard to gain back.''
Mr. Bell, the lodge's secretary, stands beside the rubble on its raised ground, his arms crossed, his eyes scanning the ruined horizon. Yes, he says, the Elks will rebuild, and try to help return to Joplin that lost, fun-loving part of itself.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE PATH OF DESTRUCTION: A road has been cleared next to Cunningham Park in Joplin, Mo., in a part of town where last Sunday's tornado left many homes destroyed or uninhabitable. (A18)
At Dude's Daylight Donuts, the owner, Dude Pendergraft. ''It sounded like two or three giants, 50 feet tall, going at each other,'' he said of the tornado.
 Jack Clayton at the remnants of the Auto Advantage car dealership. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAKED GOODS (89%); TORNADOES (87%); RETAIL BAKERIES (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); RELIGION (77%); RESTAURANTS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); WEATHER (71%); BARBER SHOPS (71%); HISTORY (65%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (58%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); LANDFILLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



957 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2944 words

HEADLINE: The Battle for History

BYLINE: By ADAM KIRSCH. 
Adam Kirsch is a senior editor at The New Republic and a columnist for Tablet magazine. His book ''Why Trilling Matters'' will be published this fall.

 BODY:
In February, the last surviving American veteran of the First World War died. It is hard to imagine the day when we say goodbye to the last survivor of the Second World War, so large do the ''good war'' and the ''greatest generation'' still loom in the national imagination. But the calendar and the census do not lie. Some 16 million Americans served in the military during World War II. On the 60th anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor in 2001, about 5.5 million were still living. This year, as we prepare to mark the 70th anniversary, the number is closer to 1.5 million, and it drops by almost a thousand a day. 
The passage of time doesn't just turn life into history; it also changes the contours of history itself. Over the last several years, historians, philosophers and others have begun to think about the Second World War in challenging and sometimes disturbing new ways, reflecting the growing distance between the country that fought the war and the country that remembers it. As always when history is debated, the stakes are not just the past but the present and future as well. Even as the long wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have made Americans less confident about the ways we use our military power, the struggle with the Axis remains the classic example of American might deployed for virtuous ends. President Obama had that history in mind when he explained his decision to intervene in Libya's civil war: ''To brush aside America's responsibility as a leader and -- more profoundly -- our responsibilities to our fellow human beings under such circumstances would have been a betrayal of who we are,'' Obama said. ''Some nations may be able to turn a blind eye to atrocities in other countries. The United States of America is different.'' Even today, World War II helps underwrite our claim to that moral difference.
Americans' favorite World War II stories have always been about the democratic heroism of ordinary soldiers; this kind of popular history has never disappeared, and probably never will. Laura Hillenbrand's ''Unbroken'' (2010), which has resided for months near the top of the best-seller list, tells the story of Louis Zamperini, an ex-track star turned airman, whose plane went down over the Pacific and who survived weeks adrift on a raft and even worse ordeals in a Japanese prison camp. As the title suggests, Zamperini is an untroubling kind of war hero, because his greatness was his refusal to break, not his ability to break others -- a part of the soldier's job that is far less comfortable to read about. Zamperini was a bombardier on a B-24, and at the very time he was being tortured by the Japanese, other bomber crews, made up of men no better or worse than he, carried out ''Operation Gomorrah'' -- the weeklong raid on Hamburg, Germany, that in July 1943 killed some 40,000 civilians and destroyed virtually the entire city. Can we make room for that story, and others like it, in our memory of World War II? And if we do, can we still keep our pride in a ''good war''?
Those are the questions being asked by the new wave of World War II histories. These books are not ''revisionist,'' in the pejorative sense: they don't suggest a moral equivalence between the Axis and the Allies, or minimize Nazi crimes, or deny the Holocaust. Rather, they are thoughtful works by professional historians, who are less interested in rewriting the facts of the war than in reconsidering their moral implications. Americans who learn about the war in Europe from a book like Stephen Ambrose's ''Band of Brothers'' (1992), for instance, could be forgiven for thinking of the defeat of Germany as the work of doughty G.I.'s. Yet in ''No Simple Victory: World War II in Europe, 1939-1945'' (2007), the British historian Norman Davies begins from the premise that ''the war effort of the Western powers'' was ''something of a sideshow.'' America lost 143,000 soldiers in the fight against Germany, Davies points out, while the Soviet Union lost 11 million.
And if the main show was a war between Hitler and Stalin, he wonders, wasn't World War II a clash of nearly equivalent evils? ''Anyone genuinely committed to freedom, justice and democracy is duty-bound to condemn both of the great totalitarian systems without fear or favor,'' he concludes. As a historian of Poland, Davies is especially aware of what few Americans remember: that World War II began with a joint Nazi-Soviet invasion of that country. For the first two years of the war, Hitler and Stalin were allies; the fact that they then turned against each other, when Hitler invaded the Soviet Union in June 1941, doesn't change the moral equation. ''If one finds two gangsters fighting each other, it is no valid approach at all to round on one and to lay off the other. The only valid test is whether or not they deserve the label of gangsters.''
Davies's deliberately provocative book had a mixed reception, in part because of the way his account of the war in Eastern Europe seemed determined to minimize the importance of the Holocaust. No such objection can be made to Timothy Snyder's morally scrupulous book ''Bloodlands: Europe Between Hitler and Stalin'' (2010), which also spotlights Eastern Europe -- in particular the region comprising the Baltics, Ukraine, Belarus, Western Russia and Poland that Snyder calls ''the bloodlands,'' because they were the greatest killing field of the Second World War. This was the site of the titanic battles between the Wehrmacht and the Red Army: it was also the scene of 14 million noncombatant deaths between 1933 and 1945. This figure encompasses 10 million civilians and prisoners of war killed by the Nazis -- including six million Jews murdered in the Holocaust--and four million civilians and P.O.W.'s killed by the Soviets.
By grouping German and Soviet casualties together, Snyder is making an implicit point. The Soviet Union was America's ally, Germany our enemy; but both regimes were guilty of killing millions of people for ideological reasons. Weren't the three million Ukrainians starved by Stalin in 1932-33 deliberate victims of state aggression and ideological terror, no less than the three million Soviet P.O.W.'s starved by Hitler in 1941-42? ''Only an unabashed acceptance of the similarities between the Nazi and Soviet systems permits an understanding of their differences,'' Snyder maintains.
If Stalin stands in our memory as a tyrant equal to Hitler, Winston Churchill is possibly the foreign statesman most beloved by Americans. For this very reason, however, Churchill has been the subject of some of the most impassioned attempts to revise our understanding of the Second World War. The subtext of this debate, and perhaps the main reason for its vehemence, has to do with the outsize symbolic role Churchill came to play in American foreign-policy debates after Sept. 11. When President Bush alluded to Churchill's wartime rhetoric in his address to Congress after the attacks, Norman Podhoretz wrote in ''World War IV'' (2007) that he ''unmistakably and unambiguously placed the war against the 'global terrorist network' in the direct succession to World War II.'' It was widely reported that Bush kept a bust of Churchill in the Oval Office -- and that Obama had it removed.
It is not surprising, then, that historians would start to view Churchill, for good or ill, through the prism of current politics. The conservative historian Paul Johnson, to take one example, wrote a short biography, ''Churchill'' (2009), whose premise is that ''of all the towering figures of the 20th century, both good and evil, Winston Churchill was the most valuable to humanity.'' At the same time, highly critical accounts of Churchill have proliferated: ''Churchill's Folly: How Winston Churchill Created Modern Iraq''(2004), ''Blood, Sweat and Arrogance: And the Myths of Churchill's War'' (2006). Nonhistorians with political agendas also piled on. The novelist Nicholson Baker wrote a revisionist account of World War II, ''Human Smoke: The Beginnings of World War II, the End of Civilization'' (2008), in which Churchill comes across as rather more responsible for the war than Hitler. Meanwhile, Pat Buchanan wrote ''Churchill, Hitler, and 'The Unnecessary War': How Britain Lost Its Empire and the West Lost the World'' (2008), blaming Churchill for taking Britain to war against Germany in the first place. This isolationist lesson was directed, Buchanan explicitly said, at ''the Churchill cult'' that convinced Bush, ''an untutored president,'' that liberating Iraq from Saddam Hussein was akin to liberating Europe from Hitler.
In a period that saw historians like Niall Ferguson recommend the British Empire as a model for the exercise of American power abroad, the connection between Churchill's imperialism and his racial prejudice became another major problem. It was most thoroughly addressed by Richard Toye in ''Churchill's Empire'' (2010), which fair-mindedly explored the reasons Churchill's ''humanitarianism did not imply a belief in racial equality.'' Toye often writes admiringly of Churchill, but does not shy away from the ugliness of some of his views -- like his confession that ''I hate people with slit-eyes and pig-tails,'' or his nostalgia for the empire's ''jolly little wars against barbarous peoples.''
More serious than racist remarks is the charge leveled at Churchill in a book by Madhusree Mukerjee, Churchill's Secret War: The British Empire and the Ravaging of India During World War II (Basic Books, $28.95). Mukerjee lays responsibility for the Bengal famine of 1943, which resulted in the deaths of some three million people, right at Churchill's doorstep. She sharpens her point by drawing provocative analogies between the English and the Nazis. At the height of the famine, she writes, some relief kitchens in Bengal were offering the dying just 400 calories' worth of rice a day, ''at the low end of the scale on which, at much the same time, inmates at Buchenwald were being fed.''
Critics have challenged Mukerjee's conclusions about the relative shares of culpability for the famine borne by the British, the threat of Japanese invasion, bad weather in Bengal, and hoarding. But ''Churchill's Secret War'' is convincing on one fundamental point. Churchill refused to divert resources from feeding Britain to feeding India because, true to the logic of imperialism, he placed a far higher value on British lives than on Indian ones. The number of Bengalis who died in 1943 rivals the number of Ukrainians who, as Timothy Snyder shows, were deliberately starved by Stalin in 1932-33. Does this mean that a comparable atrocity must be placed against the moral account of Britain and its Allies in World War II?
Or was the Allies' worst atrocity committed in Europe itself? The horrors of the British and American air raids on German cities have never been a secret; Kurt Vonnegut's ''Slaughterhouse-Five'' (1969), with its nightmare evocation of the bombing of Dresden, remains one of the most popular American war novels. But American debates on the morality of bombing have traditionally centered on the atomic bomb, a unique weapon that raises unique questions.
What makes new writing about the bombing of Germany especially significant is that it has been driven by the memories of those on the receiving end. In a landmark essay, ''Air War and Literature'' (published in English in 2003 as a part of ''On the Natural History of Destruction''), the German novelist W. G. Sebald wondered why the Allied bombing -- which killed half a million civilians and devastated most German cities -- ''seems to have left scarcely a trace of pain behind in the collective consciousness.'' A few years later, as if in response, the German historian Jorg Friedrich published ''The Fire: The Bombing of Germany, 1940-1945'' (2006). Friedrich describes the kinds of scenes that took place on German streets in the aftermath of bombing raids: for instance, ''a man dragging a sack with five or six bulges in it as if he were carrying heads of cabbage. It was the heads of his family, a whole family, that he had found in the cellar.''
Friedrich was accused, in Germany and abroad, of using language that implicitly equated Allied bombing with Nazi war crimes. But his conclusion about the lesson of the Second World War -- ''civilians do not show mercy to civilians. . . . Total war consumes the people totally, and their sense of humanity is the first thing to go'' -- challenges the Anglo-American memory of the war in ways that are impossible to ignore. In ''Among the Dead Cities: The History and Moral Legacy of the WWII Bombing of Civilians in Germany and Japan'' (2006), the English philosopher A. C. Grayling extends that challenge, asking: ''What should we, the descendants of the Allies who won the victory in the Second World War, reply to the moral challenge of the descendants of those whose cities were targeted by Allied bombers?''
Grayling is clear that he, like almost everyone in England and America (and in today's Germany, too), regards World War II as ''a just war against morally criminal enemies.'' Still, he concludes that the practice of area bombing -- in which the Royal Air Force's Bomber Command, in particular, indiscriminately bombed urban areas, in the hope of inflicting damage on Germany's economy and morale -- was ''a moral crime'': ''What is the moral difference between bombing women and children and shooting them with a pistol? . . . The anonymity of the act of killing from 20,000 feet?'' In the end, Grayling is carried by the force of his own argument to an outrageous verdict: ''There comes to seem very little difference in principle between the R.A.F.'s Operation Gomorrah, or the U.S.A.A.F.'s atom bomb attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and the destruction of the World Trade Center in New York by terrorists. . . . All these terrorist attacks are atrocities.''
The Allies as Al Qaeda: is this the conclusion to which a re-evaluation of the Second World War must lead us? If so, it's no wonder that some historians are growing impatient with the whole project. The title of the English historian Michael Burleigh's Moral Combat: Good and Evil in World War II (Harper/HarperCollins, $29.99), which was published last month, summarizes its response to the doubters: yes, this really was a moral combat. In his introduction, Burleigh is at least willing to grant that there were moral ambiguities involved, even saying that he does not ''seek to excuse Allied war crimes.'' Yet when he discusses Allied bombing, it is under the chapter heading ''The King's Thunderbolts Are Righteous'' -- the motto of the R.A.F.'s 44th Bomber Squadron. And while Burleigh acknowledges that Arthur Harris, the head of Bomber Command, was ''obsessed with wrecking German cities,'' he is far more angered by those who would second-guess Harris after the fact. With an eye on Grayling, perhaps, Burleigh fulminates, ''Wars are not conducted according to the desiccated deliberations of a philosophy seminar full of purse-lipped old maids.''
This is crude and bad-tempered, but Burleigh's defensive impulse is understandable. If we lose our ability to take pride in the victory over Hitler, we will be deprived of one of our surest moral compass points. Yet the patriotism, sacrifice and bravery we read about in a book like ''Band of Brothers'' cannot be nullified by knowing more about the war in which they flourished. Indeed, the best of the new World War II histories can be seen as attempts to give us, in the year 2011, a more authentic and complete sense of what the war was actually like to those fighting it.
After all, the present is always lived in ambiguity. To those who fought World War II, it was plain enough that Allied bombs were killing huge numbers of German civilians, that Churchill was fighting to preserve imperialism as well as democracy, and that the bulk of the dying in Europe was being done by the Red Army at the service of Stalin. It is only in retrospect that we begin to simplify experience into myth -- because we need stories to live by, because we want to honor our ancestors and our country instead of doubting them. In this way, a necessary but terrible war is simplified into a ''good war,'' and we start to feel shy or guilty at any reminder of the moral compromises and outright betrayals that are inseparable from every combat.
The best history writing reverses this process, restoring complexity to our sense of the past. Indeed, its most important lesson may be that the awareness of ambiguity must not lead to detachment and paralysis -- or to pacifism and isolationism, as Nicholson Baker and Pat Buchanan would have it. On the contrary, the more we learn about the history of World War II, the stronger the case becomes that it was the irresolution and military weakness of the democracies that allowed Nazi Germany to provoke a world war, with all the ensuing horrors and moral compromises that these recent books expose. The fact that we can still be instructed by the war, that we are still proud of our forefathers' virtues and pained by their sufferings and sins, is the best proof that World War II is still living history -- just as the Civil War is still alive, long after the last veteran was laid to rest.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 19, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An essay on May 29 about books on World War II misstated the cause of the crash that led to the Japanese capture of the American airman Louis Zamperini, the subject of Laura Hillenbrand's ''Unbroken.'' His bomber crashed because of mechanical failure; it was not shot down.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top: The Red Army invades Poland, September 1939
famine in Calcutta, 1943
Hamburg after Allied bombing, July 1943
a parade platform in Berlin after Germany's defeat, 1945. (PHOTOGRAPHS, FROM TOP: POPPERFOTO/GETTY IMAGES
BETTMANN/CORBIS
KEYSTONE/GETTY IMAGES
 FRED RAMAGE/KEYSTONE--GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (86%); HISTORY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); WORLD WAR I (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); ATHLETES (50%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (77%); KOLKATA, INDIA (59%) WEST BENGAL, INDIA (53%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); INDIA (59%)

TITLE: Moral Combat: Good and Evil in World War II (Book); Churchill's Secret War (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2011



958 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: The Weak Foundations of Arab Democracy

BYLINE: By TIMUR KURAN. 
Timur Kuran, a professor of economics and political science at Duke, is the author of ''The Long Divergence: How Islamic Law Held Back the Middle East.''

 BODY:
Durham, N.C.
THE protesters who have toppled or endangered Arab dictators are demanding more freedoms, fair elections and a crackdown on corruption. But they have not promoted a distinct ideology, let alone a coherent one. This is because private organizations have played only a peripheral role and the demonstrations have lacked leaders of stature.
Both limitations are due to the longstanding dearth, across the Arab world, of autonomous nongovernmental associations serving as intermediaries between the individual and the state. This chronic weakness of civil society suggests that viable Arab democracies -- or leaders who could govern them -- will not emerge anytime soon. The more likely immediate outcome of the current turmoil is a new set of dictators or single-party regimes. 
Democracy requires checks and balances, and it is largely through civil society that citizens protect their rights as individuals, force policy makers to accommodate their interests, and limit abuses of state authority. Civil society also promotes a culture of bargaining and gives future leaders the skills to articulate ideas, form coalitions and govern.
The preconditions for democracy are lacking in the Arab world partly because Hosni Mubarak and other Arab dictators spent the past half-century emasculating the news media, suppressing intellectual inquiry, restricting artistic expression, banning political parties, and co-opting regional, ethnic and religious organizations to silence dissenting voices.
But the handicaps of Arab civil society also have historical causes that transcend the policies of modern rulers. Until the establishment of colonial regimes in the late 19th century, Arab societies were ruled under Shariah law, which essentially precludes autonomous and self-governing private organizations. Thus, while Western Europe was making its tortuous transition from arbitrary rule by monarchs to democratic rule of law, the Middle East retained authoritarian political structures. Such a political environment prevented democratic institutions from taking root and ultimately facilitated the rise of modern Arab dictatorships.
Strikingly, Shariah lacks the concept of the corporation, a perpetual and self-governing organization that can be used either for profit-making purposes or to provide social services. Islam's alternative to the nonprofit corporation was the waqf, a trust established in accordance with Shariah to deliver specified services forever, through trustees bound by essentially fixed instructions. Until modern times, schools, charities and places of worship, all organized as corporations in Western Europe, were set up as waqfs in the Middle East.
A corporation can adjust to changing conditions and participate in politics. A waqf can do neither. Thus, in premodern Europe, politically vocal churches, universities, professional associations and municipalities provided counterweights to monarchs. In the Middle East, apolitical waqfs did not foster social movements or ideologies.
Starting in the mid-19th century, the Middle East imported the concept of the corporation from Europe. In stages, self-governing Arab municipalities, professional associations, cultural groups and charities assumed the social functions of waqfs. Still, Arab civil society remains shallow by world standards.
A telling indication is that in their interactions with private or public organizations, citizens of Arab states are more likely than those in advanced democracies to rely on personal relationships with employees or representatives. This pattern is reflected in corruption statistics of Transparency International, which show that in Arab countries relationships with government agencies are much more likely to be viewed as personal business deals. A historically rooted preference for personal interactions limits the significance of organizations, which helps to explain why nongovernmental organizations have played only muted roles in the Arab uprisings.
A less powerful business sector also hindered democracy. The Middle East reached the industrial era with an atomistic private sector unequipped to compete with giant enterprises that had come to dominate the global economy. Until then, Arab businesses consisted exclusively of small, short-lived enterprises established under Islamic partnership law. This was a byproduct of Islam's egalitarian inheritance system, which aimed to spread wealth. Successful enterprises were typically dissolved when a partner died, and to avoid the consequent losses Arab businessmen kept their enterprises both small and transitory.
Arab businesses had less political clout than their counterparts in Western Europe, where huge, established companies contributed to civil society directly as a political force against arbitrary government. They also did so indirectly by supporting social causes. For example, during industrialization, major European businesses financed political campaigns, including the mass education and antislavery movements.
Since the late 19th century, commercial codes transplanted from abroad have enabled Arabs to form large, durable enterprises like major banks, telecommunications giants and retail chains. Still, Arab companies tend to be smaller relative to global norms, which limits their power vis-a-vis the state. Although large Western corporations have been known to suppress political competition and restrict individual rights, in Arab countries it is the paucity of large private companies that poses the greater obstacle to democracy.
Despite these handicaps, there is some cause for optimism when it comes to democratization in the Middle East. The Arab world does not have to start from scratch. A panoply of private organizations are already present, though mainly in embryonic form. And if the current turmoil produces regimes more tolerant of grassroots politics and diversity of opinion, more associations able to defend individual freedoms will surely arise.
Moreover, the cornerstones of a modern economy are in place and widely accepted. Economic features at odds with Shariah, like banks and corporations, were adopted sufficiently long ago to become part of local culture. Their usefulness makes them appealing even to Islamists who find fault with other features of modernity.
Over the last 150 years, the Arab world has achieved structural economic transformations that took Europe a millennium. Its economic progress, whatever the shortcomings, has been remarkable. If political progress has lagged, this is partly because forming strong nongovernmental organizations takes time. Within a generation or two, as the economic transformations of the past century-and-a-half continue to change the way citizens interact with organizations, insurmountable pressure for democracy may yet arise even in those corners of the Arab world where civil society is weakest.
A stronger civil society alone will not bring about democracy. After all, private organizations can promote illiberal and despotic agendas, as Islamist organizations that denounce political pluralism and personal freedoms demonstrate. But without a strong civil society, dictators will never yield power, except in the face of foreign intervention.
Independent and well-financed private organizations are thus essential to the success of democratic transitions. They are also critical to maintaining democracies, once they have emerged. Indeed, without strong private players willing and able to resist undemocratic forces, nascent Arab democracies could easily slip back into authoritarianism.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GUY BILLOUT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHARITIES (88%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (69%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (74%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) EUROPE (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



959 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SUMMER 2011; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Beer Gardens

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
THERE are some who thought, prematurely, that 2010 was New York's summer of the beer garden, what with the World Cup and the opening of a half-dozen outdoor, German-style drinking establishments. But not unlike some genetically altered superweed, these ale-and-oompah joints have continued even this year to crop up everywhere you look. They have grown so thick, so fast, that certain neighborhoods (Astoria in Queens and Williamsburg in Brooklyn come to mind) could, with the proper vantage and the help of several pilsners, be mistaken for Bavaria.
It would seem that last summer's sprouting of beer gardens is about to turn into this summer's beer garden jungle.
There are now no fewer than 54 beer gardens in the city, according to Beer Gardens NYC, a nine-month-old iPhone application dedicated to tracking the phenomenon, and that does not include some that have been announced but are not yet open. 
There are classic beer gardens (Hallo Berlin), hipster beer gardens (Radegast Hall), beer gardens catering to frat boys (Studio Square) and a beer garden in a former Brooklyn auto-body shop (Mission Dolores). There are also temporary beer gardens, like the one that Colicchio & Sons plans to run this summer under the High Line in Chelsea, and another that will soon supplant the riverside bar at the South Street Seaport's Water Taxi Beach.
Beer gardens have achieved such cultural ascendancy that even grand masters are getting into the act. Recently, Joe Bastianich and Mario Batali announced the opening of La Birreria, an outdoor Italian-style drinking establishment, on the roof of Eataly, their Italian food megamall on 23rd Street. The beer garden offers an Alps-influenced menu and craft beers seasoned with fresh thyme picked, by hand, from the hills outside Rome.
All of which demands a question: How many beer gardens can one city -- even a fiercely pro-beer-garden city like New York -- possibly have?
''Basically, this is too much,'' said Larry Spacek, manager of the Bohemian Hall and Beer Garden in Astoria, the 100-year-old paterfamilias of the New York beer garden world. ''Everybody sees our success and is copycatting us. I don't know if it is progress, but probably we are reaching an era of beer gardens.''
According to Mr. Spacek -- he pronounces his name SPAH-check (''I am not related to Sissy'') -- a successful beer garden requires both the beer and the garden, and if there also happen to be bratwurst, schnitzels and enough communal tables to, as he put it, ''sit around with 600 other fellows singing karaoke,'' that's all to the good. The problem, he suggested, resides with those beer gardens lacking foliage. It is true, he acknowledged, that some of these less-than-green newcomers have cut into the Bohemian Hall's business.
''But sooner or later,'' he said, ''the fact that we are in a real park, with real trees, will bring people back. This is very important.''
Michael Momm, meanwhile, who helped open Zum Schneider on Avenue C in 2000 and now owns two Loreley beer gardens (one in Brooklyn, the other on the Lower East Side), claimed to be unbothered by the current beer-garden glut, competition being the natural outgrowth of capitalism. Mr. Momm said, somewhat shockingly, that in the recent past some of his rivals have spied on his establishments (''We've had people come in, talking to the staff, like where did you get your furniture and so forth''). But he chalked this up to the constant search for a tactical advantage in the dog-eat-dog beer garden trade.
''That's how it goes,'' he said. ''I don't necessarily see it as a threat.''
It is difficult to trace the precise genealogy of the city's beer gardens -- the first of which was said to be Castle Garden, which opened on July 3, 1824, in a former Army fort in Manhattan's Battery Park. (It later preceded Ellis Island as New York's primary immigrant processing center.) In the early 20th century, German sections of the city --Yorkville on the Upper East Side, for one -- had several beer gardens, but they eventually suffered from anti-Teutonic sentiment during the two world wars.
Of the city's extant beer gardens, the Bohemian Hall, owned and operated by the Bohemian Citizens' Benevolent Society of Astoria, stands in a class by itself. Under it are the middle-aged beer gardens: Hallo Berlin on 10th Avenue (''New York's wurst restaurant''); Killmeyer's on Arthur Kill Road in Staten Island (sauerbraten, 57 different bottles of German beer); and Zum Schneider (fake trees, pretzels, St. Pauli Girl waitresses). Then, of course, there are the arrivistes: places like Berry Park in Williamsburg, with its D.J. booth and Tuesday night poker games, and Studio Square in Astoria, with -- Was ist das? -- sushi and panko-crusted chicken schnitzel fingers.
There is no doubt, however, that Mr. Batali's La Birreria -- which, its brew master said, will be the first beer garden in America to employ firkins, nine-gallon, old-English-style carbonation casks -- represents the epitome of an increasingly baroque, gourmetized trend. One of its ales will be bolstered by ground Italian chestnut powder. Talk of the establishment is said to have begun six years ago at a ''slow food'' conference in Turin.
''I hear beer garden and it connotes oompah bands and picnic tables,'' said the brew master, Sam Calagione, the founder of the Dogfish Head brewery. ''But La Birreria will be a place for super-rustic, unfiltered, naturally carbonated beers accompanied by super-rustic, fresh-ingredient, Alps-inspired food.'' Not to mention, he added, ''The view is just epic.''
How did this come to pass?
Perhaps it's no coincidence that New York's drinking zeitgeist has passed, in succession, from the Belle Epoque-ish wine bar to the pre-crash Jazz Age cocktail lounge, to the Weimar-flavored biergarten, with its whiffs of hyperinflation and the Munich Beer Hall Putsch. Of course, it is also true that people like beer and will tend to drink it in large amounts, while sitting outside at long, communal tables in the sun.
''It's a recession-friendly outing,'' said Hope Tarr, who runs Beer Gardens NYC with her partner, Raj Moorjani. ''If you take a date out in Park Slope or Manhattan, even to a modest restaurant, it's a not inconsequential amount of money. But at a beer garden, you can get good beer for two to three dollars and, once the season starts, most have a grill menu, too. There's probably still room for the market to grow. I don't think we've reached the saturation point.''
That may seem like a difficult draft to swallow when -- aside from the 8,000 square feet La Birreria takes up and the 3,500 square feet occupied by Bierhaus NYC near Grand Central Terminal and the 6,000 square feet currently consumed by Spritzenhaus, in Greenpoint, Brooklyn -- there is Local West, another 6,000-square-footer, which will open next month at 1 Penn Plaza, near Madison Square Garden.
''People think that if they do this, they can get success,'' Mr. Spacek said. ''But they forget: It is not just about big wood benches and selling beer. It is about the environment you create -- and how you feel.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TWO OF A KIND: The Loreley beer garden in Brooklyn has a sister in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
SPREADING: Left, a handwritten menu on the wall in the Radegast Hall and Biergarten in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Above, Bier International, a beer garden in Harlem. There are now more than 50 beer gardens scattered across New York's neighborhoods. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
GARDEN ENVY: Above, a group of friends share a table at Zum Schneider on Avenue C, in the East Village. Left, an array of options at the Loreley in Williamsburg. Lower left, a waitress at Bierhaus NYC near Grand Central Terminal in Manhattan. As new beer gardens arrive, there is debate on the adequacy of those that lack real foliage. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (97%); BEER & ALE (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



960 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; HANDLEBARS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: You Meet the Nicest Sportbikes in the 250cc Neighborhood

BYLINE: By DEXTER FORD

 BODY:
NOBODY should be surprised to learn that Honda has the know-how to build a smooth, light, easy-to-manage motorcycle that is ideal for novice riders.
Or that the company can make a practical commuter bike that combines hybrid-beating fuel economy with a comfortable riding position and a flexible, well-mannered engine. Or that it has the ability to create a sportbike that can make even jaded ex-racers consider becoming racers again.
What does raise eyebrows, though, is that Honda can do all this with a single motorcycle -- and do it at the entry-level price of $4,299.
The 2011 CBR250R is the latest example of Honda's knack for changing the world's perceptions of what a motorcycle, and motorcycling, can do. Honda did it with the Cub a half-century ago, which has since become the best-selling motor vehicle ever, its production run topping 60 million. Honda's lightning struck again with the 1969 
CB 750, whose use of an inline 4-cylinder engine came to define the Universal Japanese Motorcycle.
Designed for a growing world market that includes, almost as an afterthought, the Americas, and built in Honda's long-established factory in Thailand, the CBR250R is intended to be sold for decades, in huge numbers -- sort of a two-wheel Model T of the 21st century.
By the simple math of its 249cc displacement, low 30.5-inch seat height and come-hither price, the CBR250R will be typecast as a beginner bike in the United States. But its smart design and thoroughly modern engineering make it far more than that: even with me aboard -- and my weight in pounds exceeds the Honda's displacement in cc's -- the little CBR is fully capable, on a sufficiently curvy road, of disappearing into the distance ahead of much-bigger, much-heavier, much-more-expensive motorcycles.
It's a laugh-in-the-helmet reminder of just how much sheer fun a good lightweight street motorcycle can be. It has nearly the same dimensions as a razor-sharp Honda CBR600RR sportbike, but weighs 44 pounds less. It's nimble in responding to steering inputs, yet stable and confidence-inspiring once set into a turn. Its suspension is expertly tuned, able to accommodate riders from 125 pounds to 250 pounds and more without major sacrifices in either ride or handling.
The liquid-cooled, fuel-injected, single-cylinder engine was created exclusively for the CBR. At a price where most manufacturers, especially in these hard times for motorcycle sales, would be tempted to recycle older technology, Honda started from scratch.
A counterbalancer quells vibration; new roller-bearing camshaft followers cut friction; a cylinder bore offset from the crankshaft centerline does more of the same. An exhaust catalyst cleans up emissions, and an ample muffler lets you slip past the neighbors almost undetected. The engine is tuned mildly, emphasizing usability and durability.
If treated gently, as most beginners will, with the revs kept in the neighborhood of its 7,000-r.p.m. torque peak, the CBR250R will still outrun most everyday automotive and scooter traffic.
If you wind the motor higher, there's a lot more fun to be had. Peak power -- 23.7 horsepower, according to Cycle World's testing -- arrives at 8,500 r.p.m., but the happy little single is more than willing to stay at its electronically enforced 10,500 r.p.m. redline all day long.
Where bigger motorcycles loaf, the CBR is screaming--but it's doing so with impressive smoothness and relative silence. The handlebars have a very slight buzz at high revs, but for riders wearing a full-face helmet, gloves and earplugs the only indication that the motor is spinning rather quickly will be the tachometer needle.
It was a surprise to me, after decades of riding much bigger and costlier bikes, that such a small machine could be so capable. It shouldn't have been. In the '60s, when Honda and other Japanese manufacturers were breaking into the American market, a 250cc machine was considered midsized to eager high school and college students.
Veteran riders can remember thinking of a Yamaha RD350 or a Honda CB450 as fast -- an era in which even the near-exotic Honda 750 made just 67 horsepower.
In city traffic, the CBR gives almost no outward indication that it is a lowly 250. The new motor has enough flywheel effect to prevent stalling; excellent calibration of its electronic fuel injection; and a clutch with a soft, wide engagement point make it easy to keep the motor spinning. The 6-speed transmission is sure and smooth, encouraging you to bang off gear changes as if you were accelerating away from a MotoGP grid.
The CBR250R is available with an antilock braking system for an extra $500. Its brakes are so good -- precise and powerful, with excellent feel -- that an expert may be tempted to do without. But for the great majority of riders, especially newcomers to street riding, they should be considered a necessity.
Once up to speed, the CBR is remarkably capable even in the 75-80 m.p.h. flow of Southern California's freeways. It looks like a baby brother to Honda's VFR1200 sport touring bike, and its riding position is just as comfortable. What matters is the relationship of the seat to handlebars to footpegs, and the CBR has it right. Friends in my riding group from 5-foot-6 to 6-foot-4 adapted in seconds and were happy for hours.
Admittedly, on one long uphill freeway stretch I had to keep the CBR at wide-open throttle in fourth gear (of six) to maintain the 75 m.p.h. pace of my companions on bigger bikes. Still, the CBR250R can do just about anything a bigger motorcycle can do. You just might have to work a little harder, shift a little more or concentrate more -- all of which, as least to me, makes the experience more rewarding.
As if you need another rationalization to have this much fun, the CBR also delivers hybridlike fuel economy. I saw an average of 56 m.p.g., and many of those miles were spent at wide-open throttle in the lower gears, climbing from sea level at home to 6,000 feet on the Angeles Crest Highway. In most cases, the 3.4-gallon fuel tank will be good for 180-mile stints.
Honda says that there are 27 patented technologies built into the CBR250R. But it's the sum of these parts -- the way they all work so well together -- that makes this bike so appealing.
How good is the CBR250R?
If somebody told me that this was the only street bike I could ride for the rest of my life, I would say, ''Oh. Cool.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SMALL WONDER: The 2011 CBR250R delivers the performance, not just the looks, of a sportbike. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); MOTORCYCLES (89%); ENGINEERING (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (58%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (93%); HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



961 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: 'Among The Truthers'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In his review of Jonathan Kay's ''Among the Truthers: A Journey Through America's Growing Conspiracist Underground'' (May 15), Jacob Heil/brunn says, of the beliefs of conspiracy theorists, that ''even to dignify it with the word 'theory' is probably to grant them more legitimacy than they deserve.'' 
The pejorative use of the phrase ''conspiracy theorists'' is nothing more than an attempt to marginalize anyone who disagrees with the ''official story'' about anything the government or media claim to be true. Yet where would we be without those conspiracy theorists? We would never have known, through the Pentagon Papers, that our government had lied about the reasons for escalating the war in Vietnam; we would never have known the truth about, and the extent of, the Iran-contra affair; and had it not been for a curious night watchman, it almost certainly would have been the conspiracy theorists who eventually unearthed the truth about Watergate.
THE REV. IAN ALTERMAN New York The writer is a member of Religious Leaders for 9/11 Truth.
To the Editor:
Jacob Heilbrunn, citing Jonathan Kay, calls me and other researchers trying to understand what happened on 9/11 ''cranks'' propounding baseless beliefs and ''often reacting to male midlife crises.'' Given that he does not consider our detailed evidence relevant, what are we to make of such accusations?
Kay claims that my research on ''the price of individual airline stocks in the run-up to 9/11'' is ''arcane.'' Given the widespread attention to insider trading in the weeks after 9/11 -- as well as the scholarly research published in 2006 in The Journal of Business -- the word ''arcane'' cannot apply. Nor is my research confined to that subject: ''The Hidden History of 9-11,'' which I edited, ranges over much more.
Kay's verdict is that of a kangaroo court.
PAUL ZAREMBKA Buffalo The writer is a professor of economics at the State University of New York, Buffalo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (79%); WRITERS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); RELIGION (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); INSIDER TRADING (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



962 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By IHSAN TAYLOR

 BODY:
WHAT IS LEFT THE DAUGHTER, by Howard Norman (Mariner/Houghton Mifflin, $13.95.) In this epistolary novel, set in Nova Scotia during World War II, Wyatt Hillyer reaches out to a 21-year-old daughter he hasn't seen or spoken to since 1948, when she was 2. Beginning with the day his mother and father commit suicide within hours of each other, Wyatt's layered tale encompasses unrequited love, murder and German U-boats prowling Canada's eastern shore.
UP FROM HISTORY: The Life of Booker T. Washington, by Robert J. Norrell (Belknap/Harvard University, $19.95.) Born into slavery, Washington (1856-1915) rose to become one of the country's most admired black leaders. But for all his accomplishments, he has been stigmatized as a racial accommodationist. Norrell scrupulously excavates the facts of Washington's life and puts his brand of black empowerment back into historical context. 
SUPER SAD TRUE LOVE STORY, by Gary Shteyngart (Random House, $15.) Shteyngart's novel about an improbable love affair is also a comic portrait of a nearly ungovernable futuristic America in which books are dusty relics and communication occurs through all-knowing personal electronic devices. (The romance between sad sack Lenny Abramov and Eunice Park, a young self-loathing beauty, is recounted through diary entries and e-mail and text messages.)
AFTERSHOCK:The Next Economy and America's Future, by Robert B. Reich. (Vintage, $14.95.) Reich, a Clinton-era labor secretary, assesses the recent recession and concludes that the problem isn't Wall Street bankers but the concentration of income at the top, which has stripped the middle class of the buying power it needs to keep the economy going. A FAILURE OF CAPITALISM:The Crisis of '08 and the Descent Into Depression, by Richard A. Posner. (Harvard University, $17.95.) Declaring the 2008 crisis a bona fide depression, Posner, a federal appellate judge, takes the financial regulatory system to task: ''We need a more active and intelligent government,'' he argues, ''to keep our model of a capitalist economy from running off the rails.''
IF THE DEAD RISE NOT, by Philip Kerr (Penguin, $15.) Kerr's thriller transports us to Berlin in 1934 as Bernie Gunther, the maverick homicide cop who left the force during the political purges of 1933, finds himself entangled in Germany's machinations to cover up Nazi anti-Semitism and forestall an American boycott of the 1936 Olympics.
WAR, by Sebastian Junger (Twelve, $15.99.) Embedded for months in 2007-8 with a 173rd Airborne Brigade platoon in Afghanistan's hostile Korengal Valley, Junger, the author of ''The Perfect Storm,'' details its members' intense lives -- including the numbing anticipation of battle and the adrenaline-fueled confusion of combat. '' 'War' strives to offer not just a picture of American fighting men but a discourse on the nature of war itself,'' Dexter Filkins wrote in the Book Review.
YOUNG ROMANTICS: The Shelleys, Byron, and Other Tangled Lives, by Daisy Hay (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $18.) Hay's vivid group biography examines the English Romantic poets' ''web of social and intellectual allegiance,'' parsing the intricate circumstances that led to their creative output.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); HISTORY (78%); WRITERS (78%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HOMICIDE (71%); SUICIDE (71%); SLAVERY (69%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (67%); TEXT MESSAGING (64%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (63%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (63%); OLYMPICS (60%); JUDGES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (88%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (93%); GERMANY (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



963 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Partner Could Gain Control of Mets in 3 Years

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
David Einhorn, the hedge fund titan who is in negotiations to buy a $200 million stake in the Mets, could own a majority of the team in three years, a person with direct knowledge of the negotiations said Saturday.
Einhorn is expected to receive a one-third share of the Mets in return for his investment, but could gain much more. He will have the option in three years of raising his stake to 60 percent, effectively ending more than three decades of control of the team by the Wilpon family.
Fred Wilpon, the principal owner, could block a move to take over his team by repaying the $200 million invested by Einhorn. But Einhorn would then retain his one-third share of the team, essentially at no net cost, according to the person with direct knowledge of the negotiations, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to publicly discuss the matter. 
Steve Greenberg, the investment banker hired by the Wilpons to sell a minority stake in the Mets, declined to comment. Rob Manfred, executive vice president of Major League Baseball, also declined to discuss the deal. A spokesman for Einhorn said he had no comment. In a statement, the Mets said their exclusive negotiating agreement with Einhorn, who attended Saturday night's game at Citi Field and spoke to Manager Terry Collins in the dugout, was ''strictly confidential.'' They later issued a second statement saying ''there is uninformed speculation regarding terms of a potential deal.''
It is unclear what Einhorn would have to pay to increase his stake in the team to 60 percent in three years. Customarily, an auditor would be hired to revalue the franchise to determine the basis for negotiations over a price.
The deal now being discussed between Einhorn and the Mets does not include a stake in SNY, the team's profitable cable television network. Einhorn said Thursday that he was not interested in the television business, unlike many other bidders for the team.
The outline of the proposed deal was first reported by ESPNNewYork.com.
Though the deal is not final and is subject to the approval of Major League Baseball, its terms underscore the vulnerability of the Wilpons, whose team is swimming in debt, bleeding cash and losing fans. Wilpon said it could lose about $70 million this year, $20 million more than last year.
The Mets are also embroiled in a legal battle with Irving H. Picard, the trustee representing the victims of the fraud in Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme, who is seeking $1 billion from the Wilpon family.
Einhorn, 42, is expected to seek legal indemnity from that case, which is being mediated by Mario M. Cuomo, the former governor of New York. Einhorn is also likely to clarify what role he would have if the Mets were forced to sell the club.
The potential agreement with Einhorn ''certainly demonstrates a desperate need for immediate cash by Wilpon,'' said Marc Ganis, the president of SportsCorp, an industry advisory firm. Einhorn, on the other hand, was striking a clever deal, he said.
''His downside is he receives one-third of the Mets for a three-year, $200 million loan,'' Ganis said. ''His upside is he would be the control owner of the Mets in three years at a reasonable valuation and only have to buy 60 percent, not 100 percent, to achieve that.''
Einhorn is president and co-founder of Greenlight Capital, a hedge fund that manages about $8 billion. His willingness to invest $200 million in a distressed team and maintain a path to majority ownership echoes a strategy he has used in amassing his fortune. He is known for buying into severely undervalued assets that have the potential to recover.
Few teams publicize the sale of minority stakes; even fewer publicize them before the sales have been made final. Yet the Mets announced their intention to sell 20 to 25 percent of the club four months ago. Since then, the team has slumped in the standings, sustained a rash of injuries and experienced a 10 percent decline in attendance from last year.
Wilpon was roundly criticized last week for making negative comments about his star players and for calling his team ''lousy'' and ''snakebitten.'' He also said his team was ''bleeding cash.''
The announcement that the Mets were in exclusive negotiations appears to have given the upper hand to Einhorn, because it deterred other potential investors and set up an expectation that a sale would be made.
Still, Wilpon, who made his fortune in real estate, may be calculating that the team and the economy may recover in three years, which would make it easier for him to raise the cash needed to fend off a takeover of the club. At that time, Wilpon could sell part of his stake in SNY to Einhorn, or raise cash to repay him.
In the short term, the $200 million from Einhorn is almost certain to meet the team's most pressing needs and potentially stabilize its finances into next year. The Mets are expected to use half the money to pay back loans to banks and Major League Baseball, according to several people with direct knowledge of the team's finances. The rest would help pay player salaries and cover other expenses.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Einhorn at Citi Field. He wants to invest $200 million in a deal in which he could raise his stake in the Mets to 60 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS TROTMAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); BASEBALL (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); GOVERNORS (64%); CABLE TELEVISION (62%); PONZI SCHEMES (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



964 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: Governor Cuomo's Aide Defends Proposed Tax Cap

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I take issue with the devastating picture of New York under a property tax cap that you paint in a May 26 editorial, ''Reject the Tax Cap.'' 
Your view that ''property taxes in New York are undeniably high'' is one we agree on. Property taxes are driving people from their homes and businesses from the state. Something must be done.
You claim that the state budget makes drastic cuts to schools and communities, and that the cap will cause more pain. New York spends the most of any state per student, over $18,000, almost 80 percent above the national average. Meanwhile, New York's graduation rate is below the national average. We need to stop throwing money at the problem and start operating more effectively.
You claim that Massachusetts schools suffer under a property tax cap. The Bay State has lower taxes and spends $4,000 less per student, yet the schools have a higher graduation rate.
The comparison to the California cap is unfair, since New York's is quite different, including a voter override.
You claim that high taxes are not a factor in the state's failure to draw businesses, even when businesses pay five times more in local property taxes than in state corporate income taxes.
In a survey this month, the nation's top chief executives rated each state for its business environment, and New York was second to last, based in part on the state's taxes.
In a contradiction, you call the tax cap a ''crutch'' for politicians who don't have the courage to cut spending. Yet in the same editorial you say that the governor's budget cuts too much.
New Yorkers are being crushed by the tax burden. From 1998 to 2008, property taxes increased a staggering 73 percent, double the rate of inflation. Tax dollars must be respected, and that's why the property tax cap is so essential.
RICHARD BAMBERGER New York, May 27, 2011
The writer is director of communications for Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (92%); PROPERTY TAX (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); GRADUATION RATES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INCOME TAX (65%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



965 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: A Portrait of the Ravages of Alzheimer's

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Our Irrational Fear of Forgetting,'' by Margaret Morganroth Gullette (Op-Ed, May 22):
Two years ago, my grandmother died of Alzheimer's. For more than a decade leading up to her death, my mother and I watched a proud, beautiful woman deteriorate into a state that can only be described as animalistic. The horrors inflicted upon her by Alzheimer's cannot be understated.
Memory loss was only a part of the symptoms my grandmother suffered. Crazed by paranoia and fear, she was haunted by hallucinations. She became violent; despite her tiny frame and size, her strength was at times uncontrollable. Her voice abandoned her, and she could make her needs known only through awkward gestures and noises. 
The fact that one in eight Americans older than 65 has Alzheimer's is no small number. It is an epidemic. My grandmother required 24-hour care, sometimes by multiple people. My family tried to care for her at home, but as the disease progressed, this became a living nightmare for my family. And this went on for more than 10 years.
Having witnessed the disease firsthand, I can truly say there is something worse than death.
CARY RIKER Happy Valley, Ore., May 22, 2011
To the Editor:
If only it were simply a fear of forgetting. Alzheimer's is so much more. It is, in our case, a comatose state with eyes wide open and the experience of watching a kind and funny man become an agitated, angry and afraid person with no connection to the world in which he sits (because he cannot stand or walk anymore).
I truly hope that Margaret Morganroth Gullette and those she loves never experience the disease as my family has. I implore her not to use her public platform to minimize the horror that is Alzheimer's. Our experience of it has nothing in common with a 96-year-old who can still sing (lucky her). It is, as has been accurately described, death on an installment plan.
May she use her voice instead to draw positive attention to elder-care issues, including the profound emotional and financial costs of providing decent care. You do not need to minimize Alzheimer's to advance such concerns.
ANNE CALDAS Montclair, N.J., May 22, 2011
To the Editor:
Emphasizing ''personhood instead of debilitation'' is not going to prepare society for the huge costs, both emotional and economic, that are fast approaching with the aging of baby boomers and the expected explosion in the number of Alzheimer's cases.
While we don't want to paralyze society with fear, we must keep these issues at front and center, so that research into identifying the earliest stages of Alzheimer's -- when it will be most amenable to treatment -- will continue to be aggressively pursued.
That said, Margaret Morganroth Gullette is right to ask whether society should obsess over memory performance, which is a completely different issue. Forgetfulness, at any age, is normal. ''Photographic'' memory can be a curse, and marital therapists would likely find a ''forgetful'' pill useful.
Ms. Gullette is also correct to say that age-related memory decline is ''considered normal'' and that it is different from Alzheimer's disease. But implying that normal decline is necessarily innocuous, and that anxiety or medical attention is unwarranted, is irresponsible; it does not reflect the concerns of the patients with memory complaints whom I see in my practice.
While age-related memory decline may not be a harbinger of Alzheimer's disease, for many people it has a real effect on their function, and safe interventions may be in sight.
To suggest ''Forget memory. Try imagination'' may be amusing. But when applied to patients with Alzheimer's, it is equivalent to telling a patient with paraplegia: ''Skip walking. Try watching TV.''
SCOTT A. SMALL New York, May 23, 2011
The writer is professor of neurology and a memory investigator at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and a member of the scientific advisory board of Brain Cells Inc.
To the Editor:
Thanks to Margaret Morganroth Gullette for shining her light on the fact that not everyone who receives a diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment progresses to dementia. Studies that followed up mildly impaired elders for three to five years found that a large minority remained stable and about 14 percent returned to normal. No one yet knows why.
DOUGLAS POWELL Concord, Mass., May 23, 2011
The writer is the author of ''The Aging Intellect'' and a clinical instructor in psychology at the Harvard Medical School.
To the Editor:
The ostensibly humorous phrase ''senior moment'' contributes to the ''epidemic of anxiety around memory loss'' that is cited in Margaret Morganroth Gullette's Op-Ed article. Let's redefine this toxic term like this:
''Senior moment:
(1) Any accomplishment, large or small, possible because acuity, confidence and gumption increase with age.
(2) A memory lapse or other sign of ineptitude attributable to advancing age. Obsolete.''
MARIE SHEAR Brooklyn, May 22, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GARRETT PRUTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); AGING (77%); BABY BOOMERS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



966 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Havana's Sphere of Influence

BYLINE: By GIA KOURLAS

 BODY:
IN Cuba, where dancers -- especially male ones -- seem to grow like weeds, ballet is a noble profession. ''There every taxi driver knows the names of the dancers,'' Mikhail Baryshnikov said in a recent interview. ''This is unheard of. Try it in New York.''
But often at the National Ballet of Cuba, led by the indomitable Alicia Alonso, the soil isn't rich enough to keep them there. ''Most Cubans leave because we want to do something different,'' Reyneris Reyes said. Now a principal with the Miami City Ballet, he trained at the National Ballet School in Havana and was a member of the national company. ''Not 'Sleeping Beauty' or 'Don Q' or 'Giselle' all the time,'' he said.
In Miami Mr. Reyes performs ballets by George Balanchine, Twyla Tharp and Jerome Robbins. ''It's wonderful to have all these styles, and I love it here,'' he continued. ''And it's kind of like Cuba. The weather is hot.'' 
Beyond political and economic reasons, for the steady stream of dancers who leave their homeland -- many defect while others get permission to work abroad -- ballet in Cuba is limiting, with a focus on war-horse-heavy repertory. Excerpts from several of these classics will be on display at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, when the National Ballet of Cuba appears there starting on June 8.
What is notable is how easily Cuban dancers, curious for a taste of ballet beyond the classics, find work in North American and European companies. This speaks to the rigorous training at the National Ballet School, which is directed by Ramona de Saa. What is it about Cuban schooling that makes its dancers malleable enough to assimilate into so many companies far from home? For its opening-night gala this month American Ballet Theater illustrated this point in ''Majisimo,'' a work featuring a nearly all-Cuban cast. In the United States alone Cuban dancers are members of Boston Ballet, Miami City Ballet, Pacific Northwest Ballet and San Francisco Ballet, as well as smaller troupes like Cincinnati Ballet; BalletMet of Columbus, Ohio; Sarasota Ballet in Florida; and other companies.
Aspiring dancers start around the age of 10 in Cuba, late by American standards. Carlos Miguel Guerra, now a principal at Miami City Ballet, said: ''They are very picky about who they accept. It's not like here; if you have the money and want to, you can send a little fat boy to school.''
Teachers throughout Cuba follow the same training methodology, which Lorna Feijoo, now a principal at Boston Ballet, stressed as being particularly significant. ''It's very important not to confuse the kids,'' she said. ''After, when you know everything, that's when you can do whatever you want.''
While she and her husband, Nelson Madrigal, also a principal dancer at Boston Ballet, are free to travel to Cuba, she regrets not having opportunities to perform there. ''I feel like the audience in Cuba misses us, and I miss them a lot,'' Ms. Feijoo said. ''I miss everything. I miss the fans.'' She added: ''It's like Hollywood here. That is ballet there.''
With the exception of New York City Ballet most major companies in the United States and Canada feature Cuban dancers. And City Ballet wanted one; Yoel Carreno, the half brother of American Ballet Theater's Jose Manuel Carreno, was meant to join in 2002 but experienced visa problems.
Jose Carreno said that his brother now lives in Oslo, where he is a member of the Norwegian National Ballet. ''He has been very unfortunate,'' Mr. Carreno said. ''I am still hoping he can come and dance with us here.''
Mr. Baryshnikov, who famously defected from the Soviet Union to Canada in 1974, winced when Yoel Carreno's name was brought up. ''He is so beautiful,'' he said. ''It's politics. Of course it's up to Alicia to decide who is staying and who is leaving. It's not even a government policy or something. At least in Russia it was the K.G.B. who would decide who would go and who would not.''
The foundation of the National Ballet School began in 1931 at the cultural institution Sociedad Pro-Arte Musical de la Habana. Nikolai Yavorsky, a Russian dancer, was its first director of ballet. Ms. Alonso, now 90, began her training there.
During the next couple of decades others took charge, including Alberto Alonso, Ms. Alonso's brother-in-law, with the Canadian ballerina Alexandra Denisova, then his wife. In 1950, two years after the company Ballet Alicia Alonso was started, a school, annexed to the company, began. This eventually became the National Ballet School.
In the 1960s Azari Plisetsky arrived from Moscow to partner Ms. Alonso. Mr. Baryshnikov, who has observed classes in Cuba, said that Mr. Plisetsky, the brother of the Bolshoi star Maya Plisetskaya, set Cuban training on its current path, especially in terms of male dancers. In them Mr. Baryshnikov recognizes ''posture, a kind of grace and a sort of innocent delivery, which I think comes from childhood.'' He added with a laugh, ''They are really good soldiers.''
Technical precision enables Cuban dancers to obtain positions with other companies, but thriving in them is another matter. Rolando Sarabia made waves when he defected in 2005 but so far hasn't found sustained work with one company. As a freelancer he recently made his debut with American Ballet Theater.
Edward Villella, the founding artistic director of Miami City Ballet, said that Cuban dancers had incredible pride. ''You have to make sure that they have the same kind of work ethic,'' he added. ''A lot of these people leave when they are fairly young and have yet to reach maturity. Now they are suddenly out on their own in a very different world.'' With a laugh, he later said, ''I now have a guy here I've fired five times.''
Tunnel vision can be a problem: classical training may be what makes the dancers hirable, but they need to be adaptable. Mr. Guerra, who trained in the central Cuban city of Camaguey, said that a dancer has to want to change. ''It was really hard, let me tell you,'' he said. ''At 18, when I left Cuba, I thought I knew everything.''
In Chile, where Mr. Guerra danced with the Ballet Company of Santiago, he began a gradual transformation. ''I started asking myself: Why did you leave Cuba? You wanted to learn more. Don't make it difficult. Open your mind.''
Over the years Mr. Guerra has changed his idea of what a male dancer should be. ''In Cuba sometimes we worry about what tricks can we do,'' he said. ''How high can we jump? We forget a little bit that ballet is not just about that. You also need to be able to really dance, to be fluid with your movements. It's not about circus. A principal dancer knows how to walk onstage and how to stand onstage when he's not dancing.''
He paused and added: ''I think we become better dancers when we get out of Cuba and learn other styles. We get the final touches.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American Ballet Theater's recent premiere of ''Majisimo'' combined company members with guest dancers to create an almost all-Cuban lineup: from left, Paloma Herrera (of Argentina) and Jose Manuel Carreno, both of Ballet Theater
Xiomara Reyes of Ballet Theater and Reyneris Reyes of Miami City Ballet
Lorena Feijoo of San Francisco Ballet and Nelson Madrigal of Boston Ballet
 and Lorna Feijoo of Boston Ballet and Joan Boada of San Francisco Ballet. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (92%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); DANCE EDUCATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); THEATER (73%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); WEST USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



967 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths STEWART, JOHN MACKENZIE

 BODY:
STEWART--John MacKenzie, 79, died peacefully at home on May 19, 2011. Born in Glen Cove, NY, in 1932, he graduated from Yale University ('53) and Harvard Business School ('57). He served in the US Navy from 1953 - 1955 and as a program manager for TRW's Saturn missile project. In 1961 he joined McKinsey & Company where for 37 years, he dedicated himself to client service. In addition, he served on the Defense Science Board, Yale University Council, National Council on Economic Education and as Executive Director of the US National Commission on Productivity. 
Most recently, he was a trustee of NYU Medical Center, the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute and on the Dean's Advisory Council at Boston University School of Medicine. He also consulted with a Gates Foundation initiative to reduce HIV/AIDS in India. John's many civic commitments reflected his lifelong interest in the intersection of management with science and economics, and a deeply held belief in "giving back". Even his love of flying became a way to help others through Angel Flights. John was a great human being. He brought integrity, creativity and compassion to every endeavor with family, with friends and with professional colleagues. He had a unique way of guiding those around him to new and deeper insight. And he was a lot of fun to be around. He loved his family: his wife, Eliot; their four children: Diane Stewart, Sandi Stewart, Ian Highet and Eliot Patty; and nine grandchildren: Anna, Colin, Ali, Dash, Gil, Lisa, Andrew, Liam and Eliza. Services will be held at the Yale Club on Sunday, June 19 at 4:30pm, reception following. In lieu of flowers, donations can be sent to: John Stewart Memorial Fund, Amyloid Research Program, Boston Univ. School Of Medicine, 72 E. Concord St., Boston, MA 02188 or Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute, Fenno House, Woods Hole, MA 02543.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); OCEANOGRAPHY (75%); NAVIES (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); AIDS & HIV (70%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (69%); FOUNDATIONS (68%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (91%); NATIONAL COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC EDUCATION (57%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



968 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: Online

 BODY:
Podcast Scheduled to appear this week: David McCullough on his new book, ''The Greater Journey: Americans in Paris''; The Times's Gretchen Morgenson on ''Reckless Endangerment,'' an account of the financial crisis she has written with Joshua Rosner; Julie Bosman with notes from the field; and Jennifer Schuessler with best-/seller news. Sam Tanenhaus, the editor of the Book Review, is the host. 
Children's Books Weekly online-only reviews of picture books.
Books Update E-MailReceive a preview of the Sunday Book Review every Friday afternoon.
ARTSBEAT The Times's culture blog includes book news and dispatches from the world of letters.
nytimes.com/bookreview

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (95%); PODCASTING (89%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (88%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (83%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%)

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S BOOKS & TOYS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



969 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1575 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
IN RUSSIA, PRISONS
FOR POLICE THRIVE
The 10 prisons in Russia set aside for former policemen and others in law enforcement are a legacy of a post-Stalin reform of the penal colony system that has reduced the prevalence of some of its rougher practices. Today, the police prisons are doing a brisk business -- evidence, the authorities say, of President Dmitri A. Medvedev's drive to clean up corruption. But critics of Russia's criminal justice system say the overflowing jails are more a measure of the scale of the corruption in law enforcement. PAGE 6
OBAMA HAILS POLAND
President Obama held up Poland as a model for Arab nations undergoing political upheaval, saying its peaceful overthrow of Communism provided lessons for Tunisia and other countries struggling with the chaotic aftermath of popular revolts. PAGE 14 
A LESSON ON U.S. COURTS
The sexual assault case against Dominique Strauss-Kahn, which continues to crowd out much other news in France, is becoming something of a civics lesson in American justice for the French-- one that has inspired both biting criticism and some respect. PAGE 11
8 KILLED IN SUICIDE BOMBING
At least eight people were killed when a bomb ripped through a restaurant in the restive northwestern tribal region of Bajaur in Pakistan, officials said. PAGE 9
EXTRADITING BOSNIAN LEADER
Serbian officials vowed to track down all those who helped hide Ratko Mladic and other fugitives accused of war crimes, but their prime interest now is to get the former Bosnian Serb general packed off to the war crimes tribunal in The Hague, which is likely to happen Tuesday or later next week. PAGE 11
National
A NEW POWER DUO
TO FIGHT CLIMATE CHANGE
Bill Clinton and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York are teaming up to take on climate change, an issue that may well shape the world's economic and social future for decades. Mr. Bloomberg's billions of dollars and Mr. Clinton's billions of friends are a potent combination, but there are questions about whether their venture can make an impact. PAGE 19
CRIMINALS IN POLICE CLOTHING
As long as police officers have worn uniforms and carried badges, criminals have dressed like them to try to win the trust of potential victims. Now the impersonators are far more sophisticated, according to nearly a dozen police chiefs and detectives across the country. PAGE 16
NAMING NEW MILITARY CHIEF
President Obama is expected to name Gen. Martin E. Dempsey to be chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. As the military's highest-ranking officer, General Dempsey would face a complex and consequential set of challenges against the backdrop of rapid change abroad and intensive political pressures at home. PAGE 17
BRIEF ON MEDICAID LAW
Medicaid recipients and health care providers cannot sue state officials to challenge cuts in Medicaid payments, even if such cuts compromise access to health care for poor people, the Obama administration said in a brief to the Supreme Court. PAGE 19
METROPOLITAN
TENSIONS OVER
OUTDOOR CONCERTS
For many New Yorkers, outdoor concert series are a staple of summer in the city, and for strapped parks, they are a vital source of revenue. But they also exacerbate the tensions that run through diverse communities. PAGE 1
Sports
METS' PARTNER COULD BECOME
PRINCIPAL OWNER IN 3 YEARS
David Einhorn, the hedge fund titan who is in negotiations to buy a $200 million stake in the New York Mets, could own a majority of the team in three years, a person with direct knowledge of the negotiations said. Mr. Einhorn is expected to receive a one-third share of the Mets in return for his investment, but will have the option in three years of raising his stake to 60 percent, effectively ending more than three decades of control of the team by the Wilpon family. PAGE 1
THE BUZZ IS BACK
The Indianapolis 500 has been battling sliding television ratings and dwindling enthusiasm for years. A record low number of viewers, some 4.1 million, watched the 2010 race nationally, a drop from the 4.4 million who watched the race in 2009. But as the race celebrates its 100th anniversary, longtime participants have seen signs of a revival. Ticket sales for the race are up by 10 percent over a year ago, and retail sales are up nearly 30 percent. Page 6
ARENA LEAGUE SEES CHANCE
The Philadelphia Soul had recorded a 70-49 victory over the New Orleans VooDoo in an Arena Football League contest that doubled as a welcomed diversion from an N.F.L. off-season defined by labor strife. With the N.F.L. players locked out for the foreseeable future, the Arena League has the gridiron to itself. Page 10
Obituaries
DANA BRAND, 56
He was a scholar of American literature who was chairman of the English department at Hofstra University, but he won a measure of fame and even greater fulfillment writing books and a lyrical, almost daily blog about the ''delight and despair'' of being a Mets fan. Page 26
Sunday Business
PROMISING A BETTER YOU
THAT STARTS BY PRESSING PLAY
On televisions across America, Tony Horton is selling a burning-sweat vision of physical fitness, and these days, a lot of people are buying. He is the pitchman and wise-cracking star of a brutal, make-it-stop workout called P90X, and he has won converts from Hollywood to Capitol Hill. Page 1
A FATE HINGING ON WORDS
Groupon, which is expected to go public within the next year, is creating a new approach to commerce that it hopes will change the way we eat and shop and interact with the physical world. Groupon hopes that its staff of 400 writers and editors will keep it one step ahead of its discounting competitors on the Web. Page 1
OFFERING A TAILORED INTERNET
Google, Facebook and Netflix track users' habits and tailor future results to show people what they want to see. Affirmation feels good, but it may not be constructive. Page 3
FROM FRUIT TO A BUSINESS
Kara Goldin, chief executive of the water company Hint, discovered an opportunity after continued frustrations when searching for healthy drinks for her children. Finally, she settled on slicing fresh fruit up into pitchers of water as a solution. A thriving business followed. Page 8
Automobiles
A WINNING ROADSTER
THAT SAVED A CITY
Maybe it is Wendell McCrady Jr. who best understands the value of the rust-speckled roadster tucked away in a storage shed in this Akron suburb. Not the monetary value of the car, but what the car meant to people like Mr. McCrady who grew up in Akron, the town that became known as Rubber City. Sports, Page 11
Arts & Leisure
THE STUFF OF AGES PAST
DOES NOT STAY FORGOTTEN
To mark the 150th anniversary of the Civil War a burst of television programming over the next several months also has some smaller things to bear in mind. This time, tiny artifacts of the 19th century are elevated to new prominence: a child's doll, an aging tintype or a faded letter. It is these things that provide clear reminders of the meaning of war. Page 1
Magazine
BRINGING NEW MEANING
TO THE WORD INSEPARABLE
Tatiana and Krista Hogan are healthy, happy 4-year-olds who share everything -- even their thoughts. Page 28
THE CROWD TEASER
J.J. Abrams constructs his movies like magical boxes, full of intriguing mysteries. Of course, eventually he has to let everyone see what is inside them. Page 22
Syle
FROM PHOTOGRAPHER>TO ARTIST, AN UNUSUAL LIFE
After walking away from his 20-year career as a photographer, David LaChapelle has returned as an artist, with several new exhibitions. Page 1
The Book Review
THE FRENCH CONNECTION
TO AMERICAN HISTORY
In his book, ''The Greater Journey, Americans in Paris,'' David McCullough has stressed France's pre-eminent role in American history for years. We would not, he has argued, have a country without the French. They have permanently and profoundly shaped us. Page 1
IRISHMEN UNMOORED
In Roddy Doyle's new collection of stories, ''Bullfighting,'' some of the usual earmarks are there: the filthy jokes, the old friends and the pints of Guinness. But this time his characters struggle with the funk brought on by middle age, writes Tom Shone. Page 26
Editorial
DEMOCRATS ARE STAYING
TOO PASSIVE IN THE SENATE
Republican leaders in the Senate have spent weeks gleefully deriding the Democrats who run the chamber for not producing a budget proposal in more than two years. It is a classic tactic, designed to deflect attention from their party's toxic plan to privatize Medicare. The truth, though, is that the Republicans also have a point. Week in Review, Page 7
OVERREACHING ON MONEY
The spree of big-money political campaigning -- and the corruption that comes with it -- seemed guaranteed to worsen after a federal judge in Virginia ruled that corporations were now free to make direct donations to federal candidates. Week in Review, Page 7
SPAM AND THE BANKERS
In early 2004, Bill Gates claimed that ''two years from now, spam will be solved.'' Today, it amounts to 70 percent of all e-mail. Yet there may be a chance to cut it back. If banks or credit card companies refused to settle payments with spammers' banks, they could disrupt spam. Week in Review, Page 7
Op-Ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
India has been an embarrassment to democracy, but that is starting to change.
Week in Review, Page 9
MAUREEN DOWD
Can France's Christine Lagarde make a man's world safe for women? Week in Review, Page 9
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
The Egyptian revolution is far from over, and the United States needs to be involved.
Week in Review, Page 8
THE PUBLIC EDITOR
How should a dignified newspaper cover the unseemly sides of society? Week in Review, Page 8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (92%); EXTRADITION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WAR CRIMES (89%); MEDICAID (85%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); CORRUPTION (76%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); RANKINGS (71%); BOMBINGS (71%); DEATHS (66%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (66%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (61%); ARMED FORCES (60%); HEALTH CARE (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%); BILL CLINTON (72%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (67%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); FRANCE (87%); NETHERLANDS (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



970 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: Getting Away With It

BYLINE: By ROBERT B. REICH. 
Robert B. Reich's latest book is ''Aftershock: The Next Economy and America's Future.''

 BODY:
RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT
By
BY GRETCHEN MORGENSON AND JOSHUA ROSNER
Illustrated. 331 pp. Times Books/Henry Holt & Company. $30
By
It's hardly news that the near meltdown of America's financial system enriched a few at the expense of the rest of us. Who's responsible? The recent report of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission blamed all the usual suspects -- Wall Street banks, financial regulators, the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and subprime lenders -- which is tantamount to blaming no one. ''Reckless Endangerment'' concentrates on particular individuals who played key roles. 
The authors, Gretchen Morgenson, a Pulitzer Prize-winning business reporter and columnist at The New York Times, and Joshua Rosner, an expert on housing finance, deftly trace the beginnings of the collapse to the mid-1990s, when the Clinton administration called for a partnership between the private sector and Fannie and Freddie to encourage home buying. The mortgage agencies' government backing was, in effect, a valuable subsidy, which was used by Fannie's C.E.O., James A. Johnson, to increase home ownership while enriching himself and other executives. A 1996 study by the Congressional Budget Office found that Fannie pocketed about a third of the subsidy rather than passing it on to homeowners. Over his nine years heading Fannie, Johnson personally took home roughly $100 million. His successor, Franklin D. Raines, was treated no less lavishly.
To entrench Fannie's privileged position, Morgenson and Rosner write, Johnson and Raines channeled some of the profits to members of Congress -- contributing to campaigns and handing out patronage positions to relatives and former staff members. Fannie paid academics to do research showing the benefits of its activities and playing down the risks, and shrewdly organized bankers, real estate brokers and housing advocacy groups to lobby on its behalf. Essentially, taxpayers were unknowingly handing Fannie billions of dollars a year to finance a campaign of self-promotion and self-/protection. Morgenson and Rosner offer telling details, as when they describe how Lawrence Summers, then a deputy Treasury secretary, buried a department report recommending that Fannie and Freddie be privatized. A few years later, according to Morgenson and Rosner, Fannie hired Kenneth Starr, the former solicitor general and Whitewater investigator, who intimidated a member of Congress who had the temerity to ask how much the company was paying its top executives.
All this gave Fannie's executives free rein to underwrite far more loans, further enriching themselves and their shareholders, but at increasing risk to taxpayers as lending standards declined. A company called Countrywide Financial became Fannie's single largest provider of home loans and the nation's largest mortgage lender. Countrywide abandoned standards altogether, even doctoring loans to make applicants look creditworthy, while generating a fortune for its co-founder, Angelo R. Mozilo. Meanwhile, Wall Street banks received fat fees underwriting securities issued by Fannie and Freddie, and even more money providing lenders like Countrywide with lines of credit to expand their risky lending and then bundling the mortgages into securities they peddled to their clients. The Street, Morgenson and Rosner say, knew lending standards were declining but maintained the charade because it was so profitable. Goldman Sachs even used its own money to bet against the bundles -- making huge profits off the losses of its clients on the very securities it had marketed to them. Eventually, of course, everything came crashing down.
The authors are at their best demonstrating how the revolving door between Wall Street and Washington facilitated the charade. As Treasury secretary, Robert Rubin, formerly the head of Goldman Sachs, pushed for repeal of the /Depression-era Glass-Steagall Act that had separated commercial from investment banking -- a move that Sanford Weill, the chief executive of Travelers Group had long sought so that Travelers could merge with /Citibank. After leaving the Treasury, Rubin became Citigroup's vice chairman, and ''over the following decade pocketed more than $100,000,000 as the bank sank deeper and deeper into a risky morass of its own design.'' With Rubin's protege Timothy F. Geithner as its head, the New York Federal Reserve Bank reduced its oversight of Wall Street.
A tight web of personal relationships connected Fannie, Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, the New York Fed, the Federal Reserve and the Treasury. In 1996, Fannie added Stephen Friedman, the former chairman of Goldman Sachs, to its board. In 1999, Johnson joined Goldman's board. That same year Henry M. Paulson Jr. became the head of Goldman and was in charge when the firm created many of its most disastrous securities -- while Geithner's New York Fed looked the other way. As the Treasury secretary under George W. Bush, Paulson would oversee the taxpayer bailout of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Goldman, Citigroup, other banks and the giant insurer American International Group (A.I.G), on which Goldman had relied. As head of the New York Fed, and then as the Treasury secretary, Geithner would also oversee the bailout.
Morgenson and Rosner are irked that their key players got away with it. American taxpayers have so far shelled out $153 billion to keep Fannie and Freddie afloat and are still owed tens of billions from bailing out other financial institutions. Yet today James Johnson is a rich and respected member of Washington's political establishment (although he was forced to resign from President-elect Obama's advisory team after the press got wind of his cut-rate personal loans from Countrywide). Franklin Raines retired from Fannie with a generous bonus. Henry Paulson became a fellow at Johns Hopkins. Robert Rubin is affiliated with the Brookings Institution. Timothy Geithner remains Treasury secretary.
''The failure to hold central figures accountable for their actions sets a dangerous precedent,'' the authors say. ''A system where perpetrators of such a crime are allowed to slip quietly from the scene is just plain wrong.'' True up to a point -- but Morgenson and Rosner don't show that any actual crimes were committed. Their major characters surely exhibited outsize ambition and greed, but these qualities are not exactly rare in modern capitalism. Curiously absent from their book are some other prominent people who have been suspected of perpetrating fraud, like Richard S. Fuld Jr., who ran Lehman Brothers into the ground, and Joseph J. Cassano, the former head of the financial products unit at A.I.G.
The real problem, which the authors only hint at, is that Washington and the financial sector have become so tightly intertwined that public accountability has all but vanished. The revolving door described in ''Reckless Endangerment'' is but one symptom. The extraordinary wealth of America's financial class also elicits boundless cooperation from politicians who depend on it for campaign contributions and from a fawning business press, as well as a stream of honors from universities, prestigious charities and think tanks eager to reward their generosity. In this symbiotic world, conflicts of interest are easily hidden, appearances of conflicts taken for granted and abuses of public trust for personal gain readily dismissed.
All told, the nation appears to have learned remarkably little from the near meltdown. Fannie and Freddie, now wards of the state, currently back more than half of all new mortgages, and their executives are still pocketing fortunes. Wall Street's biggest banks are a fifth larger than they were when they got into trouble, and the pay packages of their top guns as generous. Although the rest of America has paid dearly, we seem more recklessly endangered than ever. h

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James A. Johnson, chief executive of Fannie Mae from 1991 to 1998. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS (1996) ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); NEW ISSUES (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (75%); FRANK RAINES (57%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (56%); ANGELO R MOZILO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Reckless Endangerment (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



971 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Administration Opposes Challenges to Medicaid Cuts

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Medicaid recipients and health care providers cannot sue state officials to challenge cuts in Medicaid payments, even if such cuts compromise access to health care for poor people, the Obama administration has told the Supreme Court.
States around the country, faced with severe budget problems, have been reducing Medicaid rates for doctors, dentists, hospitals, pharmacies, nursing homes and other providers.
Federal law says Medicaid rates must be ''sufficient to enlist enough providers'' so that Medicaid recipients have access to care to the same extent as the general population in an area. 
In a friend-of-the court brief filed Thursday in the Supreme Court, the Justice Department said that no federal law allowed private individuals to sue states to enforce this standard.
Such lawsuits ''would not be compatible'' with the means of enforcement envisioned by Congress, which relies on the secretary of health and human services to make sure states comply, the administration said in the brief, by the acting solicitor general, Neal K. Katyal.
In many parts of the country, payment rates are so low that Medicaid recipients have difficulty finding doctors to take them.
But, the Justice Department said, the Medicaid law's promise of equal access to care is ''broad and nonspecific,'' and federal health officials are better equipped than judges to balance that goal with other policy objectives, like holding down costs.
The administration expressed its views in a set of cases consolidated under the name Douglas v. Independent Living Center of Southern California, No. 09-958.
In 2008 and 2009, the California Legislature passed several laws reducing Medicaid payment rates. Recipients and providers challenged the cuts in court, arguing that the California plan violated -- and was pre-empted by -- the federal Medicaid statute.
The law does not explicitly allow such lawsuits. But the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, said beneficiaries and providers could sue under the supremacy clause of the Constitution, which makes federal law ''the supreme law of the land.'' In reducing payment rates, the appeals court said, California violated the requirements of federal Medicaid law and threatened access to ''much-needed medical care.''
California appealed to the Supreme Court, which is likely to hear oral arguments in the fall, with a decision by next spring.
Consumer advocates were dismayed by the administration's position, which they said undermined Medicaid recipients' rights and access to the courts.
''I find it appalling that the solicitor general in a Democratic administration would assert in a Supreme Court brief that businesses can challenge state regulation under the supremacy clause, but that poor recipients of Medicaid cannot challenge state violations of federal law,'' said Prof. Timothy S. Jost, an expert on health law at Washington and Lee University, who is usually sympathetic to the administration.
Representative Henry A. Waxman of California, the senior Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Committee and an architect of Medicaid, said the administration's brief was ''wrong on the law and bad policy.''
''I am bitterly disappointed that President Obama would accept the position of the acting solicitor general to file a brief that is contrary to the decades-long practice of giving Medicaid beneficiaries and providers the ability to turn to the courts to enforce their rights under federal law,'' Mr. Waxman said. He said that he and other Democratic lawmakers planned to file a brief opposing the administration's view.
By contrast, many state officials agree with California and the Obama administration.
The National Governors Association and the National Conference of State Legislatures filed a friend-of-the-court brief endorsing California's position that Medicaid recipients and providers could not sue.
In a separate friend-of-the-court brief, Michigan and 30 other states went further. ''Allowing 'supremacy clause lawsuits' to enforce federal Medicaid laws will be a financial catastrophe for states,'' they said.
Medicaid is financed jointly by the federal government and the states. The number of recipients and the costs increased sharply in the recent recession and will increase further with the expected addition of 16 million people to the rolls under the new federal health care law.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Neal K. Katyal, the acting solicitor general, filed a brief with the Supreme Court. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS COOK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (96%); HEALTH CARE (91%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); APPEALS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); BUDGETS (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



972 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: An Unlikely Power Duo Emerges in the Global Fight Against Climate Change

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Bill Clinton and Michael R. Bloomberg have circled each other warily for a decade, ever since Mr. Clinton landed in Harlem after leaving the White House and Mr. Bloomberg ascended from a hugely successful business career to become the mayor of New York City. They have appeared together at a few civic functions, dined out a couple of times a year and hacked at golf balls on the same course.
But until now they have never joined forces on a project with global reach that could advance both of their legacies. They are taking on an issue -- climate change -- that may well shape the world's economic and social future for decades to come.
Mr. Bloomberg's billions of dollars and Mr. Clinton's billions of friends are a potent combination, but can this unlikely power coupling make an impact in stemming rising seas or cooling the planet? 
''This is enough to choke a horse, one of the two or three biggest challenges in the world,'' Mr. Clinton said in an unusual joint telephone interview last week with Mr. Bloomberg. ''But if we can prove that this is good economics, good public health and fights the most calamitous consequences of climate change, then we will have done a world of good.''
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bloomberg are men of considerable accomplishment and healthy self-regard. So, naturally, questions arose last month when they announced the merging of their climate-change initiatives into a single global effort focused on the world's largest cities.
Who will be in charge and how will they share a stage, beginning this week when they appear together at a climate conference in Sao Paulo, Brazil?
''I have always thought that we should have a relationship based alphabetically on our last names,'' Mr. Bloomberg said.
''I have a partnership with George W. Bush on Haiti, and I had a partnership with his dad on Katrina,'' Mr. Clinton said. ''So you know, I don't care who gets the credit.''
It was six years ago when Mr. Clinton, working with Ken Livingstone, the leftist and then-mayor of London, drew together officials from 40 of the world's largest cities, from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, to Yokohama, Japan, to share ideas for reducing carbon emissions and dealing with the inevitable impacts of a changing climate. The effort was ambitious but chronically underfinanced, with an annual budget of less than $500,000.
The group met periodically to discuss climate mitigation efforts like switching to LED streetlights, retrofitting public buildings and generating energy from landfills. The William J. Clinton Foundation provided technical assistance and financing for discrete projects, but the group of cities, known as the C40, lacked a steady financing stream, a database of emissions and mitigation programs, and a professional staff.
Enter Mr. Bloomberg, who campaigned for and won the chairmanship of the group last year. He pledged $6 million a year of his foundation money for each of the next three years to bolster the C40 and essentially muscled aside the Clinton staff members working on the project. Mr. Clinton, never one to reject a gift horse, happily acceded.
''I really don't care how you characterize it,'' Mr. Clinton said. ''The fact that he made a multiyear commitment coincident with his leadership means that we will be able to go in and help cities who are in trouble financially and can't do these projects.''
An adviser to Mr. Clinton, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to elaborate more candidly on Mr. Clinton's remark, was a bit less diplomatic about Mr. Bloomberg's approach. ''He came to us,'' the adviser said. ''What are we going to do, fight him? They have the money; the golden rule applies.'' As in, he who has the gold, rules.
The Clinton-Bloomberg partnership comes at a tough time for those fighting climate change. Congress has made it clear that it is not going to enact a national program to address global warming any time soon and the 194-nation United Nations process has made little progress toward a binding international treaty.
Donors who have provided financing for climate programs are frustrated and fatigued, and many advocacy groups are turning their attention to issues on which they can have tangible impact. Organizations are consolidating and learning to make do with less.
Mr. Bloomberg refers to this as a ''maturing'' approach to activist philanthropy. ''It's not so much people getting bored with the whole thing or walking away,'' he said. ''It's that if you're going to live through the tough times, this type of efficiency makes sense.''
Mr. Bloomberg hired Jay Carson, a former assistant to Mr. Clinton and campaign adviser to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, to serve as chief executive of the C40. Mr. Carson said that what set the C40 apart from other climate advocacy groups was that the mayors had actual power to affect emissions and energy use, although it varied from city to city. This week's C40 climate meeting is expected to reinvigorate the group and set its members on a path toward consistent and measurable reductions in carbon emissions.
They are expected to announce a new formal partnership with the World Bank, which will eventually provide financial and technical assistance for cities seeking to reduce emissions by improving energy efficiency in transit, power generation, lighting and public buildings.
Cities now house more than half of the world's population, and while they occupy 2 percent of the globe's land mass, cities consume 70 percent of global energy and produce 70 percent of greenhouse gas emissions. If anything meaningful is going to happen on climate in the short term, Mr. Clinton, Mr. Bloomberg and their advisers say, it has to start in the cities.
''We are putting a stake in the ground around the idea that national and international governments have failed, possibly quite permanently, or at least in a way that they will not make any serious progress before it's too late,'' said Kevin Sheekey, a former deputy mayor of New York and principal political adviser to Mr. Bloomberg. ''If you address the problems of the cities, there will be no need for China and India to sign onto some international accord. And thank God, because that's not going to get done. It's time to say it.''
Mr. Sheekey added, ''This is much more than a few green roofs, but really cataloging the damage we're doing to the climate in hard numbers and coming up with realistic plans and financing measures to mitigate it.''
While Mr. Clinton and Al Gore, who served as his vice president, worked together on climate issues in the White House, they have taken separate paths on the issue since. Mr. Gore focuses on raising awareness and stimulating grass-roots activism, while Mr. Clinton has devoted his time to on-the-ground solutions like retrofitting buildings with energy efficient windows and heating systems.
Mr. Bloomberg shrugged off a question about whether he sees climate change as an issue on which he will be judged long after he leaves office, in 2014. His focus is much shorter term, he said.
''I'm expecting we'll have a few drinks and a lot of laughs in Sao Paulo,'' he said. ''I hope we can make a difference.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Clinton and Michael R. Bloomberg announced a merger of initiatives in New York last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (77%); BUDGETS (74%); INTERVIEWS (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); EMISSIONS (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (63%); LANDFILLS (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (53%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



973 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Obama Cites Poland As Model for Arab Shift

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WARSAW -- President Obama held up Poland on Saturday as a model for Arab nations undergoing political change, saying its peaceful overthrow of Communism held lessons for Tunisia and other Arab countries grappling with the chaotic aftermath of popular revolts.
Mr. Obama's stop came at the end of a busy, six-day tour of Europe that served both as a reaffirmation of the trans-Atlantic alliance and a call for those European allies to advance the cause of those rallying for political change in the Middle East and North Africa. 
From Britain and France, Mr. Obama asked mainly for money to shore up the teetering economies of Egypt and Tunisia. But from Poland, the president sought something less tangible: inspiration, a kind of how-to manual from people who had taken a similar journey.
''It has gone through what so many countries want to now go through,'' Mr. Obama said at a news conference with Prime Minister Donald Tusk. ''Poland can play an extraordinary role precisely because they have they have traveled so far so rapidly over the last 25 years.''
Earlier, Mr. Obama met with elders of the Solidarity movement, which led the democratic uprising here, as well as young democracy activists just back from Tunisia, where they offered advice based on the Polish experience (Lech Walesa, the leader of Solidarity, was not at the meeting; White House officials said he was out of the country).
Reflecting on those encounters -- here and in France, where he met with Egyptian and Tunisian leaders -- Mr. Obama struck a cautious note about the trajectory of the Arab upheaval. The euphoria of the uprisings, he said, could easily give way to setbacks and disappointments.
''What you have is a process that's not always smooth,'' Mr. Obama said. ''There are going to be twists and turns, there are going to be occasions where you take one step forward and two steps back.''
The critical element, he said, was to put institutions in place, so that new democratic governments can legally guarantee the rights of minorities and a free press, and that are resilient enough to survive the ethnic conflicts sure to arise in some countries.
For Mr. Obama, who has struggled at times to fashion a response to the Arab uprisings, this week's trip suggested he had settled on a guiding principle, which he voiced at every stop: while the West cannot dictate events, it must facilitate them.
That applies to the United States, he said, even if it is burdened with fiscal deficits and a fragile economy.
''I want the American people to understand that we've got to leave room for us to continue our tradition of providing leadership when it comes to freedom, democracy, human rights,'' he said.
Not all the visit was so high-minded. In Poland, as in Ireland on Monday, Mr. Obama reached out to countries with large emigrant populations that constitute potent voting blocs in the United States.
''If you've lived in Chicago and you haven't become a little bit Polish, then there's something wrong with you,'' he joked at the news conference.
Mr. Obama's 24-hour visit, which drew curious but not rapturous crowds to the street, also allowed him to address an issue that has frustrated Polish officials for years: the fact that Poland is not a member of the State Department's visa waiver program, because it fails to meet the eligibility requirements under the current law.
He announced he was throwing his support behind an effort under way in Congress to rewrite the law so that it uses different criteria, making it easier for Poland to qualify. Given the growing income of Polish tourists, who would be more apt to vacation in New York if they could get visas, he acknowledged there was some self-interest at work.
''We very much want you to shop on Fifth Avenue, and anywhere else in the United States,'' Mr. Obama said.
In case the president missed the point, Prime Minister Tusk immediately added, ''There are many other places in the world where you can buy and spend your money.''
As he did on previous stops in Britain and France, the president described the trans-Atlantic alliance as the cornerstone of American security. That seemed calculated in part to answer those who say Mr. Obama has neglected Europe in favor of Asia. In Warsaw, the visit was also meant to reassure Poland that the administration's ''reset'' of relations with Russia would not come at the expense of the Poles.
On Friday, Russia drew closer to the United States on Libya, with President Dmitri A. Medvedev telling Mr. Obama in a meeting of the Group of 8 in France that he wanted Russia to play a role in easing out the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
Mr. Obama also joined the Polish president, Bronislaw Komorowski, in condemning the repression in Belarus, a former Soviet republic, where dissidents and journalists have been jailed.
The lingering suspicions between Poland and Russia were on display outside the gates of the presidential palace, where a crowd of protestors held up large placards asserting a Russian role in the 2010 plane crash that killed President Lech Kaczynski, his wife, and many members of the Polish military and government establishment.
Just before he left Warsaw, Mr. Obama paid his respects at a memorial for the victims of that crash, lighting a candle and gazing silently at their names on a brushed metal wall in a cathedral.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama visited the Warsaw memorial to those who died in the 2010 plane crash that killed President Lech Kaczynski. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (92%) TUNISIA (94%); POLAND (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (92%); FRANCE (91%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



974 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Pay Attention

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Cairo
I had some time to kill at the Cairo airport the other day so I rummaged through the ''Egyptian Treasures'' shop. I didn't care much for the King Tut paper weights and ashtrays but was intrigued by a stuffed camel, which, if you squeezed its hump, emitted a camel honk. When I turned it over to see where it was manufactured, it read: ''Made in China.'' Now that they have decided to put former President Hosni Mubarak on trial, I hope Egyptians add to his indictment that he presided for 30 years over a country where nearly half the population lives on $2 day and 20 percent are unemployed while it is importing low-wage manufactured goods -- a stuffed camel, no less -- from China. 
That's an embarrassment for Mubarak and America, which has donated some $30 billion in aid to modernize Egypt's economy over the last 30 years -- and President Obama just promised a couple billion more. Egypt's economy has nose-dived since the uprising, and the new government really does need the money to stay afloat. But I only hope that Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton understand that right now -- right this second -- Egypt needs something more from Washington than money: quiet, behind-the-scenes engagement with Egypt's ruling generals over how to complete the transition to democracy here.
Here's why. After the ouster of Mubarak in February, his presidential powers were shifted to a military council, led by the defense minister. It's an odd situation, or as the Egyptian novelist Alaa Al Aswany, author of ''The Yacoubian Building,'' put it to me: ''We have had a revolution here that succeeded -- but is not in power. So the goals of the revolution are being applied by an agent, the army, which I think is sincere in wanting to do the right things, but it is not by nature revolutionary.''
To their credit, the Egyptian generals moved swiftly to put in place a pathway to democracy: elections for a new Parliament were set for September; this Parliament will then oversee the writing of a new Constitution, and then a new civilian president will be elected.
Sounds great on paper, and it was endorsed by a referendum, but there's one big problem: The Tahrir Square revolution was a largely spontaneous, bottom-up affair. It was not led by any particular party or leader. Parties are just now being formed. If elections for the Parliament are held in September, the only group in Egypt with a real party network ready to roll is the one that has been living underground and is now suddenly legal: the Islamist Muslim Brotherhood.
''Liberal people are feeling some concerns that they made the revolution and the Muslim Brotherhood can now take it. This is not true,'' Esam el-Erian, one of the party's leaders, insisted to me.
But that is exactly what the urban, secular moderates, who actually did spearhead the Tahrir revolt, fear. They are only now forming parties and trying to build networks that can reach the millions of traditional Egyptians living in the countryside and persuade them to vote for a reform agenda and not just: ''Islam is the answer.''
''The liberal parties need more time to organize,'' said Naguib Sawiris, an Egyptian billionaire who's heading the best organized of the liberal parties, and is urging all the liberal groups to run under a single banner and not divide their vote.
If elections happen in September and the Muslim Brotherhood wins a plurality it could have an inordinate impact on writing Egypt's first truly free Constitution and could inject restrictions on women, alcohol, dress, and the relations between mosque and state. ''You will have an unrepresentative Parliament writing an unrepresentative Constitution,'' argued Mohamed ElBaradei, the former international atomic energy czar who is running for president on a reform platform.
''Because the Muslim Brotherhood is ready, they want elections first,'' adds Osama Ghazali Harb, another reform party leader. ''We as secular forces prefer to have some time to consolidate our parties. We must thank the army for the role it played. But it was our revolution, not a coup d'etat. ... If there are fair elections, the Muslim Brotherhood will only get 20 percent.''
Free elections are rare in the Arab world, so when they happen, everybody tries to vote -- not only the residents of that country. You can be sure money will flow in here from Saudi Arabia and Qatar to support the Muslim Brotherhood.
America, though, cannot publicly intervene in the Egyptian election debate. It would only undermine the reformers, who have come so far, so fast, on their own and alienate the Egyptian generals. That said, though, it is important that senior U.S. officials engage quietly with the generals and encourage them to take heed of the many Egyptian voices that are raising legitimate concerns about a premature runoff.
In short, the Egyptian revolution is not over. It has left the dramatic street phase and is now in the seemingly boring but utterly vital phase of deciding who gets to write the rules for the new Egypt. And how Egypt evolves will impact the whole Arab world. I just hope the Obama team is paying attention. This is so much more important than Libya.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); ARMIES (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); INDICTMENTS (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); WRITERS (68%); REFERENDUMS (65%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (64%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HOSNI MUBARAK (78%); BARACK OBAMA (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (94%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011



975 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: Reserve Currency Mysticism

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Dumb stuff in the FT.

 BODY:
Oh, my. Even though it was a personal attack on me, I didn't get around to reading Steil and Hinds on why we must be totally freaked about the role of the dollar. But Brad DeLong did; and it turns out that it's quite a piece of work.
The authors seem to think that only reserve currency countries can sell debt denominated in their own currency to foreigners. I have no idea why they believe that; I do know that it's flatly untrue. All advanced countries, and a growing number of emerging economies, are able to sell local-currency debt to foreigners. S&P on Australia, which has much more external debt as a percentage of GDP than the United States:
Several factors ameliorate the risks that high external debt poses to Australia's credit quality. For a start, nearly all the debt is local-currency-denominated or hedged back to the Australian dollar to limit the effects of adverse currency movements.
And much of the article also seems to assume that the US would have no monetary policy if the dollar weren't a reserve currency: 
The Federal Reserve would now be forced to operate under external constraints comparable with those imposed by the classical gold standard, under which the US needed more gold to create more dollars. Under a "euro standard", the Fed would need more euros to create more dollars ...
Wow. Have these guys ever talked to anyone in Sweden, which doesn't need euros to create more kronor, or Britain, which doesn't need euros to create more pounds?
I guess I get kind of annoyed being lectured on economic wisdom by people who are so obviously, glaringly ignorant of the most basic facts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EURO (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (87%); SWEDEN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



976 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Seeing the Advantage in Delaying a Solution

BYLINE: JOHN HARWOOD


HIGHLIGHT: Soon enough, Democrats will have to identify new Medicare cuts they can support. But don't expect them to come this spring.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - Soon enough, Democrats will have to identify new Medicare cuts they can support.
But don't expect them to come this spring, not after the Medicare plan put forward by House Republicans became the centerpiece of the Democrats' strategy to recover from disastrous 2010 midterm elections. Last week's Democratic victory in a special House election in Buffalo ensured that.
The fat target on the Republican plan, drafted by Representative Paul D. Ryan, chairman of the House Budget Committee, is only one reason for Democrats to hold back. Why offer benefit cuts now, Obama advisers ask, after Republican leaders attacked their previous ideas for Medicare savings - and still won't bend on the need for tax increases in any grand deficit-reduction bargain?
"That would be crazy if we did," said Neera Tanden, a former health policy aide in the administration. In the current deficit-reduction talks led by Vice President Joseph R. Biden, the Medicare cuts under discussion fall into the modest "waste, fraud and abuse" category that no one opposes.
But reticence can only be a short-term tactic. It's not a long-term answer to the staggering spending projections that Mr. Obama, his Democratic predecessor Bill Clinton, and every policy analyst acknowledges will require further changes to Medicare.
"It is fair for Democrats to be asked to make additional contributions to cutting costs," said Andrew L. Stern, the former head of the Services Employees International Union, who served on Mr. Obama's deficit reduction commission last year.
Democrats have some answers. And their attacks on Mr. Ryan's option, over time, will bring escalating pressure to specify them.
 A Start, But ... 
The Democrats' first answer, Medicare spending cuts contained in Mr. Obama's health care law, won't satisfy partisan adversaries who see the law as a budget-busting monstrosity.
The Congressional Budget Office predicts spending on Medicare will nearly double in 10 years for two reasons. One is the increase in beneficiaries as baby boomers reach their golden years; the other is health care cost inflation that continues to outpace economic growth.
There's no stopping the former. But the new health care law seeks to restrain the latter through steps to overhaul payment practices and service delivery: better information on effective treatments, improved coordination among doctors, financial rewards for the quality of treatment rather than the quantity.
"This is not airy-fairy stuff," said Peter R. Orszag, Mr. Obama's former budget director. If an independent Medicare advisory board works as its advocates envision, its success in wringing out excess will ripple through the entire health care system, or so the thinking goes.
Some leading Republican policy experts agree that potential long-term savings from the law could be significant. "They've done a lot," said Mark McClellan, who ran the Medicare program under President George W. Bush.
But "there's a lot more" cost-cutting that needs to be done, Mr. McClellan added. "They've only got a partial plan."
 Option No. 2 
The Democrats' second answer: ratchet up the savings mechanisms in the health care law.
Mr. Stern says Democrats should guarantee the law's $500 billion worth of specified savings from reduced Medicare payments to health providers and insurers - by accepting a "trigger" for further cost-cutting if those savings don't materialize.
Mr. Obama has proposed further strengthening the Medicare advisory board. One possibility that would have an immediate impact would be to end the 10-year exemption hospitals were granted from the advisory board's jurisdiction.
But after raising the specter of "death panels" in the original health care debate, Republicans are sure to object to an increase of power for unelected bureaucrats, even in the name of reducing costs. That means that in any bipartisan compromise, the endgame would be cuts directly affecting beneficiaries - which Democrats have sought to avoid as energetically as Republicans have resisted tax increases.
The Congressional Budget Office has enumerated a series of options. For example, curbing subsidies for beneficiaries to buy supplemental "Medigap" insurance could save $92 billion by 2021.
Increasing premiums that beneficiaries pay for Medicare doctors' coverage so they cover 35 percent of the program's costs, instead of 25 percent under current law, would bring in $241 billion. Raising the eligibility age for Medicare to 67 from 65, a step also recommended by Mr. Ryan, would save $124 billion.
For Republicans, the core appeal of Mr. Ryan's "premium support" plan is the cap it places on Medicare outlays. That's also what makes it vulnerable to criticism from Democrats, who argue that it simply shifts costs from the government to the elderly - nearly $6,400 per beneficiary in 10 years, Mr. Obama says.
Yet increasing the level of Medicare spending per beneficiary at a faster rate than under Mr. Ryan's plan could produce significant savings without burdening the elderly nearly as much.
A bipartisan panel headed by the former Republican Senator Pete Domenici and a Democratic budget expert, Alice M. Rivlin, said such an approach could save Medicare $2 trillion by 2030. Which suggests that in a genuine long-term budget fix, probably after next year's elections, Democrats may end up doing business with Mr. Ryan after all.

        
The 'Mediscare' Revolving Door
        
Democrats' New Tactic: Praising 2012 Republicans
        
Democrats Form Fund-Raising Groups
        
Obama Seeks to Reshape Debate Over Debt 
        
Romney Makes It Official, Quietly

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (96%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (69%); BABY BOOMERS (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (62%) 2012 election; Democrats; Medicare; Presidential Election of 2012; Democratic Party; Congress; The White House

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JOE BIDEN (58%); PETER ORSZAG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



977 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4732 words

HEADLINE: A Ballplayer. A Bookworm. A Killing.

BYLINE: By SERGE F. KOVALESKI

 BODY:
MURFREESBORO, Tenn. -- They were two women from hard corners of Memphis who went to Central High School, one of the top performers in the city public school system. They were the first in their families to attend college, both going to Middle Tennessee State University on scholarships. Both were known for their focus, their love of family and their determination to make better lives for themselves.
Tina Stewart, 21, the basketball player, was a junior, a scrappy guard who started a career-high 14 games last season. Stewart also had a silly, softer side: an infatuation with the fairy character Tinker Bell.
Shanterrica Madden, 18, the choir girl and diligent student, was a freshman majoring in political science with a double minor in criminal justice and psychology. Very much her father's daughter, she was handy with cars, and devoted to the police drama ''CSI: Miami.'' 
Madden dreamed of becoming a lawyer, Stewart of opening a training and rehabilitation center with her husband-to-be, himself a basketball player at M.T.S.U.
Late last summer, the two women became roommates, assigned to Apartment 321 at an off-campus complex, The Woods and Raiders Crossing. As can often happen with roommates thrown together, issues cropped up: disagreements over noise and Stewart's boyfriend's staying over regularly; there was discomfort about marijuana being smoked in the apartment by Madden. Each would register complaints about the other with the management office.
On the evening of March 2, just before 7 p.m., an anonymous 911 call came in to the local police. Inside Apartment 321, officers found Stewart on the floor of her bedroom, dead from a stab wound. Madden was interviewed for more than an hour and a half by the police and finally admitted to the killing. She wrote down her final version in a two-page confession.
The families of the women have been devastated. Madden, who is out of jail on $100,000 bail, has claimed it was self defense, after Stewart started a fight. Serge F. Kovaleski of The New York Times interviewed family members, friends, coaches, teachers, law enforcement officials and lawyers. There are no good answers. Only a staggering dual loss, captured here in interview excerpts and a written confession that is at the center of the case: One success story from the streets of Memphis dead; another charged with first-degree murder and facing the possibility of life in prison.
CHAPTER ONE
A Proud Father,
A Giving Spirit
Adrian Jackson
Tina's father
''I used to coach Tina, work on her shots, and she would play one-on-one with her younger brother.
In middle school and high school, Tina had played baseball, softball, soccer, volleyball and she had been No. 3 in the city in track. She was great at the long jump. She dropped all these sports to play basketball. Tina was a cheerleader until seventh or eighth grade before she started playing basketball.
''In 10th grade, we moved from east Memphis to midtown Memphis to a three-bedroom duplex so she could go to Central. Tina started playing the 1-guard at Central. But at first, she didn't like it. And then she played pretty much everything on the floor.
''There was a rough road when she had a hard time keeping her grades up because of basketball. She hit a bump for a second or two, but overcame it. Tina was not causing me problems, even though she grew up in the ghetto where drugs were everywhere. I expected so much of God, and he came through.
''She loved Christmas. Tina loved shopping so much that she would do her mother's Christmas shopping for her each year. Tina was also the one who set up the tree. We grew up in poverty, yes we did. Tina would say, 'When I make it, you will never have to work again.' Sometimes during Christmas, Tina and I would just wrap empty boxes because we had no money for anything else. We did it just to keep the joy in the house.
A Book a Day
While Fixing Old Cars
Shantel Madden
Shanterrica's mother
''Shanterrica has been an honor student since kindergarten. We used to go to the library on Saturdays to get books, and then I would quiz her on them. She can read a book in a day. From 3rd to 12th grade she was in the school choir. They usually sang classical. She loves to sing and dance. She also likes country music and R&B.
''She was in summer youth programs and went to vocational school and they taught her trades. She learned how to change tires and work on car motors. She loves cars, just like her father. They would work on them together. Her father loves fixing up old cars. She wanted to buy her father an old Nova with the first paycheck she got after college.
''We called her T. T. That came from one of my husband's cousins not being able to say her name. Because she is dark, my husband called her his little blackjack.''
CHAPTER TWO
A Fighter
Shedding Tears
Niki Bray
Tina's high school basketball coach
''If Tina was not at Central, she probably would have had babies. She was fighting against typical big-city stuff that was all around her: drugs, pregnancies, gangs and people not necessarily having a drive or a purpose. She had transferred from Ridgeway High School, which for a number of reasons was not for her. She and her coach were not getting along.
''She found out about us and our basketball program through a youth ministry. She needed the discipline that she got at Central, and she needed someone who would not be intimidated by her. She pressed the line and challenged you and was used to getting her own way.
''She was a tough kid, and you could tell she had been through a few things. She would fight at the drop of a hat. She had that dog in her. She had street life in her. But that dog she had in her was good for our team. She brought a little toughness to the floor that we hadn't had.
''Tina was a fighter. One time, I suspended her from the team for not doing something I asked her to do. It was the final straw for me, and some of her teammates were getting sick of her antics. A few weeks later, I told her, You have to get permission from your teammates to see if they want you back. She came to practice and apologized for the way she had been acting and she started crying, and her teammates started hugging her. I asked the team collectively in front of her if they wanted her back, and they said yes. She was just being bull-headed and defiant.
''Then she and I meet the next day. I wanted to make sure I was not going to deal with this crap anymore. I told her to do 500 line drills. I never thought she would accept that level of punishment and would walk out and quit. She did all of them in two and a half days. She would do 10 or 15 during lunch and then some before practice and some after practice. She had to do them on her own time.
''That was a turning point for her. She started to become a great leader and saw the world in a different light.''
Different Than
My Other Kids
Frank Madden
Shanterrica's father
''Her passion was family, and she was close to her sister and brother. She always wanted to study psychology and take up studying law. In high school, she sang in the school choir, all the way back to elementary school. She was in choir competitions, like all-city and all-state. She was thinking about joining the choir at college.
''She did not have a whole lot of friends who would call her at home. She kept to herself and did not get into the drama and commotion of teenagers. Her mother and sister called her an old lady, Grandma, because she wouldn't do much. She was a homebody. In her senior year of high school, she took seven honors classes -- including physics, U.S. government and economics -- plus honors-level choir.
''Any kind of math, she loves it. She writes her brother math problems, like algebra, and asks him to solve them and show how he did it each step of the way. If he made a mistake, she would explain it to him and he would have it right by the time she was done with him.
''She is different than my other two kids. If you have $3, they want it all. But she would always say: 'I don't need it. I know you have bills to pay.' ''
CHAPTER THREE
The Story
Of the First Bra
Mimi Ajanaku
Tina's friend and teammate in high school and college
''I met Tina on the first day of my sophomore year in high school. I was kind of lost walking around the hallway, and she approached me and asked if I was one of the new basketball players. She said I was too old to be wandering the halls like a lost child, and then she showed me where my classes were.
''Every day after practice, I would go to her house across the street from the school and hang out, since I lived 30 minutes away. I didn't know if I could handle her because she was so outspoken and direct. With money being scarce on her end and mine, we would go to the mall and walk around and make fun of people.
''I will never forget the story of my first bra. Tina grabbed me into a Victoria's Secret at the Wolfchase mall in Memphis and just said out loud, 'My friend needs a bra,' since I was shy about buying one.
''She didn't really care what people thought about her. That is one of the things I admired about her the most.
A Maternal Eye,
A Love for Music
Lucinda Martin
One of Shanterrica's cousins
''Shanterrica is very detail-oriented and organized, and she has also been a mother figure to all the younger kids in the whole family. There were lots of times that I said to myself, Look at T being Miss Mommy.
''When she was in high school, the kids would come over and play on the Slip 'n Slide in our yard. And T would usually get the kids in a line from youngest to oldest or shortest to tallest. Shanterrica can be very structured. We also have a basketball hoop in our yard, and she would watch the kids play and make sure they did not get too aggressive. She kept an eye out like a mother. And she would make them snacks and get them water while they were playing.
''She is the one who stayed on all the kids in the family about doing their schoolwork and meeting curfew. Generally, it is eight hours of sleep, eight hours of school, and the rest is with family. Her mother and father are high school sweethearts.
''She stays away from negativity. For her to miss a day of school, she would have to be dead. When it comes to music, she is so talented and gifted. One weekend about a year ago, Shanterrica and her sister stayed with us. We had just bought a new electric keyboard. For about an hour or two each day, she taught us how to play some Bon Jovi on the keyboard.
''She is pretty universal when it comes to music. If I say, sing some gospel by Yolanda Adams, she will sing it. If I say, sing Alicia Keys, she will sing it. And if I say, sing some gospel by Kirk Franklin, she can sing that, too.''
CHAPTER FOUR
Taking In
A Roomate
Ciana (Yana) Calhoun
High school friend of Tina's who lived with her and her family for about two years because of problems with her own mother
''Me and Tina shared a room and a bed. When we were lying in bed, we would talk about getting into relationships, gossip and what college was going to be like. It was girls stuff. It was like family: water fights, car washes, basketball, days at the park.
She was kind-hearted and adventurous. Sometimes during summer vacation, me and Tina would get up and go to the park at 1 or 2 in the morning and play basketball or play on the swings. We were restless kids. We went to clubs, we would meet up at Danver's, a fast-food place, and we would walk along the Mississippi River.
''Tina didn't think twice when I asked if I could move in with her. She said she would ask her parents. And she never said a thing about having to share a bed with me.''
No Need for a
Prom Date
Tierra Salton
Shanterrica's oldest and best friend
''We have been friends since first grade. She was very quiet. She really did not talk to many people unless they talked to her. She was not a party girl. We sang choir together. Most of our performances were on the weekends.
''She had male friends but never a serious boyfriend. She never said she regretted it. She felt like she did not have time for a serious relationship with a guy because of her school work and choir. At Central, we sang classical and baroque. We sang very high-level stuff in high school. She was an alto, and so was I. She used to say that music relaxed her.
''She danced at the prom, but she went without a date. She said the whole time she did not want a prom date; she would rather go with her friends. Her and my brother talked on the phone for a few months. They almost dated, but not really.''
CHAPTER FIVE
Little Sister's
Inspiration
Monika Jones
Tina's older sister
''Even though we were 10 years apart, she was my motivation, my inspiration. She was strong-willed and strong-minded about making goals. I used to talk to her about mistakes that I made, like having two kids in high school before I graduated.
''I'm a senior at Lane College in Jackson, Tenn., and I'm a criminal justice major. Tina inspired me to go to college. She knew what my dreams were, and she knew that I had given up on them because I wanted to show that I was a good mom, and not the stereotype of a Memphis teen mom who was young and not knowing what a parent is.
''She said we can do this together. I remember the moment. We were at home lying across the bed one evening after dinner and we were watching 'Law & Order,' and she was wondering what schools were looking at her. We knew she was going to go to one. And I was saying I would really like to go back to school. And she said to go after it. Let's both do it. She would say we have the same blood pumping through us and we can do it.''
Staying Focused
On Schoolwork
Regina Simmons
A friend of Shanterrica's mother
''Like a typical teenager, her room was always a mess. But unlike a typical teenager, she has always talked about being a lawyer.
''I called her 'nerd' all the time because she always wanted to study. I don't think it was strange that she never had a boyfriend. Shanterrica would always say that she did not have time for these little boys out there. If she made a B in school, she would strive to do better. Shanterrica was all about her grades.
''Anything she did outside of the house, her family was usually involved. If she went out, it was usually with her family. She spent a lot of time at her granny's. I don't think she ever had a sleepover with friends.
''At college, I know she wanted to focus on her studies without noise or being bothered by someone else. For that reason, she probably would have been happier living alone at school.''
CHAPTER SIX
A Big Moment
On the Court
Niki Bray
Tina's high school basketball coach
''By February of her senior year, not one college coach had called me at all about her, about recruiting her. Coaches would ask, 'Can she go left?' They thought she was limited. I would tell them, 'Yes, she can, but you have to make her.'
''We drove up to Arkansas to go to an M.T.S.U.-Arkansas State women's game and we literally sat behind the M.T.S.U. bench. That was a big moment. Tina saw how passionate the coach was and how hard he pushed the players. She turned around and smiled and said: 'I want to play for him. I need to play for someone like him.'
''On the way home I asked Coach Dawson, 'Can you make a call to get someone from the M.T.S.U. women's team to come down for our game?' It was going to be a regional semifinal. Tina played that game with so much passion and brought us back from 10 points with less than a minute left.
''My heart was pounding during the game like it was my own child. I knew this was her chance. Every other coach I had asked to come see her play had just blown me off. Coach Clark (an M.T.S.U. assistant) hugged me afterward and said, 'I love her so much.' ''
'I Would Want
Her as My Child'
Herronda Harley
Shanterrica's second-grade teacher
''She and I met when she was in second grade in Memphis and we have kept in touch over the years. She has always been a very smart girl. That was my first class as a teacher.
''When she got to high school, I wanted to stay in contact with her and make sure she was on the straight path. Then she started coming back to elementary school to help because she loved school. She would grade papers for me in 9th, 10th and 11th grades. She would put grades in the computer and she would help with the talent show, like making sure the lineup was in order. She would take money at the door. And she helped with the dance team.
''She has that watchful, attentive eye, that extra eye I needed. She always would say she wanted to be a lawyer. She talked in middle school about being a lawyer. Her parents were behind her 110 percent. She wanted to please her parents and herself. I would want her as my child.''
CHAPTER SEVEN
A Memphis
Connection
K.C. Anuna
Tina's boyfriend
''The first time we met was the summer of 2008, in June or July. She was a freshman, and I was a sophomore. It was in the weight room. We were just being guys, and I said to my teammate, 'Who is that?' He said: 'That's Tina. She is from Memphis.' I told my teammate I'm going to get her.
''Later, she was walking to her car, and I walked up to her and said, 'Where are you from?' And she says, 'Memphis.' I said 'Me, too.' I said some random spot in Memphis. Then I said: 'I'm just kidding. I'm from Nashville.' She smiled and then went and got in her car.
''When we came back to school in August after a break, she found out that I was in the Phi Beta Sigma fraternity, a historically black frat. We threw a party on the day before the first day of school. She was real hyped about it. She says, 'You got to save me a dance.' 'O.K., you will be the first person I dance with.'
''She texted me all day. The party was really crowded and Tina being Tina, she was pushing her way up to the front of the room and we had that dance. She was the first dance of the night for me.
''Oct. 17 was her birthday, and we made it official that day that we were dating. One thing I said, that I thought we really connected, made her start crying. I told her how much I liked her and wanted to settle down. She was crying. She used to write me letters all the time about how she felt and about our future.
''We grew to each other because of her life in Memphis and mine in Nashville. Some girls like to hide the fact they are from Memphis because it has a bad name. But Tina was like: 'I'm from Memphis. You'll either like it or not.' We both came from two-parent households, but it was still tough times for us. That's how we connected and why we pushed each other.''
Goals and Family
Were Important
Karen Alea Ford
Shanterrica's English professor at college
''As a student, that girl worked it. She would come into the writing center assisted by graduate students to work on her writing. I was impressed with her.
''I asked my class to do a paper on what is important about life. The class would have discussions about this. And goals and family were major themes for her. She was clear that 'I want success and this is what I have to do to get there.'
''I keep coming back to focus. The girl was focused and would give the goof-offs in the class the eye. This class was very intimate, 18 students, and we did a lot of talking and sharing. She aligned herself and sat with the more serious-minded students in the class. Some girls would come to class early -- white, black, Muslim -- to chat about this or that, and Shanterrica seemed to fit in and be comfortable.
''If she missed class because she was ill, she e-mailed and said: 'Dear Professor Ford, I am sorry I was not in class today. I was sick.' She was not required to notify, but she did.''
CHAPTER EIGHT
A Direct Person,
An Inviting Laugh
Ashli Julien
One of Tina's friends from M.T.S.U., who left the university after her freshman year
''I met her on the first day I got dropped off at M.T.S.U. I was a soccer player there on scholarship. There was an induction at a fraternity outside. And we were watching and laughing at a girl in the step show. We were really cracking up.
''But until we busted out laughing, I didn't think Tina was going to be a very nice person. But then her laugh caught my attention. It is very inviting and contagious. And then I soon realized she is not a bad person. That's just the way she is. Very stern and very direct and speaks her mind. She was hard-core, and I was kind of soft. Tina brought out in me the you-are-going-to-respect-me thing. She taught me how to speak up for myself.
''Basketball was her life. I went to soccer practices but I was not dedicated enough. Tina taught me to be. She told me this is a once- of-a-lifetime opportunity. She said, 'You came here to beat the best.'
''She said she came from a tough part of Memphis. She always practiced and always wanted her hands on a basketball. She had a larger scholarship than I did and she would bring over groceries and cook for me. She would make me fried chicken and macaroni because I missed home so much. I told her secrets I would tell nobody.''
Comfortable
In Her Room
Frank Madden
Shanterrica's father
''She knew of Tina in high school but did not know her personally. She went to M.T.S.U. with an academic scholarship. I took my vacation time off and was ready to pick my baby up on Friday for spring break. The first day I brought her to school, I said, 'I can lead you to this water but I can't make you drink it.' I said, 'Do you understand?' and she said, 'Yes, I do Daddy.'
''She would e-mail or text me photos of nice homes in Murfreesboro and would say, 'This is why I am working so hard.' She knew I wanted a big house and she wanted to buy us one.
''Her first semester at M.T.S.U., her courses included anthropology, English, psychology and a reading course, and she had a 3.4 G.P.A. We would visit there every couple of weeks. We encouraged her to go out to movies and things. We were encouraging her not to be crammed up in the room all the time.''
CHAPTER NINE
A Supportive
Relationship
Mimi Ajanaku
Tina's friend and teammate in high school and college
''At M.T.S.U., she was much more into her studies and made sure I went to classes. She would lecture me that I can't have company after 10 p.m. She rode me hard.
''K. C. was a big part of her change. He came with a lot of support and discipline that she needed. Tina and K. C. showed up for my high school graduation, and they were wearing matching orange outfits, head to toe. I said, 'Tina what is this?' And she said, 'This is my man.' She did not have to say much more than that.
''I remember when she first moved in with Shanterrica. Tina said she would not have thought she was from Memphis because she was so quiet. Tina would braid my hair, and I did meet her roommate. Shanterrica seemed shy and soft-spoken and avoided eye contact. She would usually have books open on her bed.''
Tension Starts
To Be a Problem
Shantel Madden
Shanterrica's mother
''She wanted to be a lawyer and she wanted to learn how to be a psychiatrist, as well. Her major at M.T.S.U. was political science, and she had a double minor in psychology and criminal justice. In her first semester, she had four B's and two A's. June of 2010 is when she graduated from Central High. While she was in high school, she worked at a nonprofit that helps people pay their bills and buy groceries. She worked in the clerical department. She did that for three years.
''She complained to me about the college roommate numerous times. Tina did not like to clean up, and the boyfriend was always there. I called the management office in January to get her moved, and they said they had no place to put her. She also went to the management office. She had moved out two weeks before the incident. She was staying with a fellow student. The situation had become unbearable for her.''
CHAPTER 10
The Smell
Of Marijuana
Ashli Julien
Tina's college friend
''Tina complained about her roommate and that Shanterrica did not like it that K. C. was there all the time and that her basketball friends were there. She told me that she smelled weed in the apartment.
''Tina would leave notes on the refrigerator trying to be nice, letting her know her schedule because they did not talk a lot. She was trying to be courteous to her.
''Tina was worried that she could lose her scholarship, even if they smelled it on her. She was worried about rumors that she smoked or that teammates would come over and smell it. She worried that she would not be able to play in the conference tournament. 'My coach is not going to believe me that it is not my weed.' It seemed like it was the first taste of freedom for Tina's roommate.''
A New Friend
To Sing With
Renee Reese
A freshman at M.T.S.U. who was with Shanterrica when the stabbing occurred
''We met at the end of last semester through a mutual friend, but we didn't start hanging out until the beginning of the second semester. I didn't think she was shy. I thought she was a bubbly, happy person. We just never went out. We pretty much hung out around campus and had our meals at the cafeteria because neither of us had a car.
''We would sing in our rooms and just goof around. When we would hang out in my room, we would listen to R&B. I remember once we went shopping at the mall, but that was about it.
''I am from Memphis, too, and I was supposed to go with her and her father for spring break the week that happened. He was picking us up.''
CHAPTER 11
An Example
To Her Team
Anne Marie Lanning
A captain of last season's M.T.S.U. basketball team
''Not everyone understood her. They thought she was just hard-nosed and out for herself. But ultimately, she wanted to make a better life for her family. She wanted to show her family she could do it and do what was right. Playing basketball was a way for her to get away or escape her hard life. She wanted to come and make a better life and carry that over to her family.
''She and her father were very close. She admired her father. Her parents would stay at her apartment for games, as well as her nephew. Tina's mother, father and nephew were all here for the last game.
''She was hard-nosed and would give it her all. She was tenacious on defensive. Her defense was awesome. When she came into the game, it was a spark. She always brought in the something we were missing. Before the game, you could tell she had her mind focused on it. People took it as being quiet, but she was getting ready for the game.
''This year, she started to show leadership. She had come so far. I was the only senior playing on the team and I was not at the last practice because of my sister having a baby. The coach really wanted her to step up, and she did. She started 14 games this year and was the first player off the bench in seven.
''Her confidence started blossoming. It became more and more clear that she wanted to carry the team on her back. She led by example. It was less about words.''
A Final Concert,
Never Attended
Renee Reese
Shanterrica's college friend
''One of the last things I remember was her helping me dye my hair about two weeks before the incident. And I would braid her hair; I did that a couple of times. Like I call my mom every day to let her know I am O.K.; she called her mom a lot.
''Me and Terrica were supposed to go to a concert the night of the incident for a music class I had. We were going to get her some clothes from her apartment and then go to the concert. I kind of just didn't want to go by myself, so she said she would come with me. But I never did go.
''She had been complaining about Tina for a while, but I don't want to say anything more about that.''
EPILOGUE
Ida Stewart Jackson
Tina's mother
''I've experienced death before: my sister, my mother, my husband's mother. But this is unbearable. You don't send your child to school to get murdered.
''In 2008, we took her to college. It was bittersweet. It was bitter because this would be the first time we were separated by such a long distance. Sweet because Tina was the first in the family to go to college and we were proud as can be.
''We decorated the room while laughing and crying at the same time. My husband hooked up her cable and we put up curtains, decorated the bathroom and hung posters. Then Tina put us out because we were making her sad. Tina hugged and kissed each one of us and said: 'I'm going to be just fine. Don't worry about me. But you better call me every day.'
''Her favorite expression was, Go hard or go home.''
TELLING THE TALE OF TWO YOUNG LIVES: The personalities of Tina Stewart and Shanterrica Madden, along with the interests and the aspirations that drove them, are revealed by the voices of those who knew them best.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TOUGH, TALENTED AND MOURNED: Tina Stewart was an emerging leader on the Middle Tennessee State women's basketball team whom others looked to for inspiration and support.
STUDIOUS, DRIVEN AND ACCUSED: Shanterrica Madden was family-oriented, with a love of music, a passion for reading, a handy way with automobiles and dreams of becoming a lawyer.
Tina Stewart's funeral. Her father said she helped to ''keep the joy in the house.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIDDLE TENNESSEE STATE UNIVERSITY (STEWART)
ASSOCIATED PRESS (MADDEN, EMBRACE)
JOHN A. GILLIS/DAILY NEWS JOURNAL (CRIME SCENE)
LANCE MURPHEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (FUNERAL, CENTRAL HIGH SCHOOL)
DOCUMENTS PROVIDED BY THE OFFICE OF THE DISTRICT ATTORNEY GENERAL 16TH JUDICIAL DISTRICT IN TENNESSEE
MADDEN SCHOOL PORTRAIT COURTESY OF THE MADDEN FAMILY) (D1)
Shanterrica Madden with her parents, Frank and Shantel. Known as T. T. to her family, Madden ''kept to herself and did not get into the drama and commotion of teenagers,'' her father said. She is charged with first-degree murder. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LANCE MURPHEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Shanterrica did not think she had time for a serious boyfriend. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE MADDEN FAMILY)
Tina Stewart's former high school team won the state championship last season. Players wore T-shirts with her picture on them to honor her. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE STRASINGER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Regina Simmons said that Shanterrica would have been happier living alone at college. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LANCE MURPHEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Tina knew she had found a home at M.T.S.U. when she saw the passion of the coach. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIDDLE TENNESSEE STATE UNIVERSITY ATHLETICS) (D4)
Adrian Jackson and Ida Stewart Jackson were proud of their daughter's academic and athletic accomplishments, but are now heartbroken. ''This is unbearable,'' her mother said. ''You don't send your child to school to get murdered.''
Talecia Boss, the mother of one of Shanterrica's friends, said she had never seen Shanterrica mad, though Shanterrica did tell her that she had argued with Tina. ''She said: 'It is nothing to worry about. It will all work itself out,''' Boss said.
Shanterrica volunteered at charitable organizations in her spare time.
A teammate said Tina ''wanted to make a better life for her family.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LANCE MURPHEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Ashli Julien said when she got homesick, Tina would make her fried chicken. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBIN TRIMARCHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Tina and her boyfriend, K. C. Anuna, had plans to marry. They met during her freshman year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D5) DRAWING (DRAWING BY SAM MANCHESTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (88%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); ATHLETES (76%); SOFTBALL (76%); BASEBALL (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BASKETBALL (76%); PRISONS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); MURDER (74%); CRIMINAL LAW (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); SOCCER (70%); BAIL (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (67%); CANNABIS (64%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: MIDDLE TENNESSEE STATE UNIVERSITY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (93%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



978 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: Millions Need Not Apply

 BODY:
Millions of Americans who lost their jobs to the recession and fell behind in payments to creditors are being penalized again, this time by companies that use credit records to screen job applicants. Five states have limited the use of credit histories by potential employers and about 20 are considering similar measures that deserve to become law. 
Damaged ratings are often the result of irresponsibility. They can also be due to bad luck and hard times, including a layoff, divorce or catastrophic illness, which is a leading cause of bankruptcy in the United States.
Thanks to intensive marketing by the credit reporting industry, about 60 percent of employers now do credit checks on job applicants -- up from less than 20 percent in the mid-1990s. But even some in the credit industry acknowledge that a poor rating doesn't necessarily make someone a bad job prospect. Last year, Eric Rosenberg, director of state government relations for TransUnion, one of the country's largest reporting companies, told Oregon legislators: ''At this point we don't have any research to show any statistical correlation between what's in somebody's credit report and their job performance or their likelihood to commit fraud.''
Oregon has since passed a bill prohibiting the use of credit histories in job screening with several exceptions, including for federally insured banks or where employers can show that the information is substantially related to the job. Hawaii, Illinois and Maryland have similar laws.
Nearly 45 million Americans have damaged credit. Using a credit record as a key factor in hiring could marginalize millions of families and create a new, credit-record underclass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISMISSALS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



979 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include the S.& P./Case-Shiller housing price index for March, the Chicago purchasing managers index for May and consumer confidence for May (Tuesday); the ADP employment report and the Institute for Supply Management manufacturing index for May, construction spending for April and North American auto sales for May (Wednesday); same-store sales for May, revised first-quarter productivity and factory orders for April (Thursday); and unemployment and the I.S.M. service index for May (Friday). 
COMPANY EARNINGS Companies reporting include Dollar General (Wednesday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Wednesday, a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee will hold a hearing about promoting jobs and economic growth through commercial spectrum auctions, and the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, will testify before the House Financial Services Committee about the international financial system. Also on Wednesday, a House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing about disclosure of lending by the Federal Reserve. On Thursday, the agriculture secretary, Tom Vilsack, will announce the replacement of the so-called food pyramid, and a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee will hold a hearing about the regulatory effect of health care overhaul. On Friday, the House Financial Services Committee will conduct a hearing about oversight of the Department of Housing and Urban Development's HOME program, and a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee will hold a hearing about regulatory reform.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); SAME STORE SALES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); AUCTIONS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); WIRELESS REGULATION (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (66%); NUTRITION (52%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (57%)

TICKER: DG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (57%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (53%); TOM VILSACK (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



980 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Against Learned Helplessness

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Unemployment is a terrible scourge across much of the Western world. Almost 14 million Americans are jobless, and millions more are stuck with part-time work or jobs that fail to use their skills. Some European countries have it even worse: 21 percent of Spanish workers are unemployed.
Nor is the situation showing rapid improvement. This is a continuing tragedy, and in a rational world bringing an end to this tragedy would be our top economic priority. 
Yet a strange thing has happened to policy discussion: on both sides of the Atlantic, a consensus has emerged among movers and shakers that nothing can or should be done about jobs. Instead of a determination to do something about the ongoing suffering and economic waste, one sees a proliferation of excuses for inaction, garbed in the language of wisdom and responsibility.
So someone needs to say the obvious: inventing reasons not to put the unemployed back to work is neither wise nor responsible. It is, instead, a grotesque abdication of responsibility.
What kinds of excuses am I talking about? Well, consider last week's release of the latest report on the economic outlook by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or O.E.C.D. The O.E.C.D. is basically an intergovernmental think tank; while it has no direct ability to set policy, what it says reflects the conventional wisdom of Europe's policy elite.
So what did the O.E.C.D. have to say about high unemployment in its member countries? ''The room for macroeconomic policies to address these complex challenges is largely exhausted,'' declared the organization's secretary general, who called on countries instead to ''go structural'' -- that is, to focus on long-run reforms that would have little impact on the current employment situation.
And how do we know that there's no room for policies to put the unemployed back to work? The secretary general didn't say -- and the report itself never even suggests possible solutions to the employment crisis. All it does is highlight the risks, as it sees them, of any departure from orthodox policy.
But then, who is talking seriously about job creation these days? Not the Republican Party, unless you count its ritual calls for tax cuts and deregulation. Not the Obama administration, which more or less dropped the subject a year and a half ago.
The fact that nobody in power is talking about jobs does not mean, however, that nothing could be done.
Bear in mind that the unemployed aren't jobless because they don't want to work, or because they lack the necessary skills. There's nothing wrong with our workers -- remember, just four years ago the unemployment rate was below 5 percent.
The core of our economic problem is, instead, the debt -- mainly mortgage debt -- that households ran up during the bubble years of the last decade. Now that the bubble has burst, that debt is acting as a persistent drag on the economy, preventing any real recovery in employment. And once you realize that the overhang of private debt is the problem, you realize that there are a number of things that could be done about it.
For example, we could have W.P.A.-type programs putting the unemployed to work doing useful things like repairing roads -- which would also, by raising incomes, make it easier for households to pay down debt. We could have a serious program of mortgage modification, reducing the debts of troubled homeowners. We could try to get inflation back up to the 4 percent rate that prevailed during Ronald Reagan's second term, which would help to reduce the real burden of debt.
So there are policies we could be pursuing to bring unemployment down. These policies would be unorthodox -- but so are the economic problems we face. And those who warn about the risks of action must explain why these risks should worry us more than the certainty of continued mass suffering if we do nothing.
In pointing out that we could be doing much more about unemployment, I recognize, of course, the political obstacles to actually pursuing any of the policies that might work. In the United States, in particular, any effort to tackle unemployment will run into a stone wall of Republican opposition. Yet that's not a reason to stop talking about the issue. In fact, looking back at my own writings over the past year or so, it's clear that I too have sinned: political realism is all very well, but I have said far too little about what we really should be doing to deal with our most important problem.
As I see it, policy makers are sinking into a condition of learned helplessness on the jobs issue: the more they fail to do anything about the problem, the more they convince themselves that there's nothing they could do. And those of us who know better should be doing all we can to break that vicious circle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); JOB CREATION (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%); DEREGULATION (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



981 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Trust but E-Verify

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
The Arizona immigration law was controversial from the beginning. Critics said it was ripe for abuse, implicitly discriminatory and probably unconstitutional as well. Business groups and liberal activists joined forces to oppose it.
But now that it's been implemented, it might just be a model for nationwide reform.
No, I'm not talking about the Arizona law that empowers local police to check the immigration status of anyone they detain, which generated a wave of boycotts and a surfeit of Gestapo analogies last spring. I mean the 2007 Arizona law requiring businesses to confirm their employees' legal status with the federal E-Verify database, which was upheld last week in a 5-to-3 decision by the United States Supreme Court. 
The E-Verify law was never as polarizing as last year's police-powers legislation, but it still attracted plenty of opposition. Arizona business interests called it unfair and draconian. (An employer's business license is suspended for the first offense and revoked for the second.) Civil liberties groups argued that the E-Verify database's error rate is unacceptably high, and that the law creates a presumptive bias against hiring Hispanics.
If these arguments sound familiar, it's because similar critiques are always leveled against any attempt to actually enforce America's immigration laws. From the border to the workplace, immigration enforcement is invariably depicted as terribly harsh, hopelessly expensive and probably racist into the bargain.
Not to mention counterproductive: advocates for ''comprehensive'' reform, the holy grail of liberal Democrats and moderate Republicans alike, have long implied that it's essentially impossible to prevent illegal immigrants from finding their way to eager employers. Instead, they argue, we have no choice but to ratify the status quo -- i.e., mass low-skilled immigration from Mexico and Central America -- by creating a vast new guest-worker program and offering citizenship to illegal immigrants already here.
So far, though, Arizona's E-Verify law seems to be providing a strong counterpoint to this counsel of despair. According to a recent study from the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of California, the legislation reduced Arizona's population of working-age illegal immigrants by about 17 percent, or roughly 92,000 people, in just a single year. (This effect was entirely distinct from the Great Recession's broader impact on immigration, the study argues.) And the swift attrition was mainly achieved through voluntary compliance: the number of employers prosecuted under the law can be counted on one hand.
These results suggest that maybe -- just maybe -- America's immigration rate isn't determined by forces beyond any lawmaker's control. Maybe public policy can make a difference after all. Maybe we could have an immigration system that looked as if it were designed on purpose, not embraced in a fit of absence of mind.
At least in the short term, there's no good reason for such a system to include any kind of amnesty. This was a dubious idea even during the last decade's economic boom. It would be folly (and a political nonstarter) in this economic climate, which has left Americans without high school diplomas (who tend to lose out from low-skilled immigration) facing a 15 percent unemployment rate.
But eschewing amnesty doesn't require shutting down immigration. Quite the opposite: With increased enforcement (to date, only a few states have Arizona-style E-Verify laws on the books, though the Obama White House seems to be stepping up prosecutions of employers), the United States could welcome as many immigrants as we do today. But instead of shrugging as low-skilled workers jump the border to compete with the struggling American working class, our immigration policy should focus on recruiting well-educated migrants, opening the door to greater legal immigration from Asia, Africa and Europe.
As it happens, a system along these lines exists right now -- in Canada. A recent report from the Manhattan Institute found that the United States still assimilates immigrants more successfully than many Western European countries. But culturally and economically, we lag well behind our northern neighbor when it comes to integrating new arrivals.
In part, this is because Canada fast-tracks immigrants to citizenship. But it's also because Canada does more to recruit highly educated emigres than the United States -- and the Dominion's more international, geographically diverse immigrant population probably discourages balkanization and self-segregation. (No single country or region dominates Canada's immigration numbers to the extent that Mexico and the rest of Latin America dominate immigration to the United States.)
The result is a system that welcomes newcomers but serves the national interest as well. America isn't close to that sweet spot at the moment, but it's what we should be aiming for. By learning from Arizona, and becoming more like Canada, we might finally have an immigration policy worthy of the U.S.A.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); RACE & RACISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); BOYCOTTS (71%); POLICE FORCES (71%); CITIZENSHIP (69%); POPULATION SIZE (68%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



982 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: Debbie Reynolds Auctions Costume Collection

BYLINE: Compiled by RACHEL LEE HARRIS

 BODY:
Ever wanted to dress up as Judy Garland in ''The Wizard of Oz'' or as Marilyn Monroe in ''The Seven Year Itch''? Profiles in History, a California auction house, is offering enthusiasts an opportunity actually to do so when it puts the famous dresses from those movies and other famous costume pieces worn by classic film stars up for auction on June 18 in Beverly Hills, Reuters reported. The 3,500-piece collection, which is owned by Debbie Reynolds, will include a bowler worn by Charlie Chaplin, the gold velvet gown worn by Barbra Streisand in ''Hello, Dolly!,'' right, the Ascot dress worn by Audrey Hepburn in ''My Fair Lady,'' left, and several costumes for Julie Andrews in ''The Sound of Music.'' Ms. Reynolds said that she was sad to break up the collection but that recent attempts to open a museum to showcase the items had fallen through. ''I've reached such a difficult time with the economic situation,'' Ms. Reynolds told Reuters. ''To keep them stored another 50 years didn't make sense. I hope in the end they all find happy homes, that they will be shown, and that they might even land in museums.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); FILM (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



983 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON PAR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Teacher of the Hour, 14 Times Daily

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
Calling Allan Renz a golf teacher with a lot of students is like calling Manhattan an island with a lot of buildings.
Renz, who teaches at the Chelsea Piers golf complex on the Hudson River along Manhattan's western shore, is one of the busiest golf teachers in the United States.
How busy?
Since 2006, he has taught more than 11,000 hourlong lessons, an average of about 2,200 annually, or six hours a day if the 58-year-old Renz worked 365 days a year. Except Renz, who gave up a Wall Street career 19 years ago, takes off holidays and all of December, and some other winter afternoons. 
Renz accomplishes his herculean lesson total with a relentless seven-days-a-week, 8-a.m.-to-10 p.m. summer schedule, and with a remarkably loyal stable of year-round students. Some Renz clients have a regular appointment -- 8 a.m. Wednesdays -- that they have kept every week for nearly a decade. The wait for one of Renz's prime-time teaching slots can be 10 months or more at Chelsea Piers, where more than 350,000 golfers walk through the doors every year.
According to Steve di Costanzo, the president of Golf Range magazine, a typical annual lesson total for the nation's top teaching professionals would be 600 to 1,200 hours. Renz crests 2,000 hours year after year.
''What can I say? It's not work to me,'' Renz said, taking a rare break on a recent Monday, his slowest day. ''I love analyzing the golf swing.''
He had better love it. Every year, he will watch people swing golf clubs more than 200,000 times.
''And that doesn't count putting strokes,'' he said.
There are an estimated 50,000 golf instructors in the United States, and according to the National Golf Foundation, they give about 10 million lessons a year. Many of them work at public and private clubs. Their duties can also include running a pro shop, directing golf outings and making sure the cart fleet is operational. And they hope the weather cooperates to keep the course open.
Chelsea Piers has 52 weather-protected hitting stalls on four floors, a putting green, full-swing simulators and a golf academy but no golf course. Golfers go to Chelsea Piers hoping to improve, and sometimes they will wait two hours on a Saturday for an open stall to take their swats. A lot of them are smart enough to seek help.
Renz was a vice president for securities operations with a Wall Street firm until 1992. A longtime golfer and a 2 handicap growing up on Long Island, he started repairing and fitting golf clubs as a side business after he left his first career. Almost as a whim, in 1994, he started teaching students on Mondays because that was the day the other area teaching pros did not work.
He spent a few years as the owner of a Florida driving range, where he gave lessons in the late 1990s. Around that time, he cajoled the famed teacher and coach David Leadbetter into letting him hang around the Leadbetter golf academy in Florida so he could watch and learn. In 2000, he started teaching at Chelsea Piers. His popularity grew with referrals and word of mouth, and because, he said: ''I made sure I was always there if someone walked in off the street. And a lot of people did.''
He found that his business background, and his two master's degrees, made it easy to talk with many of his students, who work on Wall Street or in Manhattan.
''A good golf lesson is a lot more than golf,'' he said. ''We talk about finance, international economics or whatever they do. You have to find that rapport because that's a big part of the learning process.
''Going to a golf pro is a lot like going to the dentist. The student wants a little bedside manner. Because if you don't like your dentist, you will find another one. It's the same thing with a golf teacher.''
Larry Klurfeld has the 8 a.m. Wednesday slot with Renz and has had it since 2002.
''It might sound a little weird to do that every week, but people go see personal trainers three times a week,'' said Klurfeld, the chief operating officer of a New York public-relations firm. ''I do it to make sure I'm staying on track. If I just went there and hit balls, I feel like I would end up grooving and perfecting my mistakes. Maybe I would save some money, but I would pay for it when I played on the weekend.''
Stephen Bernstein, another Manhattan executive, has had the 7 a.m. Thursday spot for three years.
''Allan uses a lot of video and he's not predictable, so our lessons are not repetitive,'' Bernstein said. ''I like learning. Who wants to stay the same?''
Renz, who is also the Chelsea Piers director of schools, charges his students $115 an hour, which Bernstein called a good value.
''How much do people spend on range balls, greens fees and country club dues to play poorly and be frustrated?'' he said. ''At least I'm getting expert advice.''
Klurfeld wondered if Renz was offering advice from another realm.
''Maybe he is like a golf shrink,'' Klurfeld said. ''But don't all golfers need shrinks?''
Renz is not a P.G.A. pro, a prized certification earned after a lengthy education process. Many golf teachers, if not most, are affiliated with the P.G.A. of America.
''I was about 40 when I got into this,'' he said. ''I wanted to teach, and there were people who wanted me to teach them. Nothing against the P.G.A., but I just didn't worry about it.''
In the thousands of hours Renz has watched amateur swings, he has come up with a few seasoned observations on recreational golfers.
Chief problem: an over-the-top swing where the club travels away from the body. Chief solution: swing more from the inside.
Chief grip problem: extremely weak left hand (for right-handed golfers). Chief solution: make sure the heel pad of the left hand is on top of the club, not the side of it.
Chief range problem: the typical golfer spends too much time practicing his driver. Chief suggestion: spend an equal amount of time on putting practice. ''That will whack five strokes off the score of most golfers,'' Renz said.
Renz takes a train to and from work each day from his Long Island home, where he lives with his wife and two daughters. He said he had no plans to reduce his workload.
''I'm always telling my wife I'm going to work less,'' he said. ''And she says, 'You never will, you enjoy it too much.' And she's right.''
That is good news to his boss, the Chelsea Piers Golf Club general manager, David Beltre.
''If he left us, I would have to hire two or maybe three other pros to replace him,'' Beltre said.
Walking past the dozens of golfers banging balls into the sky over the Hudson River one morning last week, Renz seemed entirely in his element. Every few seconds, there were five or six balls simultaneously in the air -- with a majority not sailing so straight and true.
Renz smiled. ''Everybody is here doing what they love to do,'' he said. ''I'm just here to help them do it a little better.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The instructor Allan Renz, left, with Andrew Chan at Chelsea Piers. Renz averages 2,200 golf lessons a year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



984 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: City College To Support New Theater Uptown

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
In a bid to broaden its theater program and to bring additional polished, diverse theater uptown, City College of New York is lending critical support to an effort to open a new professional theater in residence uptown at Aaron Davis Hall.
Called the New Haarlem Arts Theater, the venture is the brainchild of Eugene Nesmith, the chairman of the theater and speech department at City College. The artistic director for the new theater, he has been able to secure about $50,000 in seed money from the college. 
''To do the kind of season I'd really like to do, we would probably need about $200,000,'' Mr. Nesmith said in a recent interview. ''The name has to get out there in a major way. We're not going to get the Broadway audience. We're pulling on our students, our alumni, the Harlem community. We're working all the social media we can.''
The college, which has roughly 16,000 students and is part of the City University of New York, made the commitment to the theater despite a sluggish economy that has hurt arts financing and trimmed audiences. A professional theater is expected to boost the profile of the college's theater department, currently one of the smaller departments, with only about 130 majors taking courses in acting, directing, theater history and the like.
Mr. Nesmith says his long-term goal is for the theater department to offer an M.F.A. program and a place for theater majors to hone their skills alongside professionals. He also wants to establish a ''professional theater company representative of the best America has to offer in the arts,'' he said.
The money comes first, though. There is an Oct. 3 fund-raiser at Aaron Davis Hall, on the City College campus at Convent Avenue and West 135th Street in Hamilton Heights. Mr. Nesmith said he hopes to identify 100 founding members to defray costs and provide support.
New Haarlem will produce James Baldwin's ''Blues for Mister Charlie,'' directed by Mr. Nesmith, from June 23 to July 17. The musical revue ''It Ain't Nothing but the Blues'' will be directed by Alfred Preisser, a co-founder and former artistic director of The Classical Theater of Harlem. Tickets are $15 to $25.
Lisa Staiano-Coico, who became City College's president last year, has been supportive of New Haarlem and efforts by the college to focus more on arts education, said Geraldine Murphy, acting dean of humanities and the arts.
''It's a bad time for the city, it's a bad time for CUNY, but you can't just sit still,'' Ms. Murphy said. ''It's something of a gamble, but I think there's an audience or potential audience,'' she added. ''It really will depend on how the summer goes. Part of it is just hope and hard work.''
Mr. Preisser, a guest artist at New Haarlem and a member of its advisory board, co-founded Classical Theater in 1999. During his tenure the theater won plaudits for drawing culturally diverse audiences to productions of everything from Shakespeare to Beckett, and for featuring black actors. The theater continues to operate under new artistic leadership. Mr. Preisser, who left Classical Theater in 2009, recalled that he spent much of his time there raising money. He predicted that New Haarlem could become a draw uptown with continued support from City College and some critical attention.
''There isn't anything uptown like this,'' he said. ''There is a lot of activity but it's not well known or high profile.''
Among the smattering of performance spaces uptown are Harlem Stage and the Dwyer Cultural Center, both of which offer a broad menu of arts performances. There is also the National Black Theater, which has its own home but financial woes, and Riverside Theater, which uses Riverside Church for productions.
Mr. Nesmith, who has 25 years of experience as an actor, educator and director, noted that City College ''is known for architecture, engineering and the sciences. Now we want attention on the arts.''
He added, ''And with all the changes in Harlem and the city, we want to make it a very diverse company, not just a black theater company.''
He said he chose ''Blues for Mister Charlie'' for the inaugural production because ''a lot of the issues we were dealing with in the '60s -- the racial, the economic, the gender issues -- are coming around again.'' The New Haarlem production will be the first major production of the Baldwin play, about a racial killing in a small Southern town, in New York since its Broadway debut in 1964.
The cast of about 20 is about half students and half professionals, said Mr. Nesmith, who has directed at regional theater and Off Off Broadway. In 1993 he and Victoria Norman founded the African-American Theater Program at the University of Louisville, to develop core courses for the study of African-American theater.
Mr. Nesmith's advisors and supporters for New Haarlem include Woodie King Jr., who founded the New Federal Theater, which just celebrated its 40th anniversary, on the Lower East Side. New Haarlem's advisory board also includes City College faculty and other theater professionals.
City College alumni are a potentially big source of funders, said Elena Sturman, executive director of the nonprofit City College Fund, which supports City College with scholarships and programming, mostly by reaching out to alumni and foundations. ''He's going to be operating on a shoestring, but he'll do it,'' Ms. Sturman said of Mr. Nesmith.
Michael Unthank, the executive director of Harlem Arts Alliance, said he welcomed New Haarlem's arrival.
''There's theater here in Harlem, but there needs to be more, and Aaron Davis Hall is underutilized and unrecognized,'' he said. ''City College is an incredible institution and the new president has brought a lot of new energy to the campus. We have been in discussions with them about outreach and mentorship and we see them as great partners.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eugene Nesmith (C1)
 Eugene Nesmith, left, in rehearsal with the actors Dennis Jordan, center, and Earl Griffin. Mr. Nesmith is behind a new professional theater in residence at Aaron Davis Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (95%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MUSICAL THEATER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUGENE, OR, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



985 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: An Unclear Course On Emissions Policy

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Opposition to cap and trade, a regulatory tool for curbing greenhouse gas emissions, normally comes from the right end of the political spectrum, where it is derided as ''cap and tax.''
But in California it is the political left that has been most successful in challenging the effort, creating a legal speed bump of sorts that might even delay the nation's first statewide cap-and-trade system, set to start on Jan. 1.
A San Francisco Superior Court judge ruled this month that an analysis undertaken under California's groundbreaking law to combat climate change gave short shrift to alternative ways of putting a price on greenhouse gas emissions. The judge, Ernest Goldsmith, ordered California air regulators to provide a more detailed examination of all options for controlling emissions, including a direct tax on them.
Environmental justice groups had sued to block the cap-and-trade program. The crux of their argument was that in focusing strictly on climate-warming gases that are dispersed high in the atmosphere, California's plan could overlook or indirectly abet the release of conventional pollutants that mainly harm low-income communities, like carbon monoxide or deadly fine particles from oil refineries. 
Environmental groups will continue to try to protect their communities if state officials ''want to steamroll ahead single-mindedly in pursuit of cap and trade, as if California is some kind of pilot project,'' said Brett Newell, a lawyer for one plaintiff, the Center on Race, Poverty and the Environment.
Most economists and policy makers predict that the cap-and-trade program will go forward once the judge has accepted a new analysis as sufficiently thorough. For them, the bigger question is what role California's system will play now that there is no prospect of a similar national initiative.
California's climate change law, passed in 2006, was once seen as a beta test for a national push to limit greenhouse gases. Cast as a market-driven strategy that was preferable to a tax, cap and trade drew considerable bipartisan support before the nation's political landscape shifted, climate legislation fizzled in Congress and the economic model became a focus of derision for ascendant Republican conservatives.
Will California keep the cap-and-trade flag flying regardless over the next decade and eventually influence policy in other states? Or will it prove marginally relevant at best to any national policy conversation?
''Now that the big program has gone into abeyance for some time, the pilot project looks pretty isolated,'' said Steve Hayward, an economist with the conservative American Enterprise Institute.
Even economists who firmly support cap and trade are not sure whether the California program should be considered the vanguard of a distant revolution or a rebel stronghold facing daunting odds.
''It is sort of like keeping a flame alive during what is politically an exceptionally difficult time,'' said Robert Stavins, director of the environmental economics program at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. ''It is now the center of any kind of action.''
The cap-and-trade plan, which calls for reducing California's greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2020, sets a ceiling on climate-warming emissions by the industrial, electricity, transportation and other sectors that will gradually be lowered over time. Companies will be allocated emissions allowances, and as they progress in cutting their emissions, they can sell their unneeded credits to other polluters.
Dr. Stavins suggested that California's program could eventually link up with the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a more limited cap-and-trade program involving electric utilities in the Northeast and Middle Atlantic. That combination would create a larger market for emissions allowances.
But ''for the time being, that's not clear,'' he acknowledged. The Regional Greenhouse group suffered its own setback last week when Gov. Chris Christie pulled New Jersey out of the 10-state compact, arguing that cap and trade was ineffective.
And a group of states and Canadian provinces, known as the Western Climate Initiative, has effectively been abandoned for the time being by every state but California. (British Columbia and Ontario are still on track to begin their own emissions-trading programs next year, and Quebec could soon follow.)
In California, optimism remains the regulators' public position. Mary Nichols, chairwoman of the California Air Resources Board, predicts that the state's multipronged greenhouse-gas-reduction plan will face more and more friendly competition from other states like New York, Massachusetts and even Texas in areas like creating incentives for development of renewable energy.
Global warming is cited far less frequently as a policy concern these days in the current political climate, Ms. Nichols said, but she maintains that progress is being made in cutting fossil fuel emissions nonetheless. ''I think climate itself may be out of favor at the moment as the reason for working on these issues, and energy security and petroleum reduction are in,'' she said. ''Either way, I see there's a lot of action going on.''
The Pew Center on Global Climate Change notes that more than 30 states have set mandatory goals for the amount of electricity that utilities get from solar and wind energy and other renewable sources and that 36 states have climate action plans, for example.
All these initiatives together could eventually be woven into the fabric of a national climate policy formed not in Congress but in the context of pragmatic state policy, the optimists' thinking goes. ''What we may be seeing is the bubbling up of climate policies from the bottom up,'' Dr. Stavins said.
And California's vanguard role in that trend is undeniable, said Jon Costantino, a former climate change planner at the California Air Resources Board who is now a senior adviser to the Sacramento law firm Manatt, Phelps & Phillips. The state ''has broken the ice,'' he said.
Dr. Stavins said that California's cap and trade experiment could have considerable influence abroad as well, given that its emissions are comparable to those of, say, Italy. ''From the perspective of other countries, everyone is watching California,'' he said -- including China, which surpassed the United States as the greatest emitter of greenhouse gases two years ago.
For now, however, the state government's most immediate challenge is convincing Judge Goldsmith that the research undergirding its cap-and-trade plan is sufficiently thorough. A spokesman for the California Air Resources Board, which is appealing Judge Goldsmith's decision, said that its staff was redoing its analysis.
Matthew Kahn, an economist at the University of California, Los Angeles, predicts that making difficult economic adjustments, and possibly meeting environmental justice concerns as well, will be partly a matter of trial and error as the cap-and-trade program unfolds.
''A big bet that's being made on the green economy is that there will be learning by doing,'' he said. ''We're providing a free experiment for the rest of the country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Shell refinery in Martinez, Calif., is among plants that would be affected by an emissions law set to take effect Jan. 1. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN MARGOT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); JUDGES (75%); LAWYERS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



986 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Utah Law Makes Coins Worth Their Weight in Gold (or Silver)

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
FARR WEST, Utah -- Most people who amass the pure gold and silver coins produced by the United States Mint do so for collections or investments, not to buy Slurpees at 7-Eleven.
''You'd be a fool,'' Tom Jurkowsky, a spokesman for the Mint, said of the Slurpee idea, ''but you could do it.''
After all, while the one-ounce American Eagle coin produced by the Mint says ''One Dollar,'' it is actually worth more like $38 based on the current price of silver. (An ounce of gold is worth more than $1,500.)
Now, however, Utah has passed a law intended to encourage residents to use gold or silver coins made by the Mint as cash, but with their value based on the weight of the precious metals in them, not the face value -- if, that is, they can find a merchant willing to accept the coins on that basis. 
The legislation, called the Legal Tender Act of 2011, was inspired in part by Tea Party supporters, some of whom believe that the dollar should be backed by gold or silver and that Obama administration policies could cause a currency collapse. The law is the first of its kind in the United States. Several other states, including Minnesota, Idaho and Georgia, have considered similar laws.
Mr. Jurkowsky said the new law ''is of no real consequence,'' and is purely symbolic, but supporters say it is more than political pocket change. They say that it is just a beginning, that one day soon Utah might mint its own coins, that retailers could have scales for weighing precious metals and that a state defense force could be formed to guard warehouses where the new money would be made and stored.
''This is an incremental step in the right direction,'' said Lowell Nelson, the interim coordinator for the Campaign for Liberty in Utah, a libertarian group rooted in Ron Paul's presidential campaign. ''If the federal government isn't going to do it, then we here in Utah ought to be able to establish a monetary system that would survive a crash if and when that happens.''
Utah has a strong conservative streak, but there are other reasons why it was first to pass such a law.
For many of its supporters, the new law represents an extension of the notion of preparedness that is nurtured by Utah's powerful founding institution, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Many of the law's supporters believe policies like stimulus spending, the bank bailout and national health care will soon bankrupt the government, sending inflation soaring. Owning gold and silver, they say, will help protect people.
''It's kind of written into our theology that we're supposed to be prepared for any eventuality,'' said Mr. Nelson, who was involved in early meetings with state lawmakers about the law.
Wayne Scholle, the marketing director for Old Glory Mint, in Spanish Fork, Utah, showed off a commemorative silver coin the company made honoring the new law, one he said he hoped could be a model for a future state-minted coin. The front -- or obverse -- includes an image representing ''the miracle of the gulls,'' an important story in Mormon folklore in which seagulls are said to have suddenly appeared and eaten insects that were destroying the first crops Mormon settlers raised, a year after arriving in Utah in 1847.
''Their messaging is spot on with this,'' Mr. Scholle said. ''It's preparedness. It's protecting yourself.''
Old Glory is not the only company that hopes to benefit. Craig Franco, a coin dealer south of Salt Lake City, said he was finishing an arrangement with a bank to create a depository through which people will be able to spend their gold and silver indirectly, by using a Visa credit card that makes charges against the value of their holdings. Mr. Franco noted that state law, for now, left it to the private sector to figure out how conducting business with gold and silver should work.
''The regulation of the system?'' Mr. Franco said. ''There is no regulation of the system. We are working out the nuances of it.''
Mr. Franco is among several supporters who say the law's most important feature may be that it eliminates state capital gains taxes on the sale of gold and silver, a move he thinks will prompt individuals and large scale investors outside the state to move their gold and silver to Utah. But federal capital gains taxes would still apply.
''I would hope the federal government would simply concede: 'O.K., you're right, it's money, so we can't tax it,' '' said Larry Hilton, a lawyer and insurance broker who first took the idea to lawmakers. ''But that may not happen.''
Article 1, Section 10 of the Constitution says no state shall coin money, though Mr. Hilton and some others argue that a phrase used later, saying no state shall ''make anything but gold and silver coin a tender in payment of debts'' can be read as a license for Utah's new law and, perhaps, for a state's right to mint its own coins.
A spokesman for the Mormon church would not comment on the Utah law, but said in a statement that the church's teachings related to preparedness were ''simply a matter of encouraging people to practice sound principles of provident living and to save for a rainy day.''
State Representative Brad Galvez, the freshman Republican who sponsored the bill at the request of party leadership, said he was ''not trying to push back against the federal government'' but simply to ''create an alternative'' to the dollar that lawmakers hoped might send a message to Washington about fiscal policy. He noted that the law does not require businesses to accept gold or silver, but only gives them a choice.
Much of the logic of the law is rooted in the belief that the dollar is at risk and that gold and silver, coined around the world for thousands of years, are enduring, stable investments. That, too, is in dispute.
''From an investment standpoint, I've always found that if something is heavily advertised on television, it's not a good thing to do,'' said Gary P. Brinson, a philanthropist who spent 40 years as an investment strategist. ''Right now, it's hard to find anywhere on television where you don't see gold and silver being advertised.''
For all the excitement, so far, it is hard to find anyone who is using gold or silver to buy anything. But here in Farr West, about 40 miles north of Salt Lake City, there is at least some precedent for such transactions.
Decades ago, the rambling Smith and Edwards store, a kind of giant 7-Eleven from the Old West that sells everything from survival kits to sporting goods and copies of the Constitution, had a special sale, offering a very favorable rate if people made purchases with ''junk silver'' dollars and half dollars. In the 1980s, the store sold a man a $1,200 air compressor for a little less than 4 ounces of gold, recalled Bert Smith, one of the owners, who is now 91.
Mr. Smith said that he liked the new law, and that he was ready to accept silver and gold. But he does not expect to see much brought to his registers.
''I don't suppose there's going to be a big run on it,'' Mr. Smith said, ''because people are going to hang on to their gold and silver more than ever.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rounds of silver being produced at the Old Glory Mint in Utah. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DJAMILA GROSSMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COINS & COINAGE (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); RELIGION (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CURRENCIES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); POLITICS (69%); RETAILERS (67%); BANK FAILURES (65%); BAILOUTS (61%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (60%)

COMPANY: 7-ELEVEN INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US MINT (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (58%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); RON PAUL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (98%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



987 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Making Rebound, Detroit Focuses On Smaller Cars

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- After years of being outgunned by Japanese rivals, the American auto industry has made small cars a central part of its strategy, seeking to capitalize on a fundamental shift in the preferences of consumers in an era of fast-rising gas prices.
By refocusing on small cars and de-emphasizing the gas-guzzlers that had long sustained the industry, General Motors and Ford in particular are preserving jobs and positioning themselves to prosper. Their efforts are already paying off in the marketplace. Ford's tiny Fiesta is the best-selling subcompact in the United States this year, and G.M.'s Chevrolet Cruze outsold every other compact car in America last month except the segment-leading Honda Civic.
Nearly one in four vehicles sold in the United States in April was a compact or subcompact car, compared with one in eight a decade ago. Of the small cars sold in April, about 27 percent were American models, compared with 20 percent a year earlier. Data on sales in May will be released on Wednesday.
''There is a less-is-more mentality,'' said Jeremy Anwyl, chief executive of the auto research site Edmunds.com. ''The market demand and receptivity for these vehicles just didn't exist four or five years ago.'' 
The transformation in Detroit was sparked by the worst financial crisis in generations, but was also assisted by an unusual set of circumstances.
The United Auto Workers made steep concessions on wages and benefits. The Obama administration used the opportunity of the bankruptcies of G.M. and Chrysler to prod them on fuel efficiency. Japanese carmakers like Toyota and Honda became complacent about their frontrunner status. And the psychology of the American car buyer underwent a stunning change.
''The most important thing we had to do was restore our reputation as a fuel-economy company,'' said James D. Farley Jr., Ford's head of global sales and marketing. ''Without that, we couldn't get a wide group of people to even consider these new products.''
After decades of turning out embarrassingly uncompetitive small cars like the Chevy Vega and Ford Pinto that rarely contributed to their bottom lines, G.M. and Ford have devoted their vast global resources to producing new models that are both fuel-conscious and laden with technology and attractive features. Chrysler, the smallest of the Detroit car companies, has been slower to make the changes, but with the help of its Italian partner Fiat it is headed in the same direction, with a new compact model expected next year.
The emphasis on smaller vehicles has proven to be a necessity for the recovering auto companies. Rising fuel prices have prompted a steady migration away from bigger vehicles since the spring of 2008, when gas hit $3.50 a gallon. Industry analysts and company executives say the shift is likely a permanent one, as consumers flock to small cars packed with features like heated leather seats, Internet access and voice-activated entertainment systems.
With every new small car sold, the acceptance of American brands is reinforced as automakers erase the bad memories of their cheap and unappealing ''econo-boxes'' of the past.
''This car has changed my impression of Detroit, big time,'' said Christopher L. Garcia-Rivera of Northborough, Mass., who averages nearly 40 miles to the gallon in the Ford Fiesta he bought for $14,900 in April.
The signs of change are apparent everywhere in the industry's home state of Michigan, where Ford has converted a former S.U.V. plant to build small cars that will be available in hybrid and electric versions, and G.M. is preparing to make the first subcompact model it has ever produced in the United States.
Ford got a head start on its small-car push when it hired an outsider, Alan R. Mulally from Boeing, to reorganize its operations five years ago. G.M., however, had to go through bankruptcy in 2009 before it could shed its big-truck mentality.
''We focused our resources where the market was before,'' said Mark L. Reuss, president of G.M. North America. ''You have got to spend money to do great small cars.''
The dominance of the Japanese small car has eroded, in part, because Toyota and others didn't consistently update their models in recent years. ''Toyota really dropped the ball with their bland styling and plastic interiors,'' said John Menschede, a retired county assessor in High Ridge, Mo., who paid $19,700 for a Cruze with a turbo-charged engine and Bluetooth wireless communication equipment. ''I wanted something with a lot of bells and whistles and that's what I got.''
Still, foreign cars continue to give Detroit stiff competition. The Korean carmaker Hyundai has introduced well-received models, and Honda recently started selling a new version of the Civic, the perennial market leader. But instead of a few Japanese models grabbing the bulk of the sales, the compact-car segment is now a wide open field.
John W. Mendel, Honda's top American sales executive, said the Japanese carmaker was confident that its small cars would meet the challenge from the latest American models. ''Better products from our competitors?'' said Mr. Mendel. ''That's a good thing for the U.S. marketplace, but the Civic remains the trendsetter.''
In the past, Detroit automakers neglected small cars because they could not make money on them. That has changed for several reasons. Labor costs are lower since the U.A.W. agreed to concessions on health care for retirees and a 50 percent wage reduction for new workers. G.M. and Ford are also spreading the development costs of compact and subcompact cars across their global divisions in North America, Europe and Asia.
Ford is building variations of its new Focus at factories across the world. The car's basic design and engineering, however, was done in Europe, where consumers have long appreciated the value, fuel efficiency and performance of smaller models. ''The way we work now is to use the teams that know the markets the best,'' said Derrick M. Kuzak, Ford's global product chief.
The companies still earn far bigger profits on trucks and S.U.V.'s. But small cars are now commanding better prices in the showroom. A year ago, G.M.'s previous small sedan, the Chevrolet Cobalt, sold for an average price of $18,400, according to TrueCar.com. Last month, however, the typical Cruze sold for $20,600.
Detroit executives are aware they still have a lot to prove. Mr. Reuss cringes when reminded of some of G.M.'s subpar products of the past, and vows never to repeat those mistakes. ''Our company has been changed forever,'' he said. ''We've got a window to get it right this time.''
He knew G.M. was on the right track when he parked one of the first new Cruzes off the assembly line at a supermarket in suburban Detroit, and a store employee rushed over to check it out. ''She said, 'I can't believe Chevrolet is building a car this size that's this good,' '' Mr. Reuss said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A General Motors assembly line making the Chevrolet Sonic subcompact and the Buick Verano compact in Lake Orion, Mich. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE FECHT/GENERAL MOTORS)
Chevrolet Vega
Ford Pinto
Dodge Omni
Chevrolet Citation
Dodge/Plymouth Neon
Ford Focus
Chevrolet Cruze (B2) CHART: Getting to a Better Compact American Car: U.S. car companies' attempts to compete in the compact car market have led to some notable failures, and, more recently, successes. (Sources: The companies
Automotive News
Ward's Auto World
 Flammang and Kowalke, Standard Catalog of American Cars) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); NEW PRODUCTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



988 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; WOMAN IN THE NEWS KATHLEEN COURTNEY HOCHUL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Her Inheritance: An Eagerness to Serve

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
A few months before Kathy Hochul was born, her family was living in a 31-by-8-foot trailer not far from the hulking Bethlehem Steel plant near Buffalo. When things got a little better, they moved to the second-floor flat of a home in working-class Woodlawn.
The family was just getting by then: Ms. Hochul's father, Jack Courtney, did clerical work at the plant at night and attended college during the day; her mother, Pat Courtney, stayed home and raised six children. 
But they were unusually aware of the needs of those around them: On holidays, the family brought into their home developmentally disabled children who had no relatives to visit. And they collected food, clothing and furniture for families who were struggling in the region, hard hit by industrial decline.
Ms. Hochul, 52, startled the national political establishment last week, capturing a Congressional seat that had been in Republican hands for 40 years. But those who know her say it was her upbringing -- in a modest, devoutly Roman Catholic, service-minded family -- that made her instantly able to understand the unease among economically anxious voters over a Republican plan to overhaul Medicare.
Ms. Hochul, the second-oldest of six children, is being heralded as a rising star in the Democratic Party. But, because the closely watched Congressional race became something of a referendum on the issue of Medicare, little attention was paid to her biography.
Ms. Hochul (pronounced HOH-kuhl) has spent nearly her entire life in western New York, a Rust Belt region that is Midwestern in its cultural and political sensibilities. As the oldest girl, she worked from a young age, serving pizza and chicken wings at a restaurant in a blue-collar town just south of Buffalo, often arriving home late in the evening.
''I remember her coming home at 11, 12 or 1,'' said Sheila Heinze, one of her sisters. ''And she'd get into bed and start studying. We shared a room. Her little light would be on.''
Her parents instilled a sense of civic responsibility in the children, driving them into poor neighborhoods in Buffalo to deliver the food, clothing and furniture that the family had collected. And yet the Courtneys struggled themselves. ''We used to shop at the used-clothing store,'' Ms. Heinze recalled.
In high school, Ms. Hochul acquired her interest in politics, after a teacher took her class to Buffalo City Hall for a tour. She began doing volunteer work for a variety of politicians during summer vacations.
In 1976, she went to Syracuse University, where she became something of an activist, one time leading a boycott of the college bookstore after students complained that the store was charging outrageously high prices. (By then, her father had gone to work at an information technology company, where he rose to become president.)
In college, she also threw herself into another cause: trying to persuade the university to name a stadium it was building after Ernie Davis, the legendary Syracuse running back who died of leukemia at a young age.
The stadium was to be named the Carrier Dome because of a $2.75 million gift made by the Carrier Corporation, the city's best-known company. So Ms. Hochul decided to take the students' case directly to Mel Holm, the chief executive of Carrier.
Jordan Dale, the student body president, who went with her to Carrier's headquarters, recalled how hard it was confronting one of the city's most powerful men. ''She was nervous,'' he said. ''But she knew what needed to be done.''
In the end, the Carrier name remained, though in 2009 Syracuse named the field itself the Ernie Davis Legends Field.
After graduating from Syracuse in 1980, she earned her law degree at Catholic University in Washington. In 1984, she married William J. Hochul Jr., whom she had met a few years earlier while working over the summer in the New York State Assembly.
After law school, she landed a job in a high-powered law firm in Washington. But she found the experience unsatisfying, and eventually went to work on Capitol Hill -- first for Representative John J. LaFalce, Democrat of New York, and then for Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, also a Democrat from New York.
Mr. Moynihan had a profound impact on her, friends and family said. After she gave birth to her first child, Ms. Hochul took Mr. Moynihan aside and told him that she was conflicted about working while having a newborn baby at home.
''He said to her: 'In 30 years, you won't remember the days you spent here in the office, but you will remember the days you spent with your children,' '' recalled Ms. Heinze, her sister.
In 1991, Kathy and William Hochul returned to western New York, where they raised two children and eventually became something of a local power couple.
While Mr. Hochul went to work at the United States attorney's office in Buffalo (where he rose from prosecutor to the top post of United States attorney), Ms. Hochul entered politics.
In 1994, Ms. Hochul won a seat on the Hamburg Town Board. Then, about a decade later, the Erie County clerk, David J. Swarts, appointed her as his deputy clerk. In 2007, after Mr. Swarts resigned to become state motor vehicles commissioner, Gov. Eliot Spitzer appointed Ms. Hochul to replace Mr. Swarts.
But even as she pursued her political career, Ms. Hochul remained involved in the service efforts her family undertook.
A few years ago, her mother, concerned about the rate of domestic violence in the area, decided she wanted to open a transitional house for abused women and their children. Ms. Hochul drew up the paperwork to help her mother establish the home, and then later even helped baby-sit the children of the women living there, so that they could attend counseling and other programs.
''It became a big family project,'' said Joan Kesner, who served on the Hamburg Town Board with Ms. Hochul. ''That's just the type of family Kathy is from.''
Reached this week, Mrs. Courtney seemed delighted that her daughter would soon be serving in Congress.
''There's a saying that says, 'Go out in the world and do well, but more importantly, go out in the world and do good,' '' she said. ''I wanted my children to grow up and be happy and successful. But more importantly, I wanted them to give back to others.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PAT COURTNEY: Left, mother of Kathy Hochul, center, with Mrs. Hochul's daughter, Katie, in Spotsylvania County, Va. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY PAUL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Ms. Hochul, 52, after her victory in a special Congressional election in the 26th District, in western New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); POLITICS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); FAMILY (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); MEDICARE (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (69%); BOOKSTORES (69%); REFERENDUMS (66%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (64%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (64%); DISABLED PERSONS (54%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (54%); RELIGION (52%)

COMPANY: BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (58%)

PERSON: KATHY HOCHUL (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



989 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Japan Appears Dispensable As a Supplier

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Maybe Japan is not as crucial to the global supply chain as those first weeks after the earthquake made it seem.
Consider the case of STMicroelectronics, Europe's giant in the semiconductor business, which buys silicon wafers, chemicals and chip-packaging components from Japan.
STMicroelectronics has more than $10 billion a year in sales. Its major customers span a variety of industries -- consumer electronics, autos, mobile phones and computers -- and include Apple, Bosch, Hewlett-Packard, Nokia and Sony Ericsson. 
After the earthquake and tsunami struck Japan in March, STMicroelectronics, like many global companies that buy parts and materials from Japan, quickly set up a crisis task force to assess the health of its supply network there. But the sense of crisis gradually passed. When necessary, suppliers outside Japan have been lined up, and the company's production has not been disrupted.
And even though STMicroelectronics' sales to Japan -- about 4 percent of total revenue -- will decline this year because of lower demand, ''it is going smoother on the supply-chain side than we had thought,'' said Carlo Bozotti, chief executive of STMicroelectronics.
The big European company's experience is widely shared. More than two months after the disaster, any lingering impact on industries outside Japan from shortages of crucial supplies is limited. Beyond their concerns about a very short list of components, like certain automotive microcontrollers, companies around the world are cautiously breathing easier.
''The global supply chain has been able to weather the storm,'' said Hau Lee, a professor at Stanford University's graduate school of business. Barring further unexpected shocks, Mr. Lee said, ''This has not been as bad as most people initially worried it might be.''
The resiliency of global supply networks and quick action by companies are part of the reason. But another explanation was provided by a study published last week, led by Mr. Lee and Kevin O'Marah, a supply chain specialist at Gartner, an information technology research and advisory company.
Their report used data from a survey of 750 supply chain managers across a spectrum of industries worldwide, sponsored by SCM World, a professional organization and Web site. As it happens, the survey was done in February, shortly before the quake and tsunami. It found that Japan, despite being the world's third-largest economy (behind the United States and China), plays a relatively small role in the global supply chain.
The supply managers gave a telltale sign when asked to name the most important source of supply of manufactured parts and materials outside of the corporation's home country. They were then asked to name their second and third most important nonhome source.
China was the leader, with 37 percent of the managers saying it was their leading source beyond the home nation. Next came the United States with 20 percent, followed by Germany with 7 percent. The same order was evident in the combined totals.
Japan fell well down the list, tied for eighth with Canada.
''What's remarkable is how relatively isolated Japan is,'' said Mr. O'Marah, an author of the report. ''It's far less integrated into the world's manufacturing supply chains than you would expect, given the size of Japan's economy.''
Another supply-chain specialist cautioned that the country survey data may understate Japan's role. China's rise as a manufacturer has tilted toward low-cost assembly operations, which often rely on Japan for important components, said Hal Sirkin, a senior partner at the Boston Consulting Group. ''There is a Japan-inside-China element that might be missed here,'' Mr. Sirkin said.
Japan specialists are likely to find the survey data -- and Japan's modest place in the global supply network -- more revealing than surprising. Japan's manufacturing prowess and global competitiveness are focused in a few industries, like automobiles and consumer electronics, they note. In those industries, the traditional Japanese model has been that a supplier would sell almost exclusively to one large manufacturer, like Toyota or Nissan.
The big, household names of corporate Japan preferred to have essentially captive suppliers as well. ''They value the trust and flexibility that those close bonds with suppliers give them,'' said Edward J. Lincoln, professor of economics at the Stern School of Business at New York University.
The shared experience and constant communication have contributed to the development of manufacturing innovations and efficiency techniques for which Japan's leading companies are renowned, Professor Lincoln said. Those tight, cooperative bonds may also help Japanese industry recover more quickly from the earthquake than it would have otherwise.
But he said the close arrangements among domestic companies have also meant that Japanese manufacturing suppliers have been less likely to sell to foreign corporations. As disruptive as the Japan disaster was to the auto industry's Japanese transplants in North America, for example, non-Japanese carmakers were relatively unaffected.
The deep and lasting supplier relations among Japanese manufacturers, Professor Lincoln added, are also a byproduct of a business culture that often places social stability above profits -- despite changes in recent years meant to make companies more focused on profits and pleasing shareholders.
''Things have changed some,'' said Professor Lincoln, director of the Center for Japan-U.S. Business and Economic Studies at New York University. ''But business in Japan is still tempered by a desire for social cohesion, far more so than in the United States and even Europe.''
Analysts say that in the aftermath of the earthquake, Japanese industry may loosen the domestic corporate networks somewhat. Big manufacturers will increasingly look to buy supplies and even set up production in countries less prone to tsunamis and earthquakes than Japan, they say. And Japanese suppliers, in turn, might have to seek buyers abroad more than in the past.
At STMicroelectronics, in fact, Mr. Bozotti sees that as an opportunity to sell more to Japanese companies when the economy recovers. ''It could be positive for us,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carlo Bozotti of STMicroelectronics, which sells to Japan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTOINE ANTONIOL/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (91%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); TSUNAMIS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); MICROPROCESSORS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); PACKAGING MATERIALS (72%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%)

COMPANY: STMICROELECTRONICS NV (91%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%)

TICKER: STM (PAR) (91%); STM (NYSE) (91%); STM (BIT) (91%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: CARLO BOZOTTI (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); CHINA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



990 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Bill Gates and the School Reform Debate

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I am a teacher with Teach Plus, which was featured in the opening lines of ''Behind Grass-Roots School Advocacy, Bill Gates'' (front page, May 22). Our perspectives on what motivated our advocacy were not included in the article.
Thousands of great teachers are being laid off this spring, simply because they lack seniority, and many are seeking opportunities to fight for their jobs and for their students. Depicting us as the pawns of Bill Gates is unjustified, particularly since his foundation, while supporting the national organization Teach Plus, does not finance the work of the Indianapolis chapter. 
Only in this era of relentless teacher-bashing by the news media could a story about teachers fighting for their own jobs and the jobs of their colleagues be spun into a conspiracy theory.
SARAH ZUCKERMAN Indianapolis, May 24, 2011
To the Editor:
Only experience on the front lines in a classroom makes one an educator. It's one thing for people who have made their business fortunes to be philanthropic, but setting their own agendas to effect change in educational policy is crossing the line. It is a giant egotistical misstep to assume that one can come in from the outside and overhaul educational policy -- on a national level no less.
Privately funded advocacy is no substitute for independent research. Are we seeking true educational solutions or Bill Gates's politically motivated agenda?
NANCY SWIDLER Framingham, Mass., May 22, 2011
The writer is a retired elementary school teacher.
To the Editor:
It was interesting to read about the contributions that the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation makes to educational organizations. The conclusion I drew was not, as suggested, that Mr. Gates is secretly influencing educational policy, but rather that Mr. Gates is promoting discussion and research to improve the educational system.
The article shows that the foundation donates to organizations with disparate points of view, finances research without dictating the result, and in general promotes a fair and open discussion in many forums. You report that the foundation filed a detailed tax return (263 pages) listing all of the donations. Its work is neither secret nor sinister. I wish that all donors were so transparent.
SALLY R. ZANGER New Haven, May 22, 2011
To the Editor:
Your article reports that the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is financing groups that seek to eliminate seniority as a basis for teacher retention. While eliminating the seniority system might be the most efficacious way to keep the best teachers in times of layoffs if quality alone were used as the criterion, quality rarely governs such occasions.
Many motivations arise, including the personal likes and dislikes of the decision makers, such as a principal seeking to protect favored staff, or the economic motivation of the educational bureaucrat or politician seeking to eliminate higher-cost workers.
While I am certain that some teachers burn out and it would be appropriate to remove them, it is the responsibility of the educational system to uproot them through independent, fair evaluation systems as soon as they fail to perform.
In the case of layoffs occasioned by fiscal constraints, it will always be better to use seniority as a rough and fair measure of performance. Teachers with more experience, on average, perform better than those with less, and factors such as personal likes and dislikes or costs have no effect.
EVERETT N. HUGHES New York, May 22, 2011
The writer is a former attorney for the New York City Department of Education, responsible for teacher discipline.
To the Editor:
The best use that Bill Gates could make of the fortune he spends on education would be to create the kind of schools that he and other extremely wealthy people send their children to: schools with small classes (not necessarily small schools), a good ratio of adults -- teachers and support staff -- to students, intensive remediation for those who need it, and enrichment of all kinds, including the arts, sports, technology, clubs and trips.
There's no mystery about quality education. Wealthy people know exactly what it consists of and make sure their children get it. We need to help all the other children in America, and elsewhere, get it as well.
LARRY GUTMAN Brooklyn, May 22, 2011
The writer is a retired teacher.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIMPIA ZAGNOLI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (75%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (88%) INDIANA, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



991 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Changing the World by Dropping Out

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
Parents, do you hope that your children have the chance to become like Peter Thiel, the PayPal co-founder, Facebook investor and hedge fund manager? If so, Mr. Thiel suggests that you encourage them to drop out of school. In fact, he will help by paying them to do it.
On Wednesday, the Thiel Foundation, funded by Mr. Thiel, announced the first group of Thiel Fellows, 24 people under 20 who have agreed to drop out of school in exchange for a $100,000 grant and mentorship to start a tech company. 
More than 400 people applied. The winners include Laura Deming, 17, who is developing antiaging therapies; Faheem Zaman, 18, who is building mobile payment systems for developing countries; and John Burnham, 18, who is working on extracting minerals from asteroids and comets.
The fellowship addresses two of the country's most pressing problems, Mr. Thiel says: a bubble in higher education and a dearth of Americans developing breakthrough technologies.
Much of the technological talent these days is going into Web sites and apps. Mr. Thiel says he has no problem with those -- Facebook has made him a billionaire. But ''there's a more urgent need for innovation'' in other areas, he said, like biomedical technology, nanotechnology, transportation and energy.
Mr. Thiel, a contrarian investor and libertarian known for his controversial views, knows that suggesting that education is not always worth it strikes at the core of many Americans' beliefs. But that is exactly why is he doing it.
''We're not saying that everybody should drop out of college,'' he said. The fellows agree to stop getting a formal education for two years but can always go back to school. The problem, he said, is that ''in our society the default assumption is that everybody has to go to college.''
''I believe you have a bubble whenever you have something that's overvalued and intensely believed,'' Mr. Thiel said. ''In education, you have this clear price escalation without incredible improvement in the product. At the same time you have this incredible intensity of belief that this is what people have to do. In that way it seems very similar in some ways to the housing bubble and the tech bubble.''
In Silicon Valley, following in the footsteps of Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg and Evan Williams by dropping out of school might make sense. But many employers would never look at a resume that does not list a college degree, and of course some professions require advanced degrees. As the Times reporter Catherine Rampell has written, the job market is bad for college graduates right now but even worse for nongraduates.
But Mr. Thiel said the recession had opened parents' and students' eyes to the problems with the belief in higher education.
''I think a program like this would have been unthinkable in 2007, but I think you increasingly have people who are graduating from college, not being able to get good jobs, moving back home with their parents,'' he said. ''I think there's a surprising openness to the idea that something's gone badly wrong and needs to be fixed.''
Mr. Burnham, the fellow working on mineral extraction from outer space, agreed with Mr. Thiel, whom he first became aware of via the movie ''The Social Network.'' He said that college did not fit every student.
''What I really liked about this program is it's giving a lot of people who maybe wouldn't get into Harvard an opportunity to participate in something just as selective and just as valuable and just as educational,'' Mr. Burnham said. ''It's giving them that opportunity even though their personalities and characters don't quite fit the academic mold.''
His father, Stephen Burnham, said the decision for his son to skip college, at least for now, was uncontroversial.''There's a lot of other stuff that you get in college and I would say that would be useful for John,'' he said. ''But I would say in four years there's a big opportunity cost there if you could be out starting your career doing something that could change the world.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (83%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); MOBILE PAYMENTS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (68%); EMPLOYMENT (62%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (54%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (51%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

COMPANY: PAYPAL INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (78%); BILL GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



992 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Some Faint Praise for Mr. Ballmer

BYLINE: By RICHARD BEALES and ROBERT CYRAN

 BODY:
Microsoft has missed too many opportunities under Steve Ballmer's stewardship. It's a fair criticism reignited last week by the hedge fund boss, David Einhorn, who called for the software giant's chief executive to step down. But that doesn't necessarily mean Mr. Ballmer will go. Based on total return to shareholders, other long-time company bosses, including Jeff Immelt at General Electric, have fared worse.
Mr. Ballmer started as chief executive in January 2000. Over the last decade, Microsoft's shares have tumbled 30 percent, and they're up only a hair from their low in 2006. The potted narrative is that Mr. Ballmer has shepherded the ''old'' operating system and productivity software powerhouse reasonably well but misjudged new developments, wasting billions of dollars chasing Silicon Valley innovators like Apple and Google. 
It would be a lot to expect a single company to dominate more than one truly world-changing technology. But with that caveat, the critique of Mr. Ballmer is on target even if he's far from the only chief executive who has struggled to make the most of a franchise. And he at least saw the need to pay dividends a few years earlier than, say, John Chambers at Cisco Systems.
On a total return basis including those payouts, Microsoft shareholders are down just over 10 percent over 10 years, and better off by some 14 percent over five, according to Thomson Reuters Datastream. That's far from gratifying, but easily beats Cisco. Looking further across corporate America, Mr. Ballmer stomps Mr. Immelt's decade-long reign at G.E. and outdoes Rupert Murdoch's latest five-year stretch at the News Corporation. Richard Fairbank at Capital One Financial and Steven Burd at the grocery chain Safeway, two other corner-office fixtures, also have fallen short of Mr. Ballmer's performance.
This report card, of course, damns Mr. Ballmer with faint praise. His problem isn't so much shrinking profits as a loss of investor faith in Microsoft, whose price-to-earnings ratio is one of the lowest among big companies in the United States. But Mr. Einhorn probably won't quickly get his wish for a replacement. Mr. Ballmer and Microsoft's chairman, Bill Gates, go way back and together own more than 10 percent of the company. That means the current chief executive probably will get more time to try to reinvent Microsoft.
Virtual Inflation
In the currency wars, the nerds are winning. The value of a Bitcoin, a digital currency trading over peer-to-peer networks, has rocketed more than ninefold in two months to more than $8.60 as of Friday afternoon. The preordained supply and decentralization of Bitcoins have intrigued geeks and paranoid inflationistas alike. But this abstract gold may not survive what looks like a bubble.
Bitcoins are actually strings of unique digits, tracked and traded via an online network. People earn new coins by solving network security problems. These coins can then be traded for real currencies on exchanges, or for goods from certain businesses that accept them.
The Bitcoins in a user's virtual wallet are tracked by the secure system and can be transferred only by that user. Moreover -- and here's the hook for the inflation worriers -- the currency can't be printed willy-nilly. The supply of Bitcoins is on a predefined path and will be capped at 21 million. And because there's no central point in the system, there's no equivalent of the Federal Reserve to rewrite that policy.
The concept of the Bitcoin is no less real than regular paper money or coins. All such currencies have only the value their users accept. Bitcoins do, though, have a couple of disadvantages: they don't generate income, and since they exist in the digital cloud they'd be less use than paper money in any scenario involving power cuts or lost connectivity.
Still, it's easy, quick and essentially free to transfer Bitcoins. Moreover, transactions are anonymous and the system knows no national borders. That's helpful for some legitimate users, but also makes the currency a potential worry for law enforcers.
The finite supply means the value of Bitcoins should rise as demand increases. But the latest run-up looks decidedly frothy. A flush user can buy Web design help or alpaca socks. But there aren't many businesses that accept Bitcoins. So it seems likely that enthusiasts and speculators are hoarding them without regard to the value they really represent. A bubble that bursts when the abstract intellectual appeal fades would probably doom the otherwise creative idea.
RICHARD BEALES and ROBERT CYRAN
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steve Ballmer, chief executive of Microsoft, is outperforming some of his peers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA RINALDI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (79%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); DIVIDENDS (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); CURRENCIES (68%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); NEWS CORP (81%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (69%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (65%); GOOGLE INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); NWS (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (ASX) (81%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (69%); COF (NYSE) (65%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: STEVEN A BALLMER (93%); BILL GATES (59%); JEFFREY IMMELT (57%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (57%); RICHARD D FAIRBANK (57%); JOHN T CHAMBERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



993 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Seeing the Advantage In Delaying a Solution

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - Soon enough, Democrats will have to identify new Medicare cuts they can support.
But don't expect them to come this spring, not after the Medicare plan put forward by House Republicans became the centerpiece of the Democrats' strategy to recover from disastrous 2010 midterm elections. Last week's Democratic victory in a special House election in Buffalo ensured that.
The fat target on the Republican plan, drafted by Representative Paul D. Ryan, chairman of the House Budget Committee, is only one reason for Democrats to hold back. Why offer benefit cuts now, Obama advisers ask, after Republican leaders attacked their previous ideas for Medicare savings - and still won't bend on the need for tax increases in any grand deficit-reduction bargain? 
''That would be crazy if we did,'' said Neera Tanden, a former health policy aide in the administration. In the current deficit-reduction talks led by Vice President Joseph R. Biden, the Medicare cuts under discussion fall into the modest ''waste, fraud and abuse'' category that no one opposes.
But reticence can only be a short-term tactic. It's not a long-term answer to the staggering spending projections that Mr. Obama, his Democratic predecessor Bill Clinton, and every policy analyst acknowledges will require further changes to Medicare.
''It is fair for Democrats to be asked to make additional contributions to cutting costs,'' said Andrew L. Stern, the former head of the Services Employees International Union, who served on Mr. Obama's deficit reduction commission last year.
Democrats have some answers. And their attacks on Mr. Ryan's option, over time, will bring escalating pressure to specify them.
A Start, But ...
The Democrats' first answer, Medicare spending cuts contained in Mr. Obama's health care law, won't satisfy partisan adversaries who see the law as a budget-busting monstrosity.
The Congressional Budget Office predicts spending on Medicare will nearly double in 10 years for two reasons. One is the increase in beneficiaries as baby boomers reach their golden years; the other is health care cost inflation that continues to outpace economic growth.
There's no stopping the former. But the new health care law seeks to restrain the latter through steps to overhaul payment practices and service delivery: better information on effective treatments, improved coordination among doctors, financial rewards for the quality of treatment rather than the quantity.
''This is not airy-fairy stuff,'' said Peter R. Orszag, Mr. Obama's former budget director. If an independent Medicare advisory board works as its advocates envision, its success in wringing out excess will ripple through the entire health care system, or so the thinking goes.
Some leading Republican policy experts agree that potential long-term savings from the law could be significant. ''They've done a lot,'' said Mark McClellan, who ran the Medicare program under President George W. Bush.
But ''there's a lot more'' cost-cutting that needs to be done, Mr. McClellan added. ''They've only got a partial plan.''
Option No. 2
The Democrats' second answer: ratchet up the savings mechanisms in the health care law.
Mr. Stern says Democrats should guarantee the law's $500 billion worth of specified savings from reduced Medicare payments to health providers and insurers - by accepting a ''trigger'' for further cost-cutting if those savings don't materialize.
Mr. Obama has proposed further strengthening the Medicare advisory board. One possibility that would have an immediate impact would be to end the 10-year exemption hospitals were granted from the advisory board's jurisdiction.
But after raising the specter of ''death panels'' in the original health care debate, Republicans are sure to object to an increase of power for unelected bureaucrats, even in the name of reducing costs. That means that in any bipartisan compromise, the endgame would be cuts directly affecting beneficiaries - which Democrats have sought to avoid as energetically as Republicans have resisted tax increases.
The Congressional Budget Office has enumerated a series of options. For example, curbing subsidies for beneficiaries to buy supplemental ''Medigap'' insurance could save $92 billion by 2021.
Increasing premiums that beneficiaries pay for Medicare doctors' coverage so they cover 35 percent of the program's costs, instead of 25 percent under current law, would bring in $241 billion. Raising the eligibility age for Medicare to 67 from 65, a step also recommended by Mr. Ryan, would save $124 billion.
For Republicans, the core appeal of Mr. Ryan's ''premium support'' plan is the cap it places on Medicare outlays. That's also what makes it vulnerable to criticism from Democrats, who argue that it simply shifts costs from the government to the elderly - nearly $6,400 per beneficiary in 10 years, Mr. Obama says.
Yet increasing the level of Medicare spending per beneficiary at a faster rate than under Mr. Ryan's plan could produce significant savings without burdening the elderly nearly as much.
A bipartisan panel headed by the former Republican Senator Pete Domenici and a Democratic budget expert, Alice M. Rivlin, said such an approach could save Medicare $2 trillion by 2030. Which suggests that in a genuine long-term budget fix, probably after next year's elections, Democrats may end up doing business with Mr. Ryan after all.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Paul D. Ryan created a Medicare target for Democrats. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)
Andrew L. Stern says it's fair for Democrats to have to identify Medicare cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/A.P)
 Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. is leading talks that focus on cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED ANDRIESKI/A.P.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (69%); BABY BOOMERS (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JOE BIDEN (73%); PETER ORSZAG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



994 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: A Crackdown On Employing Illegal Workers

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
TUCSON -- Obama administration officials are sharpening their crackdown on the hiring of illegal immigrants by focusing increasingly tough criminal charges on employers while moving away from criminal arrests of the workers themselves.
After months of criticism from Republicans who said President Obama was relaxing immigration enforcement in workplaces, the scope of the administration's strategy has become clear as long-running investigations of employers have culminated in indictments, convictions, exponentially increased fines and jail sentences. While conducting fewer headline-making factory raids, the immigration authorities have greatly expanded the number of businesses facing scrutiny and the cases where employers face severe sanctions.
In a break with Bush-era policies, the number of criminal cases against unauthorized immigrant workers has dropped sharply over the last two years.
Among the employers who have felt the impact of the administration's tactics are two owners of Mexican restaurants in the Chuy's Mesquite Broiler chain, which are popular for their laid-back Margaritaville mood and their broiled mahi tacos. On April 20, immigration agents descended on 14 Chuy's restaurants in coordinated raids in Arizona and California, detaining kitchen workers and carrying away boxes of payroll books and other evidence. 
But at the arraignment days later in federal court here, no immigrant workers stood before the judge. The only criminal defendants were the owners, Mark Evenson and his son Christopher, and an accountant who worked with them, Diane Ingrid Strehlow. If the Evensons are convicted on all charges against them of tax fraud and harboring illegal workers, they each could face more than 80 years in jail.
Of 42 illegal immigrants caught in the Chuy's sweep, only one was charged with a crime, and it was not related to the raid. Thirteen workers were processed for immigration violations -- which are civil offenses -- and detained or deported. The others remained in this country as witnesses or to seek legal status through the immigration courts.
Under President George W. Bush, immigration agents frequently conducted high-profile factory raids, leading away scores of unauthorized workers in handcuffs, often to face jail time for document fraud or identity theft before being deported. After a raid in Postville, Iowa, in 2008, nearly 300 immigrant workers went to federal prison.
The Chuy's prosecution contrasted with the application by state and county authorities of a law that Arizona adopted in 2007 to punish employers who hire illegal immigrants; the measure was upheld by the Supreme Court on Thursday. Despite the political furor over that law, only a handful of cases have been brought against employers under its terms, which provide mainly for civil penalties. But state authorities have continued to bring criminal cases against illegal immigrant workers, leading to their deportations.
The Obama administration's record on workplace enforcement has been fiercely debated in Washington since President Obama announced that he would try, against steep odds, to pass an immigration overhaul this year. Administration officials say that their audits and investigations of employers have laid the groundwork for a system that would dissuade companies from hiring illegal immigrants.
''We have steadily increased our efforts to investigate and prosecute employers who violate the law on a serious and grand scale,'' said John Morton, the director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, also known as ICE. The next step, administration officials said, is to open a pathway that would allow millions of illegal immigrants in the country to live and work here legally.
Republicans, pointing to the decline in arrests of unauthorized workers, say the administration is failing to remove those immigrants from the work force just when Americans are grappling with high rates of unemployment.
''While President Bush's so-called get-tough strategy clearly did not do enough to remove illegal workers, President Obama's strategy is much worse,'' said Representative Elton Gallegly, Republican of California, who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee's immigration subcommittee.
Secretary Janet Napolitano of the Homeland Security Department halted the flashier raids in 2009. Until this year, ICE's leading tactic was ''silent raids,'' audits of companies' hiring documents. If immigration inspectors found irregularities suggesting that immigrant workers' identity documents might be false, managers had to dismiss the workers or risk prosecution.
Last year, according to government figures, the enforcement agency started 2,746 workplace investigations in addition to the audits, more than double the number in 2008, the last full year of the Bush administration. Fines totaling about $43 million, also a record, were levied on companies in immigration cases.
Department of Homeland Security officials, speaking anonymously in order to discuss internal policy, said immigration officers were no longer authorized to carry out workplace raids unless they cooperated with federal prosecutors to prepare criminal cases against the employers. Last year, 119 employers were convicted.
In March, Rick M. Vartanian, the president of a furniture company in California, was sentenced to 10 months in prison for hiring illegal immigrants. A federal investigation is also under way into hiring practices at the Chipotle chain of Mexican fast-food restaurants.
Dennis K. Burke, the United States attorney for Arizona, who led the Chuy's prosecutions, called them a ''game changer'' for the state. During a lengthy inquiry, investigators, including undercover operatives, discovered that the Evensons were keeping two sets of books: one for waiters and cashiers, Mr. Burke said, and another for Mexican kitchen workers.
According to the indictment, a customer complained to Mark Evenson that he was employing illegal immigrants. ''I need to hide you in the kitchen,'' Mr. Evenson is said to have told one Hispanic employee he knew to be undocumented.
Mr. Burke said prosecutors saw that they could accuse the Evensons under the severe penalties of the tax code -- ''the hammer,'' as he put it. Charged with evading more than $400,000 in taxes on wages for some 360 unauthorized immigrant workers, the Evensons together face more than $10 million in fines if convicted on all counts. They have pleaded not guilty, and their lawyers declined to comment, saying they awaited evidence from prosecutors.
Unusually, even immigration lawyers who represented Chuy's workers spoke favorably of the federal handling of the case.
''ICE was nice,'' said Delia Salvatierra, a lawyer in Phoenix who represents two workers who were in the process of gaining legal status when they were detained. ''It was as benign as it can get,'' she said. Officers released the two workers so they could pursue their cases in immigration court.
The two of them, who are brothers, said they came to the United States from Mexico in the 1990s. Both had worked most of the time since in Chuy's restaurants. The eldest, Alejandro Diaz Ojeda, 36, learned to cook the Chuy's menu. Then he taught his brother, Javier, who is 30.
The brothers said they had been treated well. ''I became very fond of the company,'' Javier said.
Their experience, however, suggests how the Evensons kept their menu prices famously low. The brothers said they were paid an hourly wage -- Javier made $9.50 after 14 years -- by payroll check for the first 40 hours a week. Any overtime was paid with a different check, with no taxes deducted and no higher rate, they said. Both brothers said they often worked 70 hours a week.
The severe charges against the Evensons registered broadly with Arizona executives, business leaders here in Tucson said. But they said the case was mainly a cautionary lesson for managers who knowingly hire unauthorized immigrants.
''If companies are paying workers under the table,'' said Glenn Hamer, president of the Arizona Chamber of Commerce and Industry, ''we encourage the federal government to throw the book at them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, a raid on a branch of Chuy's Mesquite Broiler in Phoenix. The Chuy's owners are accused of tax fraud and harboring illegal workers like Javier Diaz Ojeda, far left, and his brother Alejandro. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM TINGLE/THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); FOREIGN LABOR (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); DEPORTATION (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); INDICTMENTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); WITNESSES (76%); COUNTERFEITING (75%); COUNTIES (73%); TAX FRAUD (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); PRISONS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); TAX LAW (65%); IDENTITY THEFT (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



995 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: French Official Resigns Amid Harassment Suits

BYLINE: By SCOTT SAYARE

 BODY:
PARIS -- A junior government minister resigned Sunday after two women filed sexual harassment suits against him last week, becoming the first clear political casualty here of the fallout from the arrest of the French economist Dominique Strauss-Kahn. 
Prime Minister Francois Fillon confirmed that he and President Nicolas Sarkozy had accepted the resignation of the official, Georges Tron, as the state secretary for civil service.
The two women, ages 34 and 36, have accused Mr. Tron, 53, of repeated sexual assaults from 2007 to 2010 when they worked for him at City Hall in Draveil, near Paris, where he is mayor. The plaintiffs have said they were emboldened by the example of the New York City hotel maid who accused Mr. Strauss-Kahn of sexual assault.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn was arrested on May 14 and resigned as managing director of the International Monetary Fund.
The women have said that numerous episodes began as foot massages by Mr. Tron, but they say that he went much further. Mr. Tron has acknowledged touching the women's feet but only in the context of reflexology, an alternative massage practice.
If the women's complaints are confirmed, Mr. Tron could face charges of sexual assault or rape, and not only sexual harassment, the state prosecutor has said.
In a letter of resignation to President Sarkozy, Mr. Tron wrote that he would resign out of a sense of ''duty,'' and he denounced a ''press campaign'' against him.
''If a fault, however minor it might have been, had sullied my life as a citizen, a municipal official or parliamentarian, I would never have accepted the high ministerial duties that you accepted to entrust to me,'' he said in the letter, published on the Web site of the weekly news magazine L'Express.
Denouncing the ''vindictive accusations'' against him, he said that one of the plaintiffs had been dismissed from City Hall after embezzling money and that the other woman had left her post ''owing to an undignified behavior.'' The women have denied suing to take revenge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEXUAL HARASSMENT (91%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); WOMEN (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MAYORS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MASSAGE SERVICES (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); EMBEZZLEMENT (68%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (67%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (63%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (90%); FRANCOIS FILLON (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011



996 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: Instead of Student Loans, Investing in Futures

BYLINE: DAVID BORNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: Is it possible to finance higher education the way we finance start-up companies?

 BODY:
As the global economy has become more knowledge-based, the importance of a university education has risen dramatically. However, only 7 percent of the world's population currently has a college degree. There are many reasons why people fail to reach college, including, of course, lack of access to quality primary and secondary schooling. But for millions of students who could succeed in college, the limiting factor is money.
At Fixes, we like to explore ideas that re-imagine how systems can work. Today, I'd like to look at the question of whether there may be a better way to pay for college than with scholarships, grants and loans. Is it possible to finance higher education the way we finance start-up companies?
That's the approach taken by a social enterprise called Lumni that has raised $17 million to finance the education of a wide array of students in Chile, Colombia, Mexico and the United States. Lumni offers "human capital contracts" to people like Jairo Sneider, who grew up in a low-income, single parent family in Colombia.
Sneider's dream was to attend college so he could become a nurse and serve his community. To do so, he needed $8,500 - a sum that is close to the average annual income in Colombia. The problem is that financial aid and student loans are far less abundant in Colombia than they are in the United States. Sneider, who was unable to provide collateral or a cosigner, had little hope of getting a loan from a traditional lender.
Here's the deal that Lumni struck with him: In exchange for $8,530 in financing, Sneider agreed to repay 14 percent of his salary for 118 months after he graduated. At that point, regardless of how much he has paid, his obligation terminates. Although this might sound similar to a loan, an "income contingent" repayment plan like this is far less risky for a low-income student like Sneider. If he has trouble finding a job or switches careers and earns a lower salary than expected - very distinct possibilities - his payments will drop automatically. The terms are, in fact, determined based on his expected earnings. If he ends up earning the average salary for nurses in Colombia, he will end up paying the equivalent of an interest rate of 17 percent, which is the average rate in the country for a student loan. And if he ends up doing better, he will pay more, and Lumni will share in his success.
Lumni has made similar deals with 1,900 students to date. Fifty five percent of them are women and 90 percent are the first in their families to attend college. Most of these students would have otherwise been unable to pay for college. So far, the default rate is under 3 percent.
Education is a wise investment, but it carries risks. Many students fail to graduate. The attrition rate for university students in Colombia is over 50 percent. In the U.S., a third of college students fail to compete their degrees within six years; the most common reason is financial difficulty. But even those who graduate have no guarantees. Many graduates struggle to find work; others find that salaries are lower than anticipated. Today, as a result of the sluggish economy, many young people are defaulting on their student loans, something that can damage their future job prospects and make it difficult to buy a home.
Because of the risks, many students, especially from low-income families, are wary about taking on considerable debt. Millions underfinance their education. They live at home, go without meal plans, try to get buy without purchasing textbooks, or work long hours - all of which make it less likely that they will complete their degrees.
So how do we finance something that is extremely valuable both for individuals and for society - something that, in most cases, should happen, but often won't happen because the risks are too high?
The best way is to spread the risk. That's how insurance works. In Lumni's case, students share the risk with investors, who make more or less based on how well the students do. But they also share it with one another. Lumni pools its investments into funds to balance out the risks. They know that some students will run into difficulties, some will achieve average success, and some will do very well - but they don't know in advance how any individual student will fare. And students don't know this themselves. Through diversification, however, their funds can achieve stable returns.
What this means is that the students who have the biggest problems benefit the most. And, in effect, those who decide to become investment bankers end up subsidizing the ones who decide to become social workers. Since a good society needs many different roles fulfilled, everyone benefits.
That, at least, is the theory. Economists are skeptical about human capital contracts - which were first proposed by Milton Friedman in the 1950s - because they have many potential problems and little track record. But Lumni seems to be making them work - at least on a small scale. Whether it can succeed at a larger level remains to be seen.
Lumni was founded by two Colombians, Felipe Vergara, a consultant and entrepreneur who is based in Miami, and Miguel Palacios, an assistant professor of finance at the Owen Graduate School of Management at Vanderbilt University. Growing up in Bogota, Vergara had attended a subsidized private school, which accepted students from a variety of backgrounds. After graduating, he was saddened to discover that some of his close friends could not afford college. Later, he met Palacios, who had done research in human capital investments. Together, they saw an opportunity to address a pervasive problem. "The idea was to provide capital not based on a family's financial situation," explained Vergara, "but based on a student's potential - and without requiring collateral or a cosigner."
Lumni now has nine years of experience doing this. Vergara says that more of its students have been happily surprised by their earnings than unhappily surprised. Only 11 percent of its students in Colombia have dropped out of college - a rate 80 percent lower than the national average. Economists had warned that human capital contracts would be difficult to enforce. But so far repayment has been consistent across all four countries.
The biggest difficulties have been getting over regulatory hurdles and raising investment capital. Even though Lumni's early funds were for-profit and performed well, investors remain tentative. However, one set of investors - so-called impact investors, who like to achieve a balance of profitability and "social return" - have embraced the idea. About 80 percent of Lumni's investments have gone into non-profit funds that are targeted to achieve social goals like financing the education of students who come from indigenous communities, are disabled, or want to work as teachers in rural areas. These nonprofit funds can finance more students than scholarships or grants, because the money is replenished. They act like "pay it forward" scholarships.
Lumni has just begun making investments in the U.S. to provide gap funding to low-income students in California, whose average shortfall, after other sources, runs from $4,000 to $7,000 a year. Krystal Shipley, a sophomore at the University of Redlands, received financing earlier this year. Shipley, who is the first person in her family to attend college, couldn't make ends meet. "I didn't really know what to expect until I was actually in college," she told me. She didn't want to put more financial pressure on her mother, who had struggled with unemployment. Lumni offered her $4,000 in exchange for 1.7 percent of her income for 120 months after graduating. (Lumni says that this would be the equivalent of a 6.5 percent interest rate if Shipley hits her expected salary.) Shipley prefers this arrangement to taking on more debt. Like many sophomores, she is undecided about her major and has little sense of her earning potential. Whatever happens, Lumni's payments won't be oppressive.
To date, 300 of Lumni's students have graduated and 70 have finalized their obligations. Some have become successful enough to become investors. "Our history is too short to say it can work on a massive scale," says Palacios. Nevertheless he and Vergara expect that Lumni's for-profit funds will soon outpace its nonprofit funds as the organization continues to amass data about the reliability of the contracts - and the students. (It took a quarter century for bankers to recognize that micro-loans were commercially viable.)
For Vergara, proving that human capital investments work is essential to unleash the talents of millions. Government subsidies and financial aid are insufficient to address the demand for college financing at the global level: private investors will need to jump in - but it won't work if they simply offer students more high-interest loans, as they have in the past. To serve millions of low- and moderate-income people, college financing has to be redesigned so it brings less risk and fear.
"The most important asset in the world is people," says Vergara. "But modern society hasn't organized itself in a way to invest in most people. I like to think of Lumni as a springboard that allows people to pursue their dreams - it offers a way out of a situation where the ceiling is very close to your head."
If you have a story to share about your student loan experience, please write in. On Friday, I'll respond to comments, discuss how Lumni's experiences have challenged the expectations of economists, and explain how Lumni works to maximize its students' success.
Join Fixes on Facebook and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes.
David Bornstein is the author of "How to Change the World," which has been published in 20 languages, and "The Price of a Dream: The Story of the Grameen Bank," and is co-author of "Social Entrepreneurship: What Everyone Needs to Know." He is the founder of dowser.org, a media site that reports on social innovation.

        
Beyond the Business Suit
        
A Book in Every Home, and Then Some
        
The Timid Need Not Apply
        
The Power of Partnerships
        
Coming Together to Give Schools a Boost

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STARTUPS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); FAMILY (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (75%); NURSES & NURSING (66%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SINGLE PARENTS (52%) chile; Colombia; Education; jobs; Student Loans; Colleges and Universities; Labor and Jobs; United States; Fixes

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CHILE (79%) Colombia; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



997 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: Union Man

BYLINE: DANIEL W. CROFTS


HIGHLIGHT: Kentucky's Joseph Holt was caught between his Southern roots and his loyalty to Lincoln.

 BODY:
On May 31, 1861, Joseph Holt spoke out on behalf of the Union. The man who had been Secretary of War in early 1861 (and who has a role played by Danny Huston in Robert Redford's current film, "The Conspirator") saw that his native state of Kentucky dangled precariously in the balance. Its leading men had just resolved upon "strict neutrality" between the Federal government and the Confederacy. Holt would have none of it. Neutrality, he insisted, was a delusion. He would as soon think "of being neutral in a contest between an officer of justice and an incendiary arrested in an attempt to fire the dwelling over my head." 
But there was no way to disguise Kentucky's Southern orientation. The state contained 225,000 slaves and it had more slaveholders than several seceding states. The outbreak of war stirred hysterical claims that Abraham Lincoln intended "to kill all the women and children in the South, and then turn the negroes loose." Holt's aunt, Mary K. Stephens, confided in a letter that "I think what Lincoln is doing is wright but it would cost me my life to say so here."
Kentucky, however, was Southern with a difference. The Ohio River valley gave it many economic interconnections with the free states of Ohio, Indiana and Illinois, where lived many former Kentucky residents. Recently constructed railroads also linked Kentucky to the North. Booming Louisville, with a population of 70,000, was the 12th largest city in the country. And Kentucky's greatest statesman, Henry Clay, had always prized nation over section.
The crisis of the Union occurred at a wretched moment in Holt's personal life. Widowed in 1846 by the death of his first wife, the former Mary Harrison, he remarried four years later, to Margaret Wickliffe, who was 15 years his junior. Their surviving correspondence suggests that they shared close ties of warmth and affection. But "Maggie" died in mid-1860. Before long, Holt came to be regarded as dour and solitary.Then came secession. Holt exchanged anguished letters with his brother Robert, who lived in Mississippi. Robert Holt condemned Lincoln's election as "a declaration by the northern people" that they intended to "emancipate the Slaves of the South." Convinced that "poison, knives and pistols" had been distributed to slaves throughout "the planting states" by abolitionist agents, Robert Holt declared that Mississippi was "almost unanimously in favor of an immediate withdrawal from the Union," and the establishment of "a government of our own." If the Federal government acted wisely, it would not interpose. Were it to do so, however, "the bloodiest conflict in modern annals" would result.
Robert Holt, who concurred "fully" with Mississippi sentiment, feared that his brother was so strongly attached to the Union that his "sympathies may not be altogether with the South." He hoped rumors that Joseph Holt might either be neutral or "against us" were untrue. "I know your heart is altogether Southern," Robert Holt pleaded, "and that you cannot but abhor the fanatics and assassins by whom our rights and firesides are invaded." Were he to side against his home region, it "would strike your Southern friends like a cold dagger in their bosoms."
Joseph Holt realized, however, that his Southern friends wielded their own cold daggers, and that they intended to sacrifice the Union he loved. And he would do his best to stop them. During the winter of 1860-61, he became a key figure in President James Buchanan's cabinet. Holt, who had been Postmaster General, changed portfolios to head the War Department after its secession-leaning incumbent departed. For two tense months, from early January to early March, he stood at the eye of the storm. Peace hung by a thread in the harbor of Charleston, S.C. Holt and his embattled chief were prepared to use armed force to repel an attack against Major Robert Anderson's contingent at Fort Sumter. But they hoped that dread contingency would not arise. In mid-March, after Holt and Buchanan left office , they welcomed reports - soon proven inaccurate - that Lincoln would voluntarily evacuate Sumter in order to hold the border states in the Union. Holt still hoped that Deep South secessionists might reconsider their rash course.
The outbreak of war in mid-April transformed Holt into a full-throated cheerleader for the Union war effort. His stature as a former cabinet member, coupled with his Southern Democratic background, made his contributions especially welcome to the Lincoln administration. Having Southerners on the Union side made it easier to contend that the war pitted Unionists from across the country against a cabal that had temporarily seized power in the South. And having Democrats on the Union side enabled Republicans to say that the war had nothing to do with party, but rather that it brought together loyalists from both major parties.
Holt pinned all the blame for the war on secessionists. Faced with evidence in March that Lincoln and his advisers were seeking "a peaceful solution of our unhappy political troubles," the "revolutionists" deliberately precipitated "a collision of arms with the Federal authorities." They then suffocated "the Union sentiment of the South" under "a reign of terrorism which has no parallel but in the worst days of the French Revolution."
Holt thus embraced the quite misleading idea that a small core of disunionists had violently suppressed the Union-loving majority among white Southerners. This was a comforting thought, and one that Lincoln shared, but it was a poor guide for devising wartime strategy. In most slave states, the polarizing effects of war transformed all but a few Southern whites into Confederate patriots. 
To be sure, white Unionists decisively outnumbered Confederate supporters in Missouri, Maryland, Delaware, northwestern Virginia and East Tennessee. Kentucky elections held in June and August revealed that Union supporters maintained the upper hand there, too. Ultimately the state sent far more men to fight for the Union, but at least 25,000 (including five of Mary Todd Lincoln's brothers or brothers-in-law) joined the Southern armies.
Grateful for his support of the Union cause, Lincoln appointed Holt to be Judge Advocate General for the War Department in September 1862. This post gave him the authority to use military courts against all persons, including civilians, accused of impairing the war effort. By far the most celebrated case to arise under this jurisdiction involved those implicated in Abraham Lincoln's assassination. Holt was convinced that Confederate leaders, including Jefferson Davis himself, had masterminded the plot. And he wanted the conspirators to answer for their crime.
Unusual among Southern whites, Holt labored in the postwar years to assure that former slaves enjoyed equal citizen rights. That elusive goal ran into a wall of relentless white Southern hostility - "barbarism," in his eyes - coupled with Northern indifference. When Holt died in 1894, it appeared that the white South had lost the war but won the peace.
Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook.
References: The Joseph Holt Papers are in the Library of Congress. Holt's public letter of May 31, 1861, addressed to Joshua F. Speed, appeared in many newspapers and then as a pamphlet. It is available in Frank Moore, ed., "The Rebellion Record, Vol I," p. 283-92. See Elizabeth D. Leonard, "Lincoln's Avengers: Justice, Revenge, and Reunion after the Civil War." Several useful essays may be found in Kent T. Dollar, Larry H. Whiteaker, and W. Calvin Dickinson, eds., "Sister States, Enemy States: The Civil War in Kentucky and Tennessee."
Daniel W. Crofts is a professor at the College of New Jersey and author of "A Secession Crisis Enigma: William Henry Hurlbert and 'The Diary of a Public Man.'"

        
Bluegrass Blues and Grays
        
Of Monsters, Men And Topic Modeling
        
Queen Bee of the Confederacy
        
Lt. Knox Carries on His Friend's Legacy
        
From the Playing Field to the Battlefield

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SLAVERY (88%); CONSPIRACY (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (68%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (50%) joseph holt; Kentucky; lincoln's assassination; the civil war; Lincoln, Abraham; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Holt, Joseph; Disunion

PERSON: Lincoln, Abraham

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Kentucky

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



998 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Carnegie's Ousted Residents Agree: Film Has Sad Ending

BYLINE: JAMES BARRON


HIGHLIGHT: A film that offers a depressing farewell to the apartments that used to be above Carnegie and the people who lived in them.

 BODY:
It was not billed as a three-hankie movie - it was a documentary, after all. But Editta Sherman started sobbing a few minutes after the lights went down, and not because of the way she looked on the screen. 
She did not mind that she was one of the people the camera kept coming back to in the film, "Lost Bohemia." What had her crying was the subject matter. "Lost Bohemia" is a depressing goodbye to the apartments that used to be above Carnegie Hall and the people who lived in them, the rent-controlled or rent-stabilized tenants who were forced to vacate - quirky people in quirky apartments, or so it seemed from the film.
 "Lost Bohemia" had a recent run at the IFC Center, at 323 Avenue of the Americas. This was a screening for people who had lived in Carnegie Hall before it evicted its tenants. The screening took place in the living room of Rodica Prato and Roland Caracostea - she is an illustrator; he, a graphic artist - who now live in an apartment a block from the place they miss so much. 
"That was their life and their community," said Josef Astor, who made the film. "They are in mourning. They've relocated. They're mostly in these luxury high-rise towers, which almost sounds like an ironic joke, to take these people who don't care about any of these conveniences and lived in that classic bohemian clutter and put them in these antiseptic buildings." 
So if there is no place like home, for them there is no place like Carnegie Hall. Joe Spieler, a literary agent, said he had moved twice since he left Carnegie Hall and was now on West 20th Street. "Someone e-mailed me, 'Aren't you glad you left Carnegie?' " he said. "I'll never be glad." 
Rosemarie Lindt, a ballet teacher, said she moved her classes to a studio in an office building after she moved out of Carnegie Hall. "In the beginning, it was very nice," she said, "but they came to hate ballet and hate us, and I lost that studio." Now she rents another studio, three times a week, "for 20 people who started with me in Carnegie."
As the screening began, there were whispers of "That's my studio" and "Did you see how old he looks? He looks like he's 100." That was from Ms. Sherman. She is 99. She lived at Carnegie Hall from 1949 until about a year ago.
Across the room was Mr. Astor. He lived there, too, but not nearly so long. "I moved in in 1985," he said, "so I was the new guy. I started filming, just casually, in 2000. No one ever thought the end would come. When the eviction notices came, our producer said: 'Now you have your story arc; I'll back you. Sorry about the eviction.'"
"Lost Bohemia" is distinctly different from "Carnegie Hall," the 1947 film that was, according to its credits, "produced and photographed in Carnegie Hall." It had the thinnest of plots. It revolved around a cleaning woman at the famous concert hall, the conductor she married and the talented son they had, with cameo appearances by a parade of famous musicians.
"Lost Bohemia" plays in a distinctly minor key. It shows a dance studio when students were doing pirouettes - and the same room after it had been gutted. It shows the apartment where a tenant had a pipe organ - and the organ console being thrown out as junk. 
It has long segments on Jeanne Beauvais, a singer who moved there in 1941 and died while Mr. Astor was making the film, and Donald Shirley, a pianist who moved there in 1955, "the same year I played with Duke Ellington downstairs." "Downstairs," of course, was the famous stage where nonresidents like Vladimir Horowitz, Leonard Bernstein and Harry Belafonte appeared, to name only three. Bill Cunningham, a photographer for The New York Times who lived in Carnegie Hall, is also a figure in "Lost Bohemia."
Joel Benjamin, who lived in Studio 61 - "where Caruso made his first 'talking machine recording' " - said he now lived in Riverdale. The move "affected my business," said Mr. Benjamin, who ran a dance studio when he moved into Carnegie Hall and later became a massage therapist. "Most of my clients were in Broadway."
At Carnegie, Mr. Benjamin said: "They tripled my rent. They raised it to over $2,000. I had been paying $800. When I was at Housing Court, I had to tie my shoe. I saw their lawyer walk in while I was tying my shoe. From down there, I could see his shoes cost more than my rent."
Ms. Sherman, a photographer, said she now lived in a building on Central Park South, "paying I-can't-tell-you how much."
Do you like it there? she was asked.
"No," she said. "It's only an apartment. Carnegie Hall made me famous. I had all these people I photographed. I remember the man who delivered yogurt in a Duesenberg and was starstruck by Tyrone Power, who was in my studio - I was photographing him. What can I say? It's just not the same."

        
City Is Faulted on Enforcement of Window Guards
        
Report Finds Problems in Housing Repair Program
        
City Says Investigation Uncovers Illegal Apartments
        
Becca's 2010 List of Outdoor Summer Movies
        
Answers From a Film Scout, Part 3

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FILM (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); VISUAL ARTS (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); EVICTION (70%); DANCE EDUCATION (66%); BALLET (61%); LITERARY AGENTS (50%) Carnegie Hall; films; housing; Astor, Josef; Documentary Films and Programs; Housing and Real Estate; Rent Control and Stabilization; Renting and Leasing; Cultural Affairs; Higher Education; Housing & Economy; Manhattan

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Carnegie Hall

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: Astor, Josef

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



999 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Shared Capitalism

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Strengthening company incentives for profit-sharing would help both owners and workers, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
Legend has it that Bob Montgomery, a left-leaning economist at the University of Texas at Austin in the 1950s, was once asked if he believed in private property.
"I certainly do," he said. "I believe in it so much I think everyone in the state of Texas should have some."
It's such an ecumenical line that President George W. Bush used it to good effect in a 2004 speech. The basic idea begs for extension: If capitalists are so great, shouldn't everybody be one?
The term "shared capitalism" is a catchall for a variety of arrangements that businesses can make to share profits with a large number of employees, whether through stock ownership or incentive pay based on company performance.The adjective carries some subversive tang, if only because it suggests that capitalism, unqualified, is unshared. An alternative term, "inclusive capitalism" sounds less overtly egalitarian but also implies an unspoken opposite: exclusive capitalism.
The choice of terms matters less than the evidence that real wages have stagnated for most workers in the last 30 years, while economic growth has pumped up the incomes of the top 1 percent.
Many Americans long for more evenly shared prosperity, and a new wave of economic research suggests that more gain-sharing in large companies could help us move in that direction.
An important collection of essays edited by the economists Richard Freeman, Joseph Blasi and Douglas Kruse and published last year by the National Bureau of Economic Research documents several crucial points: about half of all private-sector workers already have some kind of sharing arrangement with their employers; sharing tends to make employees happier, more productive and better off, as long as they do not take on too much risk by over-investing in the company they work for, and companies often benefit as well, showing improved performance along several different dimensions.
A conference on share ownership and gain-sharing at the Centre for Economic Performance at the London School of Economics last week explored related themes, including macroeconomic implications. A presentation by Douglas Kruse and my colleague at the University of Massachusetts Amherst Fidan Kurtulus analyzes a large national sample of publicly traded companies in the United States from 1999 to 2008, offering evidence that companies with employee ownership showed greater employment stability in face of economic downturn.
In other words, workers at such companies were less likely to lose their jobs.
How could public policies promote and expand this shared capitalism? Public policies already offer companies tax benefits for setting up employee stock-ownership plans, and these could be increased. It would also be relatively easy to encourage companies to offer more workers incentive pay based on company performance.
In a report published by the Center for American Progress in March, Professors Freeman, Blasi and Kruse point to a strange anomaly in current tax policy: Companies are allowed to write off costly stock options that represent incentive pay for top executives, despite a lack of evidence that such incentives lead to improved company performance.
Why not restrict the tax benefits to companies that provide the same type of incentive pay for all full-time employees, stipulating that the value expended on the bottom 80 percent of employees by salary must equal at least that expended on the top 5 percent?
Similar restrictions have long been in effect for employee retirement and health plans. The costs of these programs are not tax-deductible unless they are offered in a nondiscriminatory way to all workers.
Private-sector precedents are also strong. Two very successful American companies, the Wegmans supermarkets and Cisco Systems, offer broad-based incentive systems that effectively meet these restrictions.
If America's capitalists mean what they say about the virtues of an ownership economy, they should throw their weight behind modest changes in tax incentives that could expand it. If they don't, we might infer that they prefer to keep the benefits of ownership to themselves.

        
The Case for Higher Taxes 
        
The Logic of Cutting Corporate Taxes
        
Will Write-Offs for Retiree Health Care Kill Jobs?
        
Health Care Reform Is a Woman's Issue
        
Buying Into the Health of the Planet 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); LAYOFFS (68%) corporate profits; corporate taxes; Daily Economist; employee ownership; health care; Nancy Folbre; profit-sharing; Taxation; Wages and Salaries

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



1000 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: A FrontPoint Founder Tries Again With a New Firm

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: Philip Duff, one of the founders of the FrontPoint hedge fund group, is starting a new firm, Massif Partners, to offer services to pension funds. 

 BODY:
When FrontPoint Partners began in 2000, its founders envisioned the firm as a one-stop shop for multiple hedge funds, a distinctive strategy in an industry dominated at the time by single star managers.
As FrontPoint fights to stay alive after an insider trading scandal, one of its co-founders, Philip Duff, who left in 2006, sits in a nondescript office less than a mile away from his former firm rethinking the pension business with his latest venture, Massif Partners.
It is his second attempt.
After Mr. Duff helped to orchestrate the sale of FrontPoint to Morgan Stanley in 2006, he struck out on his own, starting Duff Capital Advisors. As with FrontPoint, he tried to identify an untapped market, in this case state and local pension funds struggling to meet their obligations.
He had grand ambitions. Seeded with $500 million to build the business from the private equity firm Lindsay Goldberg, Mr. Duff leased offices in a high-end building in Greenwich, Conn. He loaded the offices with bells and whistles, including a new skylight with automatic tinting to reduce heat and glare.
Duff Capital offered pension and endowment funds a comprehensive group of services, including advice, risk management and a variety of investment options like hedge funds and private equity portfolios. At the time, Mr. Duff boasted that the firm had the potential to be larger than many of the world's top hedge funds, saying it was in talks to receive as much as $1.5 billion in seed capital to invest.
"Next-generation solutions are needed, and we believe a new approach is required to meet those needs," Mr. Duff said, in an announcement heralding the new venture.
But the timing was bad.
The firm started in March 2008, just months before the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the onset of the financial crisis. With the markets in disarray, clients never materialized and Duff Capital shut down in May 2009. The firm never moved into its plush offices.
Now, Mr. Duff, a former top executive at Morgan Stanley, is trying again. His new firm, Massif Partners - which like FrontPoint has a name that refers to his passion for mountain climbing - is building off the blueprint of Duff Capital and focusing on pensions. A spokesman for Mr. Duff declined to comment.
If anything, the institutional investors are in worse shape. A recent study of 126 state and local pensions funds found that they had just 77 cents for every $1 of obligations. That is down 2 percent from 2009 and the lowest level since the mid-90s, according to the report by the Boston College Center for Retirement Research.
Typically, the institutional investors take an a la carte approach to building a comprehensive portfolio, getting risk analytics, investment advice and fund options from a variety of providers. Massif is trying to streamline the investment process for pensions, giving them access to several services through one firm, according to a person with knowledge of the situation who declined to speak publicly.
While it is a growing industry, the field is competitive, said Stewart Massey, co-founder of Massey Quick, a consulting and wealth management firm. Mr. Duff has raised just $4.5 million from 10 investors, according to a regulatory filing in January.
"Unless you have that cornerstone investor, it's a very tough business to build," Mr. Massey said.
Mr. Duff began his career as a grain trader at Louis Dreyfus in the late 1970s, leaving in 1982 to attend business school at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. During the summer, he worked as an associate at Morgan Stanley in the mergers and acquisitions group.
After graduation, he joined the financial institutions group at Morgan Stanley during a period of rapid consolidation in the banking industry. He quickly rose through the ranks, becoming the chief financial officer under John J. Mack in 1994. Mr. Duff was 34.
A few years later, he jumped from investment banking to asset management, becoming chief operating officer at Tiger Management, the hedge fund founded by the legendary investor Julian Robertson. When Mr. Robertson closed his fund to outside investors in 2000, Mr. Duff left.
Late that year, Mr. Duff, Gil Caffray, the former head trader at Tiger, and Paul Ghaffari, a manager for George Soros, decided to start FrontPoint. Mr. Duff named the firm after a technique used to climb ice.
After five years, the team was managing more than $5 billion, thanks in part to its diversified model. FrontPoint brought several independent managers in house, providing back-office support and risk controls for the group. As assets swelled, the firm caught the eye of Mr. Duff's former employer, Morgan Stanley, which took an ownership stake for $400 million in late 2006. Shortly thereafter, Mr. Duff left FrontPoint.
Last year, the multimanager model that had served the firm so well suddenly became a liability. In early November, the government arrested a French doctor on suspicion of leaking insider tips about a drug trial to a hedge fund portfolio manager, later revealed to be an employee of FrontPoint. Joseph F. Skowron, the employee, was charged with insider trading last month while the doctor, Yves Benhamou, pleaded guilty in the case.
While neither FrontPoint nor any other managers were accused of wrongdoing, the entire firm suffered. Investors pulled more than $3 billion from the main fund, and earlier this month FrontPoint announced that it was shutting down most of its funds.
Some say that the problems at FrontPoint and Duff Capital could make it difficult for Massif to attract clients.
"In any situation, your most important asset is your judgment, and that's especially true on Wall Street," said Steven Seiden, a founder of Seiden Krieger Associates, an executive search firm.
"If it's a blatant lapse of judgment that caused this, then it could be very difficult," he said of the collapse of Duff Capital. "If it's part of everyone who got swept up in the financial maelstrom, then that's a different story."
Mr. Duff has not begun marketing in earnest and does not expect to start investing until early 2012, according to people who have been briefed on his plans. For now, he is focused on developing Massif, which in climbing parlance refers to a cluster of mountain peaks. Along with veterans from FrontPoint and Duff Capital, he is in talks to hire FrontPoint staff, as that business winds down its main fund.
He has also traded the grandeur of Duff Capital for the more modest Massif. He's downsized from the more than 40,000-square-foot offices for Duff Capital to a featureless space with warm, blond wood accents. The Massif office, in the retail corridor of Greenwich, is one floor up from Giggle, a store that sells clothing, furniture, books, toys and other items for babies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); INSIDER TRADING (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); SCANDALS (57%) Hedge Funds; Duff, Philip

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%); LINDSAY GOLDBERG & BESSEMER LP (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

 
