

601 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1837 words

HEADLINE: Shopping for Toys Without the Kids;
Virtual Stores Give the Big Retailers A Foothold Against On-Line Upstarts

BYLINE: By DANA CANEDY 

 BODY:
First virtual toys, now virtual toy stores.
With toy makers and sellers catching up with the computer age and making a big push into Internet retailing, shoppers can now buy everything on line -- from Tamagotchi virtual pets to Teletubbies plush dolls. The hope is that these stores-without-walls will attract parents with modems and motivation, people either too busy or too impatient to deal with the big chain stores' huge, warehouse-like retail outlets. 
 So, well ahead of the 1998 critical year-end selling season, toy companies are racing to become the Amazon.com of their industry. Some of the on-line players include Noodle Kidoodle Inc., Toys "R" Us and the leading upstart company, Etoys, a unit of Idealab. Some manufacturers, including Mattel Inc., which has a Barbie Web site, www.barbie.com, are also experimenting with on-line marketing.
Having had one of its best years in a decade last year, thanks to a healthy economy, and hoping for a repeat performance this year, the toy industry is in an expansive, experimental mood. Though on-line retailing still accounts for only $13 million of the $22 billion annual United States toy market, the virtual toy shop is the industry's attempt to find new or additional sales among the households that are most likely to value time-saving efficiency and to have the discretionary income to pay a premium for such convenience. Nearly 20 million Americans now shop on line, according to the Web measurement company Media Metrix Inc.
But the industry's move on line is not without risk. The big retailers face the same sort of internal conflicts that the bookseller Barnes & Noble does in trying to counter Amazon.com -- how to respond to the on-line upstarts without cannibalizing the brick-and-mortar franchise.
Toy makers must venture carefully into cyberspace, lest their direct-sales activities rankle the retailers they rely upon to move their merchandise.
For their part, the on-line upstarts, despite the cost advantages of not having to invest in stores, warehouses and big inventories, may find themselves struggling to match the marketing muscle of big established retail brand names.
Then there is the question of whether the touch and the texture of toy shopping can translate as readily to the digital realm as some other consumer activities that have taken hold on line, like booking airline seats or trading shares of stock.
"One of the big strengths of toy retailing is the in-store excitement, merchandising and the personal touch," said Frank Reysen Jr., editor of Playthings, a toy industry publication. "There is a danger of that getting lost in the web of technology. The initiatives, attitude and approach have to be a virtual representation of the store itself, and that's not an easy thing to do."
The toy merchants are undaunted, though.
The large retailers say they will win the Internet game because their well-regarded names and vast resources give them an in with consumers that should spill over into on-line selling. For customers, the companies say, those strengths will translate into low prices, quick response to orders and a better chance of finding limited-edition items -- like Mattel's popular Share a Smile Becky doll, a wheelchair-bound friend of Barbie -- that smaller toy sellers may have trouble obtaining in large volume.
But the small, niche operators say they have the upper hand because they offer many of the must-have items and also specialty products -- like Schylling's make-your-own chewing gum kit -- that tend to sell in such small numbers that the big guys find them not worth stocking.
And whether large or small, the companies say they can offer on-line consumers the advantage of not having to traipse around in search of the last Beanie Baby in town.
Longer term, toy merchants envision that this type of retailing will become the modern equivalent of that more traditional form of direct-to-consumer marketing -- catalogue shopping. Like catalogue sales, which rely on mailing lists assembled from consumers' past buy-by-mail habits, the data bases created by electronic commerce would enable toy makers to observe the shopping habits of computerized households and use discounts and other enticements to keep them coming back for more. It is a way for merchants to get to know their customers' preferences to an extent not possible when a person goes into a store and pays cash for a Sing and Snore Ernie.
All of the industry's behind-the-scenes strategizing for her money and loyalty is just fine by Chana Wilson, a housewife and mother of two boys, ages 3 and 12, who was in the market recently for an ant farm for her out-of-state nephew. "I knew I had to buy a toy, wrap it up and ship it to Houston," said Mrs. Wilson, who lives in Beckley, W.Va., and ranks shopping at toy stores right up there with visiting the dentist.
Trying to avoid "all that rigamarole," Mrs. Wilson, whose husband, Derric, is a supervisor at a prison, went on line and found Etoys, where she bought an Uncle Milton ant farm for $19.95 plus $4 for shipping and $3 for gift wrapping.
"That saved me time and money and a major headache with my 3-year-old," Mrs. Wilson said. "You just don't want to take a 3-year-old shopping for other kids' toys."
It is just this sort of shopper that the big conventional retailers are going after. Toys "R" Us, the nation's largest toy retailer, started a Web site last month that it intends to heavily advertise on the Internet as well as on television and through home delivery circulars later this year. So far, the site has about 2,000 items, compared with about 15,000 stocked in Toys "R" Us stores. Tens of thousands of Internet users have already visited the site, though the company declined to say how many had bought anything.
Visitors to www.toysrus.com, are assured that shopping is "fun and fast." Say, for instance, someone is clueless as to what to buy an 8-year-old girl. The shopper need only choose a category, like dolls, click on the child's age and the target price. Seconds later a suggested list of merchandise appears, including Baby Pick Me Up, which sells for $14.97 plus shipping and handling.
Just like a theater operator who tries to drum up concession sales by piping in the smell of freshly popped corn, Toys "R" Us is using its personalized suggestion feature also to get shoppers to consider buying items they may not have intended to. Those looking for dolls, for instance, are also shown a Barbie Disc Girl CD Player for $16.99. Call it an electronic hard sell.
Prices are typically the same for toys bought on line or in stores. But the convenience of Internet shopping does mean having to pay shipping rates, which are about $5 for a $25 order and around $9 for a $100 purchase. The companies insist, though, that the cost is more than worth the convenience.
"People are more strapped for time, and they are looking for new ways of shopping," said Joel Anderson, vice president of Toys "R" Us Direct. "There is a new medium out there that is emerging, and it is an area we need to be in."
The toy maker Hasbro Inc. is feeling the same need. The company, which has been dabbling in on-line product marketing for more than a year, recently hired a specialist in Internet commerce to develop a plan to advertise further and sell selected items like collectibles directly to the consumer (www.hasbro.com). The executive, Wendy Riches, had managed the interactive advertising unit of WPP Group's Ogilvy & Mather agency, as part of her role as chairman and chief executive of the Ogilvy One North America division.
One potential problem is that Hasbro sells mainly to retailers, some of whom may frown on any form of added competition. This sort of conflict has also been a problem for computer makers, like Compaq, which has a well-established network of distributors who have been wary of the company's plan to expand into on-line direct sales.
Already, some toy retailers are raising concern about Hasbro's intentions. "This is the manufacturer cutting out the middle man," said Shane Igoe, new media manager at F.A.O. Schwarz, which was one of the first toy sellers to go on line when it started www.faoschwarz.com nearly two years ago.
Toys "R" Us is less concerned, saying Hasbro's Internet appeal will be limited because it will offer only its own brands and not Barbie, Beanie Babies and other popular toys made by its competitors. For its part, Hasbro says its on-line selling efforts are not meant to put it in competition with Toys "R" Us or any other retailer. Rather, the company says, it is seeking to augment what retailers are already doing, even listing store locations where shoppers can find certain items.
"We look at this as a partnership with the retail trade," said Adam Klein, Hasbro's head of global marketing. "Each one of our key retailers is going at this thing a different way. We have to have our own in-house expertise to both work with them and, where there are gaps, to be able to recognize them and go after these opportunities."
Hasbro also says that, at least initially, it will limit its toy selling to items not available in retail stores. The company, which has not determined when it will begin selling on line beyond the interactive products like the Yahtzee CD-ROM it already offers, was fuzzy on whether consumers would have to pay retail prices for toys bought directly from the manufacturer. Mr. Klein said only that "the idea is not to compete with the retail trade, and this is part of everything we are going to be looking at."
With Hasbro and other industry giants edging in on its domain, Etoys, a year-old company based in Santa Monica, Calif., that has about 3,000 items listed for sale on its site, www.toys.com, may need a Star Wars laser to fend them off. But the company says its strength is in the range of playthings it provides.
"What we do is have the popular products and also have a lot of cool products like kits to make your own chewing gum, products you never see in Toys 'R' Us," said Toby Lenk, chief executive of Etoys. "A big retail buyer can't buy six of something. It's too inefficient for them so they buy in bulk and can't test on a smaller scale."
Etoys also knows it will have to rev up its marketing machine to avoid getting overshadowed by the competition. Without discussing precise amounts, the company said it planned to triple its multimillion-dollar marketing budget for the next six months.
If people like Mrs. Wilson, the mother in West Virginia, are any indication, the on-line toy market is up for grabs to anyone who can make toy shopping effortless without significantly adding cost. But won't she miss an intrinsic part of the toy-buying experience by buying a lovable baby doll without first giving it a squeeze or without reading product information on a box of building blocks?
"Heavens, no," Mrs. Wilson said. "I could care less. I already know what a box of Legos looks like. I wish I'd found this before last Christmas."

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)(pg. D1); The leading upstart on-line toy company, Etoys, a unit of Idealab, features a page on Barbie dolls and other types of dolls on its Web site. (pg. D2)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAT (NASDAQ) (91%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (91%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (91%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (56%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: NOODLE KIDOODLE INC; TOYS 'R' US INC; ETOYS INC; IDEALAB; MATTEL INC MATTEL INC (91%); ZANY BRAINY INC (70%); JMXI INC (66%); TOYS 'R' US INC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: NOODLE KIDOODLE INC; TOYS 'R' US INC; ETOYS INC; IDEALAB; MATTEL INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: TOYS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB TOYS & GAMES (95%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (92%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (92%); INTERNET RETAILING (91%); RETAILERS (91%); DOLL & STUFFED TOY MFG (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BOOKSTORES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); FRANCHISING (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); 

PERSON: CANEDY, DANA CHANA WILSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1998



602 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Might Be Tempted to End 'Oil for Food' Plan

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
The "oil for food" program intended to soften the effects of economic sanctions on the Iraqi people is reaching a level of success that could, paradoxically, tempt President Saddam Hussein to try to end it, officials and diplomats say.
Mr. Hussein, who has demanded an end to the international sanctions imposed after his troops invaded Kuwait in August 1990, has used the genuine suffering of Iraqis as a propaganda tool, encouraging opponents of the sanctions to visit Iraq. Funerals of children are conducted whenever foreign dignitaries are in Baghdad. 
 Recently, however, Mr. Hussein decided that he would no longer allow private foreign delegations to go to Iraq with donations and offers of help. As the United Nations compiles reports of rising nutrition rates, better health care, additional medicines and increasing agricultural production, the Iraqis are telling foreigners, especially Americans, to stay home and lobby their governments to lift the embargo.
A vigil and fast in front of the United States Mission to the United Nations by 12 members of Voices in the Wilderness, a group opposed to sanctions, began on Saturday and is expected to run through Aug. 13. In that period Richard Butler, the chief United Nations arms inspector for Iraq, will be in Baghdad for talks, from Aug. 2 to 5.
The sanctions are to remain in place until Iraq complies with terms that ended the Persian Gulf war in 1991, including eliminating all weapons of mass destruction. Under the sanctions, Iraq is barred from selling oil on the open market. But the oil-for-food program, which began last year, allows it to sell limited amounts of oil to obtain certain necessities like food and medicine.
The Iraqis ended their rationing system as supplies from the oil sales began to arrive and, more recently, vetoed a proposed increase of caloric level in an expanded United Nations "food basket" that is given to every Iraqi family in the form of vouchers. Iraqis say they cannot pump enough oil to pay for the extra food until spare parts approved by the Security Council have been installed.
Iraq has no intention of scaling back the oil-for-food program, said Nizar Hamdoon, the Iraqi representative at the United Nations. But the country reserves the right to end it at any time and certainly expects it to be an interim project, and not a long-term development or rehabilitation plan, he said.
"This is a temporary measure that should end up as soon as sanctions are lifted," Mr. Hamdoon said in an interview. "Scaling down the project is not an issue. It either continues or it stops."
The next few months are critical. With United Nations arms inspectors meeting continued resistance from Iraq as they try to close in on remaining questions about missile programs and biological and chemical weapons, it is increasingly unlikely that the sanctions, especially the embargo on unfettered oil sales, will be lifted at the next major review, in October.
"At this point we see no compelling reason to lift sanctions, either on the disarmament side or any other," said Bill Richardson, the United States representative at the United Nations.
If the effects of sanctions on ordinary Iraqis are seen to be ameliorating, some officials now say Iraq will lose its strongest argument for ending the embargo on humanitarian grounds. Although Iraq's supporters on the Security Council, particularly Russia and France, have been primarily motivated by commercial and political interests, their task has been made easier by the human crisis in Iraq.
Now that the Iraqis are allowed to sell up to $5.2 billion in oil every six months, a target that they say they cannot meet because of derelict oil-pumping equipment, and the expanding budget can be spent on large projects like water purification, electricity generation and building schools, the original oil-for-food program has grown into a mammoth operation for the United Nations.
The United Nations entire annual budget is less than half the money that the world body, which controls Iraqi spending, is handling every six months on the oil-sales program, the executive director of the program, Benon V. Sevan, said in an interview.
Mr. Hussein has never liked the oil-for-food program. He waited more than four years after having lost the war to accept the Security Council offer to sell limited oil for emergency needs. An additional two years went by before the program began, early last year, pressed by a Security Council increasingly uncomfortable with reports of malnourished Iraqi children, broken-down hospitals with empty pharmacies and thousands of unnecessary deaths.
The program began in fits and starts. It still has problems.
In September the Iraqis will also lose a sympathetic coordinator of the program in Baghdad, Denis J. Halliday, who often clashed with harder-line officials and was critical of some Security Council restrictions on Iraq.
Mr. Sevan, who recently returned from touring areas of northern Iraq where Kurds are given special protection and a guaranteed percentage of the oil income, said he was furious when he found that almost no work on two hydroelectric dams there had been completed since he ordered it done in November.
"The biggest problem is the issue of electricity," Mr. Sevan said after briefing the Security Council early this month. He said the situation was "unacceptable, even by U.N. standards."
United Nations officials, not Iraqis, are in charge of the work in Kurdish territories. Mr. Sevan said the United Nations was having trouble recruiting people to work in Iraq.
But Mr. Sevan said that as of July 5 nearly six million tons of food had arrived in Iraq under the oil-sales program. The program has nearly doubled the daily caloric intake of an average Iraqi, from a below-sustenance level of 1,275 before the program to more than 2,000. The United Nations had tried to raise the total to 2,700 recently, but the Iraqis objected.
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (92%); GULF STATES (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (92%); GULF STATES (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOOD; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; AGRICULTURE; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); VETO (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); APPROVALS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (69%); AGRICULTURE (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (63%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1998



603 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Leader-to-Be Promises Tax and Banking Reforms

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: MANILA, July 26

 BODY:
The man almost certain to be Japan's next Prime Minister pledged to Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright today that he would revive Japan's stagnant economy through large tax cuts and banking changes, senior Clinton Administration officials said.
An American official said that the most likely choice for Prime Minister, Foreign Minister Keizo Obuchi, "went out of his way to express his determination to implement these reforms, even saying that -- although he has a reputation for not necessarily being decisive -- he would do whatever it took to make the economy work." 
 The official quoted Mr. Obuchi as having told Ms. Albright: "I can and I will act. I will act promptly."
The American officials said Mr. Obuchi had told Ms. Albright that he would live up to his campaign promise to cut taxes by $43 billion and to spend $71 billion on a package of measures to stimulate the economy. Mr. Obuchi was elected on Friday as president of the governing Liberal Democratic Party, a post that virtually guarantees that he will become Prime Minister.
"He went out of his way to say he would be very decisive and dynamic in dealing with the economic problems," a senior Administration official said after a meeting between Mr. Obuchi and Ms. Albright. They were in the Philippines to attend a meeting of Foreign Ministers of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and other countries with interests in the region.
Administration officials who are traveling with Ms. Albright, all of whom insisted on anonymity, said they were relieved by what they described as Mr. Obuchi's confident, take-charge tone in the meeting and by the early details of his plan for dealing with Japan's worst financial crisis in decades. It was Mr. Obuchi's first meeting with a high-level American official since his election as party leader.
Mr. Obuchi has no record of bold political leadership, and there is concern in Tokyo and Washington that the 61-year-old Foreign Minister might backtrack on the campaign promises to maintain consensus in the Liberal Democratic Party.
Mr. Obuchi would replace Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto, who resigned after a crushing defeat for the party in parliamentary elections for the upper house this month. The electoral rout was largely ascribed to his failure to revive the economy.
"There was no evidence of any backtracking, reductions, scaling back," the senior American official said of Mr. Obuchi. "He's several times indicated his determination to revitalize -- that's the word he used -- the Japanese economy."
American officials said Mr. Obuchi had offered figures for the scope of the recovery plan, six trillion yen in tax cuts, or $43 billion, and 10 trillion yen for an economic stimulus package, or $71 billion. Those sums were virtually identical to those offered in his campaign.
The American officials said there was no need for Ms. Albright to offer a detailed warning to Mr. Obuchi about the dangers of a delay in carrying out the sweeping changes of Japan's economy, the second largest in the world.
"He spoke first and he basically laid out a fairly comprehensive agenda and said he was going to move on it very quickly," an Administration official said. "It wasn't necessary for her to give him a long laundry list. But she, of course, emphasized the importance for all of Asia that Japanese economic recovery take place expeditiously."
American officials said Mr. Obuchi had made it clear that he was well aware, perhaps painfully, of his reputation among Japanese voters as a timid politician who had moved inconspicuously up the ladder of power and was unfit to be Prime Minister. He seemed eager, the Americans said, to put an end to that perception.
An American official said that in the meeting today Mr. Obuchi reminded Ms. Albright that he had been accused of having the leadership style of cold pizza. The description led the Foreign Minister to provide Japanese reporters staked out at his house in the election battle last week with boxes of warm pizza.
In congratulating Mr. Obuchi today on his victory, the official said, Ms. Albright assured him "that she likes cold pizza."
The Asian economic crisis is widely expected to dominate the meeting this week of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. Ms. Albright will have a series of one-on-one meetings with her counterparts, including Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan of China and Foreign Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov of Russia.
Administration officials said that in the wake of President Clinton's visit to China last month Ms. Albright would press Mr. Tang to step up the release of imprisoned political dissidents. "This will be an opportunity to remind them of our expectations," an American official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; TAXATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION PRIME MINISTERS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TAX REFORM (74%); TRENDS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: OBUCHI, KEIZO (MIN); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); SHENON, PHILIP HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1998



604 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Social Security Plan Envisions U.S. as Biggest Investor

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE, N.M., July 26

 BODY:
As Congress and the Clinton Administration debate how best to secure Social Security's long-term viability, the answer increasingly seems to involve taking advantage of the potentially robust investment returns available on Wall Street.
But while conservatives and some Democrats have been pushing plans that would allow individuals to invest some of their Social Security taxes in the financial markets, liberal Democrats, labor unions and other groups are rallying around proposals under which the Federal Government would invest some of the retirement system's reserves in stocks and bonds. 
 The idea of turning the Government into the world's largest investor -- with far-reaching effects on the markets -- is likely to be vigorously debated here on Monday, when President Clinton plays host to a forum and town meeting on Social Security. If it is not altered in some way, Social Security will run short of the money it needs to pay beneficiaries as the vast baby boom generation retires.
To proponents, making the Government a shareholder is a way to capture the power of the markets on behalf of Social Security recipients without exposing them directly to the risks or seeing the gains eaten up by the high costs of administering 150 million private accounts. Currently, Social Security's reserves are invested in safe but relatively low-yielding Treasury bonds.
Moreover, proponents say, proposals built on having the Government invest up to half of Social Security's reserves on Wall Street would require fewer benefit cuts and other changes to the system than those built on diverting part of payroll taxes into private accounts.
"Investing as a system allows you to preserve current benefits, avoid raising the retirement age to 70 and deal with most of Social Security's solvency shortfall over the next 75 years," said Representative Earl Pomeroy of North Dakota, who is developing a Social Security proposal for House Democrats. "And who's better positioned to take the risk of a market downturn, the United States of America or an individual Social Security recipient?"
Mr. Pomeroy said that investing half of the system's reserves in an index fund that earned a 7 percent annual return on its investment -- the market averaged 7.56 percent from 1926 to 1996 and has done considerably better the last few years -- would take care of 95 percent of Social Security's financial problems, when combined with technical reductions in the Consumer Price Index being implemented by the Labor Department. The price index is used to set cost-of-living increases each year.
But advocates of private accounts said Government investment in the markets would be economically and politically unwise, if not treacherous or unworkable. One of the most influential opponents of Government investment is Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, who last week called the idea "very dangerous" and said it would inevitably lead to politicians interfering in the workings of free markets.
"I don't know of any way you can essentially insulate Government decision-makers from having access to what will amount to very large investments in American private industry," Mr. Greenspan said. Implementing the idea, he said, "has very far-reaching potential dangers for a free American economy and a free American society."
Robert D. Reischauer, a fellow at the Brookings Institution, said Mr. Greenspan's concerns are legitimate, but that they could be addressed by establishing an independent investment board, appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate, that would have a legal responsibility to seek the best possible returns for Social Security recipients. The board would hire professional investment managers who would invest the money to mimic as closely as possible the aggregate performance of all traded securities.
"If I didn't think you could insulate the system from the risks of meddling, I'd be opposed, too," Mr. Reischauer said.
But opponents of Government investment said politicians would find some way around any safeguards. Consider, for example, the potential for political pressure to exclude tobacco companies from acceptable investments, or nonunion companies, or companies involved in some kind of wrongdoing.
"The concept of the Government as owner is anathema to the way business is run and in fact the way the country is run," said Donald B. Marron, the chairman of Paine Webber, the brokerage firm. "Ownership confers certain rights and these rights should belong to the normal shareholder base."
Economists said any decision to have the Government invest hundreds of billions of dollars in the markets would have complex effects. To the degree that Social Security reserves were invested in stocks and corporate bonds instead of the Treasury securities they are invested in now, the Federal Government might have to pay higher interest rates on its debt -- ultimately costing taxpayers more.
The flood of Social Security money into the markets would also be a huge pool of new capital for American business, potentially helping stimulate the formation of companies. Or, economists said, it could create such a glut of capital that companies with little potential could get off the ground or unpromising technologies could soak up money, eventually harming the nation's overall economic health.
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); STOCKS AND BONDS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BONDS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); RETIREMENT AGE (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); COST OF LIVING (71%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); INDEX FUNDS (60%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (60%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (78%); EARL POMEROY (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1998



605 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1866 words

HEADLINE: Russians Are Back in Afghanistan, Aiding Rebels

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 26

 BODY:
In February 1989, the last Soviet troops wearily crossed the bridge over the Amu Darya out of Afghanistan, a defeated army walking home to an empire on the verge of disintegration.
Now, nearly a decade later, the Russians are back, secretly engaged in the new Afghan war, according to United States and foreign officials. 
 This time, though, the Russians are after oil, as well as protection of their borders. In what senior American officials believe may be part of a larger Russian strategy to reassert influence over Central Asia and its vast oil reserves, Moscow has begun to play a major supporting role on the side of a rebel coalition fighting a civil war against the Taliban, the militant Islamic group that controls most of the country.
While it has not committed troops into a country where at least 13,000 of its soldiers died during a nine-year occupation, Russia is supplying heavy weapons, training and logistical support to the northern alliance, the rebel group that is hanging on to the mountainous northern tier of Afghanistan.
The Russians find themselves in loose collaboration with Iran in countering the growing power of the Taliban. In fact, American officials and other experts say Iran is now supplying even more arms, fuel and other resources to the anti-Taliban rebels than is Russia.
Squared off against Russia and Iran in this post-cold-war confrontation are Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, which are backing the Taliban.
And in this land of constantly shifting and often murderous alliances, the Russians are supporting rebel factions controlled by former leaders of the Afghan mujahedeen, the Islamic guerrillas who fought the Soviet Army in the 1980's with the backing of the Central Intelligence Agency. A prime beneficiary of Russian support is the rebel group led by Ahmad Shah Massoud, who once was one of the most aggressive and effective mujahedeen figures in the C.I.A.'s covert program against the Soviets in Afghanistan.
The irony of the situation has not been lost on Mr. Massoud's one-time American backers. "Massoud was the pointed end of the stick, the man we went to when we really wanted something done against the Russians," an American intelligence official said.
Yet as the Russians move back into Afghanistan, the American role in the country seems to be diminishing. The United States, which took such an intense interest in Afghanistan in the 1980's when the Reagan Administration viewed it as a crucial cold-war battleground, is only a marginal player there today, overshadowed by the more direct involvement of American oil companies, according to independent experts and officials from other countries.
The Clinton Administration supports neither side in the war. It has harshly criticized the Taliban for their militant policies, especially their treatment of women, and refuses to recognize it as the government of Afghanistan.
The Administration's involvement has been limited to support for international negotiations to end the war, which has intensified since the Taliban captured Kabul, the capital, in 1996. In May, Bill Richardson, the American representative at the United Nations, visited Afghanistan to try to jump-start the peace talks. Yet Western analysts say the United States has not made an aggressive effort to curb foreign intervention.
A State Department official disagreed, saying the issue had been raised during American efforts to mediate a peace accord. "We have been very clear that arms shipments must stop," the official said.
Russia has decided to develop a broad, strategic relationship with Iran, partly because of their overlapping oil interests in Central Asia, American officials say.
Support for the Afghan rebels serves Iranian and Russian economic and political interests. The northern alliance acts as a buffer between the Taliban and the Afghan border with the former Soviet republics, while the continuation of civil war in the country prevents Western oil companies from building pipelines across Afghan territory.
Both Russia and Iran fear the potential spread of the radicalism of the Taliban. Moscow wants to insure that Islamic fundamentalism does not spill into the former Soviet republics to the north, while the ruling Shiite Muslims of Iran see the Sunni Muslims of the Taliban as bitter rivals. "The Russians and the Iranians are very concerned by the possibility of victory by the Taliban," a State Department official said.
At the same time, Russia and Iran would like to influence how the oil and gas riches of the Caspian Sea region are channeled and exploited. In fact, American officials believe that Russia has decided that it must curb the influence of the United States and of American oil companies in the Caspian oil basin.
American officials also say they believe that Iran and Russia want to insure that many of the planned Caspian oil pipelines traverse Iranian or Russian territory. As a result, the Iranians, and to a lesser extent the Russians, have an incentive to block efforts to build pipelines across Afghanistan to the Indian subcontinent.
With peace talks stalled and the two sides gearing up for more war, frustrated executives from Western oil companies appear to be playing a more active role as mediators than the Clinton Administration is. Unocal Corporation, which leads a consortium that hopes to build a pipeline to transport natural gas and oil from Turkmenistan through Afghanistan to Pakistan, is financing a University of Nebraska program to train Afghan workers and teachers in regions controlled by both sides, and has paid for Taliban members to visit the United States. Bridas Corporation, an Argentine company that is a Unocal rival with its own plans for an Afghan pipeline, also has representatives in the country trying to cultivate both northern alliance and Taliban leaders.
Yet Unocal and Bridas executives have said they cannot proceed until the fighting ends and an internationally recognized government is established.
Moscow denies that it is arming the Afghan rebels, and Mr. Massoud has said in interviews that he receives much of his equipment from the Russian mafia, not the Russian Government. American officials believe that the rebels do acquire equipment on the international arms market, but are still convinced that both the Russian and Iranian Governments are directly involved.
In fact, American intelligence officials say that both the northern alliance and the Taliban now field such impressive arsenals that they could not acquire, maintain and operate them without foreign assistance. Both sides have hundreds of T-54 and T-62 Russian-designed tanks, along with towed artillery, multiple-rocket launchers, and MIG-21 and SU-17 fighter aircraft, according to United States intelligence estimates.
While the abundance of surplus weaponry left over from the Soviet-supplied Afghan Army is being used by both the rebels and the Taliban, the demands for spare parts, maintenance and training have forced the two sides to seek outside support.
American officials and others say Mr. Massoud's rebel faction, perhaps the most formidable single group opposing the Taliban, now has a major supply center at an air base in neighboring Tajikistan, a former Soviet republic where some 20,000 Russian troops are stationed and where Moscow retains enormous influence.
From the air base, which they said was in Kulob, Tajikistan, weapons and other supplies are flown to Mr. Massoud's forces in Afghanistan.
Meanwhile, Russia and Uzbekistan, another former Soviet republic, are supporting a rebel group led by Abdul Rashid Dostum, a former Afghan Army general who has switched sides several times in his career.
Russian military instructors are also said to be working with the rebels, and one American official said Iranian personnel were also on the ground.
A former Russian intelligence officer said in an interview that Russia's intelligence services were also playing a covert role in Afghanistan on behalf of the rebels. The former officer, who has defected to the United States and has been resettled by the C.I.A., said Russia's foreign and military intelligence services have operatives working in northern Afghanistan with Mr. Massoud and General Dostum. The military intelligence service is responsible for at least some of the clandestine shipments to the rebels, he added.
"Massoud was one of the bitterest enemies of the Soviet Union, but the situation is now very clear," the Russian said. "He is the lesser of two evils. The real fear of Moscow is that the fall of the northern alliance would boost fundamentalism into Central Asia and even into Russia itself."
In addition to providing support to Mr. Massoud, Iran is also providing weapons, equipment and fuel to a Shiite Muslim rebel faction known as Hezb-i-Wahdat, analysts said.
"The Iranians have an ideological commitment to the Shias, but their broader strategic goal is to support anybody but the Taliban," said Barnett Rubin, an Afghanistan expert at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York.
Mr. Rubin and other Western analysts believe that the Iranian and Russian support for the northern alliance was prompted by the backing given to the Taliban by Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.
The Taliban, with their base among the Pathans, Afghanistan's majority ethnic group, were formed in 1994 in rural southern Afghanistan. The Taliban finally took Kabul in September 1996, ousting the Massoud forces and the Government of Burhanuddin Rabbani, part of the guerrilla coalition that had ousted the Soviet-backed Government in 1992.
Pakistani and Saudi support have been crucial to the Taliban's success. United States officials say Pakistan is providing arms and other military assistance, while the Saudis have offered fuel and financial backing. In one recent sign of Saudi support, Prince Turki al-Faisal, the chief of Saudi Arabia's intelligence service, was just in Afghanistan for talks with the Taliban, according to Taliban officials.
The heavy commitment by foreign sponsors has led to a military stalemate between the Taliban and the northern alliance, especially in the last year, during which the Taliban have been unable to dislodge the rebels from their strongholds.
"The flow of arms, money and other supplies into Afghanistan from outside has continued unabated," a new United Nations report states. United Nations officials, the report adds, have evidence of large arms shipments to both sides. The officials have witnessed air deliveries of weapons and ammunition by unmarked aircraft to the northern alliance, which are arriving at a rate of at least four to five a week.
On the other side, the United Nations report said the Taliban were getting foreign arms shipments that include the delivery of tanks and armored personnel carriers. A 200-truck convoy of military equipment recently arrived for Taliban forces, the report said.
United Nations officials in Afghanistan also reported seeing foreign military advisers aiding both sides.
"The problem," a United States official said, "is that the Afghans still see that the solutions to their problems come from fighting."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Border guards in the Soviet city of Termez watched a parachute regiment return from Afghanistan on Feb. 7, 1989, as the Soviet Union ended its intervention. Now Russians are aiding rebels, partly because of oil. (Associated Press)(pg. A8)
 
Map of Afghanistan shows location of Kulob: Weapons are flown to Afghan rebels from an air base in Kulob. (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP)

ORGANIZATION: TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN; RUSSIA; IRAN; UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ISLAM; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US TALIBAN (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); COLD WAR (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); RELIGION (88%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (86%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); POLITICS (69%); 

PERSON: RISEN, JAMES; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1998



606 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2135 words

HEADLINE: Shrinking Welfare Rolls Leave Record High Share of Minorities

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 24

 BODY:
As the welfare rolls continue to plunge, white recipients are leaving the system much faster than black and Hispanic recipients, pushing the minority share of the caseload to the highest level on record.
White, black and Hispanic recipients are all leaving welfare at unprecedented rates. But the disproportionately large exodus of whites has altered the racial balance in a program long rife with racial conflict and stereotypes, according to figures that were compiled in an analysis of recent state data by The New York Times. 
 The legacy of those stereotypes makes the discussion of race and welfare an unusually sensitive one. In the past, advocates and scholars have taken pains to note there were more white families on welfare than black. But that is no longer the case.
Blacks now outnumber whites. The Hispanic share of the rolls is growing fastest. And black and Hispanic recipients combined outnumber whites by about 2 to 1. In addition, the remaining caseload is increasingly concentrated in large cities.
Some analysts warn that the growing racial and urban imbalance could erode political support for welfare, especially when times turn tight. More immediately, the changing demographics suggest that states may need new strategies as they serve those left behind, like recipients who do not speak English.
Consider the changing nature of the New York City caseload, which is larger than that of every state but California. Since the city's rolls peaked in March 1995, the number of whites on welfare has fallen 57 percent. That is nearly twice the 30 percent rate of decline for blacks. And it is nearly eight times the decline for Hispanic recipients, which is just 7 percent, lagging the declines for blacks and whites as it has nationwide. The city's welfare rolls are now 5 percent white, 33 percent black and 59 percent Hispanic.
Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Florida, Michigan -- most of the states with large welfare populations like these have seen the number of whites on welfare declining faster than those of minorities. So have other states with significant caseload declines, like Wisconsin, Massachusetts and New Jersey.
The growing minority domination of the rolls is new, little-noticed and as yet largely unexplained. Most officials reacted with surprise when presented with the figures.
"Good grief!" said Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., the Florida Republican who was the primary author of the 1996 Federal law that imposed time limits and work requirements. "That's definitely something we should look at. We don't want to leave one or two ethnic groups behind."
"I'm stunned," said Representative Robert T. Matsui, a California Democrat who is among the legislators most knowledgeable about the program. Mr. Matsui counts himself among those who have fought "a perception that welfare was a minority program. We tried to show that wasn't the case."
 
A Greater Distance To Cover for Minorities
There are a number of potential explanations for the changing racial demographics. They include possible discrimination by employers or by landlords in neighborhoods near jobs. In addition, unpublished data from the Census Bureau, prepared for The New York Times, suggest that minority recipients were significantly more disadvantaged than their white counterparts when the rolls peaked in 1994.
On average, they had less education, lower incomes and more children. They were less likely to have ever been married, a statistic that predicts lower rates of child support and lessened chances of leaving the rolls through a subsequent marriage. Perhaps most important, minority recipients were much more likely to live in poor, central city neighborhoods, far from the job growth that rings many cities.
Race is intertwined with place. Only 31 percent of white welfare families lived in city centers, the census data showed. But 63 percent of Hispanic welfare families lived in those job-scarce areas, as did 71 percent of blacks. This may also mean that minorities have faced less pressure from caseworkers to leave the rolls. Most states instituted their tough new rules outside the big cities, in regions with stronger economies and more responsive bureaucracies.
While the minority domination of the rolls could revive negative stereotypes, it comes at a time of unusual good will toward recipients of all races. With caseloads falling at a startling pace -- for minorities as well as whites -- taxpayers seem well-satisfied with the new ethos of time limits and work demands.
Flush with Federal money, states are investing in a variety of new employment services. And facing labor shortages, many corporations are courting a welfare population they once took care to avoid.
Citing that optimistic climate, some minority leaders say they do not expect welfare programs to attract new racial hostility. "If we had had this conversation six or seven years ago, it would have been a real concern," said Mayor Dennis Archer of Detroit, who is black. But as jobs increase and poverty declines, even in the inner cities, Mr. Archer said, a racial backlash is unlikely. "Even those insensitive to minorities aren't willing to just turn their back and withdraw services just because of race," he said.
Others were less sanguine. Representative Donald M. Payne, a Newark Democrat, warned that the growing minority share of the rolls could erode support for welfare spending and reinforce racial bias in general.
"Wedge-issue politicians always use welfare as an issue," said Mr. Payne, a former chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus. "There's no question that stereotyping will expand. Before, it was misinformation. It might even now go to codify the stereotyping."
 
A Growing Imbalance As Rolls Get Shorter
The most recent national figures on welfare and race are 17 months old. They show that the number of white families receiving Federal cash assistance declined 25 percent after the rolls peaked in 1994. By contrast, the number of black families fell 17 percent and that of Hispanic families 9 percent. But those differences appear to have widened in recent months, as the caseload declines have accelerated.
The New York Times surveyed 15 programs -- 14 states and New York City -- which account for nearly 70 percent of the nation's welfare population. Among them, only California had a sharper decline among blacks than whites: 40 percent for blacks versus 31 percent for whites. The Hispanic decline in California was slower, 22 percent.
In all other programs, the number of whites on welfare declined faster than those of black or Hispanic recipients. And in more than two-thirds of the programs studied, the white rate of decline outpaced both the black and Hispanic rates by at least 10 percentage points. In Wisconsin, where the caseload declines have been most dramatic, an astonishing 96 percent of white recipients have left the rolls. (Black recipients declined 74 percent and Hispanic recipients, 78 percent.)
A result is an added imbalance in a program that already had a disproportionate share of minorities. By early 1997, blacks accounted for 37 percent of the nation's welfare caseload, though they are just 13 percent of the general population. Hispanic families accounted for 22 percent of the welfare rolls, though they are 11 percent of the general population.
Whites, by contrast, accounted for just 35 percent of the rolls, though they are 73 percent of the population. That is the smallest white percentage since the Government began compiling figures in 1973. The vast majority receiving Federal aid are single mothers and their children.
As the rolls grow more dominated by minorities, they are also more concentrated in large cities. Detroit, Miami, St. Louis, Cleveland, Baltimore, Milwaukee and Philadelphia all saw their caseloads fall. But in each of those cities, the declines lagged the state average.
As a result, 48 percent of Pennsylvania's recipients now live in Philadelphia, up from 38 percent four years ago. In Wisconsin, virtually all the state's welfare recipients -- 85 percent -- now live in Milwaukee, up from 39 percent a decade ago.
But the urban lag is not universal. Atlanta, Boston, Los Angeles and Bridgeport, Conn., have all cut their rolls at a pace that matches that of their states as a whole. And the declines in New York City, Chicago and Newark have lagged the state average by only a small percentage.
 
Hispanic Share Is Growing the Fastest
Among the most striking trends is the growing Hispanic share of the caseload. As recently as 1983, Hispanic recipients accounted for just 12 percent of the nation's caseload, about half their current share. Some of that increase is owing to the growing Hispanic share of the general population, but Hispanic recipients have also been leaving the welfare rolls more slowly.
There are several possible explanations. Hispanic recipients lag blacks and whites in education levels and language skills. In addition, they tend to have larger families than white recipients. And some analysts suggest that Hispanic women face greater cultural pressures to stay at home with their children.
Citing the prevalence of language barriers, some advocates contend that Hispanic recipients need more training, especially in basic language skills. "I would view this as a wake-up call, that the system is not working as it is supposed to," said Charles Kamasaki, vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights group.
But most states emphasize immediate job placements. "Non-English-speaking people have been coming to this country and finding work for years," said Dick Powers, a spokesman for the Massachusetts Department of Transitional Assistance.
The census data cast new light on the obstacles that minority recipients face. The data come from interviews with 5,400 welfare recipients in March 1994. One of the racial difference they reveal is in education. Among Hispanic recipients, 64 percent lacked a high school degree, as did 40 percent of the blacks. By contrast, only 33 percent of the white recipients lacked a high school degree. And those differences may understate the actual disparities in skills, because whites on average attend better schools than minority students.
A second difference is that minority women are less likely to marry. About 61 percent of the black women on welfare had never been married. About 40 percent of the Hispanic women had never been married and 31 percent of the whites.
Researchers are uncertain why black women marry at lower rates, but economics may play a role. William Julius Wilson, a Harvard sociologist, has argued that high rates of unemployment among black men makes them less attractive as potential spouses. Mr. Shaw, the Florida Republican, has proposed spending $2 billion over the next five years to raise the employment and marriage rates of welfare fathers.
A third difference is that minority women have larger families. Just 20 percent of white welfare recipients had more than two children, the census data show. But the figure for black and Hispanic recipients was nearly twice as high, 38 percent. Large families make it harder to find child care. They also reduce the economic rewards of working, since baby-sitting bills are higher.
A fourth explanation for the racial differences is on geography. The census data show 64 percent of black recipients lived in census tracts where at least a fifth of the population was poor. The figure for Hispanic recipients was also very high, 55 percent. But for whites it was just 21 percent. That not only suggests that black and Hispanic people live farther from jobs. It may also mean they have less work experience. "A lot of the people who have been on the rolls for the longest period of time have no one to vouch for them," said Bruce Katz, of the Brookings Institution, a research organization in Washington.
A fifth disadvantage can be seen in the census data. Minority recipients started out poorer. About 74 percent of black and 72 percent of Hispanic recipients spent the entire year in poverty, compared with 63 percent of whites. Given broader income trends, it follows that white recipients may also find it easier to turn to more prosperous relatives for help.
Among the unknowns is whether the racial imbalance will grow or diminish. "The big question is whether this is who leaves first, or who leaves ever," said Christopher Jencks, a Harvard sociologist. Like some others, Mr. Jencks warns that "the more black and Hispanic the program becomes, the more political pressure there is to cut back." Then again, he notes, "most people already thought that it was all black and Hispanic."
"So," he said, "it may not make as much difference as you might at first think."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); STATES (US); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; FORECASTS; ELECTION ISSUES; ENGLISH LANGUAGE HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); ETHNICITY (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON ROBERT T MATSUI (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1998



607 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: For Teachers, a Mix of Old and New Techniques

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Heather Mac Donald (Op-Ed, July 20) is right that it is wrong to insist on the "teacher professionalization" model. 
 Unfortunately, in California neither Gov. Pete Wilson nor Milton Friedman, the Nobel laureate, would be able to teach government or economics, respectively, without being subjected to the excruciating torture of the useless courses required to become a certified teacher.
We blame teachers for the failure of public education, but it is high time that our efforts were directed to real reform of the institutions that are charged with their training.
 
CARLOS A. BONILLA
Stockton, Calif., July 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: STOCKTON, CA, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); STOCKTON, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (87%); NOBEL PRIZES (84%); AWARDS & PRIZES (84%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: PETE BARTON WILSON (73%); MILTON FRIEDMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1998



608 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: States Ease Restrictions On Hospitals

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, July 26

 BODY:
Under pressure from hospitals demanding greater flexibility to compete, New Jersey and a growing number of other states have begun to lift restrictions on the kind of specialized services and new technology that hospitals can provide.
Most states began imposing the restrictions two decades ago, mainly to hold down costs by limiting duplicative services at hospitals in the same area. The states required hospitals and other institutions to demonstrate a need in the community before expanding services like cardiac surgery and organ transplants. 
 Now, with managed care squeezing costs out of the health care system, some hospitals say the restrictions are no longer needed. And some hospital officials say the regulations impede their efforts to compete aggressively for patients and for contracts with managed care companies looking for hospitals that can offer an array of services for their members.
The effort to loosen the restrictions is opposed by many urban hospitals, which now offer most of the specialized services. They are concerned that allowing suburban and smaller community hospitals to offer many of the same services will jeopardize their financial standing because they are likely to lose some insured patients.
For patients who live in suburban and rural areas, the changes could mean that they would get more specialized services at hospitals closer to home. But critics say the quality of care could be compromised at some of those hospitals if they do not have expertise in providing highly specialized services.
In New Jersey, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman signed legislation earlier this month that ends the requirement that hospitals win state approval to open pediatric and maternity wards and to expand other services like ambulatory surgery and magnetic resonance imaging.
The new law, though, would continue to require state approval for some highly specialized services like cardiac surgery, organ transplants and neonatal intensive care while a new state commission studies whether state approval should remain mandatory in those areas.
Thirty-seven states still require some approval of specialized services under what are known as certificate-of-need laws, and efforts to eliminate the review process failed in several of those states, including Georgia and Washington, this year.
New York and Connecticut have maintained the state approval laws, but they have recently taken steps aimed at streamlining what hospital officials view as a cumbersome and costly approval process.
Several states have ended the approval process. In Pennsylvania, the Legislature did not renew its certificate-of-need law in late 1996, allowing suburban and rural hospitals across the state to begin opening maternity wards and offering cardiac bypass surgery. North Dakota also rescinded its approval law. Ohio phased out its law this spring, setting off fierce competition among hospitals in some cities and towns over what services to provide.
Supporters of certificate-of-need laws say that allowing hospitals to offer whatever services they want could jeopardize the quality of health care. They point to numerous studies that show quantity drives quality in some specialized procedures like organ transplants and bypass surgery. They say patients have better outcomes at hospitals that perform a high volume of such procedures.
"We don't believe that the market is going to control unnecessary spending," said Suzanne Ianni, executive director of the Hospital Alliance of New Jersey, which represents mostly urban hospitals. "The process now also recognizes the unlevel playing field between urban hospitals and other institutions. Many of the specialized services and technology are now at the urban hospitals, which brings in a suburban population to pay for those services. Paying patients help subsidize the other community services and coverage for the uninsured that urban hospitals now provide to a medically underserved patient population."
But opponents of the regulations say that patients who do not want to travel to big-city hospitals for specialized care should be able to find similar services closer to home.
"It just does not make sense in today's market," said Valerie Sellers, vice president of health care planning at the New Jersey Hospital Association. "Hospitals need more flexibility. They need to be able to respond to market forces. The process is too burdensome. It is too costly. To maintain a regulatory process that is that inflexible is not responsible in a competitive market."
In some states, for-profit hospital chains like Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corporation have been leading lobbying efforts to rescind certificate-of-need laws because the approval process often represents a barrier in breaking into the market.
Ohio completed phasing out its state approval laws in March. As a result, community hospitals are now considering performing cardiac surgery, and for-profit hospital chains are moving in and building "boutique" hospitals that offer only cardiac and orthopedic surgical services.
"We have had a real building boom," said Gretchen McBeath, a lawyer for the Ohio Hospital Association. "We have seen it in a lot of areas, particularly ambulatory surgical centers and new hospitals. Another area that has exploded is obstetrics."
Ms. McBeath said that in towns with two hospitals, only one of the hospitals usually offered obstetric care, but that is changing.
"We have had 14 new obstetrics services added, which is a lot," she said.
Ms. McBeath said there has also been a huge expansion in the number of kidney dialysis stations opened. When the state dropped its regulations governing the expansion of kidney dialysis stations in May 1995, she said state health officials estimated that about 59 new stations were needed statewide. Since 1995, Ms. McBeath said, 847 kidney dialysis stations have opened.
"It can improve access," she said. "But the other side of the argument is that you need to have a critical mass to guarantee quality."
To address concerns about the quality of care, New Jersey's new law would increase the state's oversight of new hospital services through stricter licensing procedures. Both Ohio and Pennsylvania have also imposed new rules to help protect quality of care.
"We are no longer in the franchise business," said Daniel F. Hoffman, Pennsylvania's Secretary of Health. "We are no longer in the business of saying, yes, you can, or you cannot, have open heart surgery. But if you have open heart surgery, you do have to follow our rules and regulations relative to quality and access. The rules cover everything from architectural design to staffing requirements to support services."
Pennsylvania has not seen the level of growth that some had predicted, although several suburban hospitals are now performing cardiac surgery, Mr. Hoffman said.
Len Fishman, New Jersey's Health Commissioner, said the state commission would consider the impact of a further lifting of restrictions on hospital services.
"I think that one of the most important issues that the commission will consider is what any further exceptions would have on inner-city hospitals," Mr. Fishman said.
Thomas R. Piper, director of the certificate of need program in Missouri and a former past president of the American Health Planning Council, said he thought that it was a mistake for states to lift all or most of their requirements, considering the billions of state and Federal dollars spent on health care.
"As government increases its share of what is being spent, we have a situation here of some states reducing the amount of their input," Mr. Piper said. "The certificate of need is one of the few ways that government and the public have a say in developing health care services."
But Daniel A. Kane, president of Englewood Hospital and Medical Center in Bergen County, N.J., said that government cannot expect hospitals to be more competitive and then not give them the tools to compete. He said Englewood Hospital now has most of the services that it wants, except for cardiac surgery. He said the hospital is seeking state approval to offer that.
"The barriers to entry oftentimes have little to do with quality or cost," he said. "It really is a question of protecting existing providers from competition. We believe that quality can be protected, through licensing standards. And in a competitive marketplace, if you make a bad economic decision, you are punished for those decisions by the marketplace."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; STATES (US); HOSPITALS; FINANCES; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING HOSPITALS (92%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (89%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); PEDIATRICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RURAL HEALTH (78%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (76%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); BUDGETS (72%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (71%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1998



609 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: For $250 Million, Convenience Stores Beat Day at Beach

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

DATELINE: GREENWICH, Conn., July 26

 BODY:
In a stunning triumph of optimism over simple arithmetic, Americans tapped their savings, choked sidewalks and interstate highways and blissfully endured hours in the summer sun today as they lined up by the millions for a 1-in-80-million shot at a quarter-billion dollars.
After the Powerball lottery game announced the biggest single jackpot in the world's history, people flocked across state lines to Connecticut, the District of Columbia and the 19 other states where Powerball tickets are sold. 
 Jay K. Patel of Forest Hills, Queens, spent $3,000 at Greenwich Cigar and Stationery, where police had set up pylons, barricades and yellow "Caution" tape to control the crowd. "Dollar and dream -- that's all you think," Mr. Patel said as the shop's single lottery machine chugged out his pink and orange slips. "Now, I have 3,000 dreams."
Ernie Kovic, 28, a waiter from the Bronx who said he was studying aircraft design at a trade school, bought 3,000 tickets with money he said he had been saving for tuition. "If I win, I won't have to go to school," he explained. "Heck, I can buy my own aircraft."
And this was only Day 1. The latest and largest installment of lotto mania was born at 3 A.M. today, when game officials in West Des Moines determined that no one had bought a winning ticket in the Powerball drawing on Saturday night. So that jackpot rolled into Wednesday night's drawing, when the right six numbers will be worth an estimated $250 million before taxes, based on an annual payout for 20 years. Winners may choose beforehand to get a lump sum, which is estimated at $150 million. Multiple winners would divide the prize.
Powerball players select 5 numbers from a pool of 49 and a sixth number from a separate pool of 42. Lottery officials and experts say that if only one person correctly picks all 6 numbers on Wednesday, the prize will eclipse the previous record for a single winner's jackpot, $195 million, which was won in May by a Wisconsin man on another Powerball drawing. Only one lottery game has had a bigger purse. Last year's Christmas lottery drawing in Spain had a $270 million purse, but the grand prize was only $2 million.
Powerball officials said they would not know until Monday how many tickets were sold today, but they said it was more than the 4.5 million that were sold last Sunday.
"It's the greed factor: Bigger is better," said Douglas A. Orr, the marketing ccordinator of the Multi-State Lottery Association, a group in West Des Moines that runs the game. He said officials expected to sell about 150 million tickets before the drawing at 10:59 P.M. on Wednesday. For the record pot in May, 138 million were sold. A ticket costs $1. The chance of winning is 1 in 80 million.
For retailers, every number is a lucky number: Stores keep about 5 to 7 cents for each ticket they sell, Mr. Orr said.
The huge prizes have served as a swift vindication for the multistate lottery, which was formed in 1988 as Lotto America by smaller states, mostly in the Midwest. They could not compete with the jackpots of the larger states and so decided to pool their sales.
Barry A. Miller, the editor of Lotto World, a monthly magazine published in Naples, Fla., predicted that the Powerball prize would lure droves of first-time players of all incomes, shades and classes. "Most people know it's a fantasy," he said. "But someone wins, and it could be you." Mr. Miller plans to have a friend in Bridgeport, Conn., buy him one ticket. "I never overspend," he said.
Despite their popularity, lotteries have long been a controversial part of American history, said Dennis Rudd, who teaches courses on gambling and lottery operations at Robert Morris College in Pittsburgh.
In some instances, people staged private lotteries to finance schools, roads, churches and other institutions. The Revolutionary War and Reconstruction, in particular, featured numerous endeavors built largely with lottery-powered money, Mr. Rudd said. But lotteries often had a mixed reputation, because of allegations of corruption.
In recent years, as states have become more involved in running lotteries, the moral debate over lotteries has subsided somewhat, Mr. Rudd said. And the big question, it seems, is how much bigger the grand prize can grow -- and to what lengths people are willing to go to pursue something that they have no realistic chance of snaring.
Mr. Rudd should know. Today, he drove an hour from his home in Pittsburgh to a gas station in Chester, W.Va., to buy five tickets. There were more than 200 people in line, he said, including one couple who had driven nine hours from North Carolina.
There were dentists, truck drivers, the unemployed. Some people bought a single Powerball ticket, Mr. Rudd said. One person bought 4,000. All were talking the same language.
"I think you realize you're not going to win," Mr. Rudd said. "But you have a chance, and you have as good a chance as the next guy."
Mr. Rudd's sentiments were echoed throughout the country, in gas stations, convenience stores, anywhere that posted any variation of the spell-inducing words: Yes, We Have Powerball Tickets.
At the State Line Grocery in Fitzwilliam, N.H., Chuck Kiritsy said that he had sold more than 24,000 Powerball tickets over the last seven days, about 12 times as high than normal. Many buyers were from Massachusetts, he said.
"People are absolutely crazy," Mr. Kiritsy said. "They don't know anything about the game or even how to check their numbers. They're just spending money."
Because Powerball tickets are not sold in New York or New Jersey, Powerball fever has brought a fleeting democracy to Greenwich, the first Connecticut town New Yorkers reach on Interstate 95, a town where Escorts jockeyed with Jaguars on streets with shops sporting precious awnings and pricey merchandise.
For some, the frenzy was frightening. Gerald Guerrier, who works for a lottery machine service firm in Rocky Hill, Conn., nursed broken ticket printers today with the urgency of a heart surgeon. Crowds outside his various stops cursed as he went in and cheered as he left.
"At one deli, the owner told the crowd, 'If he doesn't fix the machine, kill him,' " Mr. Guerrier said with wide eyes. "One lady said, 'No witnesses would testify.' "
At 8 tonight, 300 people were lined up at Putnam Shell in Greenwich. Anticipating even bigger crowds on Monday, the Greenwich police have doubled their day shift to 40 officers from 20, and set up barricades at 10 stores, Lieut. David C. Ridberg said.
Because of the rush, many stores told patrons they could not play their carefully chosen numbers, and would sell only "quick picks" chosen by the lottery machines.
A Powerball riot nearly broke out at Zyn Stationery here when Consuelo Sipsas of Queens tried to slip into the store ahead of 100 people in a line presided over by three Greenwich police officers. Cries of "The woman in white!" and "Shoot her" erupted from the crowd, and an officer evicted her.
"What can I say? I felt lucky," Mrs. Sipsas, 47, said as she moved up the street toward another Powerball outlet.
When the store closed at 6 P.M. after selling 15,000 tickets in 12 hours, some people shouted at Officer Terral A. Hardy as he dispersed the scores who remained. "Go 10 more miles up the interstate and you wouldn't have to wait," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 30, 1998, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about people flocking to Greenwich, Conn., to buy Powerball tickets misstated one of the ways the jackpot is paid. Winners who choose to play for the full prize amount receive an initial payment at the time they win and then receive payments for 24 more years. The payments are not made over 20 years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: People waited up to three hours yesterday outside Zyn Stationers in Greenwich, Conn., to buy tickets for Wednesday's drawing in the multistate Powerball lottery. The jackpot is expected to be $250 million. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; WASHINGTON (DC); ; UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LOTTERIES LOTTERIES (91%); RETAILERS (90%); CONVENIENCE STORES (76%); TICKET SALES (75%); TUITION FEES (72%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, MIKE DENNIS RUDD (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1998



610 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: A Fistful Of Hostility Is Found In Women

BYLINE: By ABIGAIL ZUGER 

 BODY:
In the old Punch and Judy shows of the last century, Punch would batter Judy under the stage while the audience roared. But now it seems likely that in their private moments together Judy gave Punch back a bit of his own.
 Researchers studying human aggression are discovering that, in contrast to the usual stereotypes, patterns of aggression among girls and women under some circumstances may mirror or even exaggerate those seen in boys and men. And while women's weapons are often words, fists may be used, too. 
 In a large-scale review of dozens of studies of physical hostility in heterosexual relationships, Dr. John Archer, a psychologist at the University of Central Lancashire in Great Britain, has found that although women sustain more serious and visible injuries than men during domestic disputes, overall they are just as likely as men to resort to physical aggression during an argument with a sexual partner.
 Dr. Archer compiled interviews with tens of thousands of men and women in Canada, Great Britain, the United States and New Zealand, and discovered that women who argued with their dates or mates were actually even slightly more likely than men to use some form of physical violence, ranging from slapping, kicking and biting, to choking or using a weapon. The pattern was particularly pronounced among younger women and women who were dating a partner rather than married to or living with him, he said.
 "Whatever the base rate of physical aggression in the population, women tended to have a slightly higher rate than men," Dr. Archer said. In contrast, though, most instances of serious violence in his study were caused by men, as were most injuries that required medical care: Women accounted for 65 to 70 percent of those requiring medical help as a result of violence between partners.
 Still, "the large minority of men who got injured is fascinating," Dr. Archer said. "It counters a certain entrenched view of partner violence as being exclusively male to female."
 Dr. Archer's study was reported at a meeting of the International Society for Research on Aggression held at Ramapo College in Mahwah, N.J., earlier this month. It is an extraordinary study, said Dr. Anne Campbell, a psychologist at the University of Durham in Great Britain, because it lends support to an emerging theory that women may respond to certain environmental stresses with physically aggressive behaviors that are analogous to men's, although often on a different scale of intensity.
For instance, she said, criminologists know that although men are more likely to commit crimes than women, crime rates in the genders are also strongly correlated. In other words, in impoverished, "high crime" areas, rates of both violent and nonviolent crimes increase proportionally among men and women.
"Unlike men, though, women tend to view crime as work rather than adventure," Dr. Campbell said. For example, women spend more of the proceeds of nonviolent crimes on staples rather than on luxuries. And women often commit violent crimes against other women with the very pragmatic purpose of attracting the protection and financial support of a "well-resourced" man.
Patterns of domestic homicide also indicate that women are capable of significant violence, although often only as a last resort. Although the vast majority of all murders are committed by men, "intimate partner" homicides were split about equally between the sexes until about 20 years ago, said Dr. Daniel Nagin, a public policy expert at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh.
In the last two decades, intimate-partner homicides have declined by about 30 percent. Dr. Nagin noted, however, that the decline has been primarily in rates of women killing men, and correlates strongly with several environmental changes.
"The decline appears to be related to an improved relative economic status of females, and a decline in exposure to violent relationships," Dr. Nagin said.
This drop also correlates with the availability of alternatives to violence for women: In an ongoing study of domestic homicides in 29 cities in the United States, the availability of resources like shelters for battered women and legal advocacy for them has correlated strongly with lower rates of domestic homicide committed by women.
"The resources for women seem to be saving the men's lives," Dr. Nagin said.
The experts in human aggression are now aware that even in childhood similarities between male and female aggression are more substantial than is usually recognized.
Until about five years ago scientists studying aggression tended to include only direct physical or verbal efforts to injure another person. Then they discovered that great damage can be done to another person so subtly that even the victim is unaware. The badmouthing, gossip and smear campaigns that can demolish an opponent as well as direct verbal or physical assaults are now formally known in psychological circles as "indirect aggression," and their patterns are tracked as carefully as punches and kicks.
With indirect aggression factored in, aggression in childhood is no longer primarily a male affair.
In a large observational study of "trajectories of aggression" in children, Dr. Richard E. Tremblay of the Universite de Montreal has found that physical aggression in both sexes seems to peak around age 2, then decline steadily, although it remains consistently more common in boys. Indirect aggression, however, becomes more prevalent as children grow older and is consistently more common in girls.
The effect of external stimuli on these trajectories is still under intensive speculation, but one long-term study suggests that the omnipresent influence of television violence may correlate with overall aggressive behavior in boys and girls in both the short and the long term.
In a 20-year study of more than 300 Chicago-area children, led by Dr. L. Rowell Huesmann at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, the more violent television a child watched at ages 6 through 8, the more aggressive behavior that child displayed, no matter what the child's sex.
And in interviews 15 years later with the grown-up study participants, the correlation between the television viewing habits of childhood and adult behavior patterns persisted, Dr. Huesmann said at the Ramapo College meeting. The more television violence the child watched, the more aggressive the man or woman became. The correlation was especially marked among those children who told researchers that they identified with the characters on the television screen, and thought the events depicted were real.
For instance, 16.7 percent of the young women who had been "high violence" television viewers as girls reported having punched, beat or choked another adult, in contrast to 3.6 percent of others. Thirty-seven percent of the "high violence" viewing women had thrown something at a spouse during an argument, in contrast to 16 percent of the others.
"The evidence is pretty compelling that there is a strong longitudinal effect," Dr. Huesmann said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (52%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY FOR RESEARCH ON AGGRESSION XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (52%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY FOR RESEARCH ON AGGRESSION

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DOMESTIC VIOLENCE; WOMEN; MEN; AGGRESSION; VIOLENCE; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS VIOLENT CRIME (90%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (90%); WOMEN (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (88%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (62%); 

PERSON: ARCHER, JOHN (DR); CAMPBELL, ANNE (DR); ZUGER, ABIGAIL JOHN ARCHER (85%); DANIEL NAGIN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



611 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: State Presses Inquiry Into Corruption In Broadway Ticket Sales

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME 

 BODY:
The New York State Attorney General's office is close to wrapping up an investigation of what officials say are rampant kickbacks and price-gouging practices involving the biggest theaters on Broadway and the most powerful entertainment and sports venues in the city, officials said yesterday. 
 One target is the Roundabout Theater, whose "Cabaret," temporarily closed because of the construction accident in Times Square, has become one of the most coveted tickets in years. Ellen Richard, the Roundabout's general manager, said the theater has been cooperating with the Attorney General's office since it was asked to turn over records.
The Roundabout was named as a subject of the investigation yesterday in the Daily Variety.
But David Corvette, a spokesman for the office of Attorney General Dennis C. Vacco, said similar requests for information had been made to more than a dozen other theaters and entertainment companies. He said the investigation goes far beyond the Roundabout to what investigators believe is rampant corruption that is inflating ticket prices for entertainment and sports events. The investigation includes many of the most recognized names in the theater and entertainment industry, Mr. Corvette said, but declined to name them.
The investigation was greeted with skepticism by many people involved in the theater and ticket industries, who said some degree of price inflation for coveted tickets had always been a part of the entertainment business. They added that campaigns against ticket scalping or price gouging have long been popular ploys for politicians in election years.
The most common form of corruption is what is called ice, in which box offices overcharge ticket brokers for tickets to choice events, adding costs that are then passed along to consumers, many of them out-of-towners intent on getting tickets to events that sold out long ago.
"We think that ice is rampant in the industry, and that it's a major reason people have to pay so much to go to Broadway or concerts these days," Mr. Corvette said. The practices being investigated would affect consumers who buy tickets through brokers rather than those who buy them directly from a box office. But, he said, the Attorney General's office believed that the ingrained price gouging over time had the effects of inflating ticket prices across the board.
Targets of the investigation, he said, include "the most prominent Broadway venues along with some of the most prominent concert and entertainment venues."
He said the department is taking depositions in connection with its investigation and is preparing to file lawsuits or take other legal steps. The department's investigation should be completed "within the next couple of months," Mr. Corvette said.
 One official of a company that deals in theater tickets also argued that ice, ticket scalping or other practices had long been part of the entertainment business. He said the investigation had more to do with politics than with lower prices. Attorney General Vacco, a Republican, is running for re-election in November.
"I have no doubt ice exists," said the official who spoke on condition of anonymity. "It does exist, it always has existed and it always will exist. But I think you have about as much chance of stomping it out as you have of outlawing prostitution. We see these kind of investigations all the time, particularly in election years, but I don't think it's likely to change anything."
Ms. Richard of the Roundabout said, "I have no knowledge of anything happening here, but if someone in our box office is selling tickets, I would really like to find out about it and see them prosecuted. We're a not-for-profit theater. Someone making money off our tickets is offensive to me."
But an official with the Attorney General's office said the abuse being investigated at the Roundabout appeared to be more the theater's common practice of selling tickets to brokers at prices above those allowed by law -- meaning not more than $5 or 10 percent above the ticket price -- rather than the actions of one rogue individual.
The Attorney General's office said it believed that the practice is endemic in the entertainment industry, an official said.
The Attorney General's office has taken action in other investigations related to ticket pricing. Joseph Nekola, the former manager of the Jones Beach Theater, pleaded guilty last month to second-degree grand larceny and third-degree computer tampering in the theft of more than 8,000 tickets for the theater's 1996 summer concert series. In April, Janet Rosenblatt and Gerald Nahay, owners of the Manhattan theater company Tickets on Request, were charged with selling tickets to sports events and concerts at rates as high as 830 percent above the face value on the tickets.
The office has also sought information from concertgoers about where they got their tickets and how much they paid.
No action has been taken against any of the big-name entertainment companies and theaters said to be the subject of the current inquiry.
Mr. Corvette denied that the two-year-old investigation had more to do with publicity than law enforcement.
"Just because this sort of thing has gone on for years does not make it right or justify the impact it has on the exorbitant prices for tickets that consumers have to pay," he said. "If we can put a dent in that, we've accomplished something."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CABARET (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROUNDABOUT THEATER CO NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROUNDABOUT THEATER CO NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TICKET SCALPING; THEATER; CONSUMER PROTECTION; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS ATTORNEYS GENERAL (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); TICKET SALES (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); THEATER (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); TICKET AGENCIES (89%); BRIBERY (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (86%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); LITIGATION (73%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (68%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (56%); 

PERSON: CORVETTE, DAVID; VACCO, DENNIS C (ATTY GEN); APPLEBOME, PETER DAVID CORVETTE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



612 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Sales of Existing Single-Family Homes Slip a Bit

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
Sales of existing single-family homes slipped in June from May's high level but remained robust.
The decrease, 2.3 percent, brought the seasonally adjusted annual sales rate to 4.72 million, down from 4.83 million, the National Association of Realtors said today. 
 Sales increases in the Midwest and the South were more than offset by drops in the West and Northeast. Although the overall decline was somewhat above what analysts had forecast, they were not concerned.
"We have all gotten so spoiled by seeing new records month after month in home resales that we should remember any reading above a 4.5 million annual level is spectacular," said David Orr, an economist for the First Union Corporation.
Low American interest rates, a side effect of Asia's economic turmoil, are helping to keep sales strong by keeping monthly mortgage payments affordable.
Rates for fixed-rate, 30-year loans averaged 7 percent in June, according to Freddie Mac, the mortgage company. Except for 1993, when the average briefly dipped to 6.75 percent, rates have not been lower since the late 1960's.
Also, with the unemployment rate near a 28-year low in June and stock market gains in double digits, more Americans can afford to buy a home.
"Given favorable interest rates and income trends, we expect home sales to remain strong," said Karen Dexter, an economist with Merrill Lynch & Company.
Fred Flick, the realtors' vice president for economic research, predicted sales for all of 1998 would total around 4.54 million, 7.7 percent higher than 1997, when a record 4.21 million homes were sold.
Sales in the West fell 10.9 percent in June to an annual rate of 980,000 units, while sales in the Northeast fell by 5.6 percent, to a rate of 670,000 units. Sales rose 1.7 percent, to a rate of 1.2 million units in the Midwest, and 1.6 percent, to a rate of 1.87 million units in the South. Nationwide, the median price of an existing-home sale was $134,600 in June, up 5.8 percent from a year earlier. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (75%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (75%); MIDWEST USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES EXISTING HOME SALES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); HOME PRICES (78%); TRENDS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



613 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Malaysia Postpones $2 Billion Bond Sale

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, July 27

 BODY:
Malaysia said today that it had postponed an international sale of $2 billion in bonds because two credit-rating agencies lowered their assessment of the country last week.
The delay in the fund-raising effort could prolong the nation's economic problems. Malaysia's economy contracted at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the first quarter, its first decline in 13 years, and the Government expects a contraction of between 1 percent and 2 percent during the full year. 
 The money from the bond sale was to be used to help retire bad debts held by the nation's banks.
The downgrading of Malaysia's sovereign credit rating by the two agencies, Moody's Investors Service Inc. and the Standard & Poor's Corporation, left the rating only a few levels above "junk" status. When it does bring the Government bonds to market, Malaysia will probably have to pay a higher interest rate to reflect the downgrading.
Still, bankers noted that Malaysia was already paying a high premium on bonds issued by the state-owned oil company. So although the ratings cut was embarrassing for Malaysia, it will probably not drastically increase the price the country will have to pay to raise money from the debt issue, they said.
The country's Finance Minister, Anwar Ibrahim, had planned to visit the United States to promote the sale of the bonds in a so-called road show. But the ministry said today that "the Government will only bring a transaction to the market once market conditions are conducive for an issue."
Ivan Lee, head of Asian fixed-income research at Salomon Smith Barney in Hong Kong, said: "Now the story line has to be different. They need to revise the road-show material. The old material was based on one rating; now it's got to be geared to the new one."
Moody's cut Malaysia's foreign currency debt rating to Baa2 from A2. S.& P. cut its rating one notch, to BBB+ -- three levels above junk -- from A-.
Hurt by the downgrading and a decline on the Tokyo market, Malaysian stock prices fell today, with the benchmark index decreasing 2.5 percent, to 408.04, its lowest point since 1989. The delay in the bond sale "may cause the market to drift down a bit," said Lai Tak Heong, head of Malaysian research at SG Research here. "It's important to get that under way."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NQE (AMEX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (83%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (99%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (59%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE; STANDARD & POOR'S CORP STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (83%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (70%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE; STANDARD & POOR'S CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA; MALAYSIA (99%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (59%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS BONDS (94%); CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); BOND ISSUES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); SOVEREIGN RISK (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); TRENDS (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT (75%); SALES & SELLING (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



614 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Henri Ziegler, Aviation Figure, Is Dead at 91

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: ROME, July 27

 BODY:
Henri Ziegler, a trained pilot and commander of the Free French Air Force in World War II who helped start some of Europe's most ambitious postwar aviation projects, including the Concorde supersonic jetliner and the Airbus civilian airliner program, died at a nursing home in Paris on July 23. He was 91.
Mr. Ziegler, once denounced as a traitor by a French Government minister for suggesting that France should abandon its splendid isolation and cooperate with other European governments to produce jetliners, lived to see Airbus Industrie, the consortium that he founded and ran from 1970 to 1975, emerge as a vigorous challenger to the Boeing Company as a premier supplier of planes to the world's airlines. 
 Airbus has clawed its way from a fragile alliance of British and French aircraft manufacturers in the early 1970's, to dominance of roughly one-half of the orders placed around the world this year for civilian aircraft. But when Mr. Ziegler first hinted in 1969 that without a dramatic overhaul, Europe's atomized aircraft industries would fail to keep step with aircraft industries in the United States and the Soviet Union, he faced fierce resistance from the party of the go-it-alones in France. "My views raised hell," he was later quoted by The Times of London as saying. "My minister called me into his office and said, 'You are a traitor to your country.' "
Last week, the French Prime Minister, Lionel Jospin, lauded "the memory of one of those who was at the origin of the technological and economic success of the European aeronautic and space industries."
Born Nov. 18, 1906, in Limoges, Mr. Ziegler earned degrees in management and aeronautical engineering, then entered the French Air Force, where he rose quickly to become, in 1938, deputy director of the air force test flight center. One year later, as World War II engulfed Europe, he left for the United States as part of a procurement mission to purchase badly needed aircraft and parts for the French Air Force.
After the fall of France, Mr. Ziegler returned to his occupied homeland to help organize the anti-German resistance. In 1944, he smuggled himself to Britain where, under the nom de guerre Colonel Vernon, he first commanded the ragtag Free French Air Force, then served as chief of staff of the French resistance fighting under Gen. Charles de Gaulle to liberate France.
After the war, he served briefly in Washington and London as military liaison, then joined the French national airline, Air France, in 1946. Two years later, he was named chairman, a job he held until 1954.
Mr. Ziegler held various cabinet- level posts in the 1950's, but he is best remembered for his role in building the French and European aircraft industry. In 1968, he was appointed to run Sud-Aviation, a leading aircraft manufacturer in the south of France, and charged with reorganizing the badly splintered aircraft industry. Sud-Aviation was later absorbed by the larger Societe Nationale Industrielle Aerospatiale, or Snia, which in 1984, as the core of the French aerospace industry, was renamed Aerospatiale S.A.
During his tenure at Sud-Aviation and Snia, Mr. Ziegler championed the ambitious project to join British aircraft builders to jointly develop a supersonic civilian jetliner, the Concorde, which entered regular service, flying at twice the speed of sound, in January 1976. Mr. Ziegler later published a memoir of the project titled "The Great Adventure of the Concorde."
By the mid-1960's, Britain and France were casting about for further ways to unite the forces of their fragmented aircraft industries in a bid to challenge the dominance of the United States, which at the time produced 85 percent of the world's commercial aircraft. Contacts between the British Aircraft Corporation and Hawker Siddeley Aviation with French and German aircraft manufacturers led to the first design studies for a new range of civilian jetliners, beginning with a twin-engine wide-body airliner, which was started in October 1972, as the Airbus 300B. In 1970, Mr. Ziegler had been named to head a consortium of companies to build the plane, and against the bitter resistance of a part of the French bureaucracy he championed the idea of a unified management and sales organization. He stayed at Airbus until 1975, laying the groundwork for the later enlargement of the consortium by the addition of British and Spanish companies.
If Airbus is Mr. Ziegler's greatest legacy, the supersonic Concorde may have been his greatest commercial disappointment. Together with his British counterpart, Sir George Edwards, chairman of British Aircraft, he vigorously lobbied American political leaders and airline officials, and at least six American airlines originally took options to purchase 31 Concordes.
In 1971, President Richard M. Nixon toured a Concorde that had carried President Georges Pompidou of France to a meeting of the two leaders and expressed enthusiasm. To further promote the Concorde, Mr. Ziegler publicly urged a joint European-American project for an even larger supersonic plane for the 1980's. But Boeing, joined by environmental organizations that objected to its noise, fought the Concorde. Thus, the decision in 1973 by Trans World Airlines and Pan American World Airways, then the largest American carriers, to cancel their orders was a major setback. Other American airlines soon followed suit, and the Concorde's entry into the crucial American market was effectively blocked.
Mr. Ziegler is survived by four children. A son, Bernard Ziegler, served as senior vice president for engineering at Airbus Industrie until his retirement last year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Henri Ziegler (Camera Press, 1973)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); AF (PAR) (51%); AF (AMS) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (93%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (85%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (57%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (93%); FREE SAS (85%); BOEING CO (84%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (51%); FREE FRENCH AIR FORCE (71%); SOCIETE NATIONALE INDUSTRIELLE AEROSPATIALE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: FREE FRENCH AIR FORCE (71%); SOCIETE NATIONALE INDUSTRIELLE AEROSPATIALE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (57%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); AIRLINES (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (70%); ENGINEERING (64%); 

PERSON: ZIEGLER, HENRI; TAGLIABUE, JOHN LIONEL JOSPIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



615 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1944 words

HEADLINE: Floribunda! The Business Of Blooms Consolidates;
A Mixed Bouquet of Acquisitions Has Built U.S.A. Floral Products

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

DATELINE: MIAMI

 BODY:
The scene at 5 A.M. in the Miami International Airport cargo area hasn't changed much over the years. Refrigerated trucks with logos of companies like Atlantic Bouquet, CFX ("The Cut Flower Experts") and Continental Farms still rumble through the security gates, back up to the loading docks and fill their trailers with boxes of roses, lilies, chrysanthemums, baby's breath, bird of paradise and dozens of other kinds of flowers.
Then they make their way along Northwest 25th Street to the swath of industrial parks five miles away that is the hub of Miami's flower-distribution business. By 7 A.M., the flower companies' sales reps are hitting the phones, scrambling to find buyers for any inventory that hasn't already been sold. 
 Beneath all the hubbub, though, one thing is very different than it once was -- and as a result, American shoppers can expect to find a lot more flowers in a lot more outlets before too long. Those Atlantic Bouquet, CFX and Continental Farms trucks -- as well as rigs with a half-dozen other names splashed across their sides -- now all belong to a single company, U.S.A. Floral Products Inc.
The consolidation craze that has swept through industry after industry during the last few years -- from insurance and banking to publishing and railroads -- has percolated down to an unlikely corner of the American marketplace: flowers.
And leading the pack is U.S.A. Floral, which aspires to be the undisputed giant of the $14 billion flower trade. In the last year, it has snapped up 14 mom-and-pop distributors, wholesalers and bouquet makers for a total cost of $152 million. It owns companies in 22 states and Canada and says it will soon expand into Europe and Asia.
Just this month, U.S.A. Floral announced plans to purchase eight more floral businesses around the country for $17.4 million in cash and stock. These include Channel Islands Floral, a bouquet maker in California; Floramark, a Denver-based bouquet maker, and Evergreen Wholesale Florist in Seattle.
Few people will notice U.S.A. Floral's growing market presence because it is letting the companies that it acquires keep their names, largely because of the brand loyalty of many of their customers.
But already, its revenues have shot up to a projected $561 million this year, from $184 million in 1997, the company says, and it confidently predicts that sales will soar to $1 billion next year.
When asked how big U.S.A. Floral wants to be, Robert J. Poirier, its chairman and chief executive, responds with a question of his own: "How big is the floral industry?"
"I'm a small part of floral consumption over all," he said. "There is a tremendous amount of business that is left on the table."
Not everybody -- least of all a lot of investors -- shares Mr. Poirier's enthusiasm, however. The company went public last October at $13 a share, and its stock surged to a peak of $23.875 in February. But it has sunk since then, dropping as low as $15.375 in mid-June before recovering a bit. Analysts blame a lack of investor enthusiasm for consolidation companies. U.S.A. Floral Products' shares fell 25 cents on Monday, to $15.75, in Nasdaq trading.
Recently, the risks of the so-called roll-up strategy have become evident, with analysts saying that some companies have grown too quickly, failed to integrate operations, relied too much on a few large customers and used large acquisitions to mask serious operating problems.
None of that fazes Mr. Poirier, who says the current price still represents a premium from the $13 offering.
Mr. Poirier, a 23-year veteran of the flower industry, is overseeing U.S.A. Floral's expansion with the help of a pioneer in the relatively new field of consolidating small, fragmented industries, Jonathan J. Ledecky.
Mr. Ledecky, who is the nonexecutive chairman of the company and its largest shareholder with a stake of more than 8 percent, founded the U.S. Office Products Company in 1995 and built it into a $2.8 billion giant by buying hundreds of independent stationery stores and furniture and office-product suppliers that were struggling to survive against Office Depot and Staples. And last year, he formed the Consolidated Capital Corporation to string together businesses in similarly dispersed industries.
Mr. Poirier said he was following Mr. Ledecky's strategy of buying high-quality companies at a modest premium and letting them continue as independent operators with their old names and suppliers intact. "This is a video replay of U.S. Office Products," he said.
But the similarity may be what has jaded investors. And Mr. Poirier is also quick to point out the ways in which his business model differs from that of U.S. Office Products. His focus on buying only floral companies and moving quickly to consolidate operations has helped U.S.A. Floral escape some of the criticisms facing U.S. Office Products these days. And one significant difference -- the use of the purchase method of accounting versus pooling to record acquisitions -- should keep Federal regulators at bay. It may also stave off steep stock price declines like those experienced by U.S. Office Products, whose shares have plunged about 66 percent since June 1.
While some other flower companies are also growing, U.S.A. Floral is a standout. Its most formidable competitor is probably the Dole Food Company, the $4.3 billion California conglomerate, whose flower sales surged from nothing to $100 million this year when it bought the largest wholesaler in Florida along with its production farms in South America. (Such well-known companies as 1-800-Flowers or Florists' Transworld Delivery Inc., known as F.T.D., are not direct competitors because they are essentially marketing operations and retail florist groups.)
But the main reason for U.S.A. Floral's upbeat outlook is the enormous room that it sees for the growth of the entire flower market, which is split almost evenly between the $6 billion fresh-flower business and the $8 billion industry in potted plants and vases. Only about 25 percent of Americans buy flowers regularly, compared with 60 percent of Europeans, and U.S.A. Floral is confident it can get the numbers up.
"The average American is in a grocery store two to three times a week," Mr. Poirier said. "I'd like people to start thinking that if they haven't got flowers, then there's something missing."
Flowers are a diverse business. Imagine the stems of the industry spreading throughout the nation, creating a wild arrangement of largely family-owned businesses, including roughly 9,700 domestic growers, 1,000 wholesalers, 27,000 retail florists and 23,000 supermarket floral operations. The industry has its tap roots in Latin America, and the pot, so to speak, is centered around the Miami airport, where approximately 100 importers handle roughly 70 percent of all flowers consumed in the United States.
U.S.A. Floral isn't the only company with grand ambitions, of course. Dole's purchases last month gave it a foothold in the flower business, and it hopes that its presence in supermarket produce departments will give it a marketing edge to increase the revenues of its floral companies. (U.S.A. Floral does not own any farms but it has exclusive agreements with several farms it deals with.)
Several Miami companies are also forming alliances and considering mergers in order to make sure they are big enough to compete. And a smaller, Los Angeles-based public company, Sun Cut Floral Network, was formed earlier this year after it was acquired by a former medical technology company.
"We're not certain where all of it is going, but the trend is probably unstoppable at this point," said Alvaro Varela, president of Agriflora, a Miami importer. Mr. Varela said his company had spurned a takeover bid from U.S.A. Floral because "the group is so big already we don't know where we would fit." Instead, he said, Agriflora plans to merge with some other local distributors.
Peter Moran, the executive vice president and chief executive officer of the Society of American Florists, said the flower industry had long resisted the big-is-better mentality so prevalent in other sectors of the economy. Previous efforts to forge national floral empires have failed "because the business is really driven by relationships and outside people misjudge those relationships," he said. But things have changed. "There's definitely a mania going on," he said. "Everybody's concerned that if they're not part of a strategic relationship" they will not survive.
Still, meshing operations in the flower trade -- where maintaining the freshness of one of the world's most perishable products is the key and where "keep it moving" is the mantra -- won't be easy.
Within the space of 24 hours, flowers are harvested on farms in Ecuador, Colombia and Costa Rica; shipped to Miami; X-rayed as they pass through 33-degree refrigerated coolers and then examined by United States Department of Agriculture inspectors, all under the watchful eyes of security cameras; picked up by distributors; warehoused, and finally put on trucks bound for florists', Stop & Shops, Kroger's stores and Wal-Marts all over the country.
It is not an industry that lends itself to cookie-cutter production. At one Miami bouquet company owned by U.S.A. Floral, each worker assembles a single bouquet. At another, women stand in front of conveyor belts, dropping set numbers of particular flowers into each passing bouquet. Neither company plans to change its procedures.
Still, U.S.A. Floral believes it can save money by consolidating back-office operations like accounting, finance, insurance and employee benefits. For example, it says, it recently cut costs by more than $700,000 by combining the hazard insurance policies of 16 of its companies. It also saved almost $500,000 by channeling its telephone business to a single long-distance company. And it plans to fold its 10 Miami companies into six locations by year's end. Task forces of executives from several of the companies are exploring such other economy moves as adoption of a single computer system.
The company believes that its heft will also allow it to distribute more flowers at lower cost and save on transportation, flower handling and storage. Mr. Poirer wants to create a string of regional distributors in cities like Atlanta and Dallas to put flowers in customers' hands more quickly.
Down the road, U.S.A. Floral hopes to do joint marketing and merchandising with retailers. Today, the industry spends less than $100 million a year on flower promotions, according to Mr. Moran of the Society of American Florists. "For a $14 billion industry, that's not going to move the needle much," he said.
The ultimate goal is to make flowers so ubiquitous that Americans -- who now mostly buy them on impulse or as infrequent gifts -- will get into the habit of picking up bouquets once or twice a week. To achieve that, the industry will have to reach people like Mary J. Radford, a marketing executive in Washington, D.C.
When she lived in New York in the early 1990's, Ms. Radford bought flowers all the time at a local corner grocery store, she says. And she was an even more avid consumer when she lived in Europe in the late 1980's. "In Paris, flowers are all over the place," she said. "There are a lot of little florists' shops all over the city, and they were cheap enough to justify the cost."
But she hasn't bought a single bouquet since she moved to Washington two years ago. "I don't think about it," she said, "because they're not in front of me all the time and I have the perception that they are more expensive."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The floral activity at Atlantic Bouquet in Miami, above, is part of the business overseen by Robert J. Poirier (inset), chief of U.S.A. Floral. (Susan Greenwood for The New York Times above ; Kim Kulish for The New York Times inset )(pg. D1); The floral business isn't easy to standardize, but consolidators see a potential for economies in the pooling of administrative costs. An assembler showed off the company's products at Atlantic Bouquet Inc. in Miami. (Susan Greenwood for The New York Times)(pg. D21)
 
Graph: "Growth Business?"
U.S.A. Floral has turned itself into the biggest behind-the-scenes operation in the flower business by snapping up 30 companies since October 1997 for about $236 million, including eight just this month. But despite its rapid growth in profitability, investors are wary.
 
U.S.A. Floral's acquisitions in July 1998
TOTAL COST -- $17.4 million
 
BOUQUET MAKERS
Channel Islands
Petal Distributing
Alphaflora Imports
Sandlake Farms --
Floramark
 
WHOLESALERS
Evergreen Wholesale
Florist
Tommy's Wholesale
Florist
First Distributors
 
Graph tracks U.S.A. florals earnings per share since the fourth quarter of 1997. It also tracks the company's stock price since the beginning of the year. Yesterday: $15.75. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ROSI (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5193 FLOWERS, NURSERY STOCK, & FLORISTS' SUPPLIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHANNEL ISLANDS (53%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: USA FLORAL PRODUCTS INC USA FLORAL PRODUCTS INC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: USA FLORAL PRODUCTS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHANNEL ISLANDS (53%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FLOWERS AND PLANTS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES WHOLESALERS (89%); FLORISTS (89%); AIRLINES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (78%); FLORICULTURE PRODUCTION (77%); NURSERY WHOLESALERS (77%); SALES FORCE (74%); BRANDING (73%); BRAND EQUITY (73%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (70%); SALES PROJECTIONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: POIRIER, ROBERT J; LEDECKY, JONATHAN; KING, SHARON R ROBERT J POIRIER (77%); JONATHAN J LEDECKY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



616 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
American Express Earnings Help Push Dow Past 9,000

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
An earnings report that was stronger than expected lifted stocks out of the doldrums yesterday as most major market indexes closed higher.
But many analysts were not impressed by the rally, which pushed the Dow Jones industrial average up 1.02 percent. And the gains in the stock market did little to mask a growing bearish sentiment on Wall Street. 
 After gaining just 4.38 points on Friday, the Dow Jones industrial average roared back past 9,000 yesterday, rising 90.88 points, to 9,028.24. The rebound, led by strong gains in American Express came after the Dow fell more than 400 points last week.
Stocks began gaining ground after American Express reported second-quarter earnings that topped analysts' forecasts, helped by heavy increases in the use of its charge cards and sales of mutual fund shares.
American Express closed at 112 13/16, up 5 3/4 points, or 5.4 percent, contributing nearly 24 points to the Dow's advance.
The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 6.47 points, to 1,147.27. And the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index gained 2.27 points, to 1,933.26. Microsoft, Ericsson and Intel were among the leading gainers.
Small-company shares, however, continued to falter yesterday. The Russell index of 2,000 smaller company stocks fell 5.42 points, or 1.24 percent.
Analysts expressed concerns about the limited breadth of the rally, where gains were concentrated among a small group of large companies. And some cautioned that things could get worse for stocks.
"Predictably, after the big drop we had investors went back into the same big names," said Larry Rice, chief investment officer at Josephthal & Company. "The correction wasn't deep enough and the rally wasn't strong enough" to be sustained, he said.
Barton M. Biggs, chief global strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, warned investors yesterday that "we may have entered a cyclical bear market in the U.S. which could see the market go down 20 percent to 30 percent over a period of months or quarters."
And he cited Asia's financial crisis as a factor.
"The Asian economies are much worse than most people recognize, and they should continue to deteriorate," Mr. Biggs wrote. In addition, "Japan's election of Keizo Obuchi appears to be a negative development for Japan, Asia, and the world."
Mr. Biggs advised clients to reduce holdings of stocks because of Asia's woes. He recommended investors put 12 percent of their portfolio in large-capitalization United States stocks and 13 percent in large-cap European stocks, down from 13 percent and 14 percent, respectively. Investors should shift the money into cash or short-term securities, he said.
Asian stock markers were lower yesterday, as investors in the region expressed concern that the newly elected Prime Minister, Mr. Obuchi, would not take quick action to spur growth in the Japanese economy, which is still seen as a vital engine for the Pacific Rim's recovery.
Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 index fell 2.55 percent to a one-month low. Stock markets in Hong Kong, Malaysia and Thailand fell 2 percent or more.
In addition, commodity prices were weaker, as investors expressed similar concerns about Japan's fiscal health.
Copper fell more than 1 percent, backing away from its highest price in more than two months, amid expectations that Japan's new Government will not revive the economy of the world's second-largest copper consumer. Rising supplies, at a time of weak demand in Asia, also hurt copper prices yesterday.
"When the market's sold off in the past it has always been a good time to buy stocks," said Richard Cripps, chief market strategist at Legg Mason Inc. in Baltimore.
But "earnings numbers are coming down," he said. "There's no major driver to move equity prices higher."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Bonds End Lower
By Bloomberg News
Bonds seesawed to end lower yesterday as stocks rebounded from early losses, reducing demand for less risky Treasury securities.
The 30-year Treasury bond declined 11/32, to a price of 105 30/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.71 percent from 5.68 percent on Friday.
Early yesterday the price of the 30-year bond rose as much as 11/32 as stocks fell, but the gains evaporated as stocks rebounded.
Following are the results of the Treasury's weekly auction of three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.756	97.465	Discounted Rate	4.92%	5.01%	Coupon Yield	5.05%	5.21%	High Price	98.761	97.467	Discounted Rate	4.90%	5.01%	Coupon Yield	5.03%	5.21%	Low Price	98.756	97.462	Discounted Rate	4.92%	5.02%	Coupon Yield	5.05%	5.22%	Accepted at low price	61%	03%	Total applied for	$31,725,655	$35,962,445	Accepted	$8,878,805	$11,539,775	Noncompetitive	$1,259,555	$1,296,821	

Both issues are dated July 30, 1998. The three-month bills mature on Oct. 29, 1998, and the six-month bills mature on Jan. 28, 1999.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate at weekly auction, since April. (Source: The Bond Buyer); Another graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since July 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (92%); JOSEPHTHAL & CO INC (65%); INTEL CORP (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R BARTON M BIGGS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



617 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Asians, Reliant on Japan, React Gloomily to Leadership Choice

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, July 27

 BODY:
Japanese voters are not the only people who reacted tepidly to the election of Keizo Obuchi as the leader of Japan's governing party. The choice of Mr. Obuchi has deflated many in the rest of Asia, who were hoping that a forceful new leader would step up to recharge Japan's weak economy and repair its faltering financial system.
Because of their extensive trade, foreign investment and credit links with Japan, most Asian countries are effectively hostage to Japanese economic fortunes. As the country has slid into a recession, it has dragged down resilient Asian economies like those of Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore, and deepened the pain for weaker economies like South Korea's, Thailand's and Indonesia's. 
 "Much of Asia is looking for, and demanding that Japan be the locomotive to pull it out of this slump," William H. Overholt, head of research at BankBoston in Singapore, said in assessing the selection Friday of Mr. Obuchi, who will likely become the next Prime Minister of Japan. "The region was really hanging on this election, and people were hoping for a dynamic Prime Minister."
Stocks across Asia declined sharply today, as investors expressed pessimism that a Government led by Mr. Obuchi, who has been Foreign Minister, would perform the radical surgery that economists say is needed to revive the Japanese economy.
In Tokyo, the benchmark Nikkei index of 225 issues dropped 2.55 percent, while the main Hong Kong market index fell 3.3 percent. The dollar strengthened to 141.95 yen in Asia and rose further to 142.41 in New York.
The gloomy reaction came despite Mr. Obuchi's assurances in a meeting over the weekend with Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright that he would move quickly to revive Japan's economy. "I can and will act promptly," American officials quoted Mr. Obuchi as telling Mrs. Albright, who was in Manila to attend a meeting of foreign ministers from Asian and Pacific nations.
Mr. Obuchi, 61, is expected to seek about $42 billion in tax cuts and $70 billion in additional public spending to stimulate consumer demand. But he has offered few proposals about how to reform the Japanese banking system, which is staggering under $600 billion in troubled debt. Until he does, analysts said, economies like Thailand's and Hong Kong's, which depend heavily on Japan for loans, will continue to suffer, as Japanese banks curtail their lending.
As leader of the governing Liberal Democratic Party, Mr. Obuchi is all but certain to be elected Prime Minister later this week. Analysts said that one measure of his determination to confront Japan's problems will be his choice of Finance Minister. Today, speculation centered on Kiichi Miyazawa, a 78-year-old party elder and former Prime Minister, though Japanese newspapers said he was also considering two other officials: Seiroku Kajiyama and Koiichi Kato.
Mr. Kajiyama, who challenged Mr. Obuchi in the race for the party presidency, would offer some hope to the markets, according to a few analysts, because he expressed a willingness to shut down troubled banks. But other experts said that no Finance Minister, or even Prime Minister, could rise above a system that prizes consensus and prefers incremental change to upheaval.
"If there is no radical change or speeding up of the reforms in Japan, I'm afraid it will delay the recovery of the rest of the region," said Chia Yew Boon, research director at Santander Investment Securities in Singapore.
Mr. Chia said Japan's economic problems were hurting other Asian markets in three ways. First, the weak yen makes Japanese products cheaper than those of neighboring countries, further depressing their already poor exports. Second, the troubles in Japan's financial system force banks to call in loans to other Asian countries, damaging businesses in the region.
Third, and potentially most destabilizing, the collapse of the Japanese economic model is eroding confidence in other Asian countries, like South Korea and Malaysia, which have imitated Japan by creating a handful of large, national conglomerates with close ties to banks and Government agencies.
On Friday, Moody's Investors Service lowered its rating on Malaysian Government debt, citing "the rapid deterioration in Malaysia's economy this year and the expected effects on the banking sector and Government finance." The downgrading has forced the Malaysian Government to postpone a $2 billion bond issue planned for later in the summer.
Japan's troubles affect Asian countries in different ways. Malaysia and Indonesia, for example, export huge quantities of raw material like timber to Japan. In 1997, such exports accounted for 11.5 percent of Malaysia's gross domestic product and 6.8 percent of Indonesia's, according to Santander. As Japan's housing market has stalled and demand for timber has declined, so have Malaysian and Indonesian exports.
Japanese banks have been prodigious lenders to Asian countries -- both to companies and governments. Hong Kong-based companies owe $40.7 billion to Japanese banks, an amount equivalent to 23 percent of the territory's gross domestic product. The Indonesian Government owes $22.8 billion, or 10.6 percent of its annual output. Now, the spigot has been turned off -- to the chagrin of property developers in Hong Kong and Cabinet ministers in Jakarta.
For Asians, the most alarming thing about Japan's travails is the possibility that the cure could be worse than the disease. In order for Tokyo to reform the banking system, analysts said it must first acknowledge that some of the biggest Japanese banks are insolvent, and then close them. The outgoing Prime Minister, Ryutaro Hashimoto, took the first steps by authorizing the development of a bridge-bank program to protect depositors in smaller banks.
"This is just one baby step in cleaning up the financial system," said Ronald Bevacqua, a Merrill Lynch economist in Tokyo, "I have no question that Obuchi will take the first step. But will he take the following steps?"
Mr. Bevacqua said Mr. Obuchi had as good a chance of success as any Japanese politician -- partly because he has many friends in his party and few enemies outside it. That may enable him to steer a painful financial package through the Parliament more effectively than a more confrontational leader.
As for the other Asian nations, they can really only be bystanders. Japan's economy is too big for its neighbors to export around and too powerful for them to control. They are in the frustrating position of hoping that Mr. Obuchi can deliver on his campaign promises -- and then go well beyond them.
Richard Margolis, a regional strategist with Merrill Lynch in Hong Kong, put it this way, "Even if the Japanese locomotive doesn't come out of the siding and needs a radical repair job, it's probably better to get on with that than deal with years of zero growth and consumer demand."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "CURRENCIES" tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since January 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). (pg. D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); ASIA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); HONG KONG (94%); THAILAND (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CANADA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN (99%); ASIA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); HONG KONG (94%); THAILAND (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CANADA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); RECESSION (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); BONDS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); TAX LAW (61%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; OBUCHI, KEIZO (MIN); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) KEIZO OBUCHI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



618 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: Asia Crisis Hurts Union Carbide Profit

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: DANBURY, Conn., July 27

 BODY:
The Union Carbide Corporation said today that its profit declined 37 percent in the second quarter as falling prices, weak Asian markets and the strong dollar outweighed lower raw-material costs.
The company, which makes chemicals and plastics, said earnings fell to $118 million, or 85 cents a diluted share, from $188 million, or $1.28 a share, a year earlier. The results were close to analysts' expectations. 
 Union Carbide fell $2.125, to $48.875, on the New York Stock Exchange today.
Revenue decreased 13 percent, to $1.46 billion from $1.67 billion.
Union Carbide said the results reflected falling prices for products like polyethylene, the most widely used plastic, and weak demand in Asia, where the company had 14 percent of its sales last year. Additionally, the strength of the American currency meant that other currencies were translated into fewer dollars, reducing revenue from overseas.
Increased worldwide production and the Asian economic slump have kept prices low for basic chemicals such as ethylene, which is used to make a variety of other chemicals and plastics, and polyethylene.
Results were helped by rising prices for ethylene glycol, used in antifreeze and polyester fibers, and lower prices for raw materials including ethane, the company said.
Union Carbide said it repurchased 1.6 million shares during the quarter at a cost of $77 million. Since the start of its repurchase program in 1993, the company has bought 52 million shares out of the 60 million shares authorized for repurchase.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (96%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: UNION CARBIDE CORP UNION CARBIDE CORP (96%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNION CARBIDE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (68%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY PROFITS (90%); POLYOLEFINS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ETHYLENE (90%); POLYETHYLENE (90%); ALIPHATICS (90%); PLASTICS (90%); ORGANIC CHEMICALS MFG (90%); POLYMERS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ETHANE (78%); CHEMICALS MARKETS (78%); ALCOHOLS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



619 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Clinton May Use Wall Street To Ease Social Security Ills

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE, N.M., July 27

 BODY:
President Clinton said today that he was seriously considering relying on the financial markets to help solve Social Security's long-term problems but said he had not made up his mind about any of the details.
Speaking at a forum and town hall meeting here on Social Security, Mr. Clinton discussed the pros and cons of establishing individual investment accounts within the retirement system or having the Government itself invest a chunk of Social Security's reserves in stocks and bonds. 
 "I honestly don't know what I would do today," Mr. Clinton said when asked which option he would choose if forced to make a decision.
But he all but endorsed the general notion of seeking higher investment returns on Wall Street to reduce the need for benefit cuts, tax increases or other changes to insure that Social Security will be able to pay promised retirement benefits in coming decades to the baby boom generation. Without any changes, Social Security will run short of money starting in 2032.
"If there's any way we can get a higher rate of return in a market economy, while minimizing the risk, whether it's in either one of these approaches, we ought to go for it, because the other alternatives were much less pleasant already," Mr. Clinton said.
The President has not made any final decisions, his aides said, and some of his advisers still argue that Social Security should not invest at all in stocks and corporate bonds. Currently Social Security's reserves are invested in safe but relatively low-yielding Government bonds.
But White House officials said investing in the markets will more than likely be a component of whatever approach Mr. Clinton ultimately supports.
"The President was very much making clear that he is seriously considering some form of equity investment as part of Social Security reform," said Gene Sperling, the White House economic policy advisor. "But he is holding out the caveat that the public and Congress and the Administration are going to have to be willing to deal with the potential downsides of the risk."
Nearly all proposals for shoring up Social Security rely to some degree on reaping the presumed gains available on Wall Street. But there is a vast gulf between one camp -- led by Republicans but including a number of prominent Democrats -- that wants to allow individuals to invest a portion of their Social Security payroll taxes and another camp led by liberal Democrats in the House that is pushing for the Government to invest the retirement system's reserves.
The differing approaches were vigorously debated today by politicians of both parties and a panel of experts assembled here for the third in a series of Social Security forums organized this year by the White House.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); STOCKS AND BONDS US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BONDS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); TAX INCREASES (74%); TAX LAW (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



620 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Plunge, And Russia Moves to Sell Energy Stake

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, July 27

 BODY:
Russian stock prices plummeted again today, a clear indication that investors still doubt whether the Government can make good on a pledge to climb out of its seemingly bottomless hole of domestic and international debt.
The Government seemed to underscore its plight by announcing over the weekend that it would raise money by selling part of its controlling stake in the huge Gazprom natural-gas monopoly. 
 The Russian Trading System index of stock prices, which fell 17 percent last week, dropped another 9.1 percent today, to 143.46, roughly where it was before the International Monetary Fund agreed to prop up the Government's finances with billions in new loans.
The first of those loans, totaling $4.8 billion, reached Russia's central bank late last week and was used to increase foreign-exchange and gold reserves, which had been dropping rapidly. One condition on the loans was Russia's commitment to make sweeping and basic changes in how it assesses and collects taxes and in its spending policies, a promise that President Boris N. Yeltsin's Government has made but which the Russian Parliament so far has rejected.
An analyst in London for Salomon Smith Barney, Mohamed A. el-Erian, said the loan package and the promise of reforms alone are good news, but not good enough to satisfy skittish investors who have seen similar promises fail before.
"They've got a reform-minded team in place," said Mr. Erian, the firm's European chief of emerging market research. "The issue comes down to implementation, implementation, implementation. And the market is watching that very, very carefully."
Mr. Yeltsin's reforms still face at least two major obstacles: more opposition from the Parliament, which is expected to resume considering the fiscal overhaul next month, and opposition from consumers and big business, both of which face higher taxes.
Given the fall in stock prices, it seemed a poor time for the Government to sell shares in Gazprom. American Depository Receipts in Gazprom, which are traded on foreign stock markets, have fallen by more than one third in the last 10 days, to a 52-week low.
Mr. Yeltsin approved plans this weekend to sell 5.87 percentage points of the Government's 41 percent stake in Gazprom, the world's largest natural-gas company and a linchpin of the Russian economy. The shares being sold are worth about $1.4 billion on foreign markets, and experts suggested today that the Government would try to interest two foreign partners in Gazprom ventures, the Royal Dutch/Shell Group and ENI S.p.A., the Italian energy conglomerate, to buy the shares. The stock would be worth considerably less -- about $520 million -- were it sold to Russians on the Russian stock market.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ENI (BIT) (84%); E (NYSE) (84%); RDSA (LSE) (82%); RDSA (AMS) (82%); RDS.B (NYSE) (82%); RDS.A (NYSE) (82%); OGZD (LSE) (74%); GAZP (RTS) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (82%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (74%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (74%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: ENI SPA (84%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (82%); OAO GAZPROM (74%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); BONDS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL BORIS N YELTSIN (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



621 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1694 words

HEADLINE: Guardians on the Streets of Despair;
New Jersey Task Force Focuses on Crimes Against Prostitutes

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER 

DATELINE: NEWARK, July 24

 BODY:
The woman known as Soft Touch stood barefoot on the sidewalk by her house in the Central Ward and watched the customized van glide gently to the curb. At 9 o'clock on a Friday night, it could mean only one thing -- another "date."
But she was off tonight. She crossed her arms and began to walk away. She had reached the gate to her tiny yard when a man in a business suit stepped out of the van and called her name. At the sound of his voice, she stopped and turned around. 
 "That you, Malik?" she asked the man.
"It sure is."
"Well, all right," she drawled with a nod and a grin.
For the next 10 minutes, Soft Touch, a 33-year-old prostitute who refused to give her real name, and Malik, a captain in the Essex County Prosecutor's office whose real name is Louis Portella Jr., stood on the street doing what they have done almost every night for the last three months: discuss the unsolved slayings of 14 prostitutes killed in the county since 1993.
The neglected cases, all involving black women, touched a nerve in Patricia A. Hurt, who became the county's first black female Prosecutor in January. In her first official act, Ms. Hurt made these murders a high priority of her office and created a task force to investigate them.
While members of the task force have yet to solve any of the original 14 killings, their constant presence on the street has led directly to the arrests of seven men for crimes against prostitutes that range from an unrelated murder to sexual assault.
In making these arrests, members of the task force have tried to strike a delicate balance between getting close, but not too close, to the prostitutes. While investigators need the invaluable information that only these women can provide and sometimes turn a blind eye to their soliciting, they cannot afford to give the appearance of shielding the prostitutes, whose very occupations violate the law.
But even after just four months, the investigators have succeeded in shedding new light on a world of violence and despair that continues to exist in Essex County.
The task force, composed of 14 detectives from agencies around the county, embodies Ms. Hurt's profoundly held belief that law enforcement officers must go out of their way to protect vulnerable segments of society.
"At first, the prostitutes thought we would be bad for business," Ms. Hurt said in a recent interview. "But we won over the confidence of a lot of women once they realized that we are there, in a sense, as their advocates."
Though Ms. Hurt said that many streetwalkers live in fear of their lives, she added that her investigators had managed to convince the women that they were on their side.
Captain Portella, a tall but gentle-looking man who could pass for the owner of a bowling alley, is the head of the task force. In 22 years with the Newark Police Department, many spent patrolling streets where prostitutes worked their trade, Captain Portella, 60, developed a rapport with the women, a rap-and-banter friendliness that, he said, has won him credibility and respect.
"The most important thing you can give these women is your word," he said. "And these individuals are the best source of information in the early hours. Nobody sees it, nobody hears it quicker than a prostitute out on the street."
A few short blocks in central Newark form one hub of the county's prostitution trade. On a recent stormy night, children, shirtless and thin, spun black umbrellas on their shoulders and old men sipped at brown-bagged beers beneath the lighted shelter of a yellow bodega awning. Music, warped by speed, blared from passing cars. And in the midst of it came the Stroll, as investigators call it -- the nightly parade of prostitutes.
In a typical case developed from working the Stroll, the task force arrested Bharat Malde, 31, of Roselle, who was indicted on July 8 on charges that he posed as a police officer and assaulted or sexually harassed five women after luring them into what he claimed was his unmarked squad car.
The task force learned of Mr. Malde by canvassing central Newark and talking to prostitutes who knew him from the Stroll. Without the task force, Captain Portella said, there may never have been a case against Mr. Malde. The women who the task force says were his victims, all prostitutes, never filed claims with the police.
To make such cases, members of the task force have taught prostitutes to jot down license plate numbers each time they climb into a client's car. The task force members have taught the prostitutes to remember names, identifying features, even unusual sexual tastes.
In return, the investigators have given assistance where it is due: a well-placed word to a presiding judge, a couple of dollars on a quiet Friday night.
Despite the wealth of information they have reaped, investigators acknowledge that maintaining relationships with women who break the law is a delicate, risky business -- particularly in light of the discovery in New York City earlier this month that at least 20 police officers and commanders in Manhattan's Midtown South Precinct may have protected prostitutes in exchange for free sex for more than a decade.
Captain Portella adamantly denied that his investigators had anything but a working relationship with the prostitutes they use as informers, and he said he was concerned that the developments across the Hudson could hinder his efforts. "Any time cops get into trouble, whether it's with prostitutes or narcotics, it doesn't help us," he said.
"But what we're doing here is altogether different from what's going on in New York," he said, largely because the prostitutes involved in his investigations need help.
While his investigators might turn a blind eye to soliciting or to drug use, Captain Portella said, they have no qualms about arresting a prostitute who robs a man or breaks more serious laws.
The investigators have chosen to focus on protecting prostitutes. "There is no conflict here, because we're never going to eliminate prostitution," said Detective Al Burroughs, who joined the task force after serving 10 years in the Newark Police Department. "We're talking about people with nothing -- no education, no job skills, no family -- except a knowledge of the streets."
Detective Burroughs maintained that his leniency was beneficial both to the women and to his own investigative efforts. "They're the ones we turn to for information," he said. "Who was in the red car last night? Who was last seen with Soft Touch? Who was running from the house on Sherman Avenue?"
Although task force members say that information is easy to come by on the streets, the investigators face a difficult problem. They are compelled to build cases for a jury with testimony that comes from notoriously suspect sources: prostitutes.
"There's one thing to understand when you're dealing with prostitutes as witnesses," said Patrick Toscano, Essex County's first assistant prosecutor. "When you cast a play in hell, you can't expect to get angels as actors."
Nevertheless, Mr. Toscano said he did not believe that the indictments already returned would be damaged by the reputation of the witnesses. "Just because you've prostituted yourself," he said, "doesn't mean you weren't beaten or raped."
Newark has taken significant steps toward economic revival in the last nine months, largely because of the New Jersey Performing Arts Center, a grand glass-shelled structure that opened downtown last October. The arts center has not only drawn suburbanites, who once feared Newark, to the city, it has also formed the anchor for a miniature boom in real estate speculation in recent months and paved the way for other potentially lucrative tenants to relocate in Newark.
But by and large, the revival has failed to reach the wooden frame houses and brick apartment buildings of central Newark, where prostitutes say they have seen few signs of urban renewal.
Though Newark's rate of serious crime plunged to a 30-year low in 1997, the talk of Sherman Avenue and its surroundings in the last three months has been of the prostitute murders, not of falling crime statistics. "I'm scared every night I go out," said a prostitute in a tattered black dress who gave her name only as Theresa. "I've been out here three years, and it's just getting more violent."
Still, many of these women say they are grateful for the efforts of the task force.
Outside a lighted bodega window, a prostitute in a dark blue halter top and cut-off denim shorts, who gave her name only as Jackie, told Captain Portella and Detective Burroughs about a man she said she believed was responsible for the murder of a streetwalker whom the police know only as Yasmeen.
The woman, not one of the 14 prostitutes on Ms. Hurt's original list, was killed in 1991, investigators say, after stealing $2,700 from a client's pocket so smoothly that she was able to snatch the big bills and return the singles to his wallet unnoticed.
"I heard it was a pimp who did it," Jackie said. "He rides around in Jheri curls. I think his name is Prince. He be getting girls to take him out and then I don't see them anymore."
The stories one hears on the Stroll are often bound with the twin threads of violence and strength. And the women who tell them seem to possess a startling fortitude.
Moments after speaking with Jackie, a third prostitute walked past the two investigators, and Detective Burroughs, with a rapid sideways glance, approached her. Giving her name as only Iris, she said had been kidnapped by a customer in 1990 and taken to his house, where she was raped.
"It was in all the newspapers," Iris said, with a clinical tone. "I had to jump out the window and run up on the roof to hide." Emergency workers later found her there, battered but alive, she said.
Jackie, who had stayed to listen to Iris's tale, said, "We see all things." She added, "For myself, I let my clients think I'm not paying attention. But don't try nothing funny with me."
"If something happens," she said, as the investigators stood and listened, "we both going to the hospital. I'm going to take him out, too."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Capt. Louis Portella Jr., who is investigating the slayings of 14 prostitutes, has gained the confidence of streetwalkers like Soft Touch. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Detectives prowling the streets to prevent violence against prostitutes try to strike a balance. They might ignore soliciting or drug use, but they will arrest a woman who robs a client or commits other serious crimes. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: ESSEX COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE (56%); ESSEX COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ESSEX COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE (56%); ESSEX COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ESSEX COUNTY (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; BLACKS; PROSTITUTION INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PROSTITUTION (89%); MURDER (88%); WOMEN (78%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (69%); 

PERSON: FEUER, ALAN; HURT, PATRICIA A (COUNTY PROSECUTOR) LOUIS PORTELLA JR (70%); BHARAT MALDE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



622 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Still a Puny Military Force By the World's Standards

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: BEIJING, July 27

 BODY:
China's locomotivelike economic growth and its brittle public face have helped foment a perception overseas that it poses a growing military threat to its neighbors. In the next century, some experts have predicted, China could even clash militarily with the United States.
Yet by current measurements, sketched out vaguely in a report issued here today, China's military forces are still rudimentary by international standards. China's military budget was officially less than $10 billion in 1998, not 4 percent of the United States budget and less than half of South Korea's. 
 But there is no mention of the estimated 15,000 businesses controlled by the army or how much they earn.
The report, "China's National Defense," is a rare public description of the scope of operations by the military. The study was apparently written for an international audience, laden as it is with assurances that China is a peaceloving nation.
Although the report discloses no previously unknown vital information about the military forces, Western military analysts said it was a milestone for a military whose most basic operations are ordinarily considered secret.
"The Chinese don't give very much away here," said Tai Ming Cheung, an expert on the Chinese military who works for the Hong Kong office of Kroll Associates. "The real issue is that it's a symbolic breakthrough just to release this kind of report."
Under pressure from other countries, especially the United States, to be more open about its basic operations, Beijing has used the report to outline the army's basic aims, duties and operations. Yet much of the study is simply bland pronouncements about the commitment to peace and regional cooperation.
"Facts show that China is a responsible big country and a firm force safeguarding world peace and stability," is a typical sentence.
The report reiterates Beijing's long-held position on Taiwan, that reunification is favored through peaceful means, but that resorting to force is always an option.
Perhaps the most relevant section is on expenditures, even though it relies only on official statistics.
Dividing its military spending into three categories, the report says that $3.5 billion was spent last year on personnel costs, $3.2 billion on "maintenance of activities" and $3.1 billion on equipment.
Over all the report insists that the national military policy is defensive in nature and is geared toward resisting aggression. It extols the country's "peace-loving tradition" and says China has resorted to military force only after an enemy had struck first -- though border disputes with India in 1962 and Vietnam in 1979 might suggest otherwise.
"The Chinese people are willing, together with the people of the other countries in the world," the study says, "to make unremitting efforts for the lofty cause of promoting world peace and development."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARMIES (90%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); STATISTICS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



623 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Albright Rebukes Chinese On Arrest of Dissidents

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: MANILA, July 27

 BODY:
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright protested to the Chinese Foreign Minister today over the arrest of several political dissidents since President Clinton's visit to China, a development that other Administration officials said had alarmed and embarrassed the United States.
"I made quite clear that arresting people is not the way that we see follow-through," Ms. Albright said at a news conference here after meeting with Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan. "So I can assure you that the subject was raised." 
 Ms. Albright also called a special news conference to denounce Myanmar's leaders for their treatment of the leading Burmese dissident.
Human rights groups say at least 15 democratic activists in China have been detained since President Clinton's meeting in Beijing last month with President Jian Xemin. While some dissidents were released within days, others remain jailed and appear likely to face long prison sentences.
One dissident, Zhu Zhengming, 35, was released on Sunday after 17 days of detention in the eastern city of Hangzhou, but he said his freedom was still restricted by the police. "The police told me I shouldn't meet certain people," Mr. Zhu said in an interview with Reuters. "I shouldn't say certain things and shouldn't do certain things."
The detentions have dismayed senior Clinton Administration officials, who had portrayed the President's nine-day visit to China as having advanced the issue of human rights there. President Clinton was allowed to make broadcasts on Chinese television and radio to call for greater political freedom in China.
"One of the major successes of the President's trip was to raise human rights issues publicly in China," said Ms. Albright, who is in the Philippines to attend an annual meeting of foreign ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and other countries with an interest in the region. "I did raise our concerns about some of the recent arrests."
Clinton Administration officials traveling with the Secretary of State, speaking on condition of anonymity, said she had protested forcefully to the Chinese delegation led here by Mr. Tang.
"They couldn't miss the point," a senior official said, adding that the arrests "go in the opposite direction that we're looking for -- that has an impact on the overall relationship." Another American official said Ms. Albright expressed concern to the Chinese Foreign Minister "about these recent steps backward in the human rights situation."
Several Chinese dissidents are reported to have been arrested in the last week alone. Human rights groups said at least four people were taken into custody on Friday night in southern Hunan Province.
On Wednesday the police arrested Zhang Shanguang, a prominent dissident who had already spent seven years in jail, for trying to organize a group of laidoff workers. Last Tuesday a Chinese court sentenced Fan Yiping to three years in prison for helping a fellow activist escape from China.
Despite her criticism of the Chinese, Ms. Albright said she and Mr. Tang "talked about the successes of the summit" between the American and Chinese leaders, saying progress was made "towards developing a strategic partnership with China."
And she noted the Administration's pleasure in last week's refusal by the House of Representatives to block President Clinton's granting of so-called normal trade relations status to China, formerly known as most-favored-nations status.
Ms. Albright said the vote signals "the increasing acceptance of the fact that having a relationship with China in trade does not in any way change our stress on the importance of the human rights agenda."
Whatever her criticism of Beijing, it paled by comparison to her attack today on the Government of Myanmar, the Southeast Asian nation formerly known as Burma, which is a member of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and has found itself the target of growing criticism by its neighbors over its human rights record.
Ms. Albright called a special news conference today to denounce the Burmese junta for its treatment of the nation's most prominent dissident, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi.
Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, who won the Nobel Peace Prize for her campaign to bring democracy to Myanmar, was reported today to be in the fourth day of a standoff with the military, which stopped her car outside the capital, Yangon (formerly Rangoon), as she tried to drive to a meeting with opposition colleagues. News reports say she has refused to budge from the car.
"We are gravely concerned about the health and safety of Aung San Suu Kyi and will hold the Burmese authorities directly responsible for insuring her health and welfare," Ms. Albright said.
In a speech earlier in the day to Asian Foreign Ministers, Ms. Albright warned that Myanmar is in danger of social collapse. "This is a moment of truth and of urgency for Burma and for all of us concerned about its fate," she said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MYANMAR (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (58%); HUNAN, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (69%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (69%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MYANMAR (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (58%); HUNAN, CHINA (58%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MYANMAR-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); SENTENCING (73%); PRISONS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); 

PERSON: ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); AUNG SAN SUU KYI, DAW; SHENON, PHILIP; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); TANG JIAXUAN (MIN) BILL CLINTON (91%); AUNG SAN SUU KYI (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



624 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: 2d Trial in Killing of Officer Ends With Acquittal

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS 

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY, July 27

 BODY:
Vincent James Landano, who paid dearly for a crime he steadfastly denied committing for 22 years, won the battle of his life today when a jury here acquitted him in his second trial for the 1976 murder of a Newark police officer.
Mr. Landano had served 13 years of a life sentence for the killing, was freed after a judge ruled the state had suppressed evidence at the first trial and lived for 9 more years under constant law-enforcement surveillance as prosecutors continued to pursue him. 
 Along the way, he taught himself law and attracted a loyal following of people who believed that he was framed for the murder of Officer John Snow. Among them were a lawyer who devoted thousands of hours to his case for free and a sprightly woman who met him on a visit to prison and married him.
"All I ever asked was for 12 jurors to listen to the facts," said Mr. Landano after the verdict, as he stood on the courthouse steps amid a crowd of jubilant supporters, including one woman who had served on the jury that initially convicted him and said she had regretted it ever since.
The conclusion of Mr. Landano's long roller-coaster ride through the justice system passed swiftly in comparison with his fight for vindication. The trial in Superior Court lasted three weeks. The jury of 10 women and 2 men deliberated just under five hours. When the forewoman softly pronounced the words "not guilty," the graying 58-year-old Mr. Landano thrust his fists in the air and shouted, "All right!"
An instant later, the trial judge, Shirley A. Tolentino, told him he was free to go.
Mr. Landano did not tarry. With his arms wrapped around his wife, Camille, he proclaimed his first worry-free plan. "Right now," he said, grinning, "all I want to do is get as far from this building as I can."
An assistant Hudson County prosecutor, Donald L. Gardner, said the Snow murder would not be pursued further. "This matter, for all intents and purposes, is closed," he said.
He said he accomplished what he set out to do. "We reached a verdict which brings closure to this case," he said.
It did not bring closure to the family of the murdered officer, whose daughter, Kathleen Jensen, broke down and wept in the courtroom as the verdict was announced. She had said she remained convinced that Mr. Landano was her father's killer.
Mr. Landano was an unemployed construction worker with a heroin habit and a three-year stint in Attica state prison for grand larceny when he was charged with shooting Officer Snow in the neck during a robbery of the Hi-Way Check Cashing Service in Kearny, N.J., on Aug. 13, 1976.
At the time of his arrest, two other men were already in custody, both members of a motorcycle gang called "The Breed" that specialized in armed robberies. They cooperated with the state, naming Mr. Landano not only as their accomplice in the robbery, but as the gunman. Officer Snow, who was on duty at the time, was in Kearny unofficially to deliver $46,000 in cash to Hi-Way's management.
From the first, Mr. Landano protested his innocence. He said he had been set up by a childhood friend, Victor Forni, who was described by gang members as the one who planned their crimes.
Mr. Forni, in fact, was charged and pleaded guilty to conspiracy in the Hi-Way robbery. But that only happened later -- after he lost a two-year battle against extradition from New York to New Jersey. In the interim, his old friend Mr. Landano, who was not a gang member and who said he was not even in New Jersey at the time of the robbery, was tried, convicted and sent to jail.
In prison, he told his story to Neil Mullin, a lawyer from Montclair, who eventually became consumed with the Landano case, devoting countless unpaid hours and nearly 20 years to overturning the conviction. In 1989, Mr. Mullin convinced Judge H. Lee Sarokin of the Federal District Court in Newark that the state possessed undisclosed evidence.
In an unprecedented raid, Federal marshals, acting on Judge Sarokin's orders, scoured the files of police departments and the prosecutor's office for all information related to the Snow murder. Based on what was found, including evidence that some of the witnesses were pressured by the police to identify Mr. Landano as the gunman, the judge said the state had "systematically" withheld evidence, and he ordered Mr. Landano released from state prison.
The state fought back. The case ricocheted for another seven years through various courts. By then, however, Mr. Landano's fight to clear his name had acquired another foot soldier.
Andrea Lepore-Kaneko was a juror in the first murder trial in 1978. She said she went along reluctantly with the others in their guilty verdict. "I thought maybe they had understood things I didn't," she said.
But reading Judge Sarokin's decision 11 years later, Mrs. Lepore-Kaneko decided her courtroom misgivings might have had some basis after all. She contacted Mr. Landano and followed him from hearing to hearing. She flew back from Osaka, Japan, where she now lives with her husband, for the second trial.
When the verdict was read, Mrs. Lepore-Kaneko began to weep and tremble. "So relieved! So relieved!" she gasped. "The intensity!"
In the second trial, the star witness was the one Breed gang member who agreed to testify again on behalf of the state -- Allen Roller, who had been convicted of actually robbing the Hi-Way Check Cashing Service and served eight years in prison. Mr. Forni, whom the defense claimed framed Mr. Landano, was subpoenaed by the state and brought to Jersey City. He refused to testify and remains in the Hudson County Jail on contempt charges.
As he has before, Mr. Roller named Mr. Landano as the gunman. But on many other issues, he contradicted his earlier statements. Paul Casteleiro, Mr. Landano's trial lawyer, called him a "misfit" and a "liar."
Mr. Casteleiro, who called no witnesses for the defense, also sought to discredit the state's main piece of evidence, a blue denim hat splattered with Officer Snow's blood and found on the seat of the getaway car. The hat may well have been Mr. Landano's, he said, but it was stolen and planted in the car by the Breed gang as part of their carefully planned crime.
Mr. Gardner, the prosecutor, portrayed the Hi-Way Check Cashing robbers as a gang of bumblers who forgot to take a bag for the money and then got lost in their getaway car as they raced away from the scene. Framing Mr. Landano, he argued in his summation, was beyond their talents.
The jury, however, simply did not believe either the state's hat story or Mr. Roller.
"They kept pushing the hat, the hat, the hat," one of the jurors, Frieda J. Smith, said in a telephone interview after the verdict. "But that didn't make him the killer." There was also general agreement in the jury room, she said, that Mr. Roller lacked credibility.
"Everybody was thinking the same thing," Ms. Smith said. "There were a lot of 'ifs.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Officer John Snow's daughter, Kathleen Jensen, and her husband, Donald, in court yesterday. (Pool photo by Tom Kitts)(pg. B2)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KEARNY (NJ); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ATTACKS ON POLICE; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS VERDICTS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); MURDER (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ACQUITTAL (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); EVIDENCE (78%); SENTENCING (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); JUDGES (77%); LAWYERS (75%); ARRESTS (73%); SHOOTINGS (72%); LARCENY & THEFT (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); ROBBERY (60%); HEROIN (50%); 

PERSON: SACHS, SUSAN; LANDANO, VINCENT JAMES; SNOW, JOHN (POLICE OFFICER) JOHN W SNOW (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



625 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Cast Wary Eye on One of Their Own

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 27

 BODY:
After an unbroken 22-year streak of Republican governors here in Illinois, some prominent Democrats are lamenting that Republican views will prevail yet again in this year's race -- even if the Democratic candidate wins.
The Democratic nominee, Representative Glenn Poshard, has faced a storm of criticism from liberals in his party for a starkly conservative voting record on social issues like abortion, gun control and homosexual rights. 
 Worried that liberal voters might sit out the election or, worse, cast a ballot for the Republican nominee, George Ryan, some Democrats have met privately with Mr. Poshard, imploring him to reach out to the party's base.
State Representative Carol Ronen, a Chicagoan who sits on the party's state central committee, met with Mr. Poshard and later sent him a letter urging him to "reassure progressive voters that you are in the mainstream -- not the fringe."
Mr. Poshard's opponent, Mr. Ryan, the Illinois Secretary of State, is certainly no liberal. He is generally opposed to abortion. During the 1970's, when he was a member of the State Legislature, Mr. Ryan was instrumental in defeating the Equal Rights Amendment.
And Mr. Poshard is a liberal on economic matters, a champion of organized labor and a supporter of efforts to raise the Federal minimum wage.
But Mr. Poshard's conservative positions on social issues have given Mr. Ryan a chance to appeal to moderate and liberal voters. Mr. Poshard opposed the ban on assault weapons and supported a bill to forbid same-sex marriages. While Mr. Poshard skipped the recent Gay Pride Parade in Chicago, Mr. Ryan had a car in the parade. Mr. Ryan, who has supported some gun control measures, has also run television advertisements that seek to cast Mr. Poshard as a right-wing extremist on gun issues.
Illinois is a state that tends to elect political moderates as governor -- candidates who favor gun control and abortion rights, and take a pro-business approach, like the current governor, Jim Edgar, and his predecessor, Jim Thompson.
The social conservatism of Mr. Poshard, a five-term Congressman, suits the sensibilities of his rural district, which reaches the tip of Southern Illinois, but riles many voters who live in Chicago and other northern parts of the state.
Politicians in Congress have frequently had a difficult time winning statewide office in Illinois. One politician who was able to make that jump between its southern and northern reaches, former Senator Paul Simon, said Mr. Poshard was "in the process of growing" as he "becomes exposed to the very different perspectives" of residents of the northern part of the state on issues like gun control.
Mr. Simon, who is regarded as something of an archangel among the state's liberals, said Mr. Poshard's stands have typically reflected the views of "a rural region dominated by Southern Baptists."
The former Senator, who once represented that same Southern Illinois district, has endorsed Mr. Poshard's candidacy. "Glenn has a gut commitment to helping people who struggle in our society," he said.
But Mr. Simon also expressed hope that the nominee would "shift his position" on some social issues, given that he would no longer be representing a single conservative region but rather a big, culturally diverse statewide constituency.
Mr. Poshard has shown little willingness to abandon long-held positions on abortion and other issues, however, saying that principle is more important than popularity. He also says that he will not accept PAC money, which means he is likely to be significantly outspent in the campaign by Mr. Ryan.
Backers of Mr. Poshard, even those who disagree with the Democrat on certain issues, say that he is a man of strong convictions and that he would not govern according to the latest public opinion survey.
"He is very much his own man," said Don Johnson, the president of the Illinois A.F.L.-C.I.O., which played a crucial role in Mr. Poshard's triumph in the Democratic primary, as did the fact that it was a divisive three-way race.
In the view of Mr. Johnson, the positions of Mr. Poshard on social issues will not be critical to most voters.
"When our members are going fishing with a friend, or they're out having a beer, they're talking about paychecks and pensions," he said, not social issues.
The labor leader lauded Mr. Poshard's "value system" and his compassion. Mr. Johnson told of Mr. Poshard's concern for poor children at the school in Southern Illinois where Mr. Poshard taught many years ago. Noticing that many children wore skimpy coats during the cold winters, Mr. Poshard started a drive to collect donated coats for them.
"And that was before he ever thought about entering politics," Mr. Johnson said.
It is a side of Mr. Poshard that is little-known among many voters. In recent days, the Democratic candidate has been publicly spurned by some elected members of his own party.
State Representative Larry McKeon, the only openly gay member of the Illinois Legislature, announced earlier this week that he could not endorse Mr. Poshard, who has been cool to measures that would protect gay Illinoisans from discrimination.
Before that, three Democratic mayors of Chicago's southern suburbs announced that they could not endorse Mr. Poshard because he has not favored construction of an airport in Peotone, about 50 miles south of the city. Representative Jesse Jackson Jr. has also withheld his endorsement, citing the airport issue, which he believes would bring development to some struggling towns south of Chicago.
Ms. Ronen, whose district is more than two-thirds Democratic, said she had heard plenty of skepticism about Mr. Poshard among her constituents. She said she remained optimistic that Mr. Poshard would court liberals, but that time was slipping away.
"If he's not doing well in a district that's this strongly Democratic," Ms. Ronen, said, "that does not auger well."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Glenn Poshard and his wife, Jo, celebrating with supporters at an engineers union hall in Marion, Ill., in March on the night that Mr. Poshard won the Democratic nomination for governor. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (95%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS; UNITED STATES (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; GOVERNORS (US) LIBERALISM (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); GUN CONTROL (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); LGBT RIGHTS (76%); ABORTION (76%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (71%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); MINIMUM WAGE (65%); PARADES & MARCHES (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); LABOR UNIONS (51%); MARRIAGE (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: POSHARD, GLENN (REPR); JOHNSON, DIRK; RYAN, GEORGE (SEC) GLENN POSHARD (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



626 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: A DEAL IS STRUCK FOR COLISEUM SITE

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority is expected to approve the sale tomorrow of the New York Coliseum, one of the most treasured and star-crossed development sites in Manhattan, to Time Warner and the Related Companies for a hotel and residential complex that will also include a world headquarters and digital television studio for Time Warner.
Under the terms of a tentative deal that will go to the M.T.A. board tomorrow for final approval, real estate executives and government officials say the Related-Time Warner partnership will pay about $345 million for the tract on Columbus Circle, at the southwest corner of Central Park. 
 Related plans to build a pair of towers that would stand 750 feet over Columbus Circle and instantly create a soaring landmark for a parcel of real estate that is the gateway to Times Square, the Upper West Side and the luxury hotels on Central Park South.
The 2.1-million-square-foot project would house Time Warner's headquarters and broadcast facilities for the Cable News Network and NY1, as well as a 425-room Mandarin Oriental Hotel, 325 condominiums and a 1,000-seat concert hall for Jazz at Lincoln Center.
The sale would mark another milestone in a tortuous 14-year effort to sell the land, and it would conclude a wary political dance between Gov. George E. Pataki and the M.T.A., which owns the land, and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's administration, which has effective veto power over any project.
The first attempt to sell the property began during the Edward I. Koch administration in 1985 and ended nine years later amid a recession and a flurry of lawsuits and community opposition. A year ago, the M.T.A. was on the verge of selling the Coliseum site to Millennium Partners when Mayor Giuliani suddenly vowed that he would block the deal unless it included a live theater or performance space.
"It will be a tremendous relief to the city, the state and many New Yorkers to see the disposition of this trophy site finally settled," said Mary Ann Tighe, executive managing director at Insignia/Edward S. Gordon, a real estate company. "The good news about the years of struggle is that it appears that the winner is going to create a structure that reflects Columbus Circle's role as a crossroad of business, entertainment and tourism."
But there is no guarantee that the proponents of the latest plan will fare better than previous efforts. The Related proposal does appear to have the support of some civic groups, including the Municipal Arts Society, which helped block earlier proposals for the largely dormant Coliseum site.
But some local residents are vowing to derail what they consider an overly large project. The Committee for Environmentally Sound Development, a neighborhood group, has already filed a lawsuit in Federal District Court in Manhattan challenging the proposed development on environmental grounds.
"We'll proceed with the lawsuit, an injunction, whatever's necessary," Olive Freud, vice president of the committee, said yesterday. "It's a very sad day. The city's being choked and nobody seems to care. The only people getting anything out of this are the developer and the bondholders."
Deputy Mayor Randy Levine and the M.T.A. declined comment, as did Stephen M. Ross, the chairman of Related Companies, whose Madison Avenue office provides a spectacular view of the Coliseum site, and who, friends say, has long wanted to own the parcel.
E. Virgil Conway, the chairman of the M.T.A., met yesterday afternoon with Mayor Giuliani at City Hall to settle on the winning bidder. The M.T.A.'s selection committee is meeting this morning to review the deal, before making a formal recommendation to the M.T.A. board tomorrow.
In recent months, city officials and the M.T.A. have worked hard to keep their top choices from becoming public knowledge, in hopes of avoiding the kind of delay that occurred a year ago when Mayor Giuliani suddenly blocked the M.T.A.'s plan to sell the site to Millennium after word had filtered out that Millennium was the agency's top choice.
After months of delays, the city and state required developers to include a 100,000-square-foot home for Jazz at Lincoln Center. Bidding by five finalists finally resumed in April, although Millennium had been negotiating with Jazz at Lincoln Center for two years to build a new home at a different location.
During the last week, the Related-Time Warner proposal edged out its four competitors, including Donald J. Trump, the high bidder, who threatened a lawsuit if he did not win. But there was little support for the bulky tower proposed by Mr. Trump, who was offering about $390 million for the land. The real competition was between Millennium, which was planning two luxury hotels, a large ballroom and 450 apartments, and Related, which had the support of City Hall, mainly because of its prominent tenant: Time Warner.
During the bid negotiations of the last four months, Benjamin V. Lambert, the real estate consultant hired by the M.T.A., used Mr. Trump's bid to force Millennium, Related and another bidder, Tishman Speyer Properties, to increase their offers by tens of millions of dollars, according to people involved in the bidding. At the same time, he pushed the bidders to match Millennium's promise to close the deal regardless of any potential litigation, with the aim of guaranteeing that the M.T.A. would get its money.
With Related offering nearly the same contract terms as Millennium, the M.T.A. negotiators eventually came around to the city's choice.
In the coming weeks, Time Warner is expected to ask the city for tax breaks and other incentives, a request that may put the Giuliani administration in a quandary. The city has provided similar incentives to many large corporations, including Time Warner competitors like Disney, Viacom, Bertelsmann and the major television networks. But in May 1997, Mayor Giuliani withdrew a tax break worth $50 million for luxury apartments to be built on the Coliseum site, saying a rebounding real estate market made the subsidies unnecessary.
For many people involved in the disposition of the Coliseum site, the latest deal provoked a sense of having been there before. In 1985, city and state officials agreed to sell the parcel to Mortimer B. Zuckerman's Boston Properties for $477.5 million. In the face of enormous opposition, Mr. Zuckerman reduced the size of his project several times before giving up in 1994.
Mr. Trump was also a losing bidder in 1985, when he proposed what would have been the tallest building in the world, a 137-story tower that resembled a spaceship. Joseph Rose, the chairman of the City Planning Commission, who was involved in the negotiations with Related, was chairman of the local community board in 1985 that reviewed the Zuckerman project. And Related's architect, David Childs at Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, designed Mr. Zuckerman's second, ill-fated tower.
This time around, Mr. Childs may be lucky. Brendan Sexton, president of the Municipal Art Society, whose lawsuits stalled Mr. Zuckerman's plans, said that this time that the developers as well as city and state officials considered urban design and economic development, not just price.
"Assuming Related wins, their proposal has a good design, active public spaces and a tenant that contributes to the life of the city," Mr. Sexton said. "Their design breaks up the bulk of the towers in a way that minimizes the shadows and its impact on the skyline."

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Architectural rendering of the plans for a twin-tower headquarters for Time Warner on the Coliseum site at Columbus Circle in Manhattan. (pg. B6)
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (53%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: TIME-WARNER; RELATED COMPANIES; METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY MILLENNIUM PARTNERS (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIME-WARNER; RELATED COMPANIES; METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; COLUMBUS CIRCLE (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK COLISEUM; HOTELS AND MOTELS; HOUSING URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (72%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); VETO (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); LITIGATION (68%); THEATER (62%); THEATER & DRAMA (62%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



627 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
A Pioneer In Her Sport And Beyond

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON 

DATELINE: UNIONDALE, N.Y.

 BODY:
THE choice was reaching people or saving lives. Julie Foudy decided there is too big a world out there to confine herself to a single residency. She junked medical school, choosing the life of an explorer over one as a healer.
With the Stanford Medical School administrators calling again to ask whether she'd ever show up, Foudy finally admitted the answer was no. She had interviewed several doctors, including the Olympic softball star, Dr. Dot Richardson. They all spoke of medicine as a calling, not as a career. Mark Adams, the traveling physician for the United States women's soccer team said: "Foudy, let me put it to you this way. I've lived on a golf course for the last five years, and I haven't played once." 
So much for science. Foudy was too good a midfielder, too much a free spirit, and a game that barely registers on the global sports economy had already opened the doors to some remarkably remote places.
She invaded a traditional male sanctum this summer, as a well-received ESPN analyst for the men's World Cup. She made it to China long before Bill Clinton. Last year, she took herself to the village of Sialkot, Pakistan, at the foot of the Himalayas on a one-woman mission to better understand third world labor.
She won an Olympic gold medal before 80,000 in Atlanta and went around the world twice in one year and now looks forward to the world coming to her.
"The most encouraging and exciting thing about the World Cup is the impact it's going to have, and not just here," Foudy said before the United States women's national soccer team defeated China, 2-0, last night on Mia Hamm's 96th and 97th career goals in the second half of the Goodwill Games gold medal match at Mitchel Field.
Foudy is 27 and knows this frequent-flier life cannot last forever, no matter how sympathetic her husband, Ian Sawyers, has been back home in Laguna Niguel, Calif. The women's World Cup will be in the United States next summer, but then there is the matter of the 2000 Olympics in Sydney, Australia. She's planning on going because women's soccer is on the move and Foudy believes there is no turning back.
If out of the next World Cup comes an American women's pro league, that would be splendid, but when Foudy speaks of "impact," she is not necessarily talking about an expanding job market. Having toured the world with the American team since she was 17, she knows that gender equity is a soccer concept that doesn't play beyond our suburban grass roots. Women's soccer is the establishment turned upside down, Americans colonizing the Old World with revolutionary feminist ideas.
"Everyone plays soccer here," Foudy said. "Girls are encouraged. But you travel abroad, and the game is considered a man's world in so many cultures. A girl is considered a freak if she plays. We've been in Spain, and jumped into a men's game and been looked at like we were crazy. Places in Europe, Africa, they're so far behind.
"Five years ago, the Brazil women got no funding and we beat them routinely. Now, they're competitive. It's not just for opportunities in soccer. It's what we can do for girls everywhere with the World Cup."
She has earned the right to express this overview. In March of last year, on her way home from a tournament in Australia, Foudy took a detour deep into Pakistan. She wanted to see for herself how Reebok, the company she had contractually agreed to represent, treated the people making its soccer balls.
Foudy spoke with workers in the factory Reebok built, under pressure, to better monitor child labor. She found out they were earning about $2.25 a day plus benefits, that while conditions might have been better, there are many places where they are much, much worse. At least she took the time to do what Michael Jordan and countless others have not. She went ahead and told people that she believed it was all right to buy the balls, then got back to the business of selling her sport.
League or no league, there is no pot of gold at the end of the soccer rainbow, not even for Hamm, whose five goals in two Goodwill Games were four more than all the United States men scored in the World Cup. Hamm, Foudy, Michelle Akers and Christine Lilly made a world power out of a country whose men made it a soccer laughingstock. The crowd of 11,307 last night was the largest for any Goodwill Games event. There must be a moral in there. A legacy. When Reebok last year named a soccer shoe for Foudy, that's what they called it. The Foudy Legacy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Julie Foudy (Andy Lyons/Allsport)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (87%); PAKISTAN (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); HIMALAYAS (55%); 

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OLD WORLD BAKERY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (87%); PAKISTAN (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); HIMALAYAS (55%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOODWILL GAMES (1998); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SOCCER SPORTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); WOMEN (75%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); GENDER EQUALITY (70%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); GOLF (69%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

PERSON: ARATON, HARVEY; FOUDY, JULIE WILLIAM JEFFERSON 'BILL' CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



628 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 2;Column 3;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-7
 
China Leader Imposing New Controls on Military
President Jiang Zemin of China publicly ordered the armed forces to relinquish all of their many business roles, ostensibly to combat smuggling, as the country faces a transformation that aims to separate military consumers of weaponry from civilian producers and to create a fighting force controlled by generals allied with the President. A1 

China Arrests Anger Albright
Secretary of State Madeline K. Albright lodged a protest with the Chinese Foreign Minister over recent arrests of political dissidents, a development that other Administration officials said had embarrassed the United States so soon after President Clinton's visit to China. A6
 
Counting Votes in Cambodia
International observers expressed cautious optimism over the conduct of Cambodia's parliamentary election, as villagers and townspeople tallied Sunday's ballots. Results are not expected until Saturday. A7
 
Inspectors Remain Wary of Iraq
The International Atomic Energy Agency said in a report to the Security Council that it had found no evidence that Iraq had nuclear weapons, but it left open the possibility that Iraq had hidden the necessary expertise and material for future use. A3
 
Serbian Gains in Kosovo
Government forces continued their intensive attacks against separatist guerrillas throughout Kosovo, Serbian officials said, with soldiers taking stretches of major roads that had been held by the rebels. The Government attacks threaten Western efforts to stop the war through negotiations, diplomats said. A3
 
Russian Stocks Plunge Again
Russian stock prices dropped 9.1 percent, to about the level they were at before the International Monetary Fund agreed to prop up the Government's finances. The continuing slide of the Russian market indicated that investors still doubted whether the Government could make good on a pledge to reduce debt. A5
 
Perilous Time for U.N. Workers
An Italian expert in famine relief was killed in Burundi, the sixth worker in the World Food Program to die this year. The United Nations also said that three unarmed military observers and their translator were killed in Tajikistan this month. All told, the United Nations said, more civilians than soldiers have been killed this year in missions around the world. A4
 
Three Nuns Slain in Yemen
Three nuns of Mother Teresa's order were shot and killed as they left a clinic for the disabled in western Yemen, officials said. Police arrested a 25-year-old suspect, who they said had fought in Bosnia and Afghanistan. They described him as unstable and said he had been treated at the clinic. The Missionaries of Charity order has been in Yemen since 1970. (AP)
 
NATIONAL A8-13
 
Lewinsky and Prosecutors Meet to Explore a Deal
Prosecutors met with Monica S. Lewinsky in New York in a possible prelude to an immunity deal that would secure Ms. Lewinsky's grand jury testimony. In Washington, a Federal appeals court rejected the President's invocation of lawyer-client privilege to bar the testimony of his closest aide, Bruce Lindsey. And Mr. Clinton's private lawyers continued negotiations with the independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr over the subpoenaing of the President. A1
 
Justice Department Rebuff
The Justice Department refused to let a House committee see two internal memorandums in which the F.B.I. Director and another high-ranking official urged the appointment of an independent counsel to investigate fund-raising practices in President Clinton's re-election campaign. A9
 
Was White House First Target?
Federal law-enforcement officers are investigating whether Russell E. Weston Jr., who is accused of killing two Capitol police officers on Friday, first sought to attack the White House, officials said. A12
 
Mr. Weston's father expressed sorrow for the violent rampage. His son, who remained hospitalized with gunshot wounds, was charged in Federal court with murder. The bodies of the two officers will lie in flag-draped coffins in the Great Rotunda today for a special memorial service. A12
 
Clinton Warms to Markets Idea
President Clinton said he was seriously considering relying on the financial markets to help solve Social Security's long-term problems, but he said he had not made up his mind about any of the details. A9
 
New Fraternization Policy
The Department of Defense plans to order the Army to adopt strict new prohibitions on dating, sexual intimacy and other close relationships between officers and enlisted personnel, officials say. A8
 
Guilty Plea in C.I.A. Case
A former C.I.A. officer, Douglas F. Groat, pleaded guilty to trying to extort $1 million from the agency in exchange for refraining from giving away Government secrets. Prosecutors dropped espionage charges against Mr. Groat. A8
 
Teamsters Leader Ordered Out
A court-appointed review board expelled Ron Carey, the teamsters president, from the union, apparently ending the career of a labor leader who once seemed destined to clean up one of the nation's largest but most corrupt unions. A1
 
Human Testing of Pesticides
Pesticide companies have conducted tests on humans and told the Government that they expect to do more, saying the tests may provide more reliable data than animal tests and may justify less stringent rules on pesticides. An environmental group called on the E.P.A. to impose a moratorium on such testing. A9
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-12
 
Sale of Coliseum To Media Conglomerate
The M.T.A. is expected to approve the sale of the New York Coliseum to Time Warner and the Related Companies for a complex that will include a headquarters, television studio, hotel and residences. A1
 
Acquitted, After 13 Years in Jail
Vincent James Landano, who served 13 years for the 1976 murder of a Newark police officer, was acquitted by a jury in his retrial. B1
 
Arrest Fuels Parole Debate
A 17-year-old ex-convict accused of shooting a police officer was captured, and Mayor Giuliani cited his criminal record as an example of why the parole system should be changed. B1
 
Times Square Reopens
Times Square was reopened to traffic, but optimism at the pace of work on the damaged scaffolding at the Conde Nast building gave way to renewed safety concerns when a 15-foot-long aluminum pipe fell onto a theater roof next door. No one was injured. B3
 
Appeal to Brawley Jury
The lawyer for the Rev. Al Sharpton pleaded with jurors in the Tawana Brawley defamation case not to punish Mr. Sharpton with a large damage award, which he compared to a financial death sentence. B4
 
OBITUARIES A16
 
ARTS E1-8
 
Ticket-Selling Investigation
The New York State Attorney General's office is near concluding an investigation into ticket-selling practices involving the biggest theaters on Broadway and the most powerful entertainment and sports venues. E1
 
FASHION B7
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
U.S. Track Athletes Suspended
The world governing body of track and field said two of America's top athletes, Dennis Mitchell and Randy Barnes, had been suspended for possible doping offenses. But the United States track and field federation will not enforce the suspensions, calling the allegations unproven. C1
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-22
 
Telecommunications Deal
Bell Atlantic is expected to announce today its acquisition of GTE, the nation's largest independent local and long-distance phone company, for $52.8 billion in stock. A1
 
Reinsurance Consolidation
Swiss Reinsurance said it would acquire Life Re for $95 a share, or about $1.8 billion in cash, furthering a consolidation that has recently accelerated in the reinsurance industry. D1
 
Looking Toward a G.M. Ruling
Talks to end two G.M. strikes continued as union officials, in particular, had an incentive to settle before an arbitration ruling on the strikes' legality, possibly tomorrow. D2
 
Market Maker Fined $950,000
The N.A.S.D.'s regulatory arm censured and fined Troster Singer for fraud in connection with a series of 28 intentional Nasdaq trade-reporting violations during 1994. The firm neither admitted nor denied the findings, but agreed to pay $950,000. Six employees were sanctioned and fined a total of $100,000. D8
 
Business Digest D1
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-8
 
HEALTH F7
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
Editorials: Keeping the Capitol safe; the return, almost, of Times Square; hallucinations about Iraq; Spielberg's war.
 
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Chess F6
 
Public Lives B2
Crossword E6
 
Weather B6

CORRECTION-DATE: August 1, 1998, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
Because of a transcription error, an article on Tuesday about Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright's criticism of China for the arrest of several dissidents misspelled the Chinese President's name. He is Jiang Zemin, not Jian Xemin.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); YEMEN (93%); IRAQ (93%); KOSOVO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BURUNDI (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); YEMEN (93%); IRAQ (93%); KOSOVO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BURUNDI (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ARMED FORCES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); WITNESSES (72%); TESTIMONY (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); IMMUNITY (71%); FAMINE (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (68%); FOOD CHARITIES (67%); GRAND JURY (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (67%); SHOOTINGS (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998



629 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
ZELNIKER, ARTHUR

 BODY:
ZELNIKER-Arthur, 78. On July 26, 1998. Loving and beloved husband of Elaine. Devoted father of Mark and Ilene Zelniker and Jan and Jeffrey Scherr. Cherished grandfather of Lindsay, Jordan, Brian, Jeremy & Robert. Caring brother of Sheila and Sidney Hammer and Rhoda and Irving Spielvogel. Founder & President of Econoco Corporation, he was greatly admired & a giant in the store fixture industry. Former President of Fresh Meadow Country Club. He will be sorely missed by his many friends and family. Contributions may be made to the American Cancer Society, 400 Post Avenue, Suite 201, Westbury, New York 11590. Funeral services were held Tuesday, July 28, 1998.
ZELNIKER-Arthur. We mourn the loss of Arthur and extend our deepest sympathy to our very dear friend Elaine, their children Mark, Jan and their families. We will miss Arthur with whom we shared many laughs, happy events and good times together. Jacky and Bernie, Estelle and Saul, Phyllis and Ben
ZELNIKER-Arthur. We mourn the passing of our long time President, Arthur Zelniker, on July 26, 1998. For over 50 years, his unquestionable dedication and undying loyalty to the company has provided an inspiration to all those who have worked with him. We admire his entrepreneurial spirit, cleverness and intuitiveness, which has given business people everywhere a role model for success. We will miss him. Faithfully, Barry A. Rosenberg Mark Zelniker Joseph Klinow and the entire staff of Econoco Corporation
ZELNIKER-Arthur. We mourn the passing of our esteemed member and former past president, Arthur Zelniker. On behalf of the membership, we are forever grateful for his dedication to Fresh Meadow Country Club. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Elaine, and her entire family. Fresh Meadow Country Club Steven Howard, President Allen Kaplan, Secretary
ZELNIKER-Arthur. Our sincerest and deepest sympathy to Arthur's wife of 50 years, Elaine, Mark and Ilene Zelniker, Jan and Jeffrey Scherr, Lindsay, Jordan, Brian, Jeremy and Robert on the loss of Arthur Zelniker, devoted husband, father and grandfather. With much love and understanding, Marjorie Rosenberg Laurie and Joseph Klinow Robin and Barry Rosenberg
ZELNIKER-Arthur. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Arthur Zelniker. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Elaine and their family. Morton West, President Daniel Amster, Secretary
ZELNIKER-Arthur. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Arthur Zelniker and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Martin Kay, President
ZELNIKER-Arthur. We mourn the loss of our dear friend of many years. Our heartfelt sympathy to Elaine and all your family. You're leaving us much too early and too soon. Pat and Harry Markowitz
ZELNIKER-Arthur. Elaine, dear, my deepest sympathy to you, Mark, Jan and family in the passing of dear Arthur. We shall all miss him. Estelle R. Cohen

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: FRESH MEADOW COUNTRY CLUB (68%); ECONOCO CORP (56%); LINDSAY JORDAN BRIAN JEREMY&ROBERT (56%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (57%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (57%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); 

PERSON: ZELNIKER, ARTHUR MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



630 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 9; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: $25 AND UNDER;
On the Upper West Side, Something French in the Air

BYLINE: By Eric Asimov 

 BODY:
AVENUE, which opened six weeks ago in the pleasant corner site formerly occupied by Joe's Fish Shack, offers a little self-serve breakfast in the mornings with flaky croissants, granola and yogurt, house-smoked salmon platters and fresh-squeezed juices. And if you want something more substantial, a waiter will bring you a huge, sweet, Austrian apple pancake, with warmed maple syrup ($8.95).
In the afternoons, you can choose from attractive sandwiches and salads like chicken curry with Granny Smith apples ($4.50) and haricots verts with fennel and potato crisps ($4.25). At night, Avenue becomes a full-service restaurant, offering a French-American hybrid menu prepared by Scott Campbell, the chef and an owner, who is formerly of Vince & Eddie's near Lincoln Center. 
 Avenue clearly wants to offer something for everyone. The delight is that so much of the food is so good, and such a good value. Even at night, Avenue has toyed with the traditional menu, dividing appetizers into small, medium and large plates. In fact, the difference between small and medium has nothing to do with size, but rather with the costliness of the ingredients.
A decade ago, Mr. Campbell was one of many chefs who responded to recession by scaling back on the elaborate fare of the mid-1980's. Instead, they offered roast chicken and mashed potatoes, maternal comforts for a traumatized clientele.
At Avenue, Mr. Campbell has stepped gingerly away from those homey foods, staying with familiar flavors but dressing them a little more stylishly. His meat dishes are especially good, like an astounding smoked loin of pork, a portion the size of half a football, which has absorbed the enticing aroma of hickory but remains tender and excellent, served on a bed of asparagus and morels. This is a huge portion of food for $14.95.
Another main course, slices of tender lamb crusted with rosemary ($14.95), is almost its equal. The lamb is served with potatoes Louis, a rich and delicious potato cake cooked in duck fat, a homage to the famous potato dish served at L'Ami Louis in Paris. Sliced steak with crisp, salty fried potatoes ($16.95) is formidable as well.
Mr. Campbell does other fine things, too. His risotto with morels, asparagus and sweet peas ($12.95) is creamy and superb. It is classified as a medium plate, and the portion I had was plenty for a main course. Asked to prepare a vegetarian entree for a friend, he might have offered a perfunctory platter of grilled vegetables, as many restaurants do. Instead, his offering was an artful weaving of grilled fennel, asparagus, tomatoes, peppers and more ($10.50), which showed thought and care.
Not everything works so well, though. Grilled salmon ($16.25), a nice piece of fish, came with a sweet and delicious pea coulis. The problem was the unnecessary layer of duxelles interposed between the fish and the coulis, obscuring the otherwise clear interplay of flavors.
But this was the exception. Appetizers included a terrific special of cold lobster bisque ($5.50), a broth tasting of lobster shells and seashores with a dollop of creme fraiche, which slowly dissolved, adding a velvet creaminess to the blend. A flaky little tart of leeks and Gruyere ($7.50) came with a small green salad -- it would make a perfect light lunch. Fried calamari ($7.95) is delicate yet crisp, served with a lemongrass dipping sauce.
While the menu is not strictly French, the atmosphere is tres Francais, with crisp, efficient service. The wine list is also French, which probably accounts for the high prices; it's tough to find a bottle under $25. One within that limit is a fruity 1995 Chinon from Alain Lorieux ($24), a rare red that is delightful chilled. Listing this wine from the Loire as a Burgundy, however, indicates a lack of care in putting together the list.
There is no such laxity in the dessert list, though. Walnut tart ($5.95) is wonderful, crusty and not too sweet, served with maple ice cream. A dense chocolate cake with mint ice cream ($5.95) and a berry cobbler ($5.95) are excellent, too.
The Upper West Side is notorious as a restaurant wasteland, but the early signs here are all good. From the terrific food to the daylong service and the good values, Avenue is a formula that works.
 
Avenue
 
520 Columbus Avenue, at 85th Street, (212) 579-3194.
BEST DISHES: Fried calamari; leek and Gruyere tartlet; risotto with morels, asparagus and peas; lobster bisque; house-smoked loin of pork; sliced leg of lamb; sliced steak; walnut tart; chocolate cake; berry cobbler.
PRICE RANGE: Two classes of appetizers: first, $5.50 to $8.95, and second, $9.95 to $14; main courses, $13.95 to $16.95.
CREDIT CARDS: All major cards.
HOURS: Daily, 8 A.M. to 4 P.M. and 5:30 to midnight.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS: Everything is on one level; restrooms are narrow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); FRANCE (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

COMPANY: AVENUE (MANHATTAN RESTAURANT)

ORGANIZATION: AVENUE (MANHATTAN RESTAURANT)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); FRANCE (56%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (90%); MEAT FREE DIETS (78%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (76%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (72%); 

PERSON: ASIMOV, ERIC SCOTT CAMPBELL (79%); AMI LOUIS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



631 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1709 words

HEADLINE: AT LUNCH WITH: Malachy McCourt -- How a Rogue Turns Himself Into a Saint;
The Blarney Fails to Hide an Emotional Directness

BYLINE: By ALEX WITCHEL 

 BODY:
Malachy McCourt says his railing days are over.
"I had a murderous rage in my heart of Limerick, the humiliation of coming out of the slums," he says of his hometown in Ireland, the setting of his brother Frank McCourt's Pulitzer Prize-winning memoir, "Angela's Ashes." "It made you feel like nothing and there was no place to go but down. It was assumed we'd be low-class the rest of our lives. But who can you blame? Governments and churches that are gone now? It's useless. Let those things live rent-free in your head and you'll be a lunatic. Resentment is like taking poison and waiting for the other person to die." 
 These are good days for Mr. McCourt, 66, whose own memoir, "A Monk Swimming," has spent six weeks on the New York Times best-seller list. Not bad for a man who has had careers as an actor, radio personality and bar owner. His book starts in 1952 with his arrival in New York at the age of 20, when he sold Bibles on Fire Island, ran the first singles bar in Manhattan (named after himself), smuggled gold to India, drank, womanized and raged his way through life as if sheer will and excess alone could make up for every childhood hurt. His writing style is brashly confident, his irreverent brand of storytelling laced with dark humor and sometimes pathos.
But it hasn't taken long for "the ubiquitous they" as Mr. McCourt calls the press and other hangers-on, to snipe at him for trying to cash in on the success of "Angela's Ashes" and readers' insatiable interest in the McCourt clan. Mr. McCourt couldn't care less.
"They say what I did was ego-driven and name-dropping," he says. "Damn right it is. Who am I going to write about? People I didn't meet?"
It seems impossible to imagine anyone left in that category. At Eamonn Doran on Second Avenue at 53d Street in Manhattan, where he is a regular, he greets everyone by name, settling into a booth beneath his picture with President Clinton. "I was toastmaster when he was named Irishman of the Year at the Waldorf," he says proudly. The photograph's inscription reads, "Blessings on all at Eamonn's from my pal Bill and myself, Malachy."
The chef comes from the kitchen to deliver Mr. McCourt's pot of tea personally as he signals the waitress for menus. "Would you bring me some water, love?" he asks in a tone just familiar enough to make her blush.
Yes, he's still a charmer after all these years, a fact of which he's well aware. His blue eyes are clear and smart, thatched with shaggy white brows from the Brothers Grimm. His wrists are as thick as his hands, a reminder of his days as a longshoreman. His picture on the back cover of his book shows a handsome young man, or in the parlance of America, a "cute" one. A term to which he says he at first took offense. "Cute in Ireland meant cunning and devious," he said, then smiled. "And I'm not sure that I'm not."
But past his well-honed blarney shtick, which he shines on and off again at whim, the gratifying thing about Mr. McCourt is that he can drop his professional character act and segue into a smart, emotionally direct conversation faster than you can say "Top o' the morning."
 
Milk of Kindness, Slums of Death
 His double layers of personality seem to echo what he says about Ireland itself. Talking of the period covered in the book, he says, "That was a tumultuous time for me. I was stepping into a new life, casting off the rigidity of the church and its smothering society. The corruption and degradation covered with Irish oak. This image of a pink-cheeked mother offering cups of milk and peace and happiness wherever you go, with the road rising to meet you, and there in the slums they were dying of disease, despair and depression."
The waitress brings the water, and Mr. McCourt orders filet of sole, since he's become a vegetarian. He quit smoking 10 years ago, drinking 13 years ago. "Just sainthood now," he says dryly.
Which is the polar opposite of himself as a young adult. "All of a sudden here am I, a stripling, so freeing," he says of coming to New York, where people "trusted what I appeared to be, didn't know what a messed-up fellow I was in my head. I left school at age 13. I was illiterate with no role models. The great psychobabble today is the dysfunctional family. Well, I've never met one that was functional. In Limerick, a family that was dysfunctional was one who could afford to drink but didn't."
"I had the taste of the alcohol since I was 11," he goes on, sipping tea. "It allowed me to be clever, charming and to behave outrageously. Acting also allowed me not to be me. So I could indulge every fantasy in this paradise of America."
Every paradise has its price, and so did Mr. McCourt's. He married Linda Wachsman and they had two children, Siobhan and Malachy, which did not stop Mr. McCourt's drinking and carousing. Divorce was inevitable. He met Diana Galin in 1963, and they have been married 33 years. They have two sons, Conor and Cormac, and Mr. McCourt is stepfather to her daughter, Nina. Through the years he acted in daytime television dramas, including "Ryan's Hope" and "Search for Tomorrow," had successful shows on talk radio and tried his hand at opening more bars. "I'm a rotten businessman," he admits. "I've closed more saloons than any alcoholic." He has worked often in the theater, sometimes with his brother Frank, performing the musical revue they wrote together, "A Couple of Blaguards," about their childhood.
But as he says: "At a certain age the lights begin to go out as an actor. I was not getting work, I was broke, having never held a steady job, really. When I told Frank I was thinking about writing a book, he said great." His smile is rueful. "But the money's all gone," he says of his advance. "I gave it to my kids. You can't keep it unless you give it away."
His daughter Siobhan lives in Boston with her two children. Malachy teaches diving in Bali. Nina, who is retarded, lives in a group home in New York. Conor is a filmmaker whose documentary "The McCourts of Limerick" was on Cinemax. He is also a police sergeant in Manhattan, where Cormac teaches integral yoga.
Their mother is studying for a master's degree in community economic development. "And she puts up with me," Mr. McCourt says gratefully.
Mr. McCourt's other favorite person is his brother Frank. "He's an amazing man," he says. "When he was 12, one of our schoolmasters said: 'My boy, you are a literary genius. My strong suggestion is to go to America. They will appreciate you there.' Over the years I've read what he's written that never got published, and I always said it still holds. He is a literary genius. Also the most nonjudgmental decent guy. He forgives."
Has he read "A Monk Swimming," whose title comes from Mr. McCourt's mishearing the Hail Mary's "Blessed art thou amongst women" as "Blessed art thou, a monk swimming"?
"He's writing now, so he hasn't read it," he says. "He told me: 'I can't be hearing your voice. For years it's been very loud.' "
And he laughs, though he admits he is still not free of the long-reaching shadows of Limerick. He and Frank were born in Brooklyn, but the family returned to Ireland when Malachy was 3, after the death of his 7-week-old sister, Margaret. His father drank and could not hold a job; the McCourts lived in desperate poverty both in New York and Ireland. His twin brothers also died of illness. Eventually his father left them.
"When desertion is involved, the absent parent seems romantic and caring," Mr. McCourt says. His mother, Angela, "was in a depression," he says. "My father had taken to the alcohol, and she was helpless in the face of it. My mother wanted to go back to Ireland after Margaret died. And then she was thrown out of one slum and only found shelter in another with a drunken beast of a thing who would sit tearing at a steak with his bare hands and throw meat to the dog while we children sat hungry. Then he beats us and sleeps with my mother so we could hear it. The horrors of that, the shame. There was a sadness of that for years and years. I once wrote to her and said I loved her. She laughed at it. She couldn't accept that.
"Coming out of that life, the things that get you are the two evils of shame on one shoulder, the demon fear on the other. Shame says you came from nothing, you're nobody, they'll find you out for what you and your mother have done. Fear says what's the use of bothering, drink as much as you can, dull the pain. As a result shame takes care of the past, fear takes care of the future and there's no living in the present." He sighs. "The thing about the low self-esteem rubbish is thinking you have no gifts. Eventually I became my father, who I hated the most."
There has been some healing, though. The success of both his book and his brother's has helped, of course. And while Conor McCourt was researching his documentary, he located the grave in Queens where Margaret was buried.
"We all went out, Frank, Alphie, Mike and myself," Mr. McCourt says, referring to his surviving brothers. "It was a pauper's grave. My wife, Diana, had decided to keep some of Angela's ashes in our house, even after we had scattered them. But when Conor found the grave, we brought the ashes and reunited the mother and the daughter after 64 years." His eyes fill. "It still makes me weep to think about it. The recognition that there was something of that child. We honored her and we honored my mother."
He starts on his third pot of tea, and soon enough the talk returns to Ireland. "I picked up an old man on the road once," Mr. McCourt says, "during the hardest driving rain. When he got out he said: 'Thank you sir for your kindness. May you have a happy death.' "
He smiles. "When you think about it, a happy death means you had a happy life. And I think I have. These days, the simple things are appealing. Diana, our closeness and love. The grandchildren. I'm having my dream, one day at a time. I've learned acceptance and letting go and to just keep a sense of humor about this absurd condition."
Which is?
"That we're a species with a hundred percent mortality rate and not one of us accepts it. So, it's true. Live every day as if it's going to be your last, and one day, you'll be right."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Malachy McCourt, right, and his brother Frank preparing for an evening of fun at the Village Gate in 1984. (Sara Krulwich (top left); Keith Meyers/The New York Times) (pg. E1); Angela McCourt with three of her sons, Mike, at left, Malachy and Frank, in a family photo. (Cinemax) (pg. E3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: MONK SWIMMING, A (BOOK)

COUNTRY: IRELAND (90%); UNITED STATES (87%); INDIA (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: 2ND AVENUE DESIGN (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRELAND (90%); UNITED STATES (87%); INDIA (69%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); LITERATURE (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); BESTSELLERS (77%); SMUGGLING (51%); 

PERSON: WITCHEL, ALEX; MCCOURT, MALACHY BILL CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



632 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
Business Air Fares Are Holding Steady

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
Don't look now, but typical business air fares finally appear to be holding steady. The reasons why are a matter of some dispute. But after having to contend with steadily rising fares from 1995 through 1997, as the airline industry struggled to return to financial health after its $14 billion hemorrhage in the first half of the decade, business travelers are likely to welcome any leveling off, whatever the reasons.
The most recent evidence of stability is contained in the American Express domestic air fare index, which shows that from October 1997 through May of this year, typical one-way business fares rose only 1 percent, to $452. In contrast, those fares climbed 16 percent in 1997 over the previous year. 
 In its first-ever domestic air fare report, released a week ago, the Air Transport Association found that average ticket prices over all (that is, business and leisure fares combined) increased last month only 2.2 percent over fares in June 1997. So far this year, the association added, average fares remained relatively unchanged, increasing only 1.7 percent for a 1,000-mile one-way trip, to $141.80 from $139.38.
In an obvious dig at American Express, which has compiled its fares index for eight years, the association said its report "is based on actual prices paid by the vast majority of the flying public," rather than relying "on estimates or only on tickets purchased by customers of a particular company or on a limited number of routes."
Melissa Abernathy, manager of public affairs for American Express, shrugged off the implied criticism. "In all the years we've put out the index, we haven't heard a word out of them." she said of the association.
Differences aside, there is general agreement that stable fares are not the result of a single event, but a combination of factors. Corporate travel managers cite the success of negotiated discount fares and corporate policies that impose restrictions on everything from what carriers to fly to flight times to routes and even to preferred airports. But the main reason, many business travelers say, is that the airlines are almost certainly responding to election-year pressures from Washington, which is hinting that it may reregulate some air fares.
"The fact that pricing suddenly stopped escalating, that's suspicious," said James B. Haynes, president of the Atlanta-based Commercial Travelers Association.
The carriers have another explanation, obviously, including lower-priced aviation fuel, improved productivity, lower interest rates for leases on planes and, of course, competition.
 
Airline Update
On Saturday, members of the frequent-flier programs of AMR's American Airlines and U S Airways can begin claiming awards for travel on either airline. And at a date to be announced "in the near future," the carriers said yesterday, members of both carriers' programs will be able to combine miles from each program in order to claim awards on either airline.
Because of hot temperatures in many cities, Delta Air Lines will not check live animals as baggage through Sept. 15. Passengers who had planned to fly with their pets during that period can cancel their reservations without penalties.
 
Third Time Around
Although it's too late to book passage on tomorrow's maiden voyage of the Disney Magic, the Walt Disney Company's twice-delayed ship, the company said limited berths were still available for most of the Magic's cruises in August. For September and later, there is ample space on the ship's weekly sailings from Port Canaveral, Fla.
All sailings include three or four days at Walt Disney World Resort followed by a three- or four-day Bahamas cruise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO; AIR TRANSPORT ASSN; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; US AIRWAYS; DISNEY, WALT, CO U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO; AIR TRANSPORT ASSN; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; US AIRWAYS; DISNEY, WALT, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SHIPS AND SHIPPING; CRUISES; DISNEY MAGIC (SHIP) AIR FARES (95%); AIRLINES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (76%); TICKET SALES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



633 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
This Way Lies Madness

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH 

 BODY:
The Capitol police officers Jacob Chestnut and John Gibson had hardly been declared dead when Senator Robert Torricelli, the New Jersey Democrat, sent out a press release arguing that tighter gun control could have prevented the tragedy. Not missing a beat, Trent Lott was soon arguing that a $125 million bunker-barricade camouflaged as a visitors' center would repel future assailants. But in a city where most politicians are so ignorant about mental illness that they still think Whitewater, not the disease of depression, drove Vincent Foster to suicide, no one said the obvious: It is the gaping cracks in American mental-health care, not in Capitol security or gun-control laws, that most clearly delivered Russell Weston Jr. to his rendezvous with history.
Mr. Weston's paranoid schizophrenia surfaced long ago. Yet, as The Times reported, this now 41-year-old man "received no regular psychiatric treatment or medication over the last two decades and his family seemed to understand little about how to seek help for him." This is hardly an anomaly. E. Fuller Torrey, a psychiatrist who campaigns for better mental-health care through the Treatment Advocacy Center in Arlington, Va., says that of the 2 to 2.5 million Americans with schizophrenia, "40 percent are not receiving treatment on any given day." Cases like Mr. Weston's -- in which a mental patient eludes follow-up care and medication after a hospital release -- number "in the hundreds of thousands." 
 How does this happen? Nearly as heartbreaking as the preventable murders of officers Chestnut and Gibson is the plight of Mr. Weston's family. They obviously love their child; they knew he was sick; they wanted to get him help. But, as Russell Sr. said: "He was a grown man. We couldn't hold him down and force the pills into him." A comprehensive system of mental-health services, including support for parents with sick adult children who refuse treatment, doesn't exist. If it had, the Westons might have had more success in rescuing their son -- as might the equally loving family of Michael Laudor, the Yale Law School prodigy charged last month with murdering his fiancee.
That safety-net system doesn't exist because mental illness is still in our culture's shadows -- stigmatized, misunderstood and therefore the beggar of American health care. Though Mr. Weston's home state of Montana offers particularly skimpy services, the national baseline is "not high," says Dr. Torrey. Poorly covered by health insurance and spottily served by overcrowded and underfinanced public institutions, mental illness is "the last discrimination," as Michael Faenza of the National Mental Health Association puts it, even though we now have the science to treat mental illness at a success rate comparable to physical illness.
It's not only politicians who are complicit in this discrimination. The media sometimes compound the ignorance that feeds it. Too many commentators look at Mr. Weston's symptoms -- such as his paranoid delusions about the C.I.A. -- and lump him in with gun-toting, anti-government ideologues, making no distinction between the clinically ill and political extremists. A Time reporter, on the hapless CNN show "Newsstand," expressed surprise that Mr. Weston would so easily be diagnosed as a paranoid schizophrenic given that he had no previous "episodes of violence."
In fact, the majority of those ill with paranoid schizophrenia are not violent, and the disease has no ideology. As Sylvia Nasar's new book, "A Beautiful Mind," documents, many of Mr. Weston's oddest symptoms (including the conviction he was being beamed encrypted messages) also characterized the paranoid schizophrenia of John Nash, the brilliant, nonviolent Princeton mathematician who won the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1994.
Back in 1835, one of the very first patients at Washington's Government Hospital for the Insane -- as St. Elizabeth's Hospital was then known -- was Richard Lawrence, a pistol-armed man who tried and failed to assassinate Andrew Jackson in the Capitol's Rotunda and was then pronounced not guilty by reason of insanity in a trial whose jury deliberations took five minutes. More than a century and a half of medical and economic advances later, what kind of progress is it that we still so often fail to treat the mentally ill until after tragedy strikes?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HEALTH CARE CENTERS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; ATTACKS ON POLICE; CAPITOL (WASHINGTON, DC); SCHIZOPHRENIA MENTAL ILLNESS (92%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); MURDER (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DEPRESSION (76%); PARANOIA (76%); SUICIDE (72%); LAWYERS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK; WESTON, RUSSELL E JR; TORREY, E FULLER (DR) TRENT LOTT (58%); FRANK RICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



634 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
YEN GAINS. Japan's currency rose on news reports that Kiichi Miyazawa, 78, a well-regarded former Prime Minister, had been asked to become Finance Minister. In New York trading, the dollar fell to 141.35 yen from 142.41.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since January 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (86%); PRIME MINISTERS (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (86%); POLITICS (84%); 

PERSON: MIYAZAWA, KIICHI KIICHI MIYAZAWA (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



635 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Investors Need Good News, Top Russian Official Says

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, July 28

 BODY:
An architect of Russia's fiscal strategy said today that foreign investors needed some good news to stem renewed fears that the Government was losing control of its financial destiny, a belief that has driven stock and bond markets to near-record lows this week.
The official, Deputy Prime Minister Boris Nemtsov, said some important indicators were beginning to move up. He added that the Government would soon begin to issue regular and detailed economic reports to investors that would prove his point. 
 In an interview Mr. Nemtsov said the markets' slide had mostly stemmed from a "public relations problem" caused by a vacuum of reliable information about the recovery.
The tax-collection rate, a crucial indicator of the progress toward solvency, will show a modest increase this month, Mr. Nemtsov said, adding that the Government would issue policies this week aimed at stabilizing the value of the ruble and laying out plans to issue new debt.
In particular, he stressed that the Government would fight any drop in the value of the ruble in relation to other currencies. Devaluation would raise prices domestically and slash the value of foreign investments.
"There will be no devaluation," Mr. Nemtsov said, adding confidently, if jokingly, "Devaluation will happen with other governments, not ours."
Russian financial markets have been on a stomach-churning ride since May, when it became clear that the Government was headed toward insolvency unless international lending agencies stepped in to bolster currency reserves and calm investors who were pulling their money out of the country.
The International Monetary Fund voted on July 13 to add immediately $4.8 billion to the gold and currency reserves of Russia after President Boris N. Yeltsin had decreed a sweeping overhaul of tax and spending policies. The I.M.F. and other lending agencies have promised to increase the package to a total of $22.6 billion if the Government carries out its new policies.
In the days after that announcement, the Russian stock market leaped more than 25 percent, and short-term interest rates dropped from as much as 150 percent to 50 percent. But little has happened since then, in part because the Parliament, a stumbling block to the full array of reforms, will not take up some of the most important changes until the middle of next month.
In the meantime the stock market has given up all its gains. The price of one much-watched Government bond, a repackaged version of international debt run up by the old Soviet Union, has hit record lows. And today the rate on the Russian version of an American Treasury bill neared 80 percent, up 30 points from a few weeks ago.
Blue-chip stocks regained 5 percent of their value today, after six days in a row of losses that had sliced 25 percent from the most popular index of the market's value.
Mr. Nemtsov said today that investors were overlooking promising aspects of the economy, including industrial sectors like automobile production, that are registering large gains in output and a major reduction in strikes. He also noted that the Government was drafting plans to sell vast segments of state-owned companies like oil and telecommunications, in an effort to encourage competition and net the Government a healthy profit.
Mr. Nemtsov noted in particular the Government decision this week to sell nearly one-seventh of its 41 percent stake in Gazprom, the natural-gas monopoly that is the largest company in Russia. Investors have reacted skeptically. Gazprom shares have fallen more than a third in the last two weeks.
Mr. Nemtsov said today that it generally made economic sense to shed state interests in private companies and that the Government would not sell part of its Gazprom stake until the stock price had recovered.
"What Russia needs, what the Government needs, is a very transparent policy to explain to everyone what is happening" on economic issues in the executive branch and the Parliament, he said.
The Government hopes to begin issuing weekly reports on important economic issues, including statistics on tax collection, currency and markets.
A leading analyst of Russian economic issues, Charles Blitzer, director of emerging-market research at the investment bank of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Inc., said he agreed that foreign investors had overreacted to the dearth of good news.
"Basically," Mr. Blitzer said, "the sentiment is negative, and the market is sort of lost confidence in the Government and in a whole string of positive actions the Government is taking, selling off part of Gazprom, cracking down on tax evasion and so on. The Government hasn't done a very good job of getting its information across."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; STOCKS AND BONDS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (93%); DEVALUATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BONDS (89%); FOREIGN LENDING (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TAX REFORM (71%); TRENDS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; NEMTSOV, BORIS Y (DEPUTY PRIME MIN) BORIS NEMTSOV (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



636 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Ex-Im Bank Chief, in Asia, Urges Priority on China Lending

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, July 28

 BODY:
In a sign of the new emphasis the United States is placing on China as an economic engine for Asia, the chairman of the Export-Import Bank says he wants China to become its largest recipient of loans to buy American products and equipment.
The official, James A. Harmon, promised to push for an increase in lending to China, which currently has loans and trade guarantees of $5.5 billion, and is the Ex-Im Bank's second-largest borrower after Mexico. 
 "China is a phenomenal opportunity for U.S. companies and a great challenge," Mr. Harmon said here on Monday, adding, "It should be our No. 1 market." He was in Hong Kong as part of a 12-day tour of Asia that includes stops in Japan and Thailand. But it was clear that his focus was squarely on China, where he said he hoped to seize upon the momentum established by President Clinton's recent visit. Of the 12 days, he is spending nine in China, with visits to Beijing, Shanghai and the industrial city of Chengdu.
The Ex-Im Bank is an independent United States Government agency that promotes exports by subsidizing loans and providing credit guarantees so that developing countries can purchase American goods. In China this year, the bank will help finance about $1 billion worth of purchases, primarily aircraft and power turbines. Mr. Harmon said he would like to extend loans for the Chinese to buy everything from medical equipment to water-filtration systems.
He predicted that China would be hungry for loans, as it starts a campaign, orchestrated by Prime Minister Zhu Rongji, to spend $750 billion on new roads, bridges, hydroelectric projects and other public works.
Mr. Harmon said he also wanted to redress China's trade imbalance with the United States, which ballooned to $20.4 billion in the first five months of this year, compared with $16.9 billion in the similar period last year. An aide to Mr. Harmon said that during meetings in Beijing, senior Chinese officials acknowledged that the trade gap was a problem and pledged to help close it.
The Ex-Im Bank also wants to mend relations with Beijing, which were strained in 1996 when it refused to subsidize loans to buy equipment for the huge Three Gorges Dam, saying the $25 billion project did not meet its environmental standards.
Mr. Harmon's intense focus on China is in marked contrast to that on Japan, where he spent only a day, despite extensive ties between the Ex-Im Bank and its counterpart in Japan. He said he tried to persuade officials there to consider environmental standards in deciding which countries should get loans.
Economists said the Ex-Im Bank's emphasis on China made sense, given that it is one of the few Asian countries still showing growth. "If you want to save Asia, you'd better save China first," said William H. Overholt, the head of research at BankBoston in Singapore.
Indeed, the situations in other Asian nations worry the bank. It has lent several billion dollars to troubled economies like those of Thailand, South Korea and Indonesia. Given their suffocating debt and economic turbulence, some of them might have trouble paying back their loans on time. A spokesman for the bank acknowledged that it might have to stretch out the repayment period, particularly with Indonesia. But he said no Asian country had yet signaled it would default on an Ex-Im Bank loan, adding, "A rescheduling is not a loss; it is a stretching out of a repayment."
Mr. Harmon, who was a New York investment banker before joining the Ex-Im Bank in 1997, said he believed that Asia would take three to five years to recover from its economic crisis. "A lot of people in Asia haven't lived through bear markets," he said, "so it's harder for people here." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (90%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (97%); JAPAN (93%); HONG KONG (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF US BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE US (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF US

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (97%); JAPAN (93%); HONG KONG (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (78%); TRENDS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (70%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (69%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: HARMON, JAMES A; LANDLER, MARK BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



637 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: Confidence Index Hovers Near Record

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 28

 BODY:
Consumer confidence in the United States economy stuck close to a 30-year high in July, buoyed by the powerful combination of benign inflation and an unemployment rate close to a three-decade low.
The Conference Board, a private research group, reported that its index of consumer confidence fell to 135.4 this month from a revised 138.2 in June. Last month's original estimate of 137.6 was its highest level since a reading of 142.3 in October 1968. Before the report, analysts expected a July index of 135.9. 
 Near-record levels of confidence could lead to a burst of spending, and that would increase United States economic growth, because consumer activity makes up two-thirds of the economy.
The indexes that gauge plans to buy a home, automobile or major appliance over the next six months all rose in July. And more respondents than last month expect their incomes to rise in the next six months. The index showing expectations for higher incomes rose to 27.1 in July from 26.6 in June.
"While consumers are not expecting economic growth to accelerate, they are looking for business growth to continue through the remainder of 1998," said Lynn Franco, associate director of the Conference Board's Consumer Research Center.
At the same, more survey participants said this month that they expected that fewer jobs would be created in the next six months. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD CONFERENCE BOARD INC (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); JOB CREATION (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



638 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: William McChesney Martin, 91, Dies; Defined Fed's Role

BYLINE: By MELODY PETERSEN 

 BODY:
William McChesney Martin Jr., the chairman of the Federal Reserve for 19 years, spanning five Administrations, from that of Harry S. Truman to Richard M. Nixon, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 91.
Mr. Martin, a plain-spoken Democrat from Missouri, detested inflation. He once said that the role of the Federal Reserve was "to take away the punch bowl just when the party gets going." 
 While he was criticized alternately for making credit too easy and too tight, Mr. Martin was known as an honest, responsible man, who often stood up against the political pressures of the executive and legislative branches. And, he retained the confidence of five Presidents, even when he had opposed them.
Mr. Martin set the course of the nation's monetary policy during an economic golden age. His tenure included the nation's longest economic expansion, from 1961 to 1969. That growth period ended when the central bank was forced to begin raising interest rates to fight the rising inflation that was caused by Government spending during the Vietnam War.
In one of his most controversial moves, in December 1965, Mr. Martin voted to raise the discount rate -- the rate at which commercial banks borrow from the Fed -- despite President Lyndon B. Johnson's objections. After the vote, he was summoned to Johnson's ranch. He soon emerged to say that the meeting had changed neither man's mind.
Mr. Martin often verbally battled with his most bitter critic, Representative Wright Patman, a Democrat from Texas, for whom interest rates could never be low enough. But he largely avoided public squabbles and had a knack for stating his gloomy predictions in a pleasant way.
At the bottom of one economic slump, Mr. Martin warned Congress that you can't "spend yourself prosperous."
Another time, he remarked, "A perpetual deficit is the road to undermining any currency."
In a written statement yesterday, Alan Greenspan, the current chairman of the Federal Reserve, said that Mr. Martin had set a "masterful example."
"Crucially, Chairman Martin moved the Federal Reserve from being an adjunct of the Treasury Department," Mr. Greenspan's statement said, "to the independent status we know today."
In private, Mr. Martin was known as a relaxed, friendly man who had an engaging, boyish grin. He was an avid tennis player, who often played on a court across the street from the headquarters of the Federal Reserve.
His father, a prominent banker in St. Louis, had helped President Woodrow Wilson draft the Federal Reserve Act that created the central bank in 1913. Later, his father served as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, and Mr. Martin followed, working as an examiner at that same bank after his graduation from Yale University with a B.A. in Latin and English.
After a move to New York, Mr. Martin, at 31, became the first paid president of the New York Stock Exchange -- a position that earned him the nickname of "boy wonder of Wall Street."
In 1941, he left his $48,000-a-year job at the exchange to serve in World War II, where he began earning a salary of $21 a month. He rose to the rank of colonel, serving in several key wartime agencies.
After the war, Mr. Martin became chairman of the Export-Import Bank and then served as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury under President Truman, a fellow Missourian.
His 19-year chairmanship of the Fed under both Democratic and Republican Presidents was longer than the term of any other chairman so far.
When President Truman interviewed him about taking the chairmanship, Mr. Truman recalled that he had bought some Liberty Bonds in the First World War that had later declined in value. "You wouldn't ever let that happen again, would you?" the President asked.
Mr. Martin replied that he wouldn't want it to happen, but unless the Administration followed responsible fiscal and monetary policies, it probably would happen again.
President John F. Kennedy had told Mr. Martin in 1961 that most of the Kennedy advisers wanted a new Fed chairman and questioned him closely about whether he intended to "flaunt" the independence of the Fed. In the end, Mr. Kennedy asked him to stay on and explained that he did so because "responsible men" were not easy to find.
A similar conversation occurred early in President Johnson's Administration, with the President telling Mr. Martin that he wanted low interest rates all the time. The chairman replied that he would have to get another man to achieve that.
Mr. Martin stepped down from the central bank in January 1970. He then served on the board for many corporations and nonprofit organizations, including I.B.M., American Express and the National Geographic Society. For many years, he worked as a lawyer for Riggs National Bank in Washington. He also served as president of the National Tennis Hall of Fame.
He is survived by his wife, Cynthia Davis Martin; two daughters, Diana Martin of Washington and Cynthia Martin Ghenea of Portland, Me.; a son, William McChesney Martin 3d of Cambridge, Mass., and two grandchildren.
In an interview with The New York Times in 1985, Mr. Martin said there was much double talk in most discussions about monetary policy, which ranks as one of Washington's most arcane subjects.
When he took office, Mr. Martin said he had told himself: "My gracious, here I am the new chairman of the Fed, and I'm doing my best -- I'm not the brightest fellow in the world but I'm working hard on this -- and I haven't the faintest idea of how you figure the money supply. Yet everybody thinks I have it at my fingertips.
"They don't really know what the money supply is now, even today," Mr. Martin continued. "They print some figures -- I'm not trying to make fun of it -- but a lot of it is just almost superstition."

GRAPHIC: Photos: William McChesney Martin shook hands with Lyndon B. Johnson (Associated Press), the fourth of five Presidents he would serve, at the White House in 1966. Mr. Martin, above right (United Press International), with his successor, Arthur Burns, in 1969.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (80%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); VIETNAM WAR (52%); ATHLETES (50%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, WILLIAM MCCHESNEY JR; NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS (1913-94); TRUMAN, HARRY S (1884-1972) RICHARD NIXON (88%); KEVIN MARTIN (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



639 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles Goes Small Town in Courtship of Democrats

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 28

 BODY:
Over two solid days, the cream of this city's civic leadership has courted the Democratic Party's national convention for 2000 with every carrot at its command, and somewhere between the margaritas and the mariachis, the exploding wall of balloons and the flying angel, the intensity of the effort took on a sweetly comic small-town air.
By the time a chorus of irresistible inner-city children serenaded the 50-odd members of the party's site-selection committee this morning with the soothing strains of "California Dreamin,' " the message was clear: the Democrats would be safe and warm . . . if they were in L.A. 
 For this much-mocked metropolis, winning a national political convention for the first time since John F. Kennedy was nominated here in 1960 would mean more than playing host to thousands of delegates and journalists, with their attendant tourism and perhaps $150 million in spending. It would also amount to a kind of massive international coming-out party for a city that has largely rebounded from the economic, natural and social disasters of the early 90's and is bursting to tell the world.
"The city frankly gets a bad rap in the eastern press and the international press," said Eli Broad, the billionaire chairman of Sun America Inc. and one of a bevy of high-powered local leaders, including the entertainment mogul David Geffen, recruited to lead the city's lobbying effort and $35 million public-private pledge of financial support for the convention. "They think of the Simpson trial, the recessed economy, the loss of aerospace and defense jobs, and perceptions lag reality. We want the opportunity to show what L.A. is today."
Los Angeles is not alone in wanting the psychic and economic lift that a convention would bring, and though party officials say it has a very good chance, senior Democrats both here and in Washington say that Vice President Al Gore -- who will get the final say -- has a definite fondness for Philadelphia, where his old friend Mayor Edward G. Rendell is making his own strong pitch to revive a city beleaguered by economic and social woes.
The site-selection committee, which is also considering Boston, Denver, Miami, Minneapolis and New Orleans and is to make a recommendation late this year, was supposed to visit Philadelphia last month. But it arrived only to find picket lines in place for a bitter transit strike and decided to postpone its visit just hours after it arrived. The strike has since been tentatively settled and the visit is to be rescheduled for this fall. Meanwhile, the Angelenos are pressing every perceived advantage, chief among them California's 54 electoral votes, which all experts agree any Democratic candidate must have to win the White House.
"I think we get it," said Susan Estrich, who managed Michael S. Dukakis's 1988 campaign and is now a professor at the University of Southern California law school, as she munched crispy rolled taquitos at a welcoming reception for the committee in downtown Los Angeles on Monday. Her reasoning: the nominee "either comes here in the summer, or he spends the whole fall here campaigning. He's got to spend the spring here anyway raising money, so he might as well come in the summer when he can do both effectively."
This morning, the committee members toured the sprawling Convention Center downtown, which would serve as media work space and staging area for the convention, and saw a spiffy video on the new Staples Arena, the state-of-the art stadium that is being built just across the street and that would house the convention itself. The visitors all got Los Angeles Kings hockey jerseys emblazoned with their names and the number 54.
The committee members entered the cavernous Convention Center through a wall of hundreds of balloons, which spelled out "LA 2000" and exploded on cue to let them pass, then sat down to a breakfast of golden raspberries and other fresh fruits, smoked scallops and salmon and wild mushroom hash with poached egg. Mr. Broad stood up to welcome a performer, who was slowly lowered, feathery angel wings and all, from the rafters of the glass-domed center, bearing the city's official bid to the Democratic Party.
On Monday night, the committee had dinner on a converted sound stage at Universal Studios. This afternoon, it toured the new Getty Center and prepared for a dinner at Mayor Richard J. Riordan's home before heading off to dance at the Conga Room, a new Latin music nightclub partly owned by the actor Jimmy Smits.
But in a city that has been the past-master of self-promotion since colorful orange crate labels lured frozen Midwesterners here at the turn of the century, the overall effect was oddly low key, low tech and homey. The organizers missed no chance to emphasize the city's racial and ethnic diversity, as a string of union workers from various trades stepped up to make brief speeches beginning, "I want the 2000 Democratic National Convention because. . . ."
"We want to know what the outreach is in a city to minority business, we want to know what the labor situation is," said Rosalind Wyman, a Los Angeles native and the doyenne of California Democratic politics, who is a member of the site-selection committee and confesses a preference for her hometown. "We care about having an environmentally sensitive city, and whether there's access for the disabled and whether the host committee is broad based. Obviously, I think we would put on an incredible convention."
The Republicans are said to be leaning to cities in old-line swing states like Chicago and Philadelphia, and at least some Democratic officials have worried that the risk of coming to Los Angeles is that liberal celebrities might overshadow the proceedings. Then again, since no one expects conventions to decide anything of importance in an age of primary elections, why not come to the home of show-business in hopes of at least producing interesting television?
"The good reason to come here would be if you wanted to try and re-invent the convention," Ms. Estrich said. "That would be the exciting challenge. Because the truth is, if they do it the old way, no one will watch anyway."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Los Angeles wants the Democratic Party's national convention in 2000 in the City of Angels, and Krista Miller performed at a breakfast yesterday for members of the party's site-selection committee. (Jill Connelly for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (59%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE CALIFORNIA ANGELS (59%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); MAYORS (76%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); STRIKES (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (61%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); AL GORE (58%); ED RENDELL (58%); ELI BROAD (54%); DAVID GEFFEN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



640 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Liberties;
An American Tragedy

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
When I was a teen-ager, in the 60's, I never told people that my father was a cop. It wasn't cool.
In the Vietnam era, with the National Guard killing kids at Kent State, with the Chicago police billyclubbing yippies, with the stench of tear gas and class hatred everywhere, the last thing you wanted to do was admit you were related to someone in a uniform. 
 Cops were pigs. The military was fascist. Shaggy-haired Ivy Leaguers like Bill Clinton were protesting Vietnam and writing letters about "loathing the military."
It seemed easier to say my father was in politics. After he retired from the police force, he was an aide to a Senator and a Congressman.
For his last 13 years on the force, he was an inspector in charge of Senate security. In those days, D.C. detectives were assigned to guard the Capitol, and the Capitol police worked on a patronage system.
It wasn't a high-risk job day to day, compared with his earlier assignments walking beats or in homicide. The most treacherous part was the temper of the Democratic Senate leader, Lyndon Johnson, who would fire underlings at any provocation.
But sometimes crazy people, or people made crazy by a cause, would show up. And then the job of guarding lawmakers and tourists could suddenly turn very dangerous.
On March 1, 1954, three Puerto Rican nationalists pulled out guns and randomly fired down from the spectators' gallery above the House floor. Five Congressmen were wounded. My father ran over from the Senate and wrestled one of the shooters to the ground.
He marked the Puerto Rican's gun by carving his initials with a penknife on the handle. Later, at the trial, when the defense lawyer superciliously grilled him about how he could be sure that the gun in evidence was the same one used in the crime, my father told him to look on the bottom of the handle. There was the "MJD."
That bloody day 44 years ago was the most famous outbreak of violence in the Capitol until last Friday, when two Capitol police officers died heroically trying to stop a crazy man from shooting up the place.
There has been an intense emotional response to the deaths of John Gibson and Jacob Chestnut. So much that happens in Washington now seems trivial and craven and tawdry. But these two men died doing something large and brave and important, defending freedom.
As I watched their memorial service, it struck me that my generation had come a long way from the days when anyone in uniform was a fit target for an epithet. Bill Clinton may have once shunned the military, but as President he has given respect and support to the police and armed forces. His eulogy for Officers Gibson and Chestnut was spare and elegant. "They consecrated this house of freedom," he said.
Some who came of age in the painful Vietnam era are now making movies glorifying the military and TV shows celebrating cops.
Law and order, once a phrase that elicited elitist contempt, is now the coolest entertainment pitch going. Old Mayor Daley is dead. Long live Sipowitz and clans of Irish cops.
Steven Spielberg has been giving interviews, talking about having made "Saving Private Ryan" to honor the men who fought in World War II and risked so much for freedom.
Suddenly, baby boomers realize that, despite a buzzing economy and a passel of luxury goods, we are going to die without experiencing the nobility that illuminated the lives of our parents and grandparents. They lived through wars and depressions, life and death, good stomping evil. Our unifying event was "Seinfeld."
We live in a culture more concerned with celebrity than morality, more centered on self than others.
Seeing the flag-draped coffins in the Rotunda, the thousands of mourners, it seems a long time from the days of cops as pigs. Seeing the long queues for the patriotic "Saving Private Ryan," it seems a long time from the days of the military as fascist.
We understand now that it was the politicians who sent out the Chicago cops and the Ohio National Guard. It was the politicians, Johnson, McNamara and Kissinger, who sent all those young men to die after they knew Vietnam was unwinnable. We may be more cynical. But we're no longer demonizing the wrong people.
Nowadays, I never say my father worked in politics. I simply say, with the greatest possible pride, that he was a cop.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: SAVING PRIVATE RYAN (55%); DEMOCRATIC SENATE (67%); OHIO NATIONAL GUARD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATE (67%); OHIO NATIONAL GUARD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; ATTACKS ON POLICE; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; NINETEEN HUNDRED SIXTIES; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; VIETNAM WAR; CAPITOL (WASHINGTON, DC); PUBLIC OPINION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); RIOTS (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); POLITICS (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); LAWYERS (61%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



641 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: The Cruel Leaders of Myanmar

 BODY:
The fate of democracy in Myanmar, formerly Burma, has been closely associated with the fate of one courageous woman, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. The military junta ruling that country has now blocked her effort to travel to a meeting with members of her political party. She has refused to turn back and yesterday spent her fifth day in a stifling hot car, surrounded by armed troops, on a road outside the capital city of Yangon.
This treatment of the 1991 Nobel Peace laureate, which drew strong protests yesterday from America, the European Union and other countries, is despicable. Even if the junta backs off, the episode shows again that it is unfit to govern Myanmar. 
 The junta has made a considerable public relations effort in recent years to create a more favorable image. Yet it has now destroyed whatever little international standing it had gained. It is also failing in the most basic responsibilities of government. Earlier this week Secretary of State Madeleine Albright noted that conditions in Myanmar were worsening, with political restrictions, economic and educational stagnation, a spreading AIDS epidemic and rampant drug trafficking making what she called a "social breakdown or explosion" increasingly likely.
Myanmar's junta should respond to international demands and let Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi travel in peace. But that is not enough. She, and all the people of Myanmar, must be allowed to express themselves freely, and be governed by the representatives they freely choose.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); 

CITY: YANGON, MYANMAR (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR; MYANMAR (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); YANGON, MYANMAR (58%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); POLITICS (77%); ARMED FORCES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (69%); AIDS & HIV (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (52%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (52%); EPIDEMICS (52%); 

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI, DAW AUNG SAN SUU KYI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



642 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Wanted: Retired Workers To Fix Year 2000 Problems

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 28

 BODY:
Two senior citizens groups have agreed to recruit retired computer programmers to help find year 2000 bugs in old computer systems, the head of the President's Council on Year 2000 Conversion said today.
The American Association of Retired Persons, assisted by the National Council of Senior Citizens, will conduct an "aggressive outreach campaign," said John A. Koskinen. He was appointed by President Clinton in February to lead the Federal effort to minimize disruptions to the Government and the economy from the anticipated computer problems. 
 Many computers record the date as a two-digit number and will recognize the day after Dec. 31, 1999, as Jan. 1, 1900. Fixing this requires searching through millions of lines of computer programs and finding where date information is stored. Some programs were written decades ago, and in languages that are no longer widely used.
"Many people think you have to be 20-something to understand this stuff," said Ted Bobrow, an association spokesman, "but there are people who've been working on it for 30 or 40 years."
Some industries are having trouble finding the programmers they need. Mr. Koskinen began a public campaign today to improve awareness of the problem and unveiled a Web page (www.y2k.gov) with a job bank maintained by the Labor Department where potential employers and employees can register.
A search of the job bank showed that since July 14 more than 440 people looking for work as programmers have filed resumes listing the term "Y2K," which is computer shorthand for year 2000.
Deborah R. Russell, an association staff member, said, "The money is good, and it's an opportunity to go back into the work force for a finite amount of time, an opportunity to be useful, to make a difference." She said people who programmed early computer languages like Cobol and Fortran were in high demand.
Mr. Koskinen also said that a bill would be introduced in Congress on Wednesday to make it easier for companies to share year 2000 fixes without fear of liability lawsuits, should those fixes cause new problems. The bill would make companies liable only if they knew that the information was false.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ASSN OF RETIRED PERSONS; NATIONAL COUNCIL OF SENIOR CITIZENS AMERICAN ASSOCIATION (68%); NATIONAL COUNCIL ON COMPENSATION INSURANCE INC (68%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF SENIOR CITIZENS (84%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF SENIOR CITIZENS (84%); AARP INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSN OF RETIRED PERSONS; NATIONAL COUNCIL OF SENIOR CITIZENS NATIONAL COUNCIL OF SENIOR CITIZENS (84%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF SENIOR CITIZENS (84%); AARP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR) YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (94%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (87%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); LABOR FORCE (75%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KOSKINEN, JOHN A BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



643 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Union and G.M. Reach Pact To End Strikes at 2 Plants
General Motors and the United Automobile Workers union agreed to end nearly eight weeks of strikes at two auto parts plants in Flint, Mich., that had shut down car assembly plants across North America, pushed hundreds of thousands of workers into temporary unemployment and slowed the nation's economic growth.
The settlement, which must be approved by workers at both factories, settles a wide range of local issues at the two factories and at several other G.M. factories where workers had threatened strikes. But it did not address any national issues, such as G.M.'s push to open new factories overseas or its effort to reduce its work force in the United States through attrition. Page A1. 

Nasdaq Composite Index Falls 1.9%
The Nasdaq composite index fell 36.73 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,896.53. The Dow Jones industrial average, which was down 212.15 points before bargain hunters trimmed the loss, closed at 8,934.78. The market declines were caused by continuing concerns about corporate profits, Asia's financial crisis and the specter of political upheaval in Washington. D7.
 
The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond rose to 5.74 percent, from 5.71 percent. D7.
 
E-Mail Programs Vulnerable
A serious security flaw has been discovered in E-mail programs from Microsoft and Netscape Communications that could permit a malicious person to send a message containing a virus that could crash a computer, destroy or even steal data. A1.
 
BMW Acquires Rolls-Royce Name
Volkswagen was forced to agree to hand over the Rolls-Royce name to BMW in 2003. Volkswagen and BMW had competed for the British luxury car company with Volkswagen agreeing to pay $780 million for Rolls-Royce Motor Cars. But analysts now say BMW appears to be the real winner because the name is considered by many to be Rolls-Royce's most valuable asset. D3.
 
Senate Approves a Credit Union Bill
The Senate passed a bill that would help credit unions compete with banks for customers. The House had approved a similar measure in April. If approved, the legislation would override a Supreme Court ruling by letting federally chartered credit unions continue to include more than one group in their memberships. D2.
 
Workers Stop Reopening of Plants
South Korean workers blocked an attempt by Hyundai Motor to reopen factories that had been closed for more than a week. D3.
 
Microsoft Calls Case 'Groundless'
Microsoft called the Government's antitrust case against it "completely groundless" and offered a glimpse of the legal strategy it will pursue in its first court filing in its defense. Both sides are scrambling to take depositions from potential witnesses. William H. Gates, the chairman and co-founder of Microsoft, may testify by videotape in the case, which is scheduled to begin on Sept. 8. D2.
 
China Seen as Asia's Growth Engine
The chairman of the Export-Import Bank, a United States Government agency, said he wants China to become its largest recipient of loans to buy American products and equipment. His statement reflects the new emphasis the United States is placing on China as an economic engine for Asia. D3.
 
Consumers Still Confident
Consumer confidence in the United States economy stuck close to a 30-year high in July, supported by a combination of benign inflation and an unemployment rate near a three-decade low. D8.

GRAPHIC: Photo.
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,934,78, down 93.46
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.74%, up 0.03
The Dollar -- 141.35 yen, down 1.06
 
Graphs: "TODAY"
 
Durable Goods Orders
 June figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: -0.8%
 
Another graph tracks Nasdaq daily closes, since last Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BMW3 (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%); HYUD (LSE) (58%); 005380 (KSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%); HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLINT, MI, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); TESTIMONY (85%); CREDIT UNIONS (85%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); BONDS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); WITNESSES (64%); DEPOSITIONS (64%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); 

PERSON: BILL GATES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



644 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Dow Plunges 93.46, and It Could Have Been Far Worse

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
Although investors might not think so, yesterday's stock market performance might not even race the pulse of some die-hard roller-coaster aficionados.
But it probably came close.
There were twists and turns and wild gyrations, as continuing concerns about corporate profits, Asia's financial crisis and the specter of political upheaval in Washington pushed stocks lower. 
 At one point, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 212.15 points, before bargain hunters pushed it upward to trim its loss to 93.46 points.
The blue chip index closed at 8,934.78, erasing Monday's 90.88 gain. J. P. Morgan, United Technologies and Sears, Roebuck led the decline, a 1.04 percent drop.
Adding to the persistent concerns about Asia and corporate profits, was news that the former White House intern Monica Lewinsky had received immunity from prosecution, paving the way for her to testify before a grand jury seeking to determine whether President Clinton tried to obstruct justice to hide any relationship with her.
"We've had a very high run-up, and there's some uncertainty about the sustainability of earnings," said Shannon Reid, a portfolio manager for the Evergreen Select Strategic Growth fund.
"Investors are more willing to pay up for predictability of earnings versus earnings growth, which is what you see at the end of a cycle," he added.
Asian markets were mixed yesterday. Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225-stock index rose 170.18 points, recouping less than half of Monday's 417.53 point loss. Analysts predict Japan's fundamental economic situation will take at least 12 months to improve.
"I don't read this as indicative of an uptrend," said Dan Seto, a senior economist at Nikko Securities International.
"There's still a lot of skepticism that this new leadership will shift to anything aggressive" to spur the Japanese economy, he said. "Therefore, the other Asian markets will have limited upside."
In domestic markets, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, fell 17.03 points, to 1,130.24, a 1.5 percent decline. The Nasdaq composite index had an even steeper decline, falling 36.73 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,896.53. Microsoft, Worldcom and MCI led the declines.
All of these factors still leave investors searching for clues to determine whether corporate profit growth will improve in the second half of the year.
Based on the earnings of the 385 member companies in the S.& P. 500 that have reported so far, profits are expected to grow about 4 percent in the second quarter compared with the first quarter's 3.8 percent increase.
Analysts now forecast growth to improve in the third quarter, up 7.6 percent. They are looking for even stronger growth in the fourth quarter, up 14.1 percent.
But Chuck Hill, head of research at First Call, cautions investors that analysts have already begun making substantial downward revisions in their third-quarter forecasts. Those changes, at a sharper than usual pace, are a signal that analysts believe the impact of Asia's woes have not yet entirely filtered through the domestic market, he said.
In addition, smaller company shares continue to reel from a lack of investor interest, another signal some analysts point to when questioning the sustainability of market gains.
The Russell index of 2,000 smaller company shares fell 5.62 points yesterday, to 427.54, its eight consecutive decline. It is the lowest close for the index since Jan. 27.
Small company share prices may not improve until there is more stability in the overall market, which would help investors feel more confident about putting money in these less liquid shares, said Keith Mullin, emerging growth stock analyst at Salomon Smith Barney.
"I still don't think people care about small caps yet," said Charles W. Johnson, head equity trader at Blaylock & Partners in Baltimore. "If you put your money in small caps, it's just going to sit there and sit there and sit there" -- a circumstance, return-conscious portfolio managers cannot afford.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasuries Falter Again
By Bloomberg News
Treasury prices fell for a third session yesterday as investors were reluctant to buy without more signs of slowing economic growth and tame inflation, which may show up in reports later this week.
"I'm not willing to commit any money to this market" with yields where they are, said Charles Ullerich, who helps manage $2 billion at Pilgrim America in Phoenix. He said he would consider buying if long-bond yields climbed to 5.80 percent.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 15/32, to 105 15/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.74 percent, from 5.71 percent on Monday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since July 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); VZC (LSE) (51%); VZ (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (93%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (57%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; ASIA (93%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); IMMUNITY (68%); GRAND JURY (68%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



645 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: World News Briefs;
Deal to Finance 2 North Korea Reactors

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Negotiators reached a tentative agreement yesterday on cost-sharing arrangements for supplying two nuclear reactors to North Korea.
But the officials with the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization, the consortium building the reactors, refused to disclose exactly how the $4.6 billion in costs would be divided. The European Union, Japan, South Korea and the United States are the major contributors to the project. 
 The program was set up in 1994 after North Korea agreed to freeze and eventually dismantle its nuclear weapons program in exchange for two light-water nuclear power plants.
Before yesterday's agreement, it had been reported that South Korea would pay $3.2 billion, with Japan adding another $1 billion. The other nations would apparently pay the remainder. But South Korea was severely hit by the financial crisis in Asia and wanted to reduce its share of the cost.
The agreement must still be approved by the respective governments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); ASIA (77%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); ASIA (77%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (88%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (88%); DISARMAMENT (74%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); MILITARY WEAPONS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



646 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: 7 Nations Protest as Burmese Besiege Democracy Leader

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: MANILA, July 28

 BODY:
The United States joined with six other nations today in demanding that the army generals who run Myanmar end their five-day standoff with the leader of that country's democratic opposition, whose car has been surrounded by armed security forces on a rural highway since last Friday.
The opposition leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, was stopped about 30 miles south of Yangon, the capital of Myanmar, formerly Burma, as she drove to a meeting with supporters. Her party won an overwhelming majority in a national election in 1990, but the military junta refused to turn over power to a civilian government. 
 Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, who won the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize for her campaign to bring democracy to Myanmar, has refused to budge from her white sedan, which was reported today to have been surrounded by soldiers and police officers.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and the foreign ministers of six countries who are here for a meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations -- Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, South Korea and Austria, representing the European Union -- met today with the Burmese Foreign Minister to insist that the junta end the impasse.
Western diplomats said the seven nations had urged the Burmese Government to allow the American and Japanese Ambassadors in Yangon, formerly Rangoon, to see Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi on the roadside and to serve as mediators in the dispute.
 On Wednesday the junta, which calls itself the State Peace and Development Council, rejected the offer, Agence France-Presse reported. Foreign Minister U Ohn Gyaw said at a news conference that such a meeting "is not urgently needed, and authorities will comply with their request when necessary." Western foreign ministers also at the news conference expressed disappointment over the statement.
The opposition leader was freed from house arrest in 1995 after nearly six years of confinement.
"Aung San Suu Kyi should be able to travel freely in her own country," Ms. Albright said at a news conference here after meeting with the Burmese Foreign Minister. "We hope very much that there will be a resolution to the issue."
When she was United States delegate to the United Nations, Ms. Albright met with Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi in Yangon, and she continues to correspond with the dissident leader. Ms. Albright said the United States had received encouraging reports on Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's condition.
"She is still with her car," the Secretary said today. "She has enough food and water and medical attention, and her health is O.K.
"Frankly it is usually kind of a normal practice for countries to allow their citizens to travel freely within them and to be able to meet with whomever they want. I think this is an international norm that many countries obviously support."
During this week's meetings in Manila, Ms. Albright has repeatedly singled out the Burmese junta for criticism.
On Monday she warned in a speech that Myanmar, which joined the Association of Southeast Asian Nations last year, had reached "a moment of truth" and that the nation faced "a social breakdown or explosion" after decades of repression. She said the United States held the junta directly responsible for Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's welfare.
In a statement issued in Yangon, Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's political party, the National League for Democracy, said she had been visited on the road today by her doctors. The statement gave no details on the doctors' findings.
"The provisions in the car -- water and edibles -- are nearly exhausted," the party said. "Before her health conditions fail," it said, she and her two drivers "should be allowed to proceed on their journey."
It was the third time in the last month that Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, the Oxford-educated daughter of Myanmar's national independence hero, U Aung San, has been stopped as she tried to travel outside Yangon to meet with members of her party.
The protest by the United States may mean less to the Burmese junta than the criticism offered by the Governments of Japan and South Korea, which have much closer economic and diplomatic ties with Myanmar. The United States has relatively little economic leverage left, since it has already imposed severe economic sanctions on Myanmar as a result of its human rights record.
The junta responded to the international criticism today, issuing a statement in Manila in which it said Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi had provoked the standoff by failing to give notice of her travel plans. Her car was stopped to prevent an "untoward incident from occurring which could affect the peace, tranquillity and security," the statement said.
It accused her of trying to create "a political issue" by staging the incident during this week's meeting of foreign ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and other countries with an interest in the region.
Her car was stopped, the junta suggested, for her own protection. "Myanmar authorities," it said, "have always provided her with meticulous security measures at her request to ward off any untoward foul play which could impinge on her security and safety."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Foreign ministers visiting Manila called on the Philippine President. From right, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright; Foreign Ministers Yevgeny M. Primakov of Russia, Donald McKinnon of New Zealand and Park Chung Soo of South Korea, and Vice Minister Masahiko Komura of Japan. (Pool photo by Romeo Ranoco)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); PHILIPPINES (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AUSTRIA (56%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (93%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (54%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR; MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); PHILIPPINES (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AUSTRIA (56%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ARMIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (86%); ARMED FORCES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); ARRESTS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; AUNG SAN SUU KYI, DAW; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) AUNG SAN SUU KYI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



647 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1985 words

HEADLINE: THE G.M. SETTLEMENT: THE OVERVIEW;
GENERAL MOTORS AND U.A.W. AGREE ON END TO STRIKE

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: FLINT, Mich., July 28

 BODY:
General Motors and the United Automobile Workers agreed today to end the nearly eight-week strike at two auto parts factories here, a dispute that has shut down G.M. assembly plants across North America, pushed hundreds of thousands of workers into temporary unemployment and slowed the nation's economic growth.
The settlement, which is subject to ratification votes on Wednesday morning by workers at both factories, settles a wide range of local issues at the two factories and at several other G.M. factories where workers had threatened to strike. 
 But the agreement does not directly address national issues that the union had publicly declared to be driving the strike, such as G.M.'s push to open new factories overseas or its effort to shrink its United States work force through attrition. These issues can only be changed through G.M.'s national agreement with the U.A.W., which expires in September 1999 and was not changed today.
The agreement includes a somewhat surprising element, a promise by both sides' leaders to have regular meetings as a way to rebuild their relationship and head off further confrontations. But company and union officials already meet occasionally and have been unable to bridge disagreements that produce several factory-level strikes almost every year. Page D1.
The accord deals with a series of narrow issues. G.M. promises not to sell or close before January 2000 either a speedometer and spark plug factory on strike here or two brake factories in Dayton, Ohio, where workers had threatened a strike this summer. G.M. also agrees to invest $180 million in new equipment at the other factory on strike here, which makes auto body parts.
In exchange, the auto maker gets changes in work rules, notably a 15 percent increase in the number of parts that some welders are required to make before stopping work. In February, G.M. canceled its plans to invest the $180 million because workers were drawing eight hours pay for four to six hours of work and were resisting increases in production quotas.
Each side suffered enormous losses. Analysts estimate that G.M. lost $3 billion after taxes and saw its sales drop by $12 billion, the heaviest losses ever incurred by an American company during a strike, at least before adjusting for inflation. The U.A.W.'s 200,000 members lost paychecks totaling $1 billion.
G.M. can recover as much as half of the lost profits by running its factories around the clock for months to make up for lost production. U.A.W. workers will earn ample overtime in the coming weeks, although not enough to balance the paychecks lost during the strike.
Shares of G.M. had been rising for the last few days on optimism about an end to the strike. They rose $1.125 today, to $74.25, the highest since their $75.25 price when the dispute began on June 5.
The broad outlines of today's deal began to emerge in the first week of talks. The strike lasted so long partly because the two sides mistrusted each other and partly because G.M. raised the stakes by suing the U.A.W. for the first time since 1937, contending that the strikes violated the national agreement.
G.M. withdrew its lawsuit today, along with a grievance in which an arbitrator had been expected to rule as soon as Wednesday. While U.A.W. leaders insisted at a news conference this afternoon that they had not been intimidated by G.M.'s legal offensive, a U.A.W. official who insisted on anonymity said that the union had become worried that it might lose and stepped up talks on Saturday.
If the threat of litigation deters the U.A.W. from further strikes until the national agreement expires, this summer's strikes can be counted as a small but costly victory for G.M. But G.M. was fortunate in that its case was assigned to a conservative Federal judge who repeatedly prevented the union from stalling during arbitration, and the company might not be so fortunate in the future.
Some Wall Street analysts said that the company's losses far exceeded its gains. "This seems like it's just exactly the way it was before," said Michael P. Ward, an auto analyst at Paine Webber. "I think the market expected G.M. to deliver a knockout blow, and they didn't."
There will be four separate votes on ratification; each of the factories on strike will hold separate votes for assembly line workers and for skilled craftsmen like electricians. Agreements to end other recent strikes at G.M. factories have been easily approved, and U.A.W. officials expected that today's agreement would also pass, although they predicted some grumbling among workers facing higher production quotas.
In a provision that is likely to raise eyebrows on Wall Street but improve the odds of ratification, G.M. will give a week's pay, about $800, to all striking and laid-off workers who missed a week of holiday pay early this month because of the strike. G.M. said that the payments to more than 100,000 workers would not affect its earnings because it would use money earmarked for joint training programs with the union.
If ratified, today's accord would allow more than a hundred G.M. assembly plants and parts factories nationwide to resume production over the next week, with the factories on strike going back to work by Wednesday afternoon. G.M. would recall 189,000 workers that it temporarily laid off across North America, while its suppliers would bring back tens of thousands of workers who had been pushed into unemployment.
G.M. desperately needs to restock its dealerships, many of which have been picked bare of popular models during the strike. Ronald Zarrella, G.M.'s group vice president for sales and marketing, warned earlier this month that G.M. could lose thousands of customers, never to return, if it did not settle the strike by mid-July. G.M.'s greatest asset has been the millions of Americans who keep coming back to its dealerships every several years for a new car. But once these customers try rival brands, they seldom come back, which is why G.M.'s market share has shrunk from half in the late 1970's to 31 percent this spring.
Restarting the world's largest manufacturing system will be a formidable task. With the strike costing $75 million a day, G.M. is likely to undertake a huge airlift of parts to assembly plants once the factories here reopen, said Michael Robinet, the managing director of CSM Forecasting, an auto production consulting firm in Farmington Hills, Mich.
The strikes here were particularly acrimonious because both sides came to see them as struggles over principles. Indeed, Donald Hackworth, G.M.'s group vice president for North American car operations, even said early this month that the cost of the strikes could not be justified financially. Both sides kept raising the stakes, bringing up new issues or making new threats in the mistaken belief that the other side would quickly back down.
At the beginning, G.M. executives saw the strikes as a challenge to their right as managers to decide which factories deserved new investments and which did not. Union leaders viewed the strikes as necessary to hold G.M. to past announcements of investment plans, notably the $180 million.
G.M.'s decision to remove parts-making equipment from one of the factories over Memorial Day weekend, fearing a strike, not only prompted the walkouts but also caused the union's rank and file to worry that their livelihoods were being threatened, making a compromise even more difficult. G.M. returned the equipment on Sunday.
As the strikes wore on, the U.A.W. began publicly depicting them as a struggle over whether the world's largest company would remain committed to investing in its home market or would pursue fatter profits in foreign countries. But the final settlement here did not address G.M.'s plans to build assembly plants in Argentina, Brazil, China, Poland and Thailand, as well as auto parts factories in dozens of countries. G.M. has been refurbishing factories in the United States but seldom building new ones, mainly because its steadily falling market share has already left it with too many inefficient factories.
For its part, G.M. aggravated workers' fears about job losses by talking publicly during the strike about possible factory closings. But Richard Shoemaker, the U.A.W.'s vice president for G.M. issues, said this afternoon that G.M. officials had not even mentioned the possibility of factory closings during negotiations.
Mr. Shoemaker and Gerald A. Knechtel, G.M.'s vice president for North American personnel, said in separate news conferences today that there had been no changes in the national agreement, particularly in the sections dealing with how quickly G.M. can reduce its work force. So even if G.M. chooses to eliminate unprofitable car models and close factories -- a decision that G.M.'s board will consider on Monday -- it will have to continue paying any workers for whom there are no longer jobs. This makes it unlikely that G.M. will embark on an ambitious reorganization, although it might make a few small moves.
G.M. began calling for arbitration on June 23, contending that the strikes here violated the company's national agreement with the union. The national agreement only allows factory-level strikes over increases in assembly line speed, subcontracting and health and safety issues. The U.A.W. has cited all these issues here but also demanded that G.M. invest more money here and guarantee that jobs be preserved -- the same demands that the union has made in more than a dozen other local strikes over the last five years.
When the U.A.W. balked early this month at prompt arbitration, G.M. filed suit and won a Federal court order requiring that both sides proceed without delay. U.A.W. leaders concluded on Saturday, the last of four days of testimony in the arbitration case, that there was at least a chance that the arbitrator might issue a precedent-setting decision barring investment issues from discussion in future factory-level strikes.
Today's agreement covers the two factories on strike here as well as a car assembly plant here and parts factories in Indianapolis and Dayton, Ohio, where workers had also threatened strikes. The settlement did not include the Saturn factory in Spring Hill, Tenn., the Corvette factory in Bowling Green, Ky., or a sport utility vehicle factory in Janesville, Wis., where workers have also asked permission from the U.A.W.'s national leadership to strike. These factories are unlikely to receive that permission any time soon.
During the strikes, G.M. has lost the production of nearly 500,000 vehicles, the equivalent of four weeks of production, and could lose an additional 100,000 vehicles as factories gradually reopen when they receive fresh shipments of parts.
The strikes would have been even costlier had they not included G.M.'s regularly scheduled summer shutdown over the first two weeks of July, when all G.M. factories are closed anyway. By comparison, a 1996 strike at the two brake factories in Dayton, Ohio, lasted only 17 days but prevented G.M. from producing 180,000 cars and light trucks.
Neither the current strikes nor the 1996 strike come close to the scale of the U.A.W.'s 67-day national strike against G.M. in 1970, which wiped out 10 weeks of production and produced a brief contraction in the nation's economic output.
Paul Ballew, who was the Federal Reserve's expert on the auto industry for many years and who is now the chief economist at J. D. Power & Associates, said that the current strike slowed economic growth by half a percentage point in the second quarter and by an additional eight-tenths of one percent in the third quarter. But once G.M. has finished converting factories to the 1999 model year over the next couple of months, it is likely to run many assembly plants around the clock, which could increase the nation's economic output this winter.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 30, 1998, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, the continuation of a front-page article yesterday from Flint, Mich., about a tentative settlement between the General Motors Corporation and the United Automobile Workers omitted several sentences. The passage should have read:
"G.M. promises not to sell or close before January 2000 either a speedometer and spark plug factory on strike here or two brake factories in Dayton, Ohio, where workers had threatened a strike this summer. G.M. also agrees to invest $180 million in new equipment at the other factory on strike here, which makes auto body parts.
"In exchange, the auto maker gets changes in work rules, notably a 15 percent increase in the number of parts that some welders are required to make before stopping work."

GRAPHIC: Charts:
THE DEAL -- General Motors and the United Automobile Workers union resolved disputes at two plants on strike in Flint, Mich., and four others not on strike.
 G.M. agreed to make investments it had previously promised in Flint and not to sell factories there and in Dayton, Ohio, before 2000.
 The union agreed to raise productivity through changes in work rules.
 The two sides will meet regularly to avert future strikes.
 
NEXT -- Workers at both Flint plants will vote on the deal this morning. G.M.'s idled assembly plants need several days to resume production. (pg. A1)
 
"The Bottom Line"
The strike against General Motors has cost the company more than a full quarter's earnings and has left dealerships short of popular models in a strong auto market. Here's the estimated damage through Monday night.
 
LIGHT TRUCKS
ASSEMBLY PLANTS AFFECTED -- 13
ESTIMATED LOST PRODUCTION -- 218,547
Including Chevy Suburban, GMC Jimmy, Pontiac Transport, Chevy Sierra
 
CARS
ASSEMBLY PLANTS AFFECTED -- 13
ESTIMATED LOST PRODUCTION -- 250,640
Including Oldsmobile Aurora, Chevy Malibu, Cadillac Seville, Buick Lesabre
 
TOTAL
ASSEMBLY PLANTS AFFECTED -- 26*
ESTIMATED LOST PRODUCTION -- 469,187
 
ESTIMATED AFTER TAX LOSS -- $3.2 billion+
 
*G.M. says 27 assembly plants were closed. That count included a plant that
makes heavier-duty trucks. Two plants -- one that makes cars, and another
that makes light trucks -- restarted Monday.
 
+ For the second and third quarter; the final loss may be less, perhaps
$1.8 billion, as G.M. makes up production and sales this winter.
 
(Sources: CSM Forecasting; Merrill Lynch)(pg. D6)
 
"Losing Its Grip"
Unlike its Big Three rivals, G.M. has see a steady decline of its share of the American market since the early 1980's. Graph tracks market share for U.S. sales of cars and light trucks, since 1980.
 
GENERAL MOTORS -- 31.49%
FORD -- 24.48%
CHRYSLER -- 16.35%
 
(Source: Ward's AutoInfoBank)(pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (93%); DAYTON, OH, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLINT (MICH) ; UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); FLINT, MI, USA (93%); DAYTON, OH, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; STRIKES STRIKES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); OVERTIME (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998



648 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1998

SECTION: Section G; Page 5; Column 1; Circuits 

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Security Fears Still Plague Cybershopping

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY 

 BODY:
WHILE not many of the 19.7 million Americans who visited commercial Web sites from their homes in 1997 have reported problems with Internet credit-card use, some surfers -- and security experts -- say they are concerned enough about Internet crime that they would rather auction off their firstborn child than use a credit card to buy something on the Web.
Kirk Bailey, a computer security expert with Regence Blue Shield in Seattle, will not shop on line now. But he said he could foresee a time when he might. 
 "Right now, it's a provocative environment and lots of things can fail, even with good intentions and best practices," he said, citing some instances in which criminals have obtained credit-card numbers taken from inadequately protected servers on the Internet. "It's much more dangerous than people think. It's not the $50 you get charged for each unauthorized use, but the crooks use this information to steal your identity."
James McQuivey, an analyst in on-line retail strategy at Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., said on-line security was a problem of perception, not technology. Instead of bragging about "SSL level 5 encrypted browsers," he said, sites would do well to post slogans on every page like "Worried about your credit card? So are we," and offer a toll-free number for the electronically timid to call to give their card numbers.
As a precaution, some retailers will not store credit-card numbers, or they assign identification numbers to their customers for on-line use while keeping credit-card numbers behind a fire wall.
"I have yet to see any big data warehouses get hacked," Mr. McQuivey said.
But Molly Bell, an information specialist with a communications firm in Washington, said she suspected she had been hit by a hacker when, soon after using her credit card in January to sign up for Compuserve, the Internet service provider, she had to contest several unauthorized credit-card charges to something called "XPICS Publishing." When she called the company, which distributes pornography on line, it told her there had been charges to her card from two other E-mail accounts, neither of which were on Compuserve.
After two more unsolicited charges appeared in April, she canceled her credit card and said Compuserve required her to give her new card number unless she opened a corporate account for $75 more.
"All this confusion demonstrates just how easy it is for someone to commit Internet retail fraud," she said after quitting Compuserve.
Frank Fiore, an on-line shopping guide for the Mining Company, the Web search engine, said he had never heard of an on-line theft of a credit-card number. But he said he was wary of person-to-person sales through auctions or news groups when nothing was known about the parties except their E-mail addresses.
He advised obtaining and verifying phone numbers, street addresses and as much information as possible about prospective partners in E-commerce, whether they are individuals or businesses, and using an Internet escrow service like www.iescrow.com or www.tradesafe.com, which will, for a fee, act as security middlemen, holding payment for an item until both seller and purchaser are satisfied with the deal.
Bidders in on-line auctions should be careful to research the market value of the desired item so as not to bid higher in the heat of the moment, he said. And beware of auction sites that do not control the transactions and the products sold, as these are no more secure than transactions with individuals.
"Then there are the more direct rip-offs, where they have every intention of taking your money," he said, citing pyramid schemes, work-at-home plans and offers to clean up credit reports. "Now instead of reaching thousands of people, they can reach hundreds of thousands, through E-commerce."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; COMPUTER SECURITY; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; IDENTIFICATION DEVICES INTERNET RETAILING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); INTERNET CRIME (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); FIREWALLS (78%); BEST PRACTICES (77%); COMPUTER CRIME (77%); LIBRARIANS (75%); DATA WAREHOUSING (74%); LARCENY & THEFT (74%); PORNOGRAPHY (73%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); SEARCH ENGINES (66%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (64%); 

PERSON: KELLEY, TINA JAMES MCQUIVEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998



649 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1998

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 3; Circuits 

LENGTH: 1774 words

HEADLINE: Internet Shopping: A Mixed Bag

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY 

 BODY:
IT was the best of shopping, it was the worst of shopping. When Stephen Kornelis of Waconia, Minn., found the mint-condition vinyl album -- still in cellophane and only $8 -- that he had spent the last 15 years searching for, it made the fruitless, two-month Web search for paintball gear almost worth it. And his discovery of an obscure Keef Hartley CD almost erased the annoyance of those unreturned phone calls from the paintball Web site guys who work from 2 P.M. to 4 P.M. and, he said, were probably "just trying to hustle a few bucks."
"I have had as many negative experiences as I have good experiences" with shopping over the Internet, said Mr. Kornelis, a software engineer. 
 In 1997, 19.7 million Americans visited retail Web sites from their homes, according to Mediametrix, a Web rating service. Jupiter Communications, a research company, measured revenue numbers for American on-line consumer transactions and found $707 million in 1996 and $2.6 billion in 1997. It projected $5.8 billion in 1998, in what a LJR Redbook Research report said would be a $2.6 trillion retail economy. E-commerce is expected to generate between $34 billion and $37.5 billion by 2002.
Some people love it, some tolerate it, others fear it. Fans of Internet commerce find it tremendously convenient. Consumers can shop when it is raining without getting wet. No need to dress, let alone find taxis, tokens or quarters for the meter. No more surly sales clerks, no more mall Muzak. In a recent survey by Forrester Research, active Web shoppers rated convenience the No. 1 reason to shop on line, although in off-line shopping, they found price and service as important.
In return for the convenience they offer, digital shops like CD Now, Amazon.com and Etoys don't need to discount items so deeply, said James McQuivey, an analyst in on-line retail strategies at Forrester. "If they build the brand so it's going to be convenient, you're not going to say, 'Oh, I can get it for 5 percent less at a bargain bookstore,' " he said.
Laurie Petersen of Hoboken, N.J., an editorial director for Barnesandnoble .com and an early Web shopper, knows how easy it is to go on a buying binge by the blue glow of a monitor.
"Sometimes they'd run specials and you'd find yourself buying stuff just because it was really easy to buy it," she said of certain sites in the Web's earlier years.
When her daughter, who is 15 months old, was born, Ms. Petersen became a major fan of Ibaby, which sells supplies for infants.
"I found myself checking every day because they'd have specials," she said. "If you're the kind of person who can spend the night with a catalogue and spend $300 on stuff, you're equally susceptible on line, even more so perhaps, because it's that much easier."
The Web's wide selection is also a major draw. "You have available to you a global, worldwide selection, and that is perhaps the real advantage" of Web shopping, said Kurt Barnard, president of Barnard's Retail Trend Report, a forecasting business in Upper Montclair, N.J., who added that so many choices could be paralyzing.
"Fancy going through a department store looking for a blouse, like Macy's on 34th Street, carrying nothing other than blouses from the basement to the top floor," he said. "It would not be very attractive."
But on-line shopping is not for everyone. It can be more time-consuming than a simple trip to a local store, especially if delivery times are considered. Some items, particularly brand-new ones, have limited availability and no discount. The marketplace changes from day to day, it is lonesome and impersonal, and it can be slower than a left-turn exit lane from the mall at 6:30 P.M.
And while 54 percent of American businesses have a Web page, according to a study this year by the Simmons Market Research Bureau, there are some items that lose something in the translation to cyberspace.
"Tupperware is really discouraging people from setting up Web sites because they want people to burp the Tupperware, to feel it," said Michael Solomon, a professor of consumer behavior at Auburn University. And it is harder to generate peer pressure to buy from a Web site than from a kaffeeklatsch.
Without some serious revision, he said, the Web will lose out on the buying potential of a whole breed of shoppers: those who travel in packs.
"When people go shopping in groups, they buy more than when they're on their own," Professor Solomon said. "Until you can simulate that, you're losing some sales potential." He suggested the creation of a Virtual Shopping Partner to say, "Go ahead, treat yourself." After all, shoppers separated from their peers are less vulnerable to making spontaneous, serendipitous purchases.
"The more people going with you, the more likely you are to be taken to places you wouldn't go to on your own," he said. A partial fix would "program some spontaneity in these sites," he said, maybe by having them pipe up with random suggestions.
Mr. McQuivey, at Forrester, said some sites are already catching on to the social needs of surfing shoppers.
"We don't just want to transact," he said. "We like being with people, and having that interchange, the feeling of people being with us. So when we go to Amazon.com we can read what everybody else thinks about a book. The site is putting people in touch with other people."
But Professor Solomon noted that Internet shopping can emphasize the gap between the haves and the have-nots. "Poor people are obviously not going to avail themselves of these things, which is ironic because they have the most to gain because of their limited access to stores in urban neighborhoods," he said. And even though physically disabled people and the elderly have a great deal to gain from the convenience of shopping on line, he said, "these are the people that right now are the most Web-averse."
Another flaw in shopping-by-surfing comes from unrealistic expectations, some analysts say. On-line shoppers looking for instant gratification become disappointed when they discover the World Wide Wait.
Mr. McQuivey not only studies on-line shopping; he also does it. "When I'm on line I have illusions of getting perfect information, that I'm going to go to Junglee on Yahoo and find all the jeans that are going to fit me," he said, referring to a shopping software robot that searches a large number of stores. "When I surf to Slate's Web site, I get so ticked off when I can't find any way to locate the pants I want to buy.
"I really got mad at them on line" -- until he remembered that he could easily have gone all the way to a store and found that the slacks were out of stock without feeling quite so wronged.
Still, it's not unreasonable to think that with such comprehensive information, educated E-consumers would be able to find killer bargains and that anyone charging above wholesale would be gradually pushed out of business.
"Is this a boon for consumers?" Mr. Barnard said. "Theoretically, but only theoretically. Prices on the Internet have not proven to be exactly bargains, but to the extent that they are, our own research has shown that the costs of shipping, mailing and handling seem to obliterate whatever price difference there may be between the Internet and brick-and-mortar stores."
Services like Priceline, a travel site at which consumers name the price they are willing to pay for an air fare, are "theoretically the best thing since sliced bread," Mr. McQuivey said, but not the economic model of the future. Besides, when consumers name a price that is higher than the value of the item for sale, they lose out.
"It's not as easy to turn the whole thing upside down to let the consumer name the price," he said. "I don't see that becoming a major model for trading goods and services."
Kevin Key in Berwyn, Ill., says conventional pricing will have to change. He has bought everything from rare stamps to a 65-gallon rain barrel on line, usually for less than he would have paid elsewhere.
"I think the margin of profit in regular retail is going to have to go down, and stores are going to have to be pulling people in with sales," he said.
While some analysts predict that Internet shopping will simply attract the same kind of customers who use mail-order catalogues, others think it will draw more people into new marketplaces.
"I buy CD's like candy, but never at the mall, because the 18-year-old kid behind the counter is going to make fun of me if I put down the CD I want, say, John Tesh," Mr. McQuivey said. "Plus they are playing horrible music by somebody called the Fumbling Planets. Where's my space in that store?"
But he knows his place in cyberspace.
"I can listen to selections on line, and I can't do that in the store," Mr. McQuivey said. "I can't take the shrink wrap off there. The point is, the potential to expand the total market is here."
Does that mean the modern store's days are numbered? Will the kindly yarn shop owner be available when a customer has dropped seven stitches and can't pick them up? Will Salvation Army minions ring their bells in empty streets at Christmas, and the malls be leveled into soccer fields?
Faith Hope Consolo, senior managing director of Garrick-Aug Worldwide, a large retail leasing firm, doubts that E-retail can conquer traditional retail. "Tourists, they'll never do Web shopping, and your ladies who lunch will never do Web shopping," she said. "I really think it takes the touchy-feely out of the whole experience."
But Mr. Barnard said he thinks obsolescence for some stores is a possibility. "I can easily see that groceries could perhaps become the victims of the Internet," he said, "which would be a pity." And without stores, he wondered, how would people be exposed to new products?
"Very often people are attracted just by the package of the thing, where they can take it off the shelf, hold it in their hand," Mr. Barnard said. "That's not really going to be possible on the Internet, the way we know it at this time." But today's Web technology is comparable to the dial telephone, he said, and advances will very likely change the on-line marketplace.
So why not a scratch-and-sniff pad on the desktop for sampling perfumes? Or cyber-sandboxes to sink your feet into, so a distant cobbler can create the world's most comfortable, custom-fit shoes? An on-line makeover salon with an uploaded snapshot of each customer, who could try on different hair styles and colors in the privacy of home?
"I think the horizons of imagination are the limit of what can be done," Mr. Barnard said. "You imagine it, and it will be done."

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Illustration by Ken McFarlin and Rob Johnson; photographs by Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times) (pg. G1); WEB SHOPPER: Stephen Kornelis has found long-sought items and unsought problems. (Scott Cohen for The New York Times) (pg. G5)
 
Chart/Photos: "Real-Life Browsing in E-Stores (or What the Dog Ate)"
Venturing into Internet shopping can be head-thunkingly tedious. Armed with an America Online browser and a fair amount of surfing experience, this reporter was vexed by inscrutable error messages, frequent crashes, the many screens that had to be clicked through before ordering and prompt calls from car salespeople. She found the dead-ends on the information superhighway to be grim and tedious. For finding a book and perfume, the Web provided bargains relatively quickly, but the cyberselection decreased for more obscure necessities, like French bittersweet chocolate. Comparison shopping is difficult when it is unclear whether one is comparing identical items; availability varies from day to day. Sites employing software robots were more elegant, but not necessarily more fruitful.
 
Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel, by Rebecca Wells, paperback
SITES SAMPLED: www.amazon.com, acses.com, www.books.com.
RANGE OF PRICES: $11.90 to $35.99 (including various shipping methods).
WHERE PURCHASED: www.books.com via Acses shopbot.
WHY WE CHOSE THIS VENDOR: Best total price, and United Parcel Service delivery was quick enough.
COST AND DELIVERY: $8.05 plus $3.95 for U.P.S.; arrived after seven days.
IN REAL LIFE: In the same amount of time, I could have walked in the sunshine to a friendly liberal book cooperative in the neighborhood, heard about the latest boycotts and spent $13.45 retail (plus 8.6 percent sales tax).
COMMENTS: The shopbot at Acses is very handy for comparing prices as well as shipping and handling costs. Yellow lettering will annoy some AOL users. The price was actually lower than advertised on Acses.
 
Tatiana Perfume
SITES SAMPLED: jango.excite.com, www.perfumeweb.com, fragrancenet.com.
RANGE OF PRICES: $12 for three ounces to $58 for an unspecified volume.
WHERE PURCHASED: Perfumeweb.
WHY WE CHOSE THIS VENDOR: The only one that appeared to have the product.
COST AND DELIVERY: $19.95 for 1.7 ounces plus $3.95 for shipping. No order confirmation or delivery after six days.
IN REAL LIFE: The perfume is supposed to be out of print and hard to find.
COMMENTS: The Excite site first offered three options, later one. When I tried to order, I got the message: I am sorry, but I was not able to access./Usercarts/4204085.21994.cart in the displaycartcontents routine of./Library/webstorehtmllib.pl at line number 781. Would you please make sure the path is correctly defined in webstore.setup and that the permissions are correct.Huh? And who is this I?
 
Valrhona Chocolate Le Noir Amer
71 percent dark bittersweet bar
SITES SAMPLED: www.chocolate.co.uk, www.netgrocer.com, www.chocoholic.com, www.aristoff-caviar.com, www.chocolatepicure.com, www.dean-deluca.com, chocolate.bx.com (via www.junglee.com).
RANGE OF PRICES: $17.25 for 14 ounces to $75 for 6 pounds 9 ounces (but it is not clear if the chocolate was comparable).
WHERE PURCHASED: www.chocolatepicure.com.
WHY WE CHOSE THIS VENDOR: It was the only one that had the desired bar, which has 71 percent cocoa content (to die for).
COST AND DELIVERY: $17.25 for 14 ounces (4 bars). U.P.S. would have charged $5 but the company recommended overnight shipping (about $17) because of hot weather.
IN REAL LIFE: A friend buys by the case and supplies them for $3.99 a bar.
COMMENTS: A visiting dog ate the remainder of a bar kept near the computer for reference during the search. Cost of search: $2 (half a bar) and great worry over dog's digestion.
 
Sony 505-GX VAIO
laptop computer
SITES SAMPLED: www.pcmall.com, www.pricescan.com, www.cdw.com, www.killerapp.com, www.shopper.com, www.zdnet.com/netbuyer, www.laptopsales.com, marketplace.netbuyer.com.
RANGE OF PRICES: $2,698 to $2,699.99.
WHERE PURCHASED: PC Mall.
WHY WE CHOSE THIS VENDOR: It was one of the few that had the product and accepted the order.
COST AND DELIVERY: $2,698 plus $12.25 for delivery. No delivery after six days.
IN REAL LIFE: I called J & R, which quoted a price of $2,699 plus $25 shipping and handling.
COMMENTS: Perhaps the product is too new to be on sale at a discount. It is back-ordered or unavailable at several sites, and I hit dead-ends when trying to order from others.
 
Red 1998 Honda Civic DX
Hatchback with manual transmission
SITES SAMPLED: www.Autobytel.com, carpoint.msn.com, www.theautostop.com, Autoweb.com, www.comparenet.com, www.carclub.com and www.Autosite.com.
RANGE OF PRICES: $11,751 to $12,300.
WHERE PURCHASED: Would have bought from Bellevue Honda outside Seattle via Autobytel.
WHY WE CHOSE THIS VENDOR: Best price.
COST AND DELIVERY: $11,751. Not actually purchased but would have been quicker than driving around in the heat from dealer to dealer.
IN REAL LIFE: Another local Honda dealership was charging $12,495, the manufacturer's suggested retail price.
COMMENTS: Significant savings made it worth the time spent surfing and answering calls from persistent salespeople.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (54%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (51%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); AMAZON.COM INC (53%); BARNESANDNOBLE.COM LLC (51%); VIRTUAL SHOPPING (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: VIRTUAL SHOPPING (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB INTERNET RETAILING (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (79%); RETAILERS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (74%); ENGINEERING (74%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (74%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); SEARCH ENGINES (72%); BOOKSTORES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (62%); 

PERSON: KELLY, TINA MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998



650 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
A new project will measure the cost and effect of regulation.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
WITH anti-tax Republicans in charge of Congress and a New Democrat eager to distance himself from his party's welfare-state excesses in the White House, big government is on the wane.
Well, yes and no. While much of the New Deal heritage -- the safety net, progressive taxation, market regulation -- has been rolled back, Washington has more and more to say about health, safety and environmental issues. And the cost of that regulation, as my grandmother never said, isn't chopped liver. At the last reckoning by the Office of Management and Budget, private outlays to comply with social regulation topped $200 billion a year, and they are rising rapidly. 
 This is not necessarily bad, as people who have breathed the air in Denver lately or taken a swim in Lake Erie can attest. But ask an economist who follows regulatory issues, and you will hear that Federal regulation is a hodgepodge of the smart and the perverse, the elegantly precise and the miserably flat-footed, the extraordinarily cost-effective and the grotesquely wasteful.
That's where the new Joint Center for Regulatory Studies fits in. The center, sponsored by the American Enterprise Institute and the Brookings Institution, will act as a nonpartisan watchdog, assessing big-ticket initiatives and producing an annual report on the effect of regulation. "The real purpose is to keep the regulators -- and the legislators who regulate the regulators -- on their toes," said Robert Hahn, the center's director.
Washington has been struggling with questions of how much social regulation is enough since the early 1970's, when the Government's role in health, safety and the environment began to mushroom. Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford made modest attempts to coordinate executive agency rule-making and to review proposed rules. President Jimmy Carter established two permanent oversight groups within the executive branch to formalize the process.
But as the effect of social regulation grew in the years of Presidents Ronald Reagan and George Bush, oversight took on a more partisan cast. And though the adversarial atmospherics have largely cleared since the election of President Clinton, regulatory review remains a game that only insiders play. "The only comments regulators generally get are self-interested comments," said Robert Litan, co-director of the joint center.
A decidedly mixed bag has resulted. At one end of the spectrum, the rules phasing out lead additives from gasoline are widely viewed as a model of efficiency, flexibility and solid science. At the other, inconceivably expensive Superfund rules require the Government to make every toxic waste site as clean as it was before human beings populated the planet. Meanwhile, bipartisan efforts to anchor rule-making in good economics and good science -- for example, a measure sponsored last year by Senators Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, and Fred D. Thompson, Republican of Tennessee -- have gotten nowhere.
The tension between those who fear the quiet accretion of social regulation and those who see regulatory change as a plot to roll back a quarter-century of progress won't be easily resolved. But the American Enterprise Institute and the Brookings Institution are trying to narrow these differences by opening the regulatory process to the light of day.
"The Congressional Budget Office routinely analyzes budgets, and think tanks routinely second-guess them," Mr. Litan said. "But we'll be the first to look systematically at Federal regulation, which now costs consumers more than total discretionary Government spending costs the taxpayers."
The joint center, which just opened solely on the strength of foundation grants, says it will release in-depth analyses of a few proposed big-ticket rules each year. It will also publish an annual assessment of the costs and benefits of all Federal regulation, backstopping the once-over-lightly assessments by the Office of Management and Budget, which have been required by law since 1997.
As important, the center will assess the effect of existing regulation. At the moment, neither Congress nor the White House has the stomach to evaluate hugely expensive rules that may have outlived their usefulness but are still defended by entrenched interests. Mr. Hahn cites the example of the corporate average fuel economy standards for cars, which add billions of dollars to the nation's transportation bill with questionable effect on energy use or the environment.
Attitudes toward regulation expose the gulf between the way economists and just about everyone else thinks. To economists, rules are undesirable unless the benefits -- tangible and intangible -- exceed the costs. Otherwise, there must be some other way to organize the world that leaves everyone better off. But to many, the cost-benefit analysis that forms the bedrock of regulatory analysis is just a fancy way to rationalize self-interest.
The joint center project probably won't change many minds. But in Mr. Hahn's view, it is a promising place to start. "We're not going to have a real debate over regulatory reform until people have a source of information they can really trust," he said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Niculae Asciu)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LAKE ERIE (71%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: JOINT CENTER FOR REGULATORY STUDIES; AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE; BROOKINGS INSTITUTION AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (82%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (82%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CENTER FOR REGULATORY STUDIES; AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE; BROOKINGS INSTITUTION BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (82%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (82%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LAKE ERIE (71%); DENVER, CO, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SUPERFUND (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ANNUAL REPORTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (73%); LAKES (71%); LEAD (60%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); GLENN THOMPSON (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); CARL LEVIN (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998



651 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

YEN FALLS. A day after Japan's currency rose as Kiichi Miyazawa, a well-regarded former Premier, was asked to be Finance Minister, it dropped on fear that he would be ineffective. The dollar rose to 142.35 yen from 141.35.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since January 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (86%); POLITICS (84%); 

PERSON: MIYAZAWA, KIICHI KIICHI MIYAZAWA (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998



652 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1932 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place -- Conflict Over Conflicts;
Class-Action Lawyers Defend Their Political Contributions

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
Leonard Barrack, a prominent fund-raiser for Democratic causes and the finance chairman of the Democratic National Committee, has been a generous contributor to the campaigns of Mayor Ed Rendell in Philadelphia and H. Carl McCall, the State Comptroller in New York.
Mr. Barrack, a prominent securities class-action lawyer, represents the Philadelphia and New York State public pension funds in huge class-action cases against companies whose stocks have tumbled because of undisclosed setbacks or accounting irregularities, earning substantial fees in the process. 
 Did the contributions influence officials who hired him? Not at all, Mr. Barrack says. "I'm not sure that there's anything wrong with political contributions like these, as long as we have vigorous representation and the best recovery for the shareholders," said Mr. Barrack, a partner in the Philadelphia firm of Barrack, Rodos & Bacine. The firm represents Mr. McCall's fund and two others in a securities case against the Cendant Corporation, potentially one of the most lucrative class-action cases in history.
But with the number of securities class-action cases up sharply this year, some people think there is something very wrong here, something that runs counter to the goals Congress had in 1995 when it enacted a law giving pension funds and other institutional investors an enhanced role in class-action litigation.
One critic is Howard Sirota, a veteran class-action lawyer in New York. "There is a non-arm's-length arrangement between Len Barrack and the politicians hiring him," Mr. Sirota said. "And what is wrong with that is that it puts last the economic interest of the people in whose name the cases are being filed -- all the small shareholders in the class."
Mr. Barrack and Mr. Sirota will be battling on Tuesday in Federal court in Newark over whether campaign donations by Mr. Barrack and his co-counsel disqualify their firms from adequately representing Cendant shareholders. He wants the legal work to go to whichever qualified firm will to do it for the lowest fee.
Another critic of lawyers who cultivate public business by contributing to politicians -- a practice known as "pay to play" -- is Harvey Goldschmid, the new general counsel of the Securities and Exchange Commission. "If we allow wild political contributions to be made to get public benefits," he said, "we're going to create questions about the integrity of the people and the integrity of the process."
Mr. Goldschmid was a member of an American Bar Association task force that last week called for new professional rules that would sharply restrict, and fully disclose, the contributions lawyers make to politicians who award them business. On Tuesday, as Mr. Sirota argues in Newark, the bar association's delegates will be debating the task force's recommendations at their annual convention in Toronto.
Leading class-action lawyers are offended by Mr. Sirota's complaint. "The pejorative implication is that one cannot be appropriately appointed if one is politically engaged -- and that would be a sorry state of affairs," said Samuel D. Heins, who represents the Minnesota pension fund and who has supported two Democrats on the fund's bipartisan five-member board.
Still, Mr. Sirota's challenge and the bar association's debate are being watched carefully by executives at the large pension funds that have become active in the class-action arena since 1995. The general counsel of the $13 billion Florida state pension fund plans to fly to Newark to observe the courtroom arguments.
The funds insist their lawyer-selection procedures are immune to political influence. Yet interviews with dozens of lawyers and pension executives show that in most states the hiring of a class-action lawyer is protected from politics by little more than an honor system. Indeed, questions about a law firm's political contributions have rarely been raised in the selection process until now. And some funds do not even try to use their clout to get lower fees from lawyers.
This was not how it was supposed to work under the 1995 legislation.
Before then, the class-action arena was dominated by a handful of giant firms -- Barrack, Rodos prominent among them -- considered by critics to be quick-draw lawyers who kept "pet plaintiffs" handy so they could sue at the drop of a stock and settle quickly for substantial fees. The passive plaintiff whose lawyer got to the courthouse first was likely to be named "lead plaintiff," even if his actual loss was minimal, and his lawyer got the bulk of the fees awarded by the court.
"It was a process that hadn't been working particularly well," said the S.E.C. chairman, Arthur Levitt Jr., with his typical understatement.
To improve it, Congress decreed that the investors with the largest financial losses had a presumptive right to be lead plaintiff, an arrangement that was expected to put powerful, sophisticated institutional investors -- like mutual funds, money managers and state and city pension funds -- in the driver's seat. Congress expected public pension funds and other institutional investors to take the reins of the securities class-action process out of lawyers' hands, demanding lower fees and larger recoveries for shareholders. But that model does not exactly match what is happening in, say, Florida.
The staff of the Florida State Board Administration has elected officials on its board, but they are not involved in the selection of counsel in the handful of cases the fund has filed. But then, no one really is.
"We don't choose them; they choose us," said Horace Schow 2d, the board's general counsel. "It's first come, first served, really." As for fees, any law firm representing the fund "is entitled to whatever the court will award them," Mr. Schow said, adding, "We haven't gotten around to negotiating them yet."
Philadelphia's approach to the class-action challenge also bears little resemblance to the Congressional vision, so far as anyone outside the City Solicitor's office can tell. Mr. Barrack acknowledged that he represents the city pension fund in several cases, but he did not identify them. The fund's chairman could not identify them either, explaining that all litigation is "the exclusive domain" of the City Solicitor, who is appointed by the Mayor.
And Deborah Butler, the chief deputy city solicitor, refused to discuss any aspect of the city's securities class-action procedures, including what steps are taken to insulate them from politics.
Mr. Barrack also filed numerous class-action cases on behalf of the State of Pennsylvania's public pension funds, after being hired in 1996 by the State Treasurer, who has since left office. But the cases were filed without the required approval of the pension fund's board and the Treasurer was not authorized to hire outside counsel, said Paul Tufano, the Governor's general counsel. After learning accidentally of Mr. Barrack's work, Mr. Tufano protested. Mr. Barrack balked at dropping the cases, Mr. Tufano said, and was ultimately allowed to proceed with one or two cases that were too far advanced to withdraw.
Mr. Barrack described the dispute as "a misunderstanding."
In Louisiana, William T. Reeves, general counsel for the Teachers Retirement System, said all his class-action work so far had been done by I. Walton Bader, a partner in a two-member law firm in White Plains. Despite its tiny size, the Bader firm has done extensive work for the Florida pension fund as well.
Mr. Bader was selected after he got in touch with the fund six years ago, Mr. Reeves said, but the fund is exploring other ways to handle its class-action legal work. And while Mr. Bader's fees are left to the discretion of the court, Mr. Reeves said, "If we ever do anything with anybody else, we're not going to do it that way." Typically, court-awarded fees in such cases can be as much as 30 percent of the settlement.
Mr. McCall, the New York State Comptroller, has retained three firms to handle class-action cases on behalf of the state's various pension funds. Besides Mr. Barrack's firm, they are Bernstein, Litowitz, Berger & Grossmann and Milberg, Weiss, Bershad Hynes & Lerach, both in New York. The Bernstein firm is co-counsel with Mr. Barrack in the Cendant case. The firms agreed to a sliding scale of fees that range from 3 percent of any early settlement exceeding $400 million to 20 percent of a post-trial award up to $150 million, a McCall spokesman said.
The New York Times reported yesterday that that the three firms and their lawyers have contributed more than $165,000 to Mr. McCall's campaign since they were retained in June 1997. Mr. McCall denied any impropriety, saying that the contributions are completely unrelated to the decision to retain the firms for the state's class-action work. Lawyers in his office chose the firms after rigorously reviewing the qualifications of 14 applicants, and he merely approved the selection, Mr. McCall said.
The role played by the State of Wisconsin Investment Board, which manages that state's $55 billion pension fund, seems to be a little closer to what Congress had in mind. The board is the lead plaintiff in the class-action cases against Cellstar and the Physician Computer Network, said Keith Johnson, assistant legal counsel.
In both cases, the outside lawyers were selected after a competitive review by a four-member panel made up of Mr. Johnson, an in-house investment manager, a representative of the Attorney General, and a local lawyer, recruited for his litigation expertise.
Fees are negotiated in advance and are always "way, way below" the 30 percent that is the norm in class-action cases, Mr. Johnson said.
In California, the California Public Employees Retirement System, called Calpers, has so insulated its procedures from politics that one of its board members -- the State Controller, Kathleen Connell -- has actually sued to overturn a new fund rule that bars her from accepting campaign contributions from anyone who does business with the fund, including the lawyers it hires.
Most other states active in class-action cases fall somewhere in between.
Paul Silvester, the State Treasurer in Connecticut, is ready to become active in appropriate cases, he said. And a state law prohibits him from awarding business to anyone who has contributed to the Treasurer's campaign. Mr. Silvester's outside lawyers are selected by Richard Blumenthal, the state's elected Attorney General, who is not barred from hiring firms that have contributed to his campaign. But Mr. Blumenthal said this week that he had an internal rule against hiring campaign contributors. "So the practical effect is to insulate the selection from politics," he said.
This growing dispute could discourage pension funds from getting involved in the class-action arena, as Congress hoped they would, said Michael Perino, a law professor at St. John's University in Brooklyn and co-author of a recent study that shows a sharp increase in class-action filings.
Mr. Sirota's challenge provides further evidence that lawyers must change their campaign contribution practices, said Michael A. Cardozo, a former president of the New York City Bar Association, who supports curbs on campaign contributions. "I think many major firms realize this is a bad practice and should be stopped," he said.
But many lawyers, including Mr. Barrack, see such restrictions as irrelevant and unnecessary. "There are serious problems out there in the campaign financing area, but this isn't one of them," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leonard Barrack (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); Howard Sirota (The New York Times)(pg. D1)
 
Graph/Charts:
Class-action suits are on the rise . . .
 
Graph shows total filings in Federal securities cases, from 1996 through 1998.
 
. . . but states have different rules . . .
Most states conduct competitive reviews and negotiate over fees, but many allow law firms to contribute to the officials who select the lawyers. Chart lists who picks the lawyers and indicates whether or not there is competition among firms, fees negotiated or donations barred, for california, connecticut, new york and florida
 
. . . prompting proposals for change.
As lawyers square off over political contributions, the American Bar Association is debating a plan that would do the following:
-- Condemn deals that link contributions to legal work.
-- Require disclosure of contributions.
-- Urge that merit-based hiring procedures be used.
-- Prohibit lawyers from making contributions to get legal work.
 
(Sources: Stanford University; American Bar Association)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: CAR (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (69%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (69%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (69%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (69%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CENDANT CORP; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; BARRACK RODOS & BACINE AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (69%); BARRACK RODOS & BACINE (58%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (84%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENDANT CORP; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; BARRACK RODOS & BACINE AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (84%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; CLASS-ACTION SUITS; ETHICS; ELECTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES CLASS ACTIONS (92%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); LAWYERS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); ACCOUNTING (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); ETHICS (70%); BONDS (65%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B; BARRACK, LEN; SIROTA, HOWARD; GOLDSCHMID, HARVEY; MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER) ED RENDELL (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998



653 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Sale of Coliseum Site Receives Approval

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority approved the sale of the New York Coliseum site yesterday for $345 million, the first step in a three-year, $1.3 billion project that will alter the face of the Columbus Circle area.
By next summer, The Related Companies and Time Warner plan to start demolishing the Coliseum exhibition hall and an adjacent office tower to make way for a 2.1 million-square-foot complex that will house the world headquarters of Time Warner Inc. The project will include a 425-room hotel, 325 apartments, a concert hall for Jazz at Lincoln Center and Time Warner programming, as well as a digital television studio for Cable News Network and NY1 that will overlook Columbus Circle and Central Park. 
 At a news conference yesterday, Richard D. Parsons, the president of Time Warner, described the location as "the last great site in New York City and an appropriate home for the largest and most influential media company in the world." He said he expected the building and the ground-floor television studios to become an important tourist attraction.
Although this is the second time the 3.4-acre site has been sold in 13 years, city and state officials say this twin-towered project will go forward. But before construction can begin, the M.T.A. must empty the buildings at the site. If local residents are successful in challenging the project on environmental grounds, there could be further delays. In the meantime, the city is experimenting with ways to transform the anarchic traffic patterns at Columbus Circle into a more smoothly flowing urban crossroad.
Stephen M. Ross, the chairman of Related, which will develop the project in partnership with William L. Mack's Apollo Real Estate Advisers, said yesterday that he expected to complete construction in 2002.
Despite the fanfare, Mr. Parsons acknowledged that Time Warner would ask the city for a package of tax breaks. But, he added, the purchase of the Coliseum site was not contingent on those incentives. "It's not a question of looking for a handout," Mr. Parsons said, "as much as looking to construct mutually beneficial relationships."
Mr. Parsons' request poses a dilemma for the Giuliani administration, which had previously revoked a tax break worth about $50 million for any buyer of the site, saying a revived economy had made the subsidy superfluous. At a news conference at the Coliseum site on Tuesday, a senior city official said privately that Time Warner would have "to wait a long time" if it thought that the city would grant a tax break. Moments later, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said he would "not rule it out."
The site has a tortured history. In 1985, city and state officials selected Mortimer B. Zuckerman's Boston Properties to develop the Coliseum site. Over the next nine years, Mr. Zuckerman ran into widespread opposition, lost his main tenant, Salomon Brothers, and suffered from the impact of a recession before abandoning the project in 1994.
The M.T.A. resumed its attempt to sell the site in 1996. A year ago, the M.T.A. was about to sell it to Millennium Partners, one of five developers competing for the site, when Mayor Giuliani blocked the project, demanding that a live theater or performance space be included.
Joseph B. Rose, the chairman of the city's Planning Department, said the delay allowed the M.T.A. to get a higher price as the real estate market improved.
It was only after the project was delayed last summer that Time Warner began negotiating with Related about a building at the Coliseum site. The company had been scouring the city for a new location for its corporate headquarters, which is currently at Rockefeller Center, in the shadow of the more high-profile operations of its rival, NBC.
"This is what Time Warner wanted," said Mitchell S. Stier, executive vice president of Julien J. Studley, the real estate broker for Time Warner. "There were always alternatives, but this was clearly the city's premier site."
Earlier this month, the M.T.A. and city officials narrowed their choices to proposals from Related and Millennium, which had the edge because it was offering the same amount of money as Related and was willing to pay for the land within 60 days of signing a contract. Related was unable to do the same, but on July 2, Mr. Parsons told city officials that Time Warner would guarantee to close the deal within two years at the agreed-upon price. The prestige of Time Warner and a proposed design that city officials considered superior to those of its competitors helped seal the deal.
"I'm disappointed," said Christopher Jeffries of Millennium. "But this is a high-stakes game. Bitterness and emotion have no part in it. I guess we can console ourselves with the other projects we have to do."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A section of the complex planned for the Coliseum site, which will include a 425-room hotel, 325 apartments, a concert hall for Jazz at Lincoln Center, a television studio and the world headquarters of Time Warner Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY; RELATED COMPANIES; TIME WARNER INC TIME WARNER INC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY; RELATED COMPANIES; TIME WARNER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; COLUMBUS CIRCLE (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK COLISEUM URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); CITIES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); CABLE TELEVISION (69%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; PARSONS, RICHARD D RICHARD D PARSONS (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998



654 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Slide in Shares Moderates While Earnings Jitters Persist

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday amid concern that earnings growth was not keeping up with stock prices.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which lost nearly 100 points on Tuesday and 400 points last week, fell only 19.82 points yesterday, to 8,914.96, led by Wal-Mart Stores, which dropped 2 9/16, to 60 7/8. The Standard & Poor's 500 index of 500 stocks declined 5.03, to 1,125.21. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index dropped 15.04, to 1,881.49. 
 "Earnings are growing, but at a slower pace," said John Niedenberger, a money manager with Advanced Investment Management in Pittsburgh, which oversees $3 billion. "I haven't done much buying lately. I'm not selling either. I'm just holding."
Losses would have been greater if not for I.B.M., which was up 2 5/16, to 127 3/4, on optimism that a new line of mainframe machines will bolster the company's sales. Steven Milunovich, a Merrill Lynch analyst, increased his 1999 earnings forecast for the company.
Profits for the 407 S.& P. 500 companies that have reported earnings so far are up just 3 percent, on average, down from 11 percent a year earlier, according to First Call.
Wal-Mart, whose stock is up 55 percent this year, is expected to report a 25 percent increase in fiscal first-quarter earnings on Aug. 12, based on the average forecast from analysts surveyed by I.B.E.S. International. Yet the nation's No. 1 merchant led a broad retreat in retailing issues.
Nor did investors find relief in small companies. The small-cap barometer, the Russell 2000 index, fell for a ninth day, down 0.3 percent. It is now off 2.5 percent this year, compared with a 16 percent gain for the large-company S.& P. 500.
General Motors declined 1/8, to 74 1/8, after workers voted to settle strikes that had cost the auto maker an estimated $3 billion in profit. The settlement lets G.M. trim fewer jobs than it had wanted and restricts its ability to close unprofitable plants. G.M. had risen 5.3 percent in the previous three days as optimism for a settlement grew.
Telecomunicacoes Brasileiras surged after Brazil's Government sold its controlling stake in the national telephone network for almost $19 billion. Telebras holder shares, up 5 11/16, to 119, were created by Merrill Lynch to let foreign investors trade the 12 companies spawned in the Telebras breakup as a single security. About 4.9 million shares changed hands after the stock opened for trading.
Cendant rose 1 3/8, to 18 3/8, after the chairman, Walter A. Forbes, and eight other board members resigned. Investors had been calling for Mr. Forbes to step down since the marketer and franchiser said it would restate earnings for the last three years because of accounting irregularities at its CUC International unit. CUC, which was headed by Mr. Forbes, merged with HFS Inc. to form Cendant last year.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasuries End Lower

(By Reuters)
 Treasury prices ended lower yesterday, pressured in part by corporate supply.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 13/32, to 105 2/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.76 percent, from 5.74 percent on Tuesday.
"The long end is being held down primarily because of deals," said Astrid Adolfson, first vice president and senior economist at MCM Moneywatch.
Analysts expect $9 billion of debt to be issued by the end of the week. While few corporate deals were priced yesterday, positioning ahead of the the new supply led to some selling of Treasuries, traders said.
Caution ahead of today's report on second-quarter employment costs also weighed on trading yesterday. But there was good demand at the Treasury's auction of $15 billion in two-year notes. Following are the results of the auction:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

High Price . . .	99.813	High Yield . . .	5.475%	Low Yield . . .	5.400%	Median Yield . . .	5.464%	Accepted at low price . . .	55%	Total applied for . . .	$40,794,637	Accepted . . .	$18,642,381	Noncompetitive . . .	$1,587,631	Interest set at . . .	5 3/8	
 
The two-year notes mature on July 31, 2000

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since July 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TELB3 (BOVESPA) (81%); WMT (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (81%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); TELECOMUNICACOES BRASILEIRAS SA (TELEBRAS) (81%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); ADVANCED INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LP (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (76%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (98%); COMPANY EARNINGS (94%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); BOND MARKETS (83%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); CLOSINGS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); RESIGNATIONS (65%); BOARD CHANGES (61%); AUTOMAKERS (61%); 

PERSON: WALTER A FORBES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998



655 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Senators Criticize Executive Over Lobbying on Satellites

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 29

 BODY:
A current and a former top executive of the nation's largest satellite maker urged a Senate panel today not to subject the industry to a more restrictive licensing review by the Government.
But senators accused one executive, C. Michael Armstrong, former chairman of the Hughes Electronics Corporation, of lobbying President Clinton too aggressively, and of acting as an unofficial envoy between the United States and China to lift sanctions that blocked Hughes from launching two satellites aboard Chinese rockets. 
 "American corporations should not serve as mini-State Departments," Senator Fred Thompson, a Tennessee Republican who heads the Governmental Affairs Committee, scolded Mr. Armstrong at a hearing today.
Congress is weighing whether to revert the licensing control over satellites to the State Department, which had that responsibility until 1996, from the less restrictive Commerce Department. Lawmakers fear that engineers from Hughes, which is a unit of the General Motors Corporation, and from Loral Space and Communications gave Chinese officials sensitive information after a failed launching of a Loral satellite on a Chinese rocket in 1996.
Mr. Armstrong, who became the chairman of AT&T last fall after running Hughes for five years, and Steven D. Dorfman, Hughes's vice chairman, told senators that they did support giving the State Department the authority to approve any technical exchanges in a disaster review.
But the executives said transferring licensing authority to the State Department would hurt American companies.
Much of today's hearing focused on Mr. Armstrong, 59, who has headed Mr. Clinton's advisory panel on exports since it was created three years ago.
In August 1993, when the Administration imposed sanctions on China for shipping missile technology to Pakistan, Mr. Armstrong thrust himself into the dispute, which grounded two Hughes satellites, and threatened company profits and thousands of jobs in Southern California.
Documents released by the committee today, and by the White House in the last two weeks, showed how Mr. Armstrong worked to free his satellites from the sanctions and, two years later, how he pushed the White House to shift the licensing jurisdiction to the Commerce Department.
In a letter on Oct. 29, 1993, Mr. Armstrong reminded Mr. Clinton that he had supported the President's economic package and the North American Free Trade Agreement. "I am respectfully requesting your involvement to resolve the China sanctions," Mr. Armstrong said.
A Dec. 8, 1993, internal White House memorandum to Mr. Clinton's national security adviser, Anthony Lake, said, "Armstrong is now fairly directly threatening to wage a more public campaign against the Administration's sanction." Mr. Armstrong, the memorandum said, was threatening to "write op-eds and/or spur union opposition."
Mr. Armstrong said today that he had never compromised national security. But senators voiced concern that Mr. Armstrong's blunt approach pushed the limits of corporate advocacy.
"At a bare minimum, you need some help in letter-writing," Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, told Mr. Armstrong. "That's not any way to write the President."
In seeking to have the sanctions lifted, Mr. Armstrong mixed diplomacy with business by passing messages between senior Chinese and American officials like Samuel R. Berger, Mr. Clinton's deputy national security adviser.
By early 1994, President Clinton reached a compromise that allowed Hughes to modify its satellites and refile its applications with Commerce. The Administration ended the sanctions in November 1994.
Mr. Armstrong was still waging a war to shift licensing authority over all commercial satellites to the less restrictive Commerce Department.
By March 1996, Mr. Armstrong enlisted Mr. Berger's help in reversing the State Department objections. "It was indeed some battle, two and a half years and more politics than a textbook," he told Mr. Berger in Oct. 17, 1996 "thank you" note.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (84%); LORL (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (91%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HUGHES ELECTRONICS CORP LORAL CORP (91%); DIRECTV (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (69%); LORAL SPACE & COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUGHES ELECTRONICS CORP US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; SATELLITES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS SATELLITE INDUSTRY (92%); ELECTRONICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (73%); LICENSES & PERMITS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); APPROVALS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; ARMSTRONG, C MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); FRED THOMPSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998



656 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Japan Picks Ex-Leader To Find Way Out of Crisis

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, July 29

 BODY:
Kiichi Miyazawa, a veteran politician who only five years ago was forced out of office as Prime Minister, was named Finance Minister today and charged with steering Japan out of its worst financial crisis in decades.
Mr. Miyazawa is a familiar face to American officials, who have worked with him for more than four decades, as he held a variety of senior posts. And he is a veteran of the Finance Ministry, the powerful institution that in recent years has fallen into disgrace in a series of scandals and accusations of mismanagement of the world's second-largest economy. 
 But it was also Mr. Miyazawa, serving as Finance Minister in the late 1980's, who oversaw the growth of the Japan's "bubble economy," and starting this week he will be charged with cleaning up the enormous mess that the bursting of that bubble has caused.
Although Mr. Miyazawa, 78, appeared hesitant to accept the post in recent days, he was persuaded to do so by Keizo Obuchi, the new president of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party who is to be confirmed as Prime Minister on Thursday.
According to Japanese news reports, Mr. Obuchi has also chosen his deputy, Masahiko Komura, to be Foreign Minister; the Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary, Fukushiro Nukaga, as Defense Minister and the former Education Minister, Kaoru Yosano, as Trade Minister.
 Mr. Obuchi has little expertise in financial engineering himself and needs a powerful Finance Minister to give his administration credibility in a skeptical world. Many consider the choice of a Finance Minister to be more important than the selection of the Prime Minister, and in many ways, the next Finance Minister will in fact be a more pivotal and powerful figure than Mr. Obuchi. But while Mr. Miyazawa is well known internationally, and negotiated the Clinton Administration's first major trade accord with Japan, he has not been considered politically powerful at home.
Mr. Miyazawa will take the ministry's helm at a critical juncture. The economy has stalled, unemployment is climbing to unheard of levels and the banking system is seriously ill.
More and more economists are drawing comparisons to the Showa Depression of the late 1920's, which lasted more than a decade. The Japanese press has compared Mr. Miyazawa to Korekiyo Takahashi, a politician and financial expert of the time, whose suspension of the gold standard and increase of government spending helped combat the Depression.
It is not clear what Mr. Miyazawa will do to fix Japan's economic woes. He has reportedly been involved in the "total plan" to clean up the banking system, which will be debated in the special session of Parliament that begins Thursday and which is generally regarded as a step in the right direction.
World financial markets have so far greeted rumors of Mr. Miyazawa's appointment with cautious optimism. The yen has traded in a narrow band ever since his name first appeared in the press as the favorite candidate, and the Nikkei Stock Average has climbed as his appointment has seemed more certain.
A concern about Mr. Miyazawa is his age. He initially declined the job for that reason.
But his years of experience dealing with Japan's carefully orchestrated government financial system, including a stint as Finance Minister in the 1980's, as well as his outspoken support of Mr. Obuchi in the recent party election, made him an obvious choice for a job that few people seemed to want.
He will inherit the task of weeding out the banking system, which is suffocating under bad debt, and of fashioning policies to drag Japan out of its doldrums.
Mr. Miyazawa did speak out last fall, when the banking and securities industries seemed on the verge of a meltdown, urging Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto to commit to using public funds to bail out the financial system.
Mr. Miyazawa is regarded as one of the more globally minded of the senior ruling party members. He speaks English well, one of the few Japanese politicians of his generation to do so, and his daughter, Keiko, is married to Christopher J. Lafleur, deputy chief of mission at the American Embassy in Tokyo.
He worked closely with Nicholas F. Brady, the Treasury Secretary during the Bush Administration, in putting together a bailout for Latin American nations.
And earlier this year, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin sought out Mr. Miyazawa while the Japanese politician was on a trip to New York to suggest some ideas Japan might want to consider for pumping up domestic demand and jump-starting its economy.
Mr. Miyazawa was forced to resign as Finance Minister in 1988 after being implicated in a scandal surrounding the Recruit Company's efforts to buy political influence.
He is also remembered in some quarters for his economic prescriptions in the mid-1980's, when he was a high-ranking party official jockeying to become a candidate for Prime Minister. His views helped create the "bubble" that defined Japan in the 1980's and became the root of its problems today.
Mr. Miyazawa will be the first former Japanese Prime Minister in the postwar era to take a job in the Cabinet after serving as Prime Minister. He was Prime Minister from 1991 until 1993, when he resigned after the Liberal Democrats lost control of Parliament, a setback from which they have yet to fully recover.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Keizo Obuchi, who is to be confirmed as Prime Minister on Thursday, has selected Kiichi Miyazawa to be Japan's next Finance Minister. Mr. Obuchi, right, visited Mr. Miyazawa yesterday at his office in Tokyo. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS PRIME MINISTERS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); POLITICS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); SCANDALS (75%); TRENDS (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE; MIYAZAWA, KIICHI; OBUCHI, KEIZO (MIN); KOMURA, MASHIKO (MIN); NUKAGA, FUKUSHIRO; YOSANO, KAORU KAORU YOSANO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998



657 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Sexual Harassment Trial Plumbs 'Atmosphere' in a Trenton Agency

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, July 29

 BODY:
Only two former assistant attorneys general are named in a sexual harassment case brought by one of their colleagues that is working its way slowly through a state court here. But, in a sense, an entire division of the Attorney General's office has ended up on trial.
In her testimony, Barbara Davis, now 40, and other witnesses have painted a picture of the Criminal Justice Division, where she worked from 1989 to 1993, as a place of blatant sexual banter and touching, where male superiors openly conducted sexual affairs with subordinate women and where a woman's physical attributes were fair game for public comment even after death, in gruesome crime scene photographs. 
 "I just think the public should know what was going on behind the closed doors of that department -- what it was like," Ms. Davis said in an interview between court sessions recently. "Women were just treated like they were nothing, and it was just devastating to be there. Just the fact of having seven or eight witnesses come forward to testify about what was going on has restored my faith a little bit."
Ms. Davis has accused Richard T. Carley, the former deputy director of the Division of Criminal Justice, of repeatedly touching and propositioning her while she worked as an assistant attorney general in the division. She has also accused the state and her immediate supervisor, Gregory Sakowicz, of ignoring her complaints about Mr. Carley. She said she had become unemployable as a result of the harassment and the civil lawsuit, which went to trial five weeks ago, and is asking for a life's salary as well as unspecified punitive damages.
The state maintains that Ms. Davis failed to notify the proper authorities, and says it acted swiftly to punish Mr. Carley once she filed her suit in 1994.
Officials at the Department of Law and Public Safety, which is led by the State Attorney General, would not comment on the record about Ms. Davis's allegation, noting that the trial, whose outcome will turn in part on the atmosphere within the Criminal Justice Division, was still in progress. But one official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that the department, which works closely with the police in investigating and prosecuting prominent crimes, had a reputation as a "macho" outfit in the early 1990's.
"You had 150 lawyers in there, many of whom were ex-cops, and they were working with police investigators and, yes, it had a reputation for having a precinct-house atmosphere in those days," the official said. "But it has changed since then," the official added, because of the trial, and because of stricter sexual harassment laws.
Office atmosphere is a major element in proving sexual harassment under New Jersey law, said Alan Hyde, a professor at Rutgers Law School in Newark who teaches a course on labor and employment law, because it can have the effect of discriminating against women by creating an unbearable working environment for them. Stressing that he had not followed the Davis case, Mr. Hyde said the heavily male atmosphere of police work could have the illegal effect of telling women they could not be on an equal footing with men.
"That sets up the classic sexual harassment case, which comes from the male defense of a previously male preserve," Mr. Hyde said. "Anyone who has spent any time with law enforcement people knows that there is a lot of sexual humor and gallows humor about things like the condition of corpses. Some of it seems natural, but some of it is also a way of preserving a male domain, of saying, 'This is a place for guys with tough stomachs and steel nerves.' "
Mr. Hyde later added: "You can't hang a sign on the door that says, 'Men Only' in words, but this case seems to say they hung the sign not with words but with deeds."
In fact, Ms. Davis and several supporting witnesses described such an atmosphere. If a crime under investigation was a sex crime against women, Ms. Davis said, Mr. Carley would ask for photographs of the victim and comment on her body. Mr. Sakowicz had a joke statue in his office resembling a penis, a police investigator testifying for Ms. Davis said. Mr. Carley, Ms. Davis said, displayed pictures of bathing beauties in his office.
Several witnesses testified in support of Ms. Davis that Mr. Carley was often uncomfortably familiar with women in his department. He began a meeting with Carol Stanton Meier, a deputy attorney general, by telling her she had "a nice body," Ms. Meier testified. Another witness said Mr. Carley had dangled the keys for a sports car in front of her and said, "If I give you a ride in my Porsche, will you do me?"
But although the women confirmed stories about Mr. Carley's occasionally lurid language and comments and about the atmosphere of male swagger in the Criminal Justice Division in the early 1990's, none directly confirmed witnessing the acts that brought Mr. Carley before Judge Maria Marinari Sypek and a jury of five men and five women.
Two police officers, friends of Ms. Davis, testified that she had complained of her treatment to them, and one of the officers, Uku Manikis, told the court last week that he had offered to accompany Ms. Davis to her office and to arrest Mr. Carley if he made one of his unwelcome approaches to Ms. Davis in the officer's presence.
Ms. Davis has accused Mr. Carley of touching her breasts, of stuffing money in her brassiere, of caressing her from behind and of suggesting that they have an affair. Mr. Carley admitted in court that he was conducting an affair with a division subordinate at the time, even though he was married. He has since divorced.
"He would come up behind me and grab me," Ms. Davis said in the interview. "He would ask for oral sex. He would ask me if I was wearing any underwear that day. It was just devastating."
But Mr. Carley, under intense questioning by Clifford Van Syoc, Ms. Davis's lawyer, denied that he had touched Ms. Davis or requested sex with her. A state investigator who looked into Ms. Davis's charges in 1994 testified that Mr. Carley admitted saying things like, "nice boobs," or "nice butt," but that he had said the comments had not been aimed at Ms. Davis.
Ms. Davis maintains that she complained about Mr. Carley to Mr. Sakowicz, her direct supervisor, and that Mr. Sakowicz did nothing. Mr. Sakowicz denied that Ms. Davis went to him, and the state contends that in any case, Ms. Davis failed to take her complaint to any of several offices established to enforce non-discrimination law for state employees. The state asserts that Ms. Davis concocted her charges and the lawsuit after she was passed over for a promotion. Her inability to find work as a lawyer since leaving state employment in 1994 is not due to the shock of what happened or the burden of the trial, as Ms. Davis contends, but to her own malingering and use of painkillers and alcohol, the state maintains.
Once Ms. Davis filed her suit in 1994, the state did investigate her complaints and demoted Mr. Carley in rank and in pay, moving him to the Alcoholic Beverage Control Division, where he has no supervisory authority. The sanctions against Mr. Carley do not amount to an admission of guilt by the state, said Cynthia Jacob, the lawyer defending the state and Mr. Sakowicz. Mr. Carley may be liable for further punishment, depending on how the trial ends.
Ms. Jacob maintains that the department's written policy on sexual harassment gave Ms. Davis several places to turn for help, including the department's Division on Civil Rights, the state's Equal Employment Opportunities Commission, and the equal employment opportunities office in the Department of Law.
"The bottom line is that we took prompt remedial action," Ms. Jacob said during a pause in the trial. "We did everything employers are required to do under the law when faced with a sexual harassment complaint."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barbara Davis, a former assistant attorney general in New Jersey, says that she was sexually harassed on the job in the early 1990's. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: CRIMINAL JUSTICE DIV (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: ATTORNEYS GENERAL; SEXUAL HARASSMENT; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; WOMEN SEXUAL HARASSMENT (92%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (92%); WITNESSES (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (90%); LAWYERS (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LITIGATION (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); POLICE FORCES (68%); DAMAGES (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; DAVIS, BARBARA; CARLEY, RICHARD T; SAKOWICZ, GREGORY BARBARA DAVIS (94%); RICHARD T CARLEY (91%); ALAN HYDE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998



658 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
Financial Analysts Say Japan Understated Crisis
American officials and private financial experts concluded that Japan's banking crisis is far worse than Tokyo has publicly acknowledged, with bad debts approaching $1 trillion. A1 

Kiichi Miyazawa, a former Prime Minister, was appointed Finance Minister, giving him the task of steering Japan out of its worst financial crisis in decades. A8
 
Terror in Sierra Leone
Human rights groups and Government officials said that a rebel movement dislodged early this year from a brief period in power in Sierra Leone was waging a campaign of butchery against civilians. A1
 
India, Pakistan Agree to Talks
The Prime Ministers of India and Pakistan tentatively agreed to resume talks over the contentious issue of Kashmir. Both described their meeting in diplomatic language that did not hide the distrust that set in since the two nations conducted underground nuclear tests in May. It was unclear whether the leaders were any closer to an accord that would lessen tensions. A8
 
Albright Visits New Guinea
Government rescue workers in Papua New Guinea said they had given up hope of finding large numbers of additional survivors from a series of waves that hit the coast 10 days ago. Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright arrived to announce a package of more than $1 million in American aid to help pay for the rescue effort and to install a seismic early warning system. A6
 
Parliament Protests Netanyahu
The Israeli Parliament issued a new protest over Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's handling of Middle East Peace talks. The measure underlined the dissatisfaction at the lack of progress toward a further accord between Israel and the Palestinians and could set in motion a process that could force Mr. Netanyahu to face an early election. A5
 
Russia Looks to Clear Iraq
Russia failed to get Security Council action on a resolution declaring that Iraq had complied with demands to destroy its nuclear weapons program and was ready to move from intrusive inspections to long-term monitoring. A7
 
Officials Sentenced in Spain
The Spanish Supreme Court sentenced two high-ranking officials in the 1980's Government of Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez to 10 years in prison after finding them guilty of kidnapping a French furniture dealer whom they had mistaken for a Basque terrorist. Ten lower-ranking officials were also found guilty of kidnapping. A3
 
Civilians Missing in Kosovo
Diplomats tracking human rights abuses in Kosovo said they had been unable to learn the fate of more than 20,000 civilians who fled Malisevo on Tuesday when the Yugoslav Government attacked the town in a strike against ethnic Albanian rebels. A10
 
NATIONAL A12-18
 
Clinton and Starr Agree on Questioning
President Clinton agreed to submit to questioning at the White House by Federal prosecutors in the Lewinsky inquiry after the independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr withdrew an unprecedented subpoena to compel his testimony. The session is scheduled for Aug. 17. Mr. Clinton will be permitted to have his lawyers at his side. Separately, lawyers said that Monica S. Lewinsky had turned over to prosecutors a dress and several taped phone messages from Mr. Clinton. A1
 
Linda Tripp emerged from her eighth and final day of grand jury testimony to speak publicly of the vilification she has experienced because of her tape-recording of the confidences of Ms. Lewinsky. A17
 
Justice Takes a Hard Line
Justice Clarence Thomas, speaking to an audience of several hundred black lawyers and judges, lashed out at his critics, both black and white, saying they had racist views because his opinions do not conform to what is expected of a black man. A1
 
Broadcasters Keep Guidelines
Some of the nation's biggest broadcasters, including the four major networks and several of the largest owners of radio stations, have agreed to continue following F.C.C. affirmative action guidelines, even though they are no longer required to do so, the industry's chief regulator said. A12
 
House Penalizes San Francisco
The House narrowly passed a measure that would deny Federal housing money to San Francisco because of the city's policies supporting live-in homosexual partners. A18
 
Guards Indicted in Mock Riot
A mock prison riot staged near Houston for a training video in which prisoners were hit, kicked, shocked with a stun gun and bitten by police dogs has led to the indictment of four jailers on Federal charges of violating three of the inmates' civil rights. A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-9
 
Assembly Passes Bill To Overhaul Parole
The New York State Assembly passed a bill sharply restricting parole for first-time violent felons, handing Governor Pataki a big election-year victory. A1
 
Brawley Jury Awards $345,000
A jury awarded Steven A. Pagones a total of $345,000 in damages from the Rev. Al Sharpton and two other of Tawana Brawley's advisers. A1
 
Grand Central Group Dissolved
City officials said they were putting the Grand Central business improvement district out of business. B1
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-14
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
Tour de France in Jeopardy
Riders upset by police methods in a drug inquiry twice stopped the Tour de France, leading the day's stage to be annulled and raising the possibility that bicycling's premier event would end before Paris. C1
 
Tyson Shows His Temper
Mike Tyson appeared before New Jersey's Athletic Control Board to try to regain his state boxing license, but an angry outburst by the fighter might have undercut that effort. C1
 
Antitrust Shift for Baseball
Key members of the Senate Judiciary Committee announced agreement on a measure that would alter baseball's antitrust exemption. C3
 
ARTS E1-10
 
CIRCUITS G1-14
 
No Solution to E-Mail Bugs
Microsoft withdrew a repair file intended to fix a security flaw in two of its widely used E-mail programs, saying it would not have fully protected the software from viruses. Netscape was working to fix a similar flaw in its E-mail software. G3
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-18
 
G.M. Workers Return
Strikes against two G.M. parts factories in Flint, Mich., ended after union members ratified a settlement and went back to work. D1
 
Brazil Sells Phone Company
Brazil sold control of most of its telephone system, Telebras, for about $19 billion. D1
 
Spreading the Wealth
Goldman, Sachs promised that when the private investment bank sold stock to the public, everyone at the firm would share in the spoils. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES D19-20
 
Jerome Robbins
One of the century's great ballet choreographers and a towering innovator on Broadway, he was 79. A1
 
EDITORIAL A20-21
 
Editorials: An appointment with truth? The auto deal that resolves little; phantom of campaign reform; Cambodia's imperfect election.
 
Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.
 
Crossword E4
 
Weather B9
 
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (92%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); SIERRA LEONE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); INDIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SPAIN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); ASIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (79%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (57%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSEMBLY (65%); ISRAELI PARLIAMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ASSEMBLY (65%); ISRAELI PARLIAMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (95%); SIERRA LEONE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); INDIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SPAIN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); ASIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (79%); KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (57%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PEACE PROCESS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (87%); SENTENCING (85%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INSPECTIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); TERRORISM (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); RANKINGS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); PRISONS (67%); VERDICTS (66%); SUBPOENAS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); JAIL SENTENCING (61%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998



659 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Tallying Losses Instead of Gains In G.M. Dispute

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: FLINT, Mich., July 29

 BODY:
Strikes against two General Motors auto parts factories ended here today after nearly eight weeks as workers ratified a settlement and trooped back into the plants, but the showdown has harmed G.M. and the United Automobile Workers while appearing to produce limited gains for either side.
The strikes cost G.M. about $3 billion in after-tax losses, the nation's costliest labor dispute ever before adjusting for inflation, yet produced a deal that mainly calls for a few small changes in work rules at the factories here and other parts factories in Ohio and Indiana. 
 The dispute has left G.M. dealerships with few popular models, so G.M.'s market share in July and possibly August most likely will fall below the Ford Motor Company's for the first time since a national strike against G.M. in 1970. And G.M. could have serious problems producing enough 1999 model cars and trucks in time to compete with rival auto makers' 1999 offerings this autumn.
U.A.W. leaders have praised the agreement since it was announced on Tuesday, but they have relatively little to show for the $1 billion in paychecks that their members gave up. The strike mostly maintained the status quo, but at the cost of giving the union a national image for taking workers out on long strikes. That could hurt the union's planned push over the next several years to organize workers at independent auto parts makers.
The strikes also cost G.M. nearly half a year's worth of earnings, which will reduce workers' profit-sharing checks at the end of the year. And the further erosion of G.M.'s market share means that the world's largest auto maker may need even fewer workers in the future.
G.M. could probably rebuild the factories here from the ground up for less than $1 billion, so Wall Street analysts questioned what the company and the union had achieved after fighting each other to a standstill.
"At the end of the day, they both are suicidal -- nobody won, but you can conclusively say both sides lost a little," said Maryann Keller, an auto analyst at Furman Selz.
The final details of the settlement, presented to workers before their ratification votes today, include some small adjustments in work rules.
Seeking to rally public opinion against the U.A.W., G.M. often painted the walkouts as a struggle over whether decades-old work rules would continue to allow about 600 welders to draw a full day's pay for four to six hours of work. The welders, who labor in a hot factory with no air-conditioning and must move 55-pound engine braces with their bare hands because there is little automation available, must produce a certain number of parts during a shift. Once they have met their quotas, they can stop work, although they are not allowed to leave the factory until eight hours have elapsed.
The final settlement maintains these work rules but raises the number of parts a welder must produce before stopping work. Yet even the increases in required parts are fairly modest and will be phased in gradually. Welders producing engine braces for the Chevrolet Astro van, for example, will be required to produce 800 braces during an eight-hour shift by next March, compared with 768 now.
One of these welders, Kim Cramer, said that he would still be able to finish work early. "I'll get done in five hours or six hours; it depends on how hard I work."
The accord protects G.M. against further strikes for a year at some of its most important auto parts factories here and in Indianapolis and Dayton, Ohio. In exchange, G.M. promised that at least through the end of next year it would not sell or close a spark plug factory here or brake factories in Dayton, a distinct possibility that had worried workers in both cities.
But the fate of these factories will be on the table again when G.M. and the U.A.W. start bargaining next summer on a new national agreement. The current accord will expire in September 1999, and many workers and U.A.W. officials said here today that they were already bracing for another possible strike then.
"It'll be just as hard fought as this one," said Dennis Savage, 55, who operates parts-making equipment. "Better start saving now."
G.M. and U.A.W. leaders agreed on Tuesday to talk more regularly to head off future strikes. But the two sides continued to aim barbed remarks at each other, suggesting that the peace may not last long. The two sides may also have a tacit understanding not to engage in further showdowns of this sort for a while, although neither party would confirm this.
In the first sign that restarting production may be a long, slow process, G.M. announced today that it would reopen just four of its 25 closed assembly plants in North America on Friday. The first assembly plants to reopen will be a highly profitable sport utility vehicle factory in Janesville, Wis., two small-car factories in Lansing, Mich., and a Cadillac factory in Hamtramck, Mich. G.M. officials have said they would like to reopen all of their assembly plants within a week, but outside experts predicted that it could take 10 days to return to full production..
Frank Ursomarso, the chairman of the G.M. section of the National Automobile Dealers Association, said that many dealers might not have a full selection of cars and trucks again until September.
Mr. Ursomarso's Pontiac and GMC dealership in Wilmington, Del., has only 27 vehicles in stock, compared with a typical inventory of 125 vehicles before the strike. He predicted that once the assembly plants reopened, it would be three weeks before he started to receive new vehicles.
Susan Jacobs, an automotive sales consultant in Rutherford, N.J., said that G.M.'s short-term market share, which was hovering around 31 percent before the strike began, would not recover until October. The company will announce its July sales next week.
G.M.'s long-term market share will most likely continue to drop because of the auto maker's inability to find a way to cut costs more quickly. Ms. Jacobs said, "I think they'll drop below 30 next year and just trend down over the coming years."
G.M.'s board is scheduled to meet on Monday to consider the company's latest plans to improve its competitiveness by eliminating unprofitable car models, closing factories and streamlining the bureaucracies at its divisions. But the odds of a drastic move affecting thousands of workers seem to have faded. G.M. and U.A.W. officials said that they had not discussed factory closings, and G.M. has also promised to start working more closely with the U.A.W., making any sudden move unlikely.
G.M. could stop production of some unprofitable models, like the Buick Riviera, without closing factories or affecting employment. The U.A.W. has expressed no opposition to such a limited move. G.M. may also cut further its white-collar staff, much of which is not unionized.
Wall Street analysts were generally unimpressed with Tuesday's settlement and predicted that G.M. would continue to lag behind more efficient rivals like Ford and Chrysler, to say nothing of low-cost producers in Japan and South Korea. Shares of G.M. edged down 12.5 cents today, to $74.125.
"G.M. doesn't get one step closer to where it needs to be on cost and competitiveness," Ms. Keller, the analyst, said. "If this is what they get in two factories after 54 days of strikes, how are they going to get this across the country?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers from a G.M. metal-stamping plant in Flint, Mich., cast their votes yesterday to ratify a settlement. Employees at two plants overwhelmingly approved the deal, ending a walkout that lasted nearly eight weeks. (Associated Press)(pg. D5)
 
Chart: "On the Road to Recovery"
Of the 27 assembly plants affected by the strike against General Motors, these are, or will be, working to produce cars or trucks this week. As each factory reopens, it takes a few days to reach full production. Normal production for G.M. is 21,000 vehicles a day.
 
PLANT: Bowling Green, Ky.
PRODUCT: Chevy Corvette
RESUMES PRODUCTION: July 27
VEHICLES PER DAY: 136
 
PLANT: Hamtramck, Mich.
PRODUCT: Cadillac models
RESUMES PRODUCTION: Tomorrow
VEHICLES PER DAY: 768
 
PLANT: Janesville, Wis.
PRODUCT: Chevy and GMC Suburban, Chevy Tahoe and GMC Yukon
RESUMES PRODUCTION: Tomorrow
VEHICLES PER DAY: 1,120
 
PLANT: Lansing, Mich. 1
PRODUCT: Pontiac Grand Am
RESUMES PRODUCTION: Tomorrow
VEHICLES PER DAY: 960
 
PLANT: Lansing, Mich. 2
PRODUCT: Grand Am and Oldsmobile Alero
RESUMES PRODUCTION: Tomorrow
VEHICLES PER DAY: 896
 
PLANT: Ramos Arizpe, Mexico
PRODUCT: Chevy Cavalier, Sunfire and Corsa
RESUMES PRODUCTION: 30 percent production throughout strike
VEHICLES PER DAY: 570
 
PLANT: Spring Hill, Tenn.
PRODUCT: All Saturn models
RESUMES PRODUCTION: Never closed
VEHICLES PER DAY: 1,180
 
PLANT: Silao, Mexico
PRODUCT: Chevy and GMC Suburban, Chevy Tahoe
RESUMES PRODUCTION: July 27
VEHICLES PER DAY: 600
 
TOTAL: 6,230
 
(Sources: General Motors; CSM Forecasting)(pg. D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (72%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (92%); FLINT, MI, USA (92%); BOWLING GREEN, KY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN; OHIO; INDIANA; UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (72%); LANSING, MI, USA (92%); FLINT, MI, USA (92%); BOWLING GREEN, KY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); STRIKES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (79%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998



660 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: Business Improvement District At Grand Central Is Dissolved

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
After a year of mounting acrimony between Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and several of Manhattan's business improvement districts, senior city officials said yesterday that they were putting the Grand Central Partnership, one of the largest and by far the most combative of the districts, out of business.
The Department of Business Services, which is responsible for monitoring the city's 34 districts, said in a formal statement that the city would not renew the Grand Central district's contract, which expires tomorrow. Without its municipal contract, the district cannot collect the fees that property owners are assessed for a broad array of services, including garbage pickup, security and street beautification. 
 The department cited "a pattern of noncompliance with regulations and noncooperation with officials" by the board of the district. It singled out the district's president, Daniel Biederman, who holds the same salaried position at two other business improvement districts in midtown Manhattan, for failing to respond to a City Hall directive in May that he no longer head more than one of the business improvement groups.
In addition, city officials said, Mr. Biederman and his staff failed to respond to city requests for financial information, failed to abide by city rules that require competitive bidding in awarding contracts, and did not allow sufficient city oversight into the district's operations.
Joseph J. Lhota, the Deputy Mayor for operations, said in an interview that the city might have moved to disband another of Mr. Biederman's districts, the 34th Street Partnership, if its contract were up for renewal. The city contract with that district, like the Bryant Park Restoration Corporation, also headed by Mr. Biederman, does not expire until 2001.
"I think the Grand Central and 34th Street districts stick out like a sore thumb," said Mr. Lhota, adding that the city's move against Mr. Biederman's groups did not reflect widespread problems with the other districts, which were first formed in early 1980's to supplement city services with contributions by property owners.
Mr. Biederman and other officials of the Grand Central district declined to be interviewed, instead offering a terse prepared statement saying that they were "surprised" by the city's action.
"The board of the Grand Central Partnership has been negotiating in good faith on its contract with the city's Law Department and will continue to do so until this matter is amicably resolved," the statement said.
Debra R. Weeks, commissioner of the Department of Business Services, said yesterday that the district had failed to meet repeated city demands to change its practices in areas ranging from "late audits to ignoring oversight regulations."
"The Grand Central district apparently has viewed itself as a private organization rather than an entity spending public money," said Andrew Schwartz, a spokesman for the department. Although the city did not have evidence of criminal activity by anyone involved in the district, he said it had received "many complaints from merchants" about the unresponsiveness of the district.
Yesterday's announcement goes to the heart of the unusual place that business improvement districts have occupied in New York City since they were created. In one sense, they act as an arm of government, augmenting services like police protection and sanitation, while at the same time acting as a direct extension of the businesses that finance them.
The announcement also highlights the debate over the money they spend. The districts contend that the fees they receive from property owners are private funds. But Mayor Giuliani contends that since the city collects the fees on behalf of the districts, they are, in essence, public funds, and the city should have a say in how the money is spent.
In June, the Mayor angered people involved in several of the districts by ordering that their routine daily operations -- including private security patrols, the installation of planters and street signs, and garbage pickup -- be submitted to greater oversight by the Department of Business Services. But other changes in the city rules have been directed at Mr. Biederman and the districts he heads.
Unlike any of the other groups, the Grand Central and 34th Street districts have sold bonds to raise huge sums to pay for their projects, like the installation of spotlights that illuminate the facade of Grand Central Terminal on 42d Street, and planters, street benches and signs in both districts. Since first selling bonds in the late 1980's, the Grand Central district has accumulated a debt to its bondholders of $32 million, according to city records.
Last year, Mr. Giuliani forbade the districts to use bond financing, saying the city could be liable for the debt if a district encountered financial problems or disbanded.
Ms. Weeks said yesterday that property owners in the Grand Central district would continue to be assessed fees as they have in the past, and that the money would be held by the city "to insure that the holders of bonds are fully protected."
City officials and business people who control other business improvement districts said the directive raised unresolved questions. Mr. Lhota, who acknowledged that the current level of assessments being paid by property owners in the Grand Central District would exceed the amount necessary to pay off its bond debt, said the city would return some portion of the assessments to the property owners after they are collected by the Department of Finance.
He also said the city would insure that "level of service to property owners and tenants in the Grand Central area is not reduced."
Executives at other districts, citing their fears of angering City Hall, declined to comment publicly on the Mayor's action. But privately, some said that the move raised a variety of difficult legal and financial questions. One was whether the Grand Central group could continue to operate, at least temporarily, relying on bank accounts that it had already filled through its bond sales and prior assessments on property owners.
Some questioned whether Mr. Biederman and other directors of the district might challenge the city in court, maintaining that it was denying them their right to operate a public-spirited, nonprofit organization.
Although city officials declined to provide details, they said the decision to deny a contract to the Grand Central group came after months of negotiations. Although the group's five-year contract with the city had expired at the end of June, they said Mr. Biederman and his board had been granted a one-month extension. During that period, "BID officials were unresponsive to city officials," said the statement from the Department of Business Services.
After the district's contract expires tomorrow, the statement said, Mr. Biederman and his board had been ordered to provide the city with a "full financial accounting of its assets and liabilities and deliver all books, records and accounts" to the city within 10 days.
Mr. Lhota said one possible way to sustain the neighborhood services that have been provided by the Grand Central group would be to reconstitute it under new management, but added that he knew of no one who was prepared to do so.
One detail of the Grand Central group's finances that has long been a source of controversy among business people and city officials is Mr. Biederman's salary, which the city's formal statement yesterday listed at a combined total of $335,000, plus $30,000 a year in health benefits, from the three district he heads.
One executive involved in another district, who agreed to speak on the condition of anonymity, said the reason for the apparent collapse in negotiations between the Grand Central group and the city was that an extension of the group's contract would have required Mr. Biederman to step down.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL PARTNERSHIP (NYC) BRYANT PARK GRILL (54%); DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS SERVICES (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRAND CENTRAL PARTNERSHIP (NYC) DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS SERVICES (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTS LAW (88%); INTERVIEWS (88%); CONTRACT AWARDS (75%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TRENDS (64%); EVIDENCE (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); BIEDERMAN, DANIEL RUDY GIULIANI (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998



661 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Senate Deadlocked on Rules for Health Bill Debate

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 29

 BODY:
Senate Republican and Democratic leaders deadlocked on patients' rights legislation today, all but guaranteeing that the Senate would not debate the contentious but politically popular issue until September, if then.
For weeks now, Senate Republican and Democratic leaders, whose proposals differ greatly in scope and detail, have been unable to agree on how many amendments can be offered when a Republican bill is taken up. Republicans want to allow three amendments on each side, arguing that there is not enough time for limitless debate. Democrats want to offer as many as 20, saying the issue warrants a broad, full-fledged debate. 
 Without an agreement, Republicans will not bring the bill up for debate. The House narrowly approved a Republican patients' rights bill on Friday, leaving it up to the Senate to act.
Each party's Senate leader blamed the other for delay.
"If we don't take up the health care reform legislation dealing with H.M.O.'s," Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, said, "it will be because the Democrats would not agree to take it up. It's their fault. I want the record to be clear."
Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, disagreed.
"What are they afraid of?" Mr. Daschle asked. "Why not have a good debate? What's stopping them from giving us the full opportunity to debate this issue as we are each of the appropriations' bills?"
Frustrated by the stalemate, Senator John H. Chafee, Republican of Rhode Island, and four other senators unveiled their own compromise patients' protections bill today. Mr. Chafee said the partisan logjam over the two main bills was jeopardizing the prospects for legislation this year, despite its grass-roots appeal.
Republicans and Democrats adamantly disagree on the issue of lawsuits, among other things in the two bills.
While the Democratic bill would permit patients to sue a managed care company in state court for the denial of benefits, something most consumers cannot now do, Republicans prefer to allow an outside review panel handle the dispute.
The plan by Mr. Chafee and Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida, the lead co-sponsor, tries to bridge the gap, although it skews more toward the Democratic approach.
It would allow consumers to sue their managed care companies for lost wages and other economic damages, and not for emotional or punitive damages, as the Democratic bill would permit.
Senator Arlen Specter, a Pennsylvania Republican and a former District Attorney in Philadelphia who supports Mr. Chafee's bill, said the Republican leadership's bill provided "no incentive at all" for managed care companies to respond to patient concerns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: PENNSYLVANIA REPUBLICAN (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DAMAGES (86%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (67%); LAWYERS (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); LITIGATION (62%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (50%); 

PERSON: ALVAREZ, LIZETTE TRENT LOTT (59%); TOM DASCHLE (59%); ARLEN SPECTER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998



662 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: BOXING;
Tyson Loses His Temper at His License Hearing

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY W. SMITH 

DATELINE: TRENTON, July 29

 BODY:
Mike Tyson, displaying the same loss of control that compelled him to bite off a piece of Evander Holyfield's ear and led to his banishment from boxing, testified today before the State Athletic Control Board to apply for the reinstatement of his New Jersey boxing license.
Accompanied by two lawyers and a parade of character witnesses, Tyson made his case inside the hearing room at the Richard J. Hughes Justice Complex here. But the efforts to portray him as a changed man who deserved the right to fight again may have been undercut by a moody appearance that ranged from a near-tearful apology to an angry outburst laced with an expletive. 
 The board did not rule on Tyson's petition, delaying a decision until it could convene in a private session on Aug. 6. The final ruling could come two days later on Aug. 8, although the board has 45 days to render a decision.
Tyson said he did not reapply for a license in Nevada, because he wanted to make a fresh start. But his adviser, Shelly Finkel, said Tyson might apply for a boxing license in other states in the future.
Flanked by a gallery of reporters and friends, including his wife, Dr. Monica Tyson, and the boxer Larry Holmes, Tyson at first expressed remorse for biting Holyfield's ears in a heavyweight bout on June 28, 1997, an act that prompted Nevada to revoke his license. But Tyson said he did it only after constant head butting from Holyfield made his "head foggy and incoherent" and that he became "desperate, irate and I just snapped. Nothing really mattered."
At one point, Tyson seemed to choke back tears when talking about how his life had been irrevocably altered by the events on June 28.
"I'm sorry for what I did," Tyson said. "It will haunt me for the rest of my life."
When Michael Haas, an assistant Attorney General, asked Tyson if he thought he would ever commit a similar act if he were granted a New Jersey boxing license, Tyson said: "I doubt it. My life has been devastated over this."
Dr. Bertram Rotman, a Wayne, N.J., psychologist who evaluated Tyson for an hour on July 21, testified that he saw no reason why Tyson shouldn't get his license back, and Raymond A. Reddin, one of Tyson's lawyers, read a brief letter from Holyfield that said the fighter did not object to Tyson's getting a license from New Jersey. Although he slumped forward on the table occasionally, Tyson patiently sat through the three-and-a-half- hour proceeding, and withstood a 43-minute questioning from Haas before he snapped.
Most of Haas's questions centered around Tyson's 1992 conviction in Indiana for the rape of Desiree Washington and the biting incident with Holyfield. Tyson, who was dressed in a dark gray pin-striped suit and wearing a black T-shirt, twice complained of the cold temperature in the room. But following the questioning from Haas, Tyson reached a slow boil. When Haas asked him if he wanted to make a final statement, Tyson declined, saying he was too angry to do so.
A few minutes later as one of his lawyers, Anthony J. Fusco Jr., was delivering an impassioned closing statement Tyson couldn't contain his anger.
"What he did was wrong," Fusco said. "But how many times does one individual have to hear are you sorry for what you did?"
Tyson angrily interjected, agreeing with Fusco: "You know what I mean, man? Why do I have to relive my . . . "
Just as Tyson uttered an expletive, Fusco reached over and stopped him and told the panel hearing the petition that Tyson was not angry at them, but was merely expressing the frustration that had built up in him during his exile from the ring.
Later, in a hastily called news conference in the lobby of the Hughes Justice Complex, Tyson said he used the wrong choice of words when he told the panel that he was too angry to deliver a final statement in his own behalf. As for the outburst and the expletive, Tyson said: "I never lost my cool. I was just expressing my hurt and frustration."
Today's public hearing, which drew a throng of fans and protesters from the New Jersey chapter of the National Organization for Women, attracted great news media interest, with television satellite broadcast trucks crowding the sidewalk outside the building and banks of television cameras corralled by wooden barricades inside. The proceeding was broadcast live by ESPN, CNN-SI and Fox News Network.
Larry Hazzard, New Jersey State boxing commissioner, said the board decided to hold a public hearing on Tyson's request because it wanted to avoid the appearance that Tyson was getting a back-room deal.
If Tyson is allowed to return to boxing, it will be a boon to the casino economy in Atlantic City. Tyson hasn't held a New Jersey boxing license since 1991. His last bout in New Jersey came on Dec. 8, 1990, against Alex Stewart. Finkel said if Tyson gets his license back, his first bout would be in New Jersey.
Under state commission rules and New Jersey law, Tyson has to provide "clear and convincing evidence of good character, honesty, responsibility and integrity" in order to get a New Jersey boxing license. There was a videotaped statement attesting to Tyson's honesty and good character from Camille Ewald, the 93-year-old woman who ran the house in Catskill, N.Y., where Cus D'Amato trained the young Tyson. And there was an explanation from Chuck Wepner and Bobby Czyz as to why a boxer would do what Tyson did to Holyfield during a bout.
Czyz, a television boxing analyst, described it as "performance blackout."
"In a world title fight, if I hit an opponent and his eye fell out of his head, I'd eat it before he could pick it up and put it back in," Czyz said regarding the state of mind that boxers have during a title bout.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Tyson, center, is flanked by his lawyers, Raymond A. Reddin, left, and Anthony J. Fusco Jr., while testifying before the New Jersey State Athletic Control Board. (Norman Lono for the New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY ATHLETIC CONTROL BOARD

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY ATHLETIC CONTROL BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOXING BOXING (91%); TESTIMONY (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); WITNESSES (77%); LAWYERS (73%); PETITIONS (54%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: SMITH, TIMOTHY W; TYSON, MIKE; HOLYFIELD, EVANDER MIKE TYSON (94%); EVANDER HOLYFIELD (93%); LARRY HOLMES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998



663 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: In West Africa, a Grisly Extension of Rebel Terror

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, July 29

 BODY:
A rebel movement dislodged early this year from a brief period in power in Sierra Leone is waging a campaign of butchery against civilians, human rights groups and Government officials said today.
By the hundreds, poor farmers and villagers -- men, women and children -- have been shot, disemboweled or mutilated by having limbs hacked off, survivors report. Thousands are thought to have died, many of them in a rebel campaign code-named No Living Thing. 
 Some victims have been turned into messengers of death, disfigured and sent away bearing letters warning President Ahmad Tejan Kabbah and the African peacekeeping troops who restored him to office in March that armed resistance, led by remnants of a former military junta, will continue and that no one is safe.
A refugee who reached Guinea, his arms hacked to stumps, told his story to a representative of Refugees International, a Washington-based advocacy group that videotaped his testimony.
"You don't want a military government," the refugee said the rebels told him. "You say you want a civilian government. Then we will have to cut off your hands. Then go to Tejan Kabbah and he will have to give you more hands."
Another refugee, with bandaged stumps where his hands had been, shook with fear as he repeated again and again that he would never be able to use a toilet without help.
"What they are doing really is atrocious," said Fode Dabor, Sierra Leone's representative at the United Nations. "I've never seen it before. This is one of the most vicious rebel organizations in the world."
Several hundred thousand people have fled their homes in recent months for Government-controlled areas or refugee camps in Liberia and Guinea. Hospitals in Sierra Leone and in the camps are treating a steady stream of mutilated victims.
On Thursday the United Nations is to convene a conference on Sierra Leone to discuss how to begin rebuilding a country that has endured decades of ruthless military leaders since its independence in 1961.
Today Secretary General Kofi Annan met with President Kabbah, who is in New York for the conference. Mr. Annan said later that Mr. Kabbah had told him that Nigeria had turned over Foday Sankoh, the rebel leader, to Sierra Leone today to stand trial on charges of treason and crimes against humanity, including atrocities he has been associated with for more than seven years.
Mr. Sankoh, who was arrested in Nigeria last year while trying to buy weapons, told his followers in a televised message broadcast today after his return to Freetown, Sierra Leone's capital, that they should end their terrorism.
"I do not support the cutting off of people's hands and feet, and when I heard about this I felt sick," he said.
Mr. Kabbah, a civilian and the first democratically elected President, served for only a year before being overthrown in May 1997 by the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council and the Revolutionary United Front.
The Front is now trying to regain power even as Mr. Kabbah's Government begins to re-establish shaky institutions and repair a ravaged capital. Political power and economic spoils have been the object of this struggle and those that have gone before, though the rebels have no political platform, according to experts on the region.
Human rights groups came to the United Nations this week in force to press participants in the Sierra Leone conference to mount an international drive to insure that trials are held and punishments meted out to the rebels.
Mr. Dabor, Sierra Leone's representative, said in an interview that when he was in Rome recently for the conference on establishing the International Criminal Court, he spoke publicly about why such a body is important to Africa.
"If we had had a court like the I.C.C. now, these guys would face trials for crimes against humanity," he said. "We are talking of hundreds of cases."
Mr. Dabor said the rebels are strongest in eastern Sierra Leone, where they have been selling diamonds to buy weapons.
"Our problem has been the diamonds," he said. "We have a lot of people who want to lay their hands on our diamonds. I know that the rebels finance their operations by the diamonds they recover from this mining area. That's why they don't want to give up these places."
Scott Campbell, who recently completed a report on violence in Sierra Leone for Human Rights Watch, said that the rebels had been using brutal tactics for years but that they now appear to be more desperate because of the presence of the Nigerian soldiers. Nigerians make up the majority of the peacekeeping force sent by the Economic Community of West African States Monitoring Group, known as Ecomog.
The report, "Sowing Terror," was published today. Written by Mr. Campbell and Jane Lowicki, both of them consultants to the organization, it says children and women have also been singled out for sexual abuse. Accounts of gang rapes and kidnappings for purposes of sexual slavery are common.
The report includes accounts of abuses by civilian defense forces supporting President Kabbah, in particular a group known as the Kamajors, which it describes as "responsible for the majority of the most serious abuses committed by those fighting on behalf of the Kabbah Government since February 1998."
Human Rights Watch says child soldiers have been used by these forces, but the Kabbah Government has promised to end that practice.
The most brutal offenses seem to have been committed by the rebels, however, especially the Revolutionary United Front, the report says.
"Since 1991, when the R.U.F got going, in one of their first attacks they allegedly decapitated administrators, put their heads on sticks," Mr. Campbell said in an interview today. "In order to make statements of power, political statements, in 1996, they would mutilate people. They would write things like 'No election' or 'Don't vote' on peoples' backs -- they would burn it in.
"The idea of chopping someone's hands off allegedly came from rebels saying to people: We're going to cut your hands off so you can't vote."
"What's changed now," Mr. Campbell said, "is that the military balance has changed, with Ecomog there. Ecomog is really powerful. They control the urban centers and the rebels have become more desperate.
"Their new strategy to put themselves back on the political chessboard is to do these horrible things to civilians. That does two things: It makes the civilian population subservient, and it makes them somebody you have to deal with."
The report included transcripts of testimony from survivors of rebel attacks. One was from a farmer in Koidu, in the Kono district, identified as Sam R., whose home was attacked twice. This is his story:
"At about 4 A.M. I heard bombs and gunshots outside my house," he said of the first attack. "The rebels came and banged on the door. They said they would kill us all outside. My wife took five of the six children outside. I stayed inside with one.
"My wife threw herself on top of two of the children to protect them. They shot my wife, killed two of the children, shot my 7-year-old through the stomach and cut one on the buttocks. Two got away."
There was another attack in June. "They accused me of being a Kamajor," he said. "When they want to kill you, they accuse you of anything. There is no reason. I am a farmer. I don't vote. I have no money. They burned my house."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A FAMILY'S ONLY SURVIVOR -- This boy, about 4, was with 16 family members when rebels attacked their home in Djibida, accusing them of backing the Government. He was shot in the arm. All the others died. A FARMER CAUGHT IN HIS FIELD -- A man from Kabalah, now in a hospital in Guinea, said: "I saw people with cutlasses and guns, so I started to run. They caught me and cut both of my hands. Then they left me." A FISH SELLER -- Both her children died in the fighting. Then: "They captured me and said, 'Lie on the floor.' Then they put my hand on a stone and cut me with the same stone. I had to bury my own hand." THE PRICE FOR BACKING THE GOVERNMENT -- A 45-year-old driver says he was told by a rebel, "You should have something on your body to remind you of how you supported Kabbah" and the Government militia. (Photographs by Scott Campbell/Human Rights Watch)(pg. A6); Two victims of the Sierra Leone rebels: A man now in Gueckedou Hospital, Guinea, had two fingers chopped off. A woman in Faranah Hospital, Guinea, was used as a porter, then had her left hand cut off. (Photographs by Human Rights Watch)(pg. A1)
 
Map of Sierra Leone showing location of Freetown: A shaky Government in Freetown is under siege by brutal rebels. (pg. A6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SIERRA LEONE (98%); GUINEA (94%); AFRICA (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LIBERIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: FREETOWN, SIERRA LEONE (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (84%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (84%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (56%); REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (84%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (84%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (56%); REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SIERRA LEONE; SIERRA LEONE (98%); GUINEA (94%); AFRICA (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LIBERIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FREETOWN, SIERRA LEONE (73%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; TREASON; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); REFUGEES (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); TREASON (84%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (75%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (75%); ARMED FORCES (70%); POLITICS (70%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (64%); ARRESTS (60%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; KABBAH, AHMAD TEJAN (PRES); ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); SANKOH, FODAY AHMAD TEJAN KABBAH (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998



664 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: Bad Debt Held by Japan's Banks Now Estimated Near $1 Trillion

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 29

 BODY:
American officials and private financial experts evaluating the depths of Japan's banking crisis have concluded that it is far worse than Tokyo has publicly acknowledged, with bad debts approaching $1 trillion, or nearly twice the official estimate.
American officials and outside experts caution that their estimates are extremely rough, in part because Japanese banks have been using accounting tricks to hide those debts that are not being repaid. 
 The higher figures greatly complicate the challenge facing Keizo Obuchi, the man set to become Japan's new Prime Minister on Thursday, these officials say. Mr. Obuchi has little experience in the financial sphere and has offered only the vaguest of plans about how he will deal with what appears to be the largest banking crisis in history.
Today, however, he persuaded an elder statesman, former Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, to become Finance Minister -- placing the 78-year-old politician, a fixture in American-Japanese relations for four decades, at the center of the financial storm. Page A8.
The new estimates suggest that bailing out the Japanese banks, which include some of the world's largest, could cost Japanese taxpayers far more than the $214 billion that Tokyo has set aside. The Government has declared plans to establish a "bridge bank" that would assume bad assets from the commercial banks and sell them off, presumably for a fraction of their value. The weak lenders would be closed or merged. The cost to taxpayers, some officials believe, will need to double.
The Clinton Administration and Wall Street have long assumed that the Japanese were understating the problems they face. Officially Japan has said that its banks currently hold around $550 billion in bad debt, although in recent weeks that figure has crept up to closer to $700 billion, Japanese officials said. The far greater scale of the problem, and cost of fixing it, could make it harder for the new Japanese Government to act decisively.
The size of Japan's bad debts may well be the most important statistic in the Asian financial crisis. Since the crisis struck, Japanese banks have become so beleaguered that their lending at home and elsewhere in Asia has all but halted, and they are closing many of their offices throughout the region. This has contributed to a scarcity of credit that has worsened the recession -- in some places the depression -- that stretches from South Korea to Indonesia.
The United States is concerned for several reasons: exports to Japan have plummeted, and the Japanese banking crisis is hampering the effort to rescue other Asian nations which are heavily dependent on trade, investment and borrowing from Japan.
American officials say they have not conducted any formal study of Japan's banking troubles, and they almost never discuss it in public, for fear of scaring even more investors away from the Japanese markets. Some argue that the overall debt figure is both unknowable and less important than the cost of closing or merging some of Japan's largest banks. Because even bad loans have some value, most experts say that the cost of cleaning up the books will probably be only 60 to 70 percent of the bad loan portfolios.
The $1 trillion figure is being floated around during meetings at the White House, the Treasury and the Federal Reserve, and appears based on new estimates from Japan, unofficial estimates from investment bankers on both sides of the Pacific, and anecdotal evidence of how Japanese banks have been performing sleight-of-hand to avoid a true accounting.
For example, some banks are reported to be quietly lending even more money to apparently insolvent companies that have been long-time customers. The companies, in turn, are using the new loans to pay back interest on overdue loans that would otherwise be in default. As a result, the banks are able to report to authorities that their loans are being repaid -- even though the new loans they are providing only deepen the the problem.
"The numbers are hard to pin down because the banks go to such lengths to hide the bad news," said Richard Medley, managing partner of Medley Global Advisors, a private research firm in New York that often consults with top American officials about the Asian crisis. But referring to the savings-and-loan crisis in the United States of a decade ago, he said, "if you add up what the Japanese have admitted, and look at the usual margin of error in the American S. & L. crisis and similar crises, you get to a trillion very fast."
One senior Administration official, who declined to be identified, said "What's become clear is that Japan is going to need to spend tens of billions more in public money to get out of this mess, and they are going to have to take some banks out of their misery."
By comparison, the cost of resolving the bad debts generated in the American savings and loan crisis of a decade ago were roughly $160 billion, in an economy that in 1990 had a gross national product of $5.74 trillion. The cost amounted to about 2.7 percent of the economy's annual production.
If Japanese taxpayers spend upwards of $500 billion to rescue their banks -- and that may prove to be conservative -- it will exceed 12 percent of the country's G.N.P..
And that is only part of the problem. Most experts believe that losses in the life insurance industry could amount to another several hundred billion dollars. Like the banks, the insurance industry relied on a property market that turned out to be wildly overvalued.
"The concern is that if you are spending so much to clean up your banking system, it takes a real whack at the economy," said Bert Ely, a financial consultant who was deeply involved in evaluating the American savings and loan crisis.
Japan is hardly the only country in Asia mired in bad debt. In Indonesia, most local companies have simply stopped paying loans, and the banks are working out details of a delay in paying back overseas lenders. Many of the lenders are Japanese.
And American officials are increasingly focusing on banking troubles in China. Moody's Investors Service said today that it had placed its ratings of nine Chinese banks on review, to determine if it should downgrade its assessment of their credit worthiness.
Among the commercial Chinese banks under review are four of the largest state-owned institutions: the Agricultural Bank of China, the Bank of China, China Construction Bank, and Industrial and Commercial Bank of China.
A collapse in China could slow the nation's already-stumbling economy. And a slowdown would worsen unemployment and threaten many of the economic reforms that President Clinton celebrated on his trip to China a month ago.
But it is Japan's ability to deal with its huge banks that most worries American officials. Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin sounded that note anew today in an interview on CBS, urging the new Japanese Government to move quickly on a range of problems, including stimulating the economy and deregulating protected corners of the economy.
No one knows exactly how big the problem is because Japan's audits of its banks have been almost comically insufficient. American officials frequently note that Japan has about 400 bank inspectors; the United States has about 7,000.
What the markets are watching now is how Mr. Obuchi, and the newly-appointed Mr. Miyazawa, go about the painful process of dealing with the banks -- which in the short term may result in more corporate bankruptcies and higher unemployment. In trading early on Thursday, the markets did not seem confident of strong action. The yen weakened against the dollar, although stock prices edged higher in Tokyo.
The Government's tentative steps so far have failed. Japan closed one large insolvent bank, in the northern island of Hokkaido, late last year. The local economy immediately fell deeper into recession, and Japanese officials argue that the experience showed that closing banks could do more damage than merging them or trying to keep some open.
Moreover, there is rising concern that the Government's reluctant decision to use taxpayer money to bail out the banks is going astray. Some of the first money was used to keep insolvent banks afloat, simply prolonging their bad-loan problems.
Japanese bankers say that other banks decided not to sell off bad loans because they thought they would get a better deal selling them to the Government than selling them on the open market.
"All this did was make the problem worse," a senior Japanese banker said on a recent visit to the United States.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CREDIT BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); EXPORT TRADE (63%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); OBUCHI, KEIZO (MIN) BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1998



665 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: AUTOS ON FRIDAY/Technology;
Is Toyota's Hybrid for the U.S. Road?

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
THE Toyota Prius, the world's first mass-produced hybrid vehicle, has been a success in Japan since it went on sale last December. In about two years, Americans will have a chance to sample the car for themselves.
The Prius (pronounced PREE-us) combines a gasoline engine with an electric motor, thereby promising pollution levels nearly as low as those of fully electric vehicles but with the everyday practicality of a conventional gasoline-powered automobile. For that reason, many engineers are more excited about the potential of hybrid vehicles than they are about electric cars. 
 In the eight months the Prius has been on the market in Japan, more than 7,700 have been sold. That certainly qualifies as a success, at least as measured against the modest expectations for any alternative vehicle.
Sales are strong partly because Toyota is selling the vehicle for 2.15 million yen, about $15,500 -- well below the car's development and production costs and only about $1,500 more than the similarly sized Corolla.
Toyota says the Prius will reach the American market late in 2000. The price in the United States and other details of the American model have not been determined, but the challenge here will be greater than in Japan. Gasoline prices in the United States are a fraction of Japanese prices. Moreover, Toyota must substantially tweak the design if the Prius is to deliver its promised fuel economy and low emissions under American driving conditions.
In Japan's standard fuel-economy test, the Prius gets a remarkable 66 miles a gallon, about double the fuel efficiency of a similar gasoline car. It also has half the gasoline car's carbon dioxide emissions and only 10 percent as much output of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons.
Toyota executives said at a recent news conference here that their goal was for the American version to achieve 60 m.p.h. and to qualify for California's new proposed category of "super ultra-low-emission" vehicle.
Since the Prius uses gasoline, it cannot be a zero-emission vehicle. But under a proposal before the California Air Resources Board, such "super ultra low" vehicles would be granted some credit toward meeting the future requirement that 10 percent of the vehicles sold by major manufacturers meet zero-emission standards.
While Toyota might at first concentrate in California and some other environmentally conscious markets, it eventually hopes to sell nationwide and does not want the car to be typecast as a fringe vehicle.
Hiroshi Okuda, the Toyota's president, recently announced in Japan that the company plans to export 20,000 Priuses a year starting in 2000, many of them no doubt bound for the United States. By contrast, in the last year only a few hundred electric vehicles have been sold in the United States by all manufacturers combined.
Fully electric vehicles are expensive and can only be driven about 100 miles or so before the batteries must be recharged, a process that takes several hours. The Prius, by contrast, can be filled up at a gasoline station like any other car. It uses power from the gasoline engine to recharge the batteries as the car is driven, so it is never necessary to go to a recharging station.
Because the batteries and gasoline help each other, the Prius can get by with smaller versions of each, cutting costs and weight. The batteries, for instance, weigh only about one-fifteenth as much as those in a fully electric vehicle. And the gasoline engine has a capacity of only 1.5 liters.
Under complex computer control, the Prius switches from battery power to gasoline power, or a combination of the two, automatically and seamlessly. The driver just steps on the fuel pedal and is oblivious to what is powering the car.
When the car is idle or starting up at slow speed, it is powered by the batteries alone. Therefore, there is no pollution or gasoline wasted when the car is, say, mired in traffic.
At moderate speeds, the car is powered by the gasoline engine. Some of the engine power that is not used to drive the vehicle is diverted to a generator to make electricity used to recharge the battery.
At very high speeds or during full-throttle acceleration, the battery and the gasoline engine work together.
The small gasoline engine alone, for instance, can make the car go as fast as 80 m.p.h. But with the batteries kicking in, the speed can hit 110. Once the batteries run down, the speed would drop back below 80, even though the driver maintains constant pressure on the accelerator.
This situation would not be faced by most drivers. At lower speeds, the Japanese version of the Prius performed just like a regular car. In a short test drive, it was virtually impossible to tell when the car shifted from battery power to gasoline and back.
The squat four-door sedan, designed at Toyota's studio in Newport Beach, Calif., can seat five, four quite comfortably, with enough room in the back seat for tall people. Its acceleration is somewhat sluggish, but that is not unusual for a car of its size.
The Prius's dashboard contains a small video screen that displays a schematic diagram of the car's inner workings, using moving arrows to show how the energy is flowing at any given instant, whether from the battery or the gasoline engine. This quickly becomes distracting to the driver. Most drivers probably wouldn't care what is happening under the hood anyway, since it has no bearing on how they drive.
But what was most revealing was when a button labeled "fuel economy" was pressed. The display changed to a bar graph showing the car's fuel economy over the last half-hour, broken up into five-minute intervals.
What's this? In one 20-minute test drive mainly on city streets with one two-mile stretch of Los Angeles freeway, the Prius achieved only about 24 m.p.g., far less than the 66 m.p.g. advertised and not even as good as many small all-gasoline cars.
Admittedly, test drivers accelerate more quickly than an average motorist would, but that is not the whole story. The fuel economy and low emissions of a hybrid come mainly from using batteries instead of gasoline. But that happens mainly at speeds up to about 10 m.p.h. At higher speeds, when the car relies mainly on gasoline, the Prius is not much more fuel-efficient than other cars.
In the Japanese mileage test, which simulates congested city driving, the vehicle travels at an average speed of about 14 m.p.h., according to Toshihiro Oi, the chief engineer of the Prius. Even near downtown Los Angeles, we were going much faster than that. Moreover, we had the air-conditioner running, meaning the gasoline engine was working while the car was stopped.
Toyota officials acknowledge that they have work to do to deliver the promise of the Prius under American driving conditions. Right now, for instance, the Japanese version of the car would qualify only as a "low-emission vehicle" in California, two ranks below the rating Toyota hopes to obtain with the American version.
For now, Toyota has managed to design an alternative vehicle that elegantly succeeds in functioning like a gasoline-powered car -- perhaps too much so.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Toyota must do more than move the Prius's steering wheel to appeal to U.S. motorists. Prius's technology combines battery power and a gasoline engine to reduce emissions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOYOTA CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOYOTA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; AIR POLLUTION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ELECTRIC VEHICLES AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (93%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (86%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); NITROGEN OXIDES (76%); AIR QUALITY (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); CARBON MONOXIDE (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



666 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Daimler's Profit Is Up Sharply; F.T.C. Clears Deal for Chrysler

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: STUTTGART, Germany, July 30

 BODY:
Daimler-Benz A.G. said today that its profit more than doubled in the first half of 1998, lifted by higher revenue in all divisions and by asset sales.
The company, whose purchase of the Chrysler Corporation was approved in Washington today by the Federal Trade Commission, benefited from faster economic growth in Europe and the United States and a reorganization that began three years ago. Daimler lowered production costs and cut the time it takes to bring out new products, including its Mercedes A-class compact car, which went on sale in February. 
 "Excellent," said Georg Sturzer, an analyst at Bayerische Vereinsbank in Munich, about the results. He was particularly impressed by the recovery of "Daimler's problem child -- aerospace."
The company, which is Europe's largest manufacturer, said that profit rose to a record 2.01 billion marks, or $1.1 billion, from 992 million marks in the first half a year earlier. The results exceeded forecasts.
Daimler's shares closed little changed in Frankfurt today, down 10 pfennigs, at 184.20 marks, or roughly $104. On the New York Stock Exchange, Daimler's American depository receipts, each of which represents one common share, rose $1.875, to $105.
Revenue in the first half increased 21 percent, to 67.7 billion marks from 55.9 billion marks. Daimler said revenue for the full year was likely to be more than 140 billion marks, compared with 124 billion marks in all of 1997.
At Daimler-Benz Aerospace A.G., which last year reported its first profit since 1991, operating earnings more than quadrupled in the half. The military unit benefited from a joint European jet fighter project of Germany, Britain, Spain and Italy, and from higher orders by the European civil aircraft consortium Airbus Industrie. Daimler's truck unit returned to profitability.
Operating profit at the Mercedes-Benz passenger car subsidiary, Daimler's largest unit, increased 34 percent, to two billion marks.
Shareholders of Chrysler and Daimler-Benz are to decide on the companies' merger at meetings to be held here and in Wilmington, Del., on Sept. 18.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAI (FRA) (94%); DAI (BIT) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (83%); SIC3519 INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES, NEC (82%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (72%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP; DAIMLER-BENZ AG; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); DAIMLER AG (94%); AIRBUS SAS (83%); DAIMLER-BENZ AEROSPACE AG (82%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP; DAIMLER-BENZ AG; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); SPAIN (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (72%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; COMPANY REPORTS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS DIVESTITURES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); COMMON STOCK (78%); MERGERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (77%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); APPROVALS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); AIRCRAFT MFG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



667 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Sales At Record Pace

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30

 BODY:
Sales of new homes jumped to a record pace in June, the Government said today.
New-home sales climbed 3.8 percent, to a 935,000-unit annual rate, the fastest pace since record-keeping began in 1963, the Commerce Department said. The revised annual rate of 901,000 homes reported for May was the previous record. 
 Wall Street analysts had forecast a moderate slowdown in June sales, to a rate of 888,000. Analysts said all indicators were positive for the economy's housing sector heading into the second half of the year.
"It should remain strong as long as interest rates remain low, the labor market remains tight, the stock market remains near its highs and consumer confidence remains high," said Marilyn Schaja, an economist at the Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette Securities Corporation in New York.
June sales ran a robust 15.4 percent higher than a year earlier, when home sales were at a rate of 810,000 a year.

 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DONALDSON LUFKIN & JENRETTE INC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS NEW HOME SALES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); SALES FIGURES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); INTEREST RATES (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); 

PERSON: MARILYN SCHAJA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



668 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Labor Costs Rose Slightly In the Spring

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR 

 BODY:
Despite signs that economic growth is slowing sharply, wages and benefits are climbing a bit faster than a year ago.
The Labor Department's employment cost index -- a broad gauge of compensation trends closely watched by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, and other policy makers -- rose nine-tenths of 1 percent this spring, slightly more than the seven-tenths of 1 percent increase in the winter. For the 12 months ended in June, pay for all civilian workers, including government workers, rose 3.5 percent, up from 2.8 percent in the previous year. 
 The pickup in labor costs reflects one of the tightest peacetime labor markets in memory. Even as the Asian crisis, the recently settled General Motors strike and a lull in inventory additions have combined to drag down growth in recent months, unemployment is well below 5 percent, as it has been for a year, hiring plans have remained robust, and thousands of jobs in industries from high technology to hotels have gone begging.
The acceleration in wage inflation is of the creeping, not galloping, variety: pay and benefits are rising just one percentage point faster than at the low-point for such cost increases nearly three years ago.
As such, the latest reading is not likely to provoke Mr. Greenspan, who only a week ago reiterated how closely he watches the index, to raise interest rates.
"We haven't moved into new territory," said Nicholas S. Perna, chief economist at the Fleet Financial Group in Boston. "This report reduces the odds that the Fed will tighten."
Ever since unemployment first slipped below the level that most economists regard as consistent with steady inflation, the Federal Reserve has been on the lookout for any hint that wage pressures are getting out of hand. But now that the economy seems to be slowing on its own, the modest pickup in pay may well show up in slimmer profit margins rather than in higher prices for consumers. Investors, in any case, seemed to take that view. Bond prices rose after the report's release, and the stock market closed higher ahead of today's much anticipated report on economic growth for the second quarter.
Workers are getting a better deal than the raw numbers imply. Thanks to a minuscule 1.6 percent rise in the cost of living over the last year, relatively restrained nominal pay increases are being translated into relatively robust real gains. Real pay is up nearly 2 percent from a year ago.
If anything, the employment cost index, though widely regarded as the broadest and most reliable gauge of employers' labor costs, may understate just how well workers are doing. It does not include one-time payments like signing bonuses and bounties, which businesses are increasingly relying on to fill vacancies without raising their entire pay structure. It also does not take account of another widespread phenomenon: promotions that are given purely to raise a worker's pay or promotions that workers give themselves by switching to better-paying jobs. One sign that these factors may add up is that another Department of Labor measure, compensation per hour, has risen about a percentage point more in the last year than the employment cost index. "We're seeing some dramatic wage inflation" in some job categories, says Maury Hanigan, a human resources consultant in New York.
Wages and salaries grew nine-tenths of 1 percent, not much more than the eight-tenths of 1 percent growth in the winter. But benefit costs jumped sharply to eight-tenths of 1 percent, twice as fast as they had risen in the previous quarter. Part of the pickup in benefit costs is probably temporary; it reflects commissions and bonuses being paid on Wall Street and elsewhere in the financial industry, where compensation has risen by 7 percent from a year ago. But at least half of the benefits, including Social Security payments and vacation pay, are tied directly to wages. And one-fifth consist of health benefits, which are once again marching higher. "Health insurance costs are picking up for the first time in three and a half years," said Wayne M. Shelly, an economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which issued the report.
Wage pressures may not fade. Some of the forces holding down living costs are clearly temporary. As Asia struggles back, oil prices are apt to firm. And the strong dollar, which has made many imports a bargain, could weaken.
More important, even if the economy settles down to a growth rate of 2 percent or 2.5 percent over the next year or so -- as Mr. Greenspan and other forecasters expect -- it will not be slow enough to loosen up the labor market much. "The unemployment rate stays exactly where it is," Mr. Perna predicted. "The overall degree of tightness stays exactly where it is."
Two other reports made public yesterday suggest that this is the case right now. The Conference Board reported that its help-wanted advertising index rose to 91 in June from 90 in May and 88 a year ago. And new claims for unemployment insurance dropped to 304,000 last week from 317,000 the week before, the Labor Department said. That's the lowest level since early April.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The People Factor"
Quarterly change in employers' costs for wages, salaries and benefits for all workers, seasonally adjusted since 1990. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. D2)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (66%); BAC (LSE) (66%); 8648 (TSE) (66%); GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; CONFERENCE BOARD BANK OF AMERICA CORP (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; CONFERENCE BOARD FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; FRINGE BENEFITS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; HIRING AND PROMOTION; CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; ADVERTISING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EMPLOYMENT COST INDEX (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) WAGES & SALARIES (93%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (92%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); INFLATION (89%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); BONDS (72%); BOND MARKETS (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); NASAR, SYLVIA ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



669 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Hercules to Buy BetzDearborn In $2.4 Billion Chemical Deal

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Hercules Inc. agreed yesterday to buy BetzDearborn Inc. for $2.4 billion in cash and $700 million in assumed debt, creating one of the world's biggest makers of chemicals used in paper-making, water-treatment and other industrial processes.
The offer of $72 a share is nearly double BetzDearborn's closing price of $35.875 on Wednesday. Shares of BetzDearborn jumped $31.8125 yesterday, or 88 percent, to $67.6875. Hercules fell $1.5625, to $35.50. 
 Hercules, a specialty chemicals maker based in Wilmington, Del., had sales of $1.87 billion last year. BetzDearborn, based in Trevose, Pa., is the No. 2 producer of water-treatment and industrial-process chemicals in the United States, with $1.29 billion in 1997 sales.
The purchase allows Hercules, itself the subject of takeover speculation after it lost a bid for a European chemical company, to resume its worldwide expansion amid industry consolidation. It also gives Hercules a complementary range of paper-processing and water-treatment chemicals that it did not have.
"There's no question Hercules didn't get a bargain, but it's a perfect strategic fit,' said David Manlowe, an analyst at BT Alex. Brown Inc. "It gives them soup-to-nuts coverage on the paper industry and makes them the biggest player in that segment."
While the premium for BetzDearborn shares looks big, the price is only slightly higher than its 52-week high in September.
Chemicals made by Hercules are used primarily to improve strength and other qualities in paper. BetzDearborn's are used to protect equipment and to increase efficiency in making paper.
In addition to paper chemicals, Hercules also makes additives to thicken food, fibers used in diapers and resins used in rubber. BetzDearborn also makes chemicals used in the automotive, food processing, oil refining and other industries.
The companies expect to cut costs by about $100 million because of the combination, they said in a joint statement. The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter and is subject to approval by BetzDearborn shareholders.
R. Keith Elliott, the chairman and chief executive of Hercules, and William Cook, the chief executive of BetzDearborn, will be co-chief executives of the company. Mr. Elliott will be chairman and Mr. Cook will be vice chairman.
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Olin to Spin Off Unit
 (By Bloomberg News)
 The Olin Corporation said yesterday that it would spin off its specialty chemical business to shield the company from price swings that dragged down earnings in its basic chemicals and materials divisions.
Shareholders will get new stock in the company, which accounted for 40 percent of Olin's $2.4 billion in sales last year. The unit makes chemicals used in dandruff shampoo, water-treatment systems, semiconductor production, oil refineries and coatings.
Olin, based in Norwalk, Conn., also warned that 1998 per-share profit would be "in the $3 range," less than the $3.24 average estimate reported by the First Call Corporation, which tracks company earnings. Second-quarter sales were hurt by falling metal prices and the Asian economic slump's effect on the semiconductor and chemical industries.
Shares of Olin rose $2.375, to $39.0625.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OLN (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (91%); NAICS332992 SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS331420 COPPER ROLLING, DRAWING, EXTRUDING & ALLOYING (81%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%); DELAWARE, USA (77%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: BETZDEARBORN INC; HERCULES INC HERCULES INC (95%); BETZDEARBORN INC (91%); OLIN CORP (81%); ALEX BROWN INC (68%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: BETZDEARBORN INC; HERCULES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%); DELAWARE, USA (77%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CHEMICALS CHEMICALS (90%); PAPER MILLS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (89%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PAPER MFG (77%); PAPER & PACKAGING (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (74%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); APPROVALS (63%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM M COOK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



670 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Reforming Welfare With Education

 BODY:
An important amendment approved by the Senate to the bill reauthorizing the Higher Education Act would give states the option of allowing welfare recipients to enroll in postsecondary education or vocational training for two years without losing their welfare benefits. The provision, sponsored by Senator Paul Wellstone of Minnesota, should be retained in the final bill.
Allowing welfare recipients the opportunity to gain real skills is the most promising approach to getting families off welfare. Recipients who have more education are more likely to find higher-paying jobs that offer economic self-sufficiency. But current law allows education or vocational training to count as a work activity for only 12 months, after which the student must work 20 hours a week to continue getting benefits. For many recipients, that requirement means dropping out of school. 
 The 12-month limit is particularly constraining for people who need English-language classes in addition to vocational courses. Even among English-speakers the need for more education is substantial. Some 40 percent of all recipients lack a high school diploma. More than 60 percent of those who have been on welfare for five years or more have no diploma. The education gap may also be contributing to racial shifts in the welfare population. As recently reported in The Times, blacks and Hispanics are less likely than whites to have a high school diploma and the skills to find a job. That fact is one reason minorities are having a harder time leaving welfare than whites.
The welfare law is too tilted toward short-term work activity, allowing little attention to skills development. The current law also sets a cap on the percentage of the welfare population that can be enrolled in educational or vocational training at any one time. By 2000, all teen-age parents pursuing high school diplomas would be counted under the educational cap, thus reducing the number of adults who can enroll in training and still receive benefits.
The Wellstone amendment would prevent teen-age parents from being counted in the educational cap. Republicans are resisting these sensible changes, fearing they amount to backsliding on welfare reform. On the contrary, letting states encourage education is the best investment the nation can make toward a long-term welfare solution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; VOCATIONAL TRAINING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); 

PERSON: PAUL WELLSTONE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



671 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Dow Ends Two Days of Losses as Buyers Put Jitters Aside

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

 BODY:
Stock prices rose sharply yesterday, ending a two-day losing streak and pushing the Dow Jones industrial average back above 9,000.
The gains came with heavy trading volume and reversed a volatile summer slump that in the last weeks had seen most of the major indexes fall more than 4 percent from all-time highs set earlier this month. 
 Yesterday, the Dow rose 111.99 points, or 1.26 percent, to 9,026.95, leaving the blue-chip barometer about 300 points below its all-time high of 9,337.97, which was set on July 17. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index also gained sharply, climbing 17.74 points, or 1.58 percent, to 1,142.95.
Although investors continue to be jittery about signs that profit growth is slowing, Wall Street analysts said prices had been beaten down too sharply in the last few weeks and that share prices were ripe for a recovery yesterday.
"It's just a rubber-band situation," said Larry Wachtel, a market strategist at Prudential Securities. "We took the Dow down about 500 points. But this is the biggest and best bull market in history. It doesn't just go away on a random day in July."
Mr. Wachtel and other analysts said that although earnings had been less than spectacular, there had been some bright spots. Yesterday, for example, Clorox, one of the largest consumer products companies, said its fiscal fourth-quarter profit soared 32 percent, well above analysts' expectations.
Still, profit growth in the second quarter has been anemic. With reports in from about 80 percent of the companies that make up the S.& P. 500, operating profits have risen just 1.7 percent from the period a year earlier. In the first quarter, profit growth was equally meager, at 1.3 percent, according to I.B.E.S. International, which tracks corporate earnings.
The result has been the weakest profit growth in the first half since 1991. Expectations for the third quarter are also being trimmed, and that has many investors worried.
The bright spot, however, is a healthy economy with low interest rates and strong retail sales, which are helping offset the sharp economic downturn in Asia. Many investors are also betting that profit growth will recover later this year or next year.
Abby Joseph Cohen, the widely followed market strategist at Goldman, Sachs & Company, said in her weekly report this week that the most serious concerns revolve around Asia, but that she expected the economies in that region to stabilize and to see United States corporate profits reaccelerate in 1999.
Indeed, Ms. Cohen views the current sluggishness in the United States stock market as part of a "choppy trading range" that has persisted since April. As for second-quarter earnings, she said, "So far, so good," noting that most companies have reported results that exceed consensus estimates.
Yesterday, some of the biggest gainers were technology stocks, which have been clobbered in recent days, following sharp gains in the early part of the summer. The Nasdaq composite index, which is heavy with high-tech stocks, soared 38.09 points, gaining more than 2 percent yesterday, to 1,919.58. Microsoft, Intel, Dell Computer and Cisco Systems all rose sharply.
Frederick B. Taylor, the chief investment strategist at the United States Trust Company, said that investors had soured on many stocks in recent weeks, and that it was simply time for them to start buying again.
"Things had become so negative," he said. "And when there's a consensus on the negative side, people start moving to buy again. That's how the market works technically."
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Strong Dollar Lifts Bonds
 (By Bridge News)
Treasury prices ended higher yesterday, as a strong dollar helped offset troubling economic news.
Traders said the gains showed a recent selloff had pushed prices low enough to attract investors again.
The price of the 30-year Treasury rose 22/32, to 105 24/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.72 percent, from 5.76 on Wednesday.
Treasury prices followed the dollar higher after Japan's new Finance Minister, Kiichi Miyazawa, suggested that he was not very concerned about the level of the yen. In New York, the dollar rose to 143.66 yen from 142.35 yen yesterday.
Bond prices fell after the Labor Department reported that its employment cost index rose nine-tenths of 1 percent this spring. But prices soon recovered as buyers jumped in.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since July 1987. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); RETAIL SALES (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID ABBY JOSEPH COHEN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



672 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE PRESIDENT;
Friendly Crowd Greets Clinton in South

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: RALEIGH, N.C., July 30

 BODY:
President Clinton appeared today before friendly crowds in North Carolina, never mentioning the sex and perjury inquiries as he pressed his environmental programs and helped raise money for John Edwards, a Democratic candidate for the Senate.
In Boggs, along the banks of the New River, Mr. Clinton and Vice President Al Gore joined local politicians to declare the stream an American Heritage River, a move that encourages Federal and local agencies to preserve the river's environment and stimulate economic activities in its watershed. 
 Several thousand North Carolinians cheered enthusiastically, and Mr. Clinton's luck was good enough that a drenching rain held off until moments after his speech ended.
"We support you, Mr. President!" one woman hollered from the crowd, and he beamed as he gestured at her and said, "Thank you, ma'am."
The Administration has kept Mr. Clinton on a schedule of public events, like today's, as a grand jury in Washington prepares to hear testimony from Monica S. Lewinsky, perhaps as early as next week. In an immunity deal with prosecutors, Ms. Lewinsky, the former White House intern, has said that she had a sexual relationship with the President and that they discussed ways to hide it. Mr. Clinton has denied any such relationship.
As he usually does at appearances with an environmental theme, Mr. Clinton said the Republican-controlled Congress was loading spending bills with provisions that he said would roll back environmental protections.
He called on Congress to release about $700 million that has already been set aside for buying conservation lands and to finance clean water programs in his budget request for the fiscal year 1999, which begins on Oct. 1.
The American Heritage Rivers program was established by a White House executive order last year, and communities all over the country have competed for the designation. Among the 14 waterways that were selected this week to receive the special status were the Hudson River, the Potomac River, the Rio Grande and the Connecticut River.
The New River, where Mr. Clinton spoke, is poorly named: geologists say it has been here for 350 million years, even before the Appalachian Mountains rose. Two decades ago, conservationists fought off efforts to dam a big stretch of the river.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton chatted with Erskine B. Bowles, the White House chief of staff, center, as they and Doug Sosnik, counsel to the President, left the White House yesterday to attend a North Carolina event. (Agence France-Presse)
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: RALEIGH, NC, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) CONNECTICUT RIVER BANCORP (52%); WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA; NEW RIVER (NC); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: RIVERS; AMERICAN HERITAGE RIVER PROGRAM; ELECTIONS RIVERS (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (79%); POLITICS (79%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); IMMUNITY (67%); GRAND JURY (67%); MOUNTAINS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); EDWARDS, JOHN BILL CLINTON (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (90%); AL GORE (74%); ERSKINE BOWLES (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



673 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: A Union Vote Sows Bitterness in California Strawberry Fields

BYLINE: By DON TERRY 

DATELINE: WATSONVILLE, Calif., July 30

 BODY:
Tension and fear hover over the strawberry fields of the Coastal Berry Company here like the morning fog.
In the last few weeks, the lush fields outside of this small city 70 miles south of San Francisco have become a battleground in an increasingly nasty and nationally significant two-and-a-half-year struggle by the United Farm Workers to unionize the men and women who pick the sweet red berries, often for short pay and long hours: Their backs bent, their heads down, their hopes low. 
 Since July 1, there have been threats, arrests, beatings of U.F.W. supporters, a disputed union election that a rival group won, a one-day strike to protest the election and a hearing at the State Capitol on Tuesday into the entire bitter harvest.
"I was very disturbed about what I heard," said State Senator Hilda L. Solis, a Los Angeles Democrat who was co-chairwoman of the hearing. "There's violence in the fields, intimidation. A union vote should never have been taken in that kind of environment."
And today, the U.F.W. said it would file legal papers with the California Agricultural Labor Relations Board, seeking to throw out the results of the union vote at Coastal Berry, the nation's largest strawberry grower.
The U.F.W. maintains that the election on July 23 was unfair and was held in a climate of violence and fear; it refused to participate in the vote. The union also contends that the group that won the election, the Coastal Berry Farm Workers Committee, is a "sham union," a front for the company and the powerful Western Grower's Association, a farming industry organization in Irvine, Calif., which has long opposed the union's efforts.
"The stakes are so high that all of agri-business has come together to stop us," said Dolores Huerta, the co-founder of the U.F.W. There are 20,000 strawberry pickers in California, where 80 percent of the nation's strawberries are grown.
Both the company and the association deny that they had anything to do with the election or its results.
"Quite simply," said Doug Kerr, general counsel for the association, "the U.F.W. is lashing out at anyone they can over their frustration at being unable to organize the Coastal Berry employees."
The U.F.W. tried to stop the election, but the labor board allowed the vote to go forward.
And so, the Coastal Berry Farm Workers Committee, a group that did not even exist a few weeks ago, won the right to represent the company's more than 900 field workers with 54 percent of the vote, even though the committee had no agenda, no list of demands on behalf of the workers and no organizing strategy beyond defeating the U.F.W.
Even the Coastal Berry president, David Smith, conceded that the workers committee had a limited purpose.
"They don't have structure," Mr. Smith said of the new union. "They don't have management. They don't want to collect dues."
One leader of the group, Jose G. Fernandez, a 22-year-old truck driver, was arrested and charged with assaulting a police officer who interceded in a confrontation between members of the workers committee and union supporters in the fields on July 1.
"There's been a lot of tension for the last couple of years," the president of the U.F.W., Arturo S. Rodriguez, said. "But we never expected they would just openly rush a field and beat up workers loyal to the union."
Three workers were sent to the hospital, where they were treated and released, but Mr. Smith said the violence was relatively minor: rocks, fists and boxes of strawberries were thrown around and in one case into a frightened woman's face.
But when the Agricultural Labor Relations Board tried to investigate the incident before the union election, Coastal Berry refused to cooperate, citing a fear of more violence, the labor board's general counsel, Paul Richardson, said on Tuesday at a joint hearing of the state's Senate Committee on Industrial Relations and the Assembly Committee on Labor and Employment.
Mr. Richardson said the board wanted to investigate the incident to determine whether the election should go forward, but without the company's cooperation, it was decided to proceed with the voting, partly to avoid any more trouble in the fields.
"The position of the A.L.R.B.," Mr. Richardson said, "is to vote now, litigate later."
That statement and several others from labor board officials seemed to inflame State Assemblyman Richard E. Floyd, a Democrat from Wilmington. Mr. Floyd, the co-chairman of the hearing, said the board was "absolutely condoning" the violence when it refused to block the election.
Neither the growers association, the Coastal Berry Company or its new union appeared at the hearing, although each group was invited.
During an interview, Mr. Smith said that Coastal Berry was cooperating with labor board investigators and that he did not care what union, if any, represented his workers.
"We would negotiate with the U.F.W.," he said. "They have done some good things for their workers."
Mr. Smith said the union was picking on the wrong company, because Coastal Berry provided some of the highest wages and best benefits in the $600-million-a-year strawberry industry, which is known for its low wages and poor benefits. Mr. Smith said workers earned a base pay of $6.50 an hour, which can increase to $10 or $11 in the peak picking season, depending on how much a picker picks.
The union said that during the peak season the base pay fell and the amount of money the pickers earned per box of strawberries rose to 75 cents a tray from about 35 cents a tray. An average worker picks four to six trays an hour. "It's back-breaking work," said Lupe Lara, a picker for 15 years, who said he was dismissed last Monday after participating in a one-day strike to protest the election. "But I want my job back. I have no choice. I have six children."
Mr. Rodriquez, the U.F.W. president, and several workers, agreed that conditions in the fields had "improved dramatically." But they credit the union's efforts to organize, not the policies of Coastal Berry.
Before the union campaign began, said Jesus Anaya, 46, a longtime picker, conditions were poor. "Now," Mr. Anaya said, "the company is giving us health insurance because of the union."
Still, after nearly three years of effort and considerable help from the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the U.F.W. has not been able to gain a solid foothold in the strawberry fields of Watsonville.
Mr. Fernandez said that at first, the goal of his group was to keep the U.F.W. and any other unions out of the fields. It was only after it was determined to be more effective if the group represented itself as a union that the workers' committee was formed, he said.
Mr. Fernandez said the U.F.W. had failed because "we got tired of them harassing us to join the union at our homes, after work, before work, at the park, on the street."
As for his new union, Mr. Fernandez said he was not sure what it would ask for at the bargaining table, if the committee ever gets that far. "Maybe we'll try to get some bonuses," he said. "We don't promise nothing."
But the struggle for the hearts and minds of the strawberry pickers is far from over. Ms. Solis said she planned to hold another hearing about the election and intended to review the labor board's performance.
"This is the first time in 14 years we're actually having an oversight hearing of the A.L.R.B.," the Senator said. "It won't be the last."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The United Farm Workers is continuing its fight to represent strawberry pickers in California after losing a vote to an avowed anti-union group. Arturo S. Rodriguez, president of the United Farm Workers, testified at a hearing on a union vote. (Photographs by Ed Carreon for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA; COASTAL BERRY CO THE BERRY CO (91%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (95%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA; COASTAL BERRY CO UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (95%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; WATSONVILLE (CALIF); UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STRAWBERRIES; LABOR; MIGRANT LABOR; UNIONIZATION FARM LABOR (94%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); STRAWBERRY FARMING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BERRY FARMING (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); STRIKES (76%); WOMEN (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MIGRANT WORKERS (71%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (71%); LAWYERS (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (66%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON HILDA L SOLIS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



674 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
Giving New Rental Life To Rundown Buildings

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
A dozen city-owned buildings in East Harlem that not long ago were abandoned or partly occupied and in various stages of disrepair are now in the hands of a private development group that is bringing them back to life as mixed-income rental housing.
When completed next year, the $9.5 million renovation project will offer 133 newly restored apartments within the buildings, which are grouped in clusters stretching from 125th to 131st Street and from Fifth to Madison Avenue. The bulk of the apartments will be rented either to existing tenants or to low-income families. 
 The remaining apartments will be rented at market rates for the area "to provide enough revenue to run the buildings on a just-above-break-even basis," said Terrence Moan, who, with Nina DeMartini-Day and Francis Syn-Moie, is one of the partners at NTF Realty Services, the developer.
Mr. Moan served as the city's Real Estate Commissioner in the administration of Edward I. Koch, and Ms. DeMartini-Day was a deputy commissioner. Mr. Syn-Moie is the president of New York Residential Works, a management company.
The project is part of New York City's Neighborhood Entrepreneur Program, which awards buildings that are close to one another to entrepreneurs and helps them secure public and private financing to do the renovation.
The program is administered by the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development and the nonprofit New York City Housing Partnership, which serves as an intermediary between the city and private developers.
Mr. Moan said NTF became involved with the program because "it fits our philosophy of redeveloping housing, whenever possible, to keep unit density high and costs low."
He said the program also allowed "us to move into a management position." Over the last decade, Mr. Moan and Ms. DeMartini-Day rehabilitated 500 units in East Harlem for nonprofit groups as DDM Development Services. They formed NTF with Mr. Syn-Moie, who brings 12 years of management experience to the team.
NTF paid the city $1 apiece for each of the 12 East Harlem buildings, taking over their management and agreeing to relocate the 49 existing tenants, who are guaranteed a renovated apartment when the rebuilding process is completed. The work includes, if necessary, repairing and cleaning the facades and installing new buildingwide mechanical systems, as well as upgrading the bathrooms and kitchens in the apartments.
The studio to four-bedroom apartments will range in size from 450 to 1,400 square feet.
Rents for existing tenants, some of whom are on public assistance, are capped at 30 percent of income. Of the 84 vacant units, 45 are to be rented to families making less than 60 percent of the median income in the city; for a family of four, this figure is $30,120 a year. Rents for those units are to be $375 to $525 a month.
The remaining 39 apartments are to be rented to families earning up to 165 percent of the median -- a ceiling of $85,000 a year for a family of four. Their rents of $550 to $1,000 a month would be on a par with the market rate rents in the area, Mr. Moan noted.
In the year since NTF took over as landlord, 55 units in 4 buildings have been renovated. Tenants, many of them existing residents, began settling into their new apartments earlier this month.
Among them is Taneathia Perry, who with her three young children moved into a two-bedroom unit at the Marcella, a century-old, L-shaped complex at the corner of Fifth Avenue and 125th Street that contains 33 apartments over five ground-level retail stores.
"It is clean, safe and convenient, and my kids love it," Miss Perry said, noting that her old apartment on 128th Street "needed a lot of work." The floors were crooked, the windows were a problem and the ceiling in her bedroom leaked when it rained, she said, adding that "I couldn't wait to get out."
Miss Perry's old apartment is in one of the remaining eight buildings -- together totaling 78 units -- that NTF will renovate over the next year.
When the renovations are finished, the company will receive a one-time development fee of $5,477 a unit -- paid over 10 years from the project budget -- and take over ownership of the buildings, which it will run for 30 years with the same mix of low- and moderate-income tenants. Once the entire cluster is completed, the company can also receive up to $55,000 annually if it runs the buildings according to an agreed-upon budget, said Mr. Moan.
Since the Entrepreneur Program began in 1994, 237 buildings with a total of 2,359 apartments have been or will soon be renovated and a similar number of units are expected to be renovated over the next two years, according to the New York City Housing Partnership. Most of them are in neighborhoods throughout Brooklyn, the Bronx and Manhattan, especially Harlem, which has a "disproportionate share of city-owned buildings," said Veronica M. White, president of the partnership.
"The goal," she said, "is to return the buildings to private hands and in the process preserve existing housing units and create new ones."
For the projects to work economically and to receive the necessary Federal funds, Ms. White said, roughly three-quarters of the apartments are rented to low-income families, and the balance are available at market rates. Having the market-rate units, she said, also serves to bring middle-income tenants into an area.
Buildings chosen for the program often are near new housing developed by nonprofit groups, including the partnership. The result, Ms. White said, is that the rebuilding process occurs "neighborhood by neighborhood, rather than one building at a time."
Now that NTF has completed the renovation of 4 of its 12 buildings, it will take over ownership of those buildings within the next month. "The benefit," Mr. Moan said, "comes not in a quick cash return but rather in the long-term ownership of the buildings, which will appreciate in value if run properly and are in an area like East Harlem, which is improving."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A developer renovated the Marcella, at Fifth Avenue and 125th Street. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NTF REALTY SERVICES NTF REALTY SERVICES (90%); NEW YORK RESIDENTIAL WORKS (56%); REAL ESTATE LOAN CENTER (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NTF REALTY SERVICES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (91%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); FAMILY (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE TERRENCE MOAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



675 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Something Old, Something New in Japan Chief's Cabinet

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, July 31

 BODY:
Keizo Obuchi took office on Thursday as Prime Minister and named a Cabinet which, while it largely reflects his loyalty to factions of the governing Liberal Democratic Party that insured his election, also made a nod to younger members pushing for change.
Mr. Obuchi became Prime Minister because his party colleagues defied the wishes of their constituents, who overwhelmingly preferred his rivals and who have already voiced their displeasure with the ruling party by voting it out of power in the upper house. 
 Not only will he have to satisfy voters at home, he will have to prove to a world clamoring for action to right the Japanese economy that he can abandon the cautious consensus-building that brought him to power and make bold, even daring moves.
Mr. Obuchi was not the choice of the upper house, which chose Naoto Kan, head of the largest opposition party, the Democrats, as prime minister.
But in such a split the candidate chosen by the more powerful lower house gets the job. The division will mean, however, that Mr. Obuchi will be working overtime to curry the favor of Japan's splintered opposition parties if he wants to push through controversial legislation.
The Cabinet will have to address major issues including rising unemployment, a banking crisis and global fears of a surge in Japanese exports helped by a weak yen.
He turned responsibility for the powerful Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, which controls a big chunk of Japan's vast pool of private savings, over to a woman, Seiko Noda, and appointed a highly regarded academic, Akito Arima, as Education Minister.
And he entrusted Japan's sick economy and fragile financial system to Kiichi Miyazawa, a former Prime Minister and party veteran who has a long record negotiating international economic circles.
While Mr. Obuchi's Cabinet reflected the factional power within the governing party, commentators suggested that in some cases he had made his own selections from among faction members rather than allowing the faction leaders to choose.
The financial markets withheld judgment of the new Cabinet, which was not officially announced until after many Asian markets closed, although the new Cabinet members' names were circulating this morning. The yen held steady against the dollar in Tokyo but fell in New York on Thursday after Mr. Miyazawa indicated he might not move to prop up the currency or the stock market as past governments have done.
"Putting it very simply, whether it is the yen or stocks, we should rely on the markets to move on their own," he said. The Nikkei basically shrugged its shoulders, rising 43.51 points to 16,201.60.
Mr. Miyazawa, 78, has been involved in crafting policies to deal with Japan's banking crisis, and his global reputation for financial savvy goes some way toward dispelling doubts in world capitals about Mr. Obuchi's ability and commitment to aggressively address that problem.
"People have serious worries about the current economic situation," Mr. Miyazawa said during a news conference with other appointees. "I think tackling it speedily is the most important thing we have to do."
For Foreign Minister, the position Mr. Obuchi held before becoming Prime Minister, he selected Masahiko Komura, who served as his right hand in the Foreign Ministry since 1996. Mr. Komura, 56, is considered an expert on Japan's relations with Russia, which Mr. Obuchi has emphasized as a focus of his administration. He, like Ms. Noda, is a member of the Komoto faction, the smallest.
In giving two prime Cabinet seats to such a politically insignificant faction, Mr. Obuchi could have been making an attempt to avoid reflecting internal party politics in the national Government.
Ms. Noda's appointment, however, could also be construed as an olive branch to Seiroku Kajiyama, one of the two men who challenged Mr. Obuchi for the party president's job, as well as to younger members of the party.
Ms. Noda, whose grandfather was a ranking Liberal Democratic politician, supported Mr. Kajiyama. She has in the past openly worried about the Liberal Democrats' ability to win the affections of voters.
One of five women currently sitting in the lower house and the youngest Cabinet minister in postwar history, Ms. Noda, 37, emphasized that in her position she can be instrumental in developing new industries and jobs for Japan in telecommunications and information services.
Mr. Arima, the new Education Minister, is a nuclear physicist who was president of Tokyo University from 1989 to 1993. He is a political novice, having won his first term in the upper house during the recent election.
He takes the job at a time when Japan is agonizing over its educational system, which has been rocked by a series of knifings in schools and by concerns that its rigidity stunts creative thinking the country needs in a competitive global economy.
"Japan's future in the international community depends on how well we can raise powerful and vivid young people," he said Thursday.
Mr. Obuchi's advisers also include a best-selling author, Taichi Sakaiya, who was named to head the Economic Planning Agency, a Cabinet-level agency whose responsibility is to come up with suggestions for the nation's economic policy. Mr. Sakaiya, 63, worked in the Ministry of Trade and Industry in the 1970's but quit the Government in 1978, when his novel about an oil crisis and the panic it created became a hit.
A political economist, he is an advocate of moving the seat of the national Government from Tokyo.
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); CURRENCIES (86%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); JAPANESE YEN (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); TRENDS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE; OBUCHI, KEIZO (PRIME MIN); MIYAZAWA, KIICHI NAOTO KAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



676 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Backs Off Sanctions, Seeing Poor Effect Abroad

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30

 BODY:
The White House and Congress have decided that in many cases, sanctions just are not an effective way to make foreign policy.
In recent months, the United States has backed off imposing sanctions on Asian countries so they would be free to buy American wheat, on Cuba so a court fight with Canada and European allies could be avoided, and on China so American businesses could compete in that huge market. 
 Both Administration and Congressional leaders have avoided sanctions, in large part, because of complaints from farm and business groups, including the Chamber of Commerce and USA Engage, a powerful coalition of 676 companies.
The business leaders contend that in the highly competitive global economy, now regulated by an international trade organization, economic sanctions are ineffective at getting most countries to change and are actually backfiring since they hurt American business.
"Unilateral sanctions only make foreign rivals stronger and taint us as unreliable suppliers," said Bill Lane, Washington director for Caterpillar Inc. and chairman of USA Engage.
About two dozen countries are now subjected to sanctions and about 50 more face the possibility of such penalties, trade groups say. And the trend has been growing. More than 60 laws or executive orders authorizing sanctions -- about half the total since World War I -- have been enacted in the last five years. That roughly coincides with the end of the cold war and the superpower rivalry that had been the chief arena of foreign policy.
But sanctions failed to fill the vacuum, and now legislators and policymakers are pulling the teeth out of existing sanctions or dropping proposed penalties, fearing that unilateral sanctions in particular are hurting American business or diplomatic interests more than the foreign countries or companies they are intended to punish.
This month, Congress exempted food exports from sanctions automatically imposed on India and Pakistan after the two nations conducted nuclear tests in May. The exemption was made in part because the penalties would have barred American farmers from bidding on a $37 million wheat order from Pakistan.
Last week, a Senate committee shelved a popular bill to punish nations, including China, that endorsed or permitted religious persecution after business groups protested that the punishments would alienate allies and trading partners.
"There is a very significant re-evaluation going on regarding sanctions, as there should be," said Senator Chuck Hagel, a Nebraska Republican who led the fight to set aside the religious persecution bill.
The Administration is also recalibrating its approach. In 1996, President Clinton signed into law bills aimed at isolating Cuba, Libya and Iran. But when the measures threatened to draw the United States into a legal challenge and trade war with Canada and European allies, the Administration backed down.
"Having gone through these experiences, it made people recognize we needed a better process for the executive branch," said Stuart E. Eizenstat, Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.
The proliferation of sanctions has prompted the State Department and the Senate to form special panels to review the usefulness of sanctions. Legislation is pending in the House and Senate that would require a cost-benefit analysis for new sanctions and would end them after two years unless they are reauthorized.
"The free ride for sanctions is over," said Richard N. Haass, a former national security aide to President Bush and an editor of a new book on sanctions and diplomacy. "Like other foreign policy tools, sanctions are now subject to greater scrutiny."
Administration and Congressional leaders say they are not abandoning sanctions entirely; instead, they want to use them sparingly and in a more focused way. At the same time, these leaders recognize that in place of sanctions, the United States has few options and will either have to rely more on diplomacy or accept its limitations and do nothing at all.
For years, sanctions have provided Congress and the White House with forceful alternatives short of war.
"As an effective and principled foreign policy tool, economic sanctions are older than this republic itself," said Senator Jesse Helms, the North Carolina Republican who heads the Foreign Relations Committee.
Congress, in particular, has been more eager in recent years to slap on an arms embargo, cut foreign aid, vote against appropriating money to the International Monetary Fund, or threaten to do all of those.
"We're less patient with diplomacy and less tolerant of foreign government actions we don't like," said Representative Lee H. Hamilton, an Indiana Democrat on the International Relations Committee. "They make us feel like a player in foreign policy, where our powers tend to be more limited."
The United States has used sanctions to protest political repression, in places like Myanmar, formerly Burma, and to deny nuclear weapons technology to countries like Iran. But other penalties aim to punish countries that mislabel tuna products sold here or withhold foreign aid from nations whose diplomats do not pay their parking tickets.
Even states and municipalities are jumping in, much to the State Department's dismay. Massachusetts has imposed sanctions on companies that do business in Myanmar. New York City is threatening sanctions against Switzerland to press for reparations for Holocaust victims.
Instances in which sanctions have achieved their goal are few. In virtually all the success stories, the United States was joined by many other nations in imposing the penalties.
The international sanctions imposed against Iraq after its invasion of Kuwait in 1990 have slowed, but not stopped, President Saddam Hussein's ability to rebuild his arsenal. And, of course, they have failed to help topple Mr. Hussein.
Multilateral sanctions helped to end apartheid in South Africa, but were requested by the black-majority population and were only one factor that influenced the white minority leadership there.
But even multilateral sanctions have a limited bite. They failed to oust Iraqi troops from Kuwait before the Persian Gulf war or force Haiti's military rulers to return President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power. Only the use, or threat, of military force accomplished those goals.
Nor has Congress applied these sanctions with any firm consistency. Political repression in one country is punished; in another it is overlooked.
"There is hardly anybody in this room who has been entirely consistent on this subject," said Senator Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican leading the Senate's review of sanctions, who has supported punishing Myanmar for political repression but not China.
Supporters of unilateral sanctions say the penalties have symbolic value on important moral issues, and underscore the United States' leadership role in fighting religious persecution, oppressive regimes or the spread of missile technology.
For instance, the House and Senate this year voted overwhelmingly to impose sanctions on foreign companies or official agencies that aid Iran's ballistic-missile program. Mr. Clinton vetoed the legislation, which is aimed mainly at Russian and Chinese companies, asserting that the bill would hamper the Administration's flexibility in conducting foreign policy. But Congress may override the veto.
"The legislation sends a message to Russian or Chinese companies that they have a choice: 'Do business with the United States or do business with Iran,' " said Howard Kohr, executive director of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee.

GRAPHIC: Map/Graphs: "AROUND THE WORLD: Many Sanctions, Few Teeth"
Map indentifies countries now under U.S. sanctions, and the year sanctions were first imposed.
 
Graphs show the number of total U.S. sanctions in effect and their success rate, from the 1950's the the 1990's. (Source: Institute for International Economics)(pg. A6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (83%); CATR (PAR) (83%); CAT (SWX) (83%); CAT (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE; USA ENGAGE CATERPILLAR INC (83%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE; USA ENGAGE INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; CHINA; CUBA; UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); TRADE DISPUTES (73%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (71%); WORLD WAR I (65%); RELIGION (60%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) CHUCK HAGEL (73%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



677 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Architect's Landfall at Columbus Circle;
At the Coliseum Site, a Timid Exploration of New Worlds

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
More jazz, please. Less Colossi of Memnon. With less reverence toward history and more susceptibility to rhythm, the new plan to develop the Coliseum site on Columbus Circle could become the architectural breakthrough New York has been waiting for.
Not that there's anything wrong with turning the Colossi of Memnon into ritzy apartments. Those gigantic twin-seated monuments of New Kingdom Egypt would be swell to inhabit. Like the giant Good Humor bar Claes Oldenberg proposed for Park Avenue back in the 1960's, the concept has definite Dada appeal. What's missing at this point, though, is a layer of formal invention to state one simple idea: In this town, even colossi like to swing. 
 Designed by David Childs of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, the plan is a thoroughly reworked version of the scheme Mr. Childs prepared in the 1980's for the original developer of the Coliseum site, Mortimer B. Zuckerman. That plan, which aroused opposition from civic groups because of its size, was an explicit homage to the Century and the Majestic, Irwin S. Chanin's great twin-towered apartment buildings on Central Park West.
Mr. Childs's new design retains the old version's basic Art Deco silhouette. But instead of sheathing the project's two towers with masonry, the architect now proposes to dress them in glass. This is a major improvement, one that will open up this potentially hulking project to reflections of sky, light and space.
Mr. Childs has the best eye in the business for massing, scale and detail, and his plan is a good piece of architecture. But I think we should regard it as a great beginning and then analyze where this design might go.
This plan was chosen for financial, not esthetic, reasons. With Time Warner pledged to join in as the building's major commercial tenant, the Related Companies offered the most substantial deal to develop the site. An Egyptologist might remark on the aptness of erecting a New Kingdom monument to the New World's worship of the almighty dollar. Media mavens might regard these twin towers as a suitable temple precinct for the informational realm in which Time Warner has set such high stakes.
But Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani deserves major credit for the decision to create a theater in the building's base that will be the permanent home for Jazz at Lincoln Center. It's not possible to imagine a better site to build a place for jazz. Chistopher Columbus, when he sailed west, may not have known that he was venturing forth to discover jazz. Four centuries later, we are somewhat more informed. We know that jazz is one of this continent's greatest gifts to the rest of the world.
It is the essential art form of a modern democratic society. Jazz is urban, ethnically diverse, collaborative and mutable. It will be fantastic to enter a jazz hall beneath the pillar with Columbus standing on top. This guy insisted that Europeans explore new worlds.
The Jazz Theater will be in the center of the complex, beneath an oculus that, with luck, will glow with a deep, eternal, indigo blue. Above it will rise a base dedicated to shops, movie theaters, restaurants and other commercial uses. Time Warner will occupy the next highest level in this stacked, vertical city. The two towers, rising to a relatively discreet height of 750 feet, have been planned for residential use: apartments and a hotel. The base is, shall we say, a bit Union Square. Or middle American parking garage.
In a monograph on Irwin S. Chanin, the architect Diana Agrest says Chanin created a new architectural vocabulary for New York in the 1920's. His buildings embodied classical ideals of symmetry and scale, but were clearly different from the decoratively classical designs that were then the norm for residential buildings. Chanin's buildings were great Jazz Age spectaculars, novel exercises in height and image.
Today, one could construct a case for placing a jazz theater within an ersatz Art Deco building. But why bother? Jazz has not run out of sounds, nor has architecture run out of shapes. The Miami firm Arquitectonica, for example, has built projects throughout the world that have incorporated new spatial rhythms into buildings. Mr. Childs himself, in two unbuilt projects designed with Frank Gehry, has entered into the spirit of contemporaneity. He is fully up to the task of linking the first jazz age to the present musical moment.
If you look at the project Mr. Gehry designed for the city of Prague, you gain some insight into architecture's rhythmic possibility. This building, too, was a private development, occupying a prominent civic site. In materials and scale, Mr. Gehry's design harmonized with its context. But the wavy-gravy lines Mr. Gehry introduced on the facade made a statement about the Velvet Revolution. Vaclav Havel lives next door to this building and loves rock music. The Gehry design inserted this neighborly coincidence into Prague's urban fabric.
But while there is much building going on in New York City these days, there is little evidence of daring. When did New York architecture become the screen for the projection of fears? Decision makers who sit on boards like the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the New York City Planning Commission seem to envision themselves as bunny rabbits scuttling around in small cages of their own making. Evidently, the best we can hope for from such people is a quality that they take to be dignity but the rest of us recognize as failure of nerve.
A design like this one happens not because an architect genuinely believes in it, but because somebody thinks that this is something that somebody else wants. Since this project is not, in fact, a genuine public work, but a private enterprise that will occupy a publicly conspicuous site, there is enormous pressure to make the architecture strive for an approximation of dignity. The result is a design that will play no role in the cultural life of New York or the history of architecture. It is skillful, earnest and devoid of meaning.
Our decision makers are evidently unaware that this city is hungry for buildings that will reflect the present moment as fully as Irwin Chanin's embodied his. As politicians, they are subject to pressures from planning boards, civic groups and other political entities that have come to equate esthetic conservatism with resistance to the radical disruption that real estate development continuously imposes upon our lives.
Groups like the Municipal Art Society, for example, have a history of taking the wrong esthetic stand for the right social reason. But it is the duty of civic leadership to represent an alternative: economic pressures deliver creative opportunities. Creative responses in architecture may not be a community organization's top priority. But a community is part of the larger entity of the city. When creative opportunities are lost, the entire city suffers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Changing Visions -- The history of development plans for the Coliseum site on Columbus Circle produced a series of grand visions and an equal number of bitter battles. Here are a few of the proposals over the last 13 years.; AIR TRUMP -- In 1985, Donald J. Trump proposed the world's tallest building, a 137-story tower designed by Eli Attia that resembled a spaceship.; BIG GAMBLE -- Mortimer B. Zuckerman won the bidding in 1985, agreeing to pay $455.1 million and proposing a massive building designed by Moshe Safdie.; TRYING AGAIN -- Under fire, Zuckerman hired David Childs of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill to design a smaller tower, but the project ultimately fell apart.; NEW WINNER -- A revised Childs design for the Related Companies was chosen in a new round of bidding. Related and Time Warner agreed to pay about $345 million for the tract, and will build a 2.1-million-square-foot complex. (McCann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: An Appraisal

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JAZZ AT LINCOLN CENTER; TIME WARNER INC; RELATED COMPANIES SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JAZZ AT LINCOLN CENTER; TIME WARNER INC; RELATED COMPANIES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; COLUMBUS CIRCLE (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; NEW YORK COLISEUM; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (70%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT; CHILDS, DAVID; ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) DONALD TRUMP (72%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



678 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Ferraro Stresses Status as Only Woman in Race

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
Asserting that Congress has suffered because of the scarcity of women in its ranks, Geraldine A. Ferraro said yesterday that she should be elected to the Senate because she could, as a woman, bring a perspective to a variety of issues, from child care to the economy, that her male competitors could not match.
Ms. Ferraro played what her advisers believe may be her strongest political card -- she is the only woman in the New York Senate race -- as she spoke in Manhattan to an audience of women who own businesses. She described herself as "a woman with a national profile" who would bring "a kind of suasion without parallel" to the male-dominated world of the United States Senate. 
 Ms. Ferraro, a Democrat, said there was a "need for women in leadership positions" because "we bring another dimension to the political process."
"Our roles as caretakers, nurturers and mothers cannot help but give us a different perspective," she said, looking straight into the camera and blinding lights that her campaign had set up to tape the speech for use in a television advertisement. "It's not necessarily better. But it is different."
Ms. Ferraro said that she was not "putting down men" in making what was a notably undisguised appeal for votes based on sex. But she approvingly cited Carol Gilligan, a psychologist from Harvard University, in describing characteristics that Ms. Ferraro said were particular to women and in short supply in the Government today.
"According to Dr. Gilligan, instead of engaging in confrontation, women are more apt to negotiate," Ms. Ferraro said. "Instead of looking at short-term solutions to problems, women are more apt to think in terms of generations to come. Instead of thinking in win-lose terms, women are more apt to see the gray areas in between."
The remarks by Ms. Ferraro seemed to put at least a temporary end to what has been a fallow period in her campaign. The presence of the camera crew at her speech, along with the fact that her aides encouraged coverage of it, suggested that Ms. Ferraro will try to do what a number of women running for office have tried to do without success in New York over the last decade: turn their identities as women to their political advantage.
Ms. Ferraro, a former candidate for vice president, is facing two men in the Democratic primary who are seeking to challenge Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, a Republican, this fall: Mark Green, the public advocate for New York City, and Representative Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn.
The appeal to the women's vote has been a constant if, until yesterday, subliminal theme in all the statewide races this year. Female voters are certain to be critical to the outcome of the Sept. 15 primaries and the general election in November. There are also women running in the Democratic primaries for governor, attorney general and lieutenant governor. And candidates from both parties have been paying particular attention to the kind of issues -- like day care and health care -- that polls indicate are of particular concern to women.
What was unusual about Ms. Ferraro was the directness of her appeal, which she made in a breakfast speech to about two dozen members of the National Association of Women Business Owners. Later in the day, both Mr. Green and Mr. Schumer questioned her remarks, each contending that his positions and record were more significant than his sex.
"It's disappointing for a candidate to run based largely on appeals to gender, ethnicity or religion," Mr. Green said by telephone from Buffalo, where he was campaigning. "My grandma said I was a nice Jewish boy, but I wouldn't dream of seeking voters purely, or largely, on that basis. We, she and I, have apparently different strategies."
Mr. Schumer pointed to legislation he has sponsored in Congress that is of particular interest to women, like allowing abortion clinics to sue protesters who block their buildings.
"Women aren't just interested in gender," Mr. Schumer said from Washington. "They're interested in who can do the most for women."
Ms. Ferraro said she was confident that she would excel in the Senate, where there are nine members who are women. There are 55 women in the House of Representatives.
Ms. Ferraro said she would have an advantage over her rivals because of the national profile she achieved as a candidate for vice president in 1984 and as a CNN commentator.
She said she expected that if she was elected, Senators running for President would routinely seek her support, increasing her influence as a first-year legislator. "When I go down there, I don't go down there as a junior senator," Ms. Ferraro said. "Both Chuck and Mark will."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; WOMEN LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); WOMEN (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MEN (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (66%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (55%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; FERRARO, GERALDINE A CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



679 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: House Bars Use of Funds to Move Highway

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

 BODY:
In a slight to Donald J. Trump, the House of Representatives voted late Wednesday against the use of Federal highway funds to move a stretch of the West Side Highway that is next to Mr. Trump's luxury condominium project, now being built on the Upper West Side.
But Mr. Trump responded that the road suits him fine where it is. 
 In a voice vote, the House approved a one-sentence amendment to its transportation appropriation bill for the next fiscal year that bars the use of any of the money for improvements to the stretch of the West Side Highway near Mr. Trump's project, Riverside South.
The amendment was proposed by an opponent to Mr. Trump's plan, Representative Jerrold L. Nadler, a Democrat from the Upper West Side. He said that the highway relocation was an effort by Mr. Trump to "subvert hundreds of millions of dollars of taxpayer funds" for his personal benefit.
Mr. Nadler failed to kill a $6 million study of the project that Congress approved earlier this year as part of the largest public-works program in the nation's history. The study is to include an examination of design and engineering options for moving the road.
Moving the highway would clear the way for a 21.5-acre park to be included in Riverside South, which is to consist of 11 buildings stretching from 59th Street to 72d Street.
Mr. Nadler said that moving the highway would enhance the view of the Hudson River from the apartments and condominiums, allowing Mr. Trump to charge higher prices and arrange more favorable financing for the project.
The proposal is also controversial because the part of the highway that would have been moved was just renovated about three years ago at a cost of $80 million, and has an estimated life of at least 35 years, according to Mr. Nadler's office.
Last week, the Federal Government denied Mr. Trump's application for government mortgage insurance for the next phase of the project.
Despite the setbacks, Mr. Trump declared victory after learning about the latest vote.
"The job is a much simpler one for me if we leave the highway in place," he said. "It's not a highway issue. It's a park issue."
Mr. Trump said the highway would not affect the view from his high-rise condominium project, adding that he is getting fabulous rents for the apartments.
"Jerry Nadler is my best friend, economically," Mr. Trump said. "He's played right into my hands."
Mr. Nadler replied that Mr. Trump's response is belied by his efforts to get Federal funds for the project.
"Congress has told Trump very consistently, 'We are not going to let you spend money on this boondoggle,' " Mr. Nadler said. "What part of 'no' doesn't he understand?"
The battle between the two has become personal. In commenting on the amendment, Mr. Trump made a joke about Mr. Nadler's large physique. And Mr. Nadler issued a news release titled, "Rep. Nadler Fights Trump on Floor of House."
Mr. Nadler acknowledged that Mr. Trump and his supporters could seek funds again in the future.
Representative Sue Kelly, a Republican from Westchester who had requested the funds for the study, said yesterday that moving the highway continues to enjoy "broad support among local civic, labor, environmental and business groups."
Mary R. Musca, the executive director of the Riverside South Planning Corporation, a coalition of civic organizations that supports that development, said she was relieved that the financing for the study was preserved.
"We'd have to go back to Congress to get additional money to move the highway, but we weren't asking for that now," she said.
Mr. Nadler estimates that moving the highway would cost more than $300 million, but Ms. Musca said it could be done for about $120 million.
The amendment will be reviewed later this year by the conference committee that will reconcile the House and Senate transportation bills.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A view of Donald J. Trump's Riverside South condominiums from under a stretch of the West Side Highway. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: RIVERSIDE SOUTH PLANNING CORP (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WEST SIDE HIGHWAY (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; HOUSING; RIVERSIDE SOUTH PROJECT (NYC) HIGHWAY FUNDING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); APPROVALS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); HISTORY (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (65%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, MIKE; TRUMP, DONALD J DONALD TRUMP (94%); JERROLD NADLER (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



680 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Vetoes Vallone Plan To Favor Local Contractors

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 30

 BODY:
A centerpiece of Peter F. Vallone's campaign for governor, a bill allowing New York cities to give preference to in-state contractors over those from other states, has been vetoed by Gov. George E. Pataki, who Mr. Vallone hopes to oppose in November.
Mr. Pataki said in his veto message, dated Wednesday and made public today, that while he commended the bill's aim of promoting business in New York State, it would actually hurt in-state businesses by triggering a trade war with other states. 
 "Since New York State businesses are net exporters of goods and services," the Governor wrote, "this bill will have a negative impact on New York businesses seeking to contract in other states and engender results contrary to the bill's stated purpose of promoting economic development in New York State."
But Mr. Vallone, the Democratic Speaker of the New York City Council, said the Republican Governor's motivations were political. "This is a case of, if I say yes, the Governor is going to say no," he said. "And you have a Governor who wants to run for President, and he's not going to do anything to upset business people in other states who would oppose this."
Mr. Pataki, who left today on a three-day fund-raising trip to Colorado and California, was not available for comment. But a spokesman, Charles H. Deister, said that Mr. Vallone "doesn't have a basic grasp on the facts," adding that the bill "will cost jobs, instead of creating jobs."
The dispute over the bill illumstrates a broad theme of this race: Mr. Pataki says that after three and a half years under him, the state is doing well economically, while his four Democratic rivals assert that New York continues to lag far behind the national boom and that drastic policy changes are needed. The other Democrats in the race are Lieut. Gov. Betsy McCaughey Ross, Brooklyn District Attorney Charles J. Hynes, and James Larocca, a former state commissioner of energy and transportation.
The veto is more significant in the wake of a ruling early this month by the Court of Appeals, New York's highest court, striking down a provision in the New York City Charter that allows the city to bypass the usual rule requiring that government contracts go to the lowest responsible bidder.
New York City has for years given preference to contractors based in the city, a policy that Mr. Vallone contends adds $1 billion a year to the city's economy. The court decision outlawed that practice, but the bill passed by the Legislature in June would have effectively resurrected it.
The bill, passed with broad bipartisan support, would have allowed a local government to bypass an out-of-state contractor who submitted the low bid, and instead choose an in-state contractor, as long as the New York company submitted a bid no more than 5 percent higher than the low bid.
For months, Mr. Vallone has made the contracting preference a prominent part of his economic plan, saying that as Governor, he would make it state policy. Meanwhile, he sought to make an in-state preference city policy.
Mr. Vallone had planned to have the Council pass a bill next Tuesday taking advantage of the new state law, to make it city policy. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican, opposed the plan and would have vetoed it, but Mr. Vallone clearly had the votes to override a veto.
Today, Mr. Vallone appeared at the site of a planned bridge across the Niagara River linking Buffalo and the Canadian city of Fort Erie, to call on Mr. Pataki to give preference to New York contractors in the bidding to build the span.
"Let's try to do it in Buffalo, hire a Buffalo contractor, keep the jobs in Buffalo," he said in an interview, after the event. "I never believed that the Governor would veto this. It's putting the state at such a disadvantage."
The Business Council of New York State, the state's largest large-business group, opposed the bill for the same reason given by Mr. Pataki.
Mr. Pataki's veto message also said that the bill was poorly written, failing to make it clear that when an out-of-state bidder is bypassed, a contract must go to the lowest in-state bidder. He also contended that the bill was in conflict with Federal law, which requires that any project built with Federal money go to the lowest responsible bidder.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES GOVERNORS (92%); VETO (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); JOB CREATION (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); TRADE DISPUTES (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); TRENDS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (62%); APPEALS COURTS (60%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (73%); EDDIE GEORGE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



681 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-7
 
Sanctions May Not Be Way For U.S. Foreign Policy
The White House and Congress have decided that in many cases sanctions are not an effective way to make foreign policy. The United States has recently backed off imposing sanctions on Asian countries so they would be free to buy American wheat, on Cuba to avoid a court fight with Canada and European allies, and on China so American businesses could compete in that huge market. A1
 
Mexican Elite Faces Opposition
A newly emboldened opposition in control of the lower house of Mexico's Congress has seized on case of Angel Isidoro Rodriguez Saez to open an intense debate over the sins of the economic elite. When the Mexican Government seized the bank that he headed, its bailout program absorbed the huge portfolio of rotten loans he had left. When the Government asked Congress to rescue the program that rescued Mr. Rodriguez's bank, it met with a revolt. A6
 
British Verdict Overturned
Britain's highest court overturned the conviction of Derek Bentley, who was hanged 46 years ago for his role in the murder of a police officer. The court said the trial judge had presented a one-sided account of the case to the jury. A3
 
Differing Accounts in Kosovo
President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia told European Union envoys that a fierce Serbian-led offensive that had snatched much of Kosovo back from ethnic Albanian separatists was over. But Albanians and Serbs in Kosovo said Serbian forces were still shelling a key rebel-held village near the Albanian border. A7
 
New Faces and Old in Japan
Keizo Obuchi formally took office as Prime Minister and named a Cabinet that largely reflected the loyalty he owes to factions of the governing Liberal Democratic Party that insured his election. A3
 
A Deal for Cambodian Rivals
Cambodia's leader, Hun Sen, offered to form a three-way coalition government with his chief rivals, as additional returns in the parliamentary election appeared to confirm his prediction of victory. A3
 
Kenyan Official Suspended
John Harun Mwau, the head of Kenya's new anti-corruption authority, has been suspended from office after a disagreement with the Finance Minister. Mr. Mwau was suspended just days after he had filed charges against four high-ranking treasury officials, accusing them of an elaborate scheme to evade $3.9 million in import duties. A4
 
Mass Graves in Angola
United Nations officials said they had found mass graves of victims of the latest violence in Angola. Human rights groups also reported a military buildup, including forced conscription, by former rebels. Diplomats and other analysts have warned that Angola is edging closer to war between Government forces and the rebel group Unita, which has not fully carried out peace accords signed in 1994. A4
 
NATIONAL A8-16
 
Prosecutors Seek Testing Of Lewinsky Dress
Prosecutors were said to be seeking genetic testing of a dress belonging to Monica S. Lewinsky that she says contains physical evidence of a sexual encounter with President Clinton. She turned over the dress, lawyers said, after retrieving it from her mother's New York apartment. A1
 
President Clinton did not mention the sex and perjury inquiries during a visit to North Carolina. A12
 
Action on Campaign Legislation
A majority of the House voted repeatedly to preserve intact bipartisan legislation to cut back on money in politics, as lawmakers picked up the pace on their debate over campaign financing. A15
 
Burial of Capitol Officer
John M. Gibson, the Capitol Hill police detective killed by a gunman during a shootout six days ago, was laid to rest with full military honors at Arlington National Cemetery. A10
 
Angela Dickerson, who was wounded in the Capitol shooting, said her experience would leave no deep scars, except, perhaps, emotional ones. A10
 
Where Life May Have Begun
The idea that life on earth began in the furnace-like temperatures of a volcanic environment has received support from an experiment designed to reconstruct the chemical events that may have led to the first living cells. A14
 
Hitting the Jackpot
Thirteen men of very modest means, assembly-line workers in Ohio, said they had the winning ticket for the $295.7 million Powerball lottery jackpot -- though because they chose a lump sum payment, the payout will be about $161.5 million. A1
 
Massachusetts Tax Cut
Acting Gov. Argeo Paul Cellucci of Massachusetts signed a $19.5 billion budget that incorporated part of a new, multiyear, $770 million tax cut, the largest in the state's history. A8
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Utility Chief's Resignation Is Said to Be Imminent
Representatives of the board of Marketspan, Lilco's successor, and its embattled chairman, Dr. William J. Catacosinos, were negotiating terms for his resignation, which could come today, company officials said. A1
 
Plan to Conserve Open Spaces
The New Jersey Legislature passed a ballot measure that will ask voters in November to approve the borrowing of $1 billion to protect about one million acres of undeveloped land. A1
 
Partnership Fights Back
The Grand Central Partnership said it would seek a court order to block the seizure of its assets and financial records by the city, setting the stage for a legal battle over the rules for business improvement districts. B1
 
A Matter of Perspective
Geraldine A. Ferraro said Congress had suffered because of a scarcity of female members and that her election as a senator would bring a perspective to issues like child care and the economy that her male rivals for the seat could not match. B2
 
Gridlock Alert for the Hamptons
President Clinton is to arrive in eastern Long Island this afternoon for a weekend of fund-raising. B5
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
WEEKEND E1-30; E31-44
 
OBITUARIES D17
 
Buffalo Bob Smith
The creator and on-screen partner of Howdy Doody on one of early television's most enduring children's shows was 80. D17
 
Noel Behn
A novelist, screenwriter, theatrical producer and raconteur who held court at Elaine's, the Upper East Side watering hole, he was 70. D17
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-18
 
Workers' Pay Still Rising
The Government's employment cost index rose nine-tenths of 1 percent this spring, slightly more than it did in the winter. For the 12 months ended in June, pay for all civilian workers rose 3.5 percent, up from 2.8 percent in the previous year. D1
 
A.I.G. Invests in Blackstone
American International Group said it would invest $1.35 billion in the Blackstone Group, a private merchant bank, raising the prospect of considerable future cooperation between the two companies as barriers between insurance and investment banking continue to erode. D1
 
Pilots and Airline Deadlocked
Federal mediators declared an impasse in contract negotiations between Northwest Airlines and its pilots, setting the stage for a possible strike as early as next month. D5
 
Business Digest D1
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
Editorials: Justice Thomas speaks; a river park grows in Manhattan; reforming welfare with education; the master of Broadway and ballet.
 Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Russell Baker.
 
Crossword E42
Weather C8
Public Lives B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); ALBANIA (93%); MEXICO (93%); EUROPE (93%); ANGOLA (93%); ASIA (92%); KENYA (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); ALBANIA (93%); MEXICO (93%); EUROPE (93%); ANGOLA (93%); ASIA (92%); KENYA (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); GENOCIDE (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); VERDICTS (76%); JURY TRIALS (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); JUDGES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); CORRUPTION (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



682 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: An Admirer of Giuliani Feels His Wrath

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

 BODY:
It was only a few years ago that Daniel A. Biederman was so in tune with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's thinking that he was chosen to be on the Mayor's 1993 transition team, helping to select city officials. Even yesterday, having been sent sprawling by Mr. Giuliani's wrath, Mr. Biederman claimed to be an enormous admirer of the man who is dismantling his career.
But Mr. Biederman, who runs three of the city's most prominent business improvement districts, may have emulated the Mayor's desire for control a bit too intently. On Wednesday, the Mayor ordered the largest of those districts, the Grand Central Partnership, to shut down, reacting to what aides said were several years of pent-up annoyance over the consolidation of power in Mr. Biederman's hands. Aides said Mr. Guiliani believed that Mr. Biederman had failed to recognize where the city's true center of power lies. 
 The Mayor's action remains a mystery to Mr. Biederman, who insists he never knew until recently that the Mayor was upset with him. But it was not terribly surprising to city officials and several members of Mr. Biederman's boards. Even friends of Mr. Biederman describe a difficult man whose sense of himself may have been overmatched only by Mr. Giuliani's, producing a conflict of personalities he could not win.
"It's not that he's arrogant, but he is certitudinous," said a member of the board of one of the three improvement districts, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "He believes his views are the right ones on almost any subject, and that's not something that goes down very well with Rudy Giuliani and the others down at City Hall."
Until a few years ago, however, Mr. Biederman, who is 45, was more accustomed to receiving praise from Mr. Giuliani and his predecessors, who have long relied on the city's business improvement districts to collect fees on property owners in order to supplement city services like sanitation pickups, security patrols, and installation of street furniture. In 1980, Mr. Biederman was working as an analyst for the private management firm that helped straighten out the city's finances after the fiscal crisis when he was selected by city and business officials to direct the restoration of the Bryant Park area.
The Koch administration thought highly of his work there and asked him to apply similar management techniques to the Grand Central area in the mid-1980's. In 1990, property owners along 34th Street asked him to manage their district as well, which he agreed to do without giving up any of his other jobs. His combined salary is now $335,000. He has also explored creating similar districts along 23d Street and in Jersey City, although those attempts have not been successful.
In his first term, Mr. Giuliani frequently praised the successful restoration of Bryant Park, along with the work of the midtown improvement districts. Even now, city officials generally concede that Mr. Biederman's districts have done a good job at their assigned tasks of improving their neighborhoods, although they have accused him of failing to provide required oversight information to the city and of ignoring city rules on competitive bidding.
But about three years ago, Mr. Biederman's reputation began to dim, and the praise from Mr. Giuliani became more faint. In 1995, he was sharply criticized for hiring workers to harass homeless people away from the Grand Central district, and earlier this year, a Federal judge ruled that his districts had violated minimum-wage laws by hiring homeless people as guards and sanitation workers at $1 to $1.50 an hour. A City Council report last year also cited several complaints that Mr. Biederman ignored the wishes of property owners in his district.
Officials close to the Mayor said he grew concerned in the last two years that the districts were becoming too powerful, taking accountability away from elected officials at City Hall. The Mayor has made it clear that he loathes giving up control to any outside entity, let alone to someone making more than twice his salary who controls three districts and who has borrowed heavily to finance major capital improvements.
The beginning of the end apparently came last year when the Mayor reined in Mr. Biederman's ability to borrow money by selling bonds. Mr. Beiderman's protest of this action was perceived by the Mayor as a disrespectful lecture, aides said, and Mr. Giuliani determined to move him aside.
"Maybe we were a little tone deaf, but we did not intend to be disrespectful of the Mayor," Mr. Biederman said in an interview yesterday. "I do a fairly discreet job of running the services of this company and I don't have aspirations beyond that. Maybe I don't understand public sector things as well as I should -- I'm really a just a private BID operator."
The city told the Grand Central Partnership that Mr. Biederman would have to give up two districts in order to have its contract renewed, and mayoral aides said they were angered that Mr. Biederman and his allies would not negotiate the point.
"They thought they could ignore us, and we would just give in to avoid the bad press of shutting them down," said one official in Mr. Giuliani's office. "They thought they could win a power play with this Mayor. I don't know where they've been for the last five years since Rudy Giuliani's been in office."
But Mr. Biederman and Peter L. Malkin, who until recently was the chairman of the Grand Central Partnership, said the city would not negotiate its demand, although the partnership wanted to discuss it in good faith. Mr. Malkin said Mr. Biederman's salary from each district was actually lower than that of other district managers around the city, and said the joint operations of the three districts led to a lower percentage of overhead than other districts.
"The partnership provides the best value for the dollar of any district in the city," said Mr. Malkin, an ally of Mr. Biederman who is a major midtown property owner. "I guess someone at City Hall is unhappy that one person is running so much and acting in such an independent fashion and doing such a good job."
Mr. Biederman, a Republican who lives in Chappaqua, N.Y., said that although he admired Mr. Giuliani, he did not intend to pack up his boxes and leave without a fight, although he declined to predict what would happen next.
"I still think the Mayor has done a great job," he said. "The last thing I ever thought I'd be doing is fighting with him."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL PARTNERSHIP (NYC) BRYANT PARK GRILL (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRAND CENTRAL PARTNERSHIP (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); TRENDS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID; BIEDERMAN, DANIEL; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



683 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Legislature Puts Plan To Conserve Open Land on Ballot

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, July 30

 BODY:
In one of the nation's most ambitious efforts to preserve vanishing farmland and woodlands, the New Jersey Legislature passed a ballot measure today that will ask voters in November to approve borrowing $1 billion to protect half of the state's remaining two million acres of undeveloped land over the next 10 years.
The vote was a major political triumph for Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, who had made preserving one million acres of open space the top priority of her second term. It came just days after members of her own party dealt her a major blow by rejecting her other top priority: an increase of 4 cents a gallon in the gasoline tax, to be phased in over three years, for mass transit and highway projects. 
 Governor Whitman outlined her proposal to preserve open space in her inaugural speech in January to address mounting concern from residents and local officials about the impact of rapid development on the state's landscape and the quality of life in fast-growing towns.
She said she realized that significant steps had to be taken because, traveling around the state in her first term, she could see that much of the state's rural character was quickly disappearing because of development pressures.
Municipal officials across New Jersey had embraced development for years, mainly to expand their property tax bases. But now a growing number of local officials are finding that unchecked growth is driving up local property taxes and causing traffic congestion and overcrowded public schools.
"The people see what is happening around them," said Michael Catania, executive director of the Nature Conservancy of New Jersey, a nonprofit organization that has helped protect environmentally sensitive lands from development for more than a decade. "They see what is being lost."
Although New Jersey voters have strongly supported open-space bond referendums in the past, Governor Whitman said that she would campaign aggressively during the next several months to win voter approval for this measure.
"Future generations will look to the passage of this resolution as one of the most important and defining events in determining the quality of life in New Jersey for the next millennium," she said. "Policy directives will come and go. But the preservation effort envisioned in this program will last forever."
The Senate approved the bill unanimously; the General Assembly voted 70 to 3 in favor, with little debate. Supporters in the Legislature described the resolution as one of the most important initiatives for the state's future.
Last month, Republican leaders rejected Mrs. Whitman's initial proposal to pay for the preservation of one million acres with a gasoline tax increase of 2 cents a gallon. Mrs. Whitman agreed instead to push for legislative approval of a bond referendum that asked voters to consider the $1 billion borrowing plan.
But she continued to fight for a 4-cents-a-gallon gasoline tax increase for transportation projects until Republican legislative leaders in the Assembly canceled a scheduled vote on it this week because it lacked bipartisan support.
Assembly Democrats, who had banded together on Monday to oppose the gasoline tax, considered trying to block the open space legislation today to hand Mrs. Whitman yet another setback. But statewide polls have consistently shown that protecting the environment and open space has ranked high among New Jersey voters' priorities, making the bill politically impossible for most Democrats to dismiss. Democrats, in the end, voted overwhelmingly in both houses for the measure.
Since 1961, New Jersey voters have approved nine bond referendums that have raised $1.39 billion to help protect more than 400,000 acres of land from development. And 53 New Jersey towns and 13 counties have approved tax increases that range from 1 to 5 cents on each $100 of assessed property value to protect undeveloped land.
Over the years, the state has permanently preserved 922,000 acres from development out of a total of 4.8 million acres of land in New Jersey. Preserving an additional million acres of open space, including 500,000 acres of farmland, would mean that almost two million acres statewide -- two-fifths of the state -- would be protected from development.
State officials are looking to provide matching funds to towns and counties that come forward with plans to protect farmland or turn other undeveloped land into parks.
Under the proposal, the state would spend the proceeds from the $1 billion bond issue, along with $450 million from sales tax revenue, to preserve one million acres of open space over the next 10 years. The referendum would not increase the sales tax, but would dedicate sales tax revenue for the land acquisition and for repayment of the borrowing costs. It would take 30 years to repay the debt, which with interest is estimated to total between $2.5 billion and $3 billion.
Phyllis Myers, president of State Resource Strategies in Washington, which tracks state and local open-space programs around the country, described New Jersey's efforts as a "bold move" and said that it reflected a growing effort by state and local governments to respond to concerns about the impact of rapid development in their communities.
Governor Whitman's open-space proposal, and her renewed commitment to a statewide master plan, have caused some concern among developers who point out that they are building residential developments in outlying areas in response to market demand.
Patrick O'Keefe, head of the New Jersey Builders Association, said that the association had no position on the resolution adopted by the Legislature today. He pointed out that the association had supported smaller bond referendums for open-space protection in the past.
"But at some point," Mr. O'Keefe said, "the administration will have to take out a map and show us which million acres they are talking about, and I think at that point, it will be a much more meaningful discussion."
The Governor's Council on New Jersey Outdoors, which recommended to Governor Whitman late last year that the state protect a million acres, has suggested that the state preserve 500,000 acres of farmland, 200,000 acres of open space for recreation, 100,000 acres for watershed protection and 200,000 acres for greenways, trails and corridors.
There are now more than 800,000 acres of farmland in New Jersey, said Maureen Ogden, a former member of the Assembly who was chairman of the Governor's Council. She said the council recommended that 500,000 acres of farmland be preserved because the Department of Agriculture said that a base of that size was needed for the farming industry to remain as a viable part of the state's economy.
Most of the farmland would not be bought outright by the state. Instead, the state would seek to buy development rights from farmers, which would allow them to reap some immediate financial gain for their property while continuing to farm it. By buying the development rights, the state would require that the farmland be used only for agricultural purposes.
"This is the most important environmental initiative of this decade," said Ms. Ogden, who led the campaigns for smaller open space bond referendums, known as the Green Acres program, during her 14 years in the Legislature. "Its importance will only increase as the years go by. We are trying to take steps now to preserve open space before it is no longer available."

GRAPHIC: Map/Chart: "OVERVIEW: A Plan to Save What's Left"
New Jersey voters will be asked to authorize $1 billion in borrowing to preserve one million acres of undeveloped land, more than half the area designated as open space on this map.
 
OPEN SPACE AREAS
Rural orenvironmentally sensitive(wetlands, flood plains, wildlife habitats)
 
HIGHER-DENSITYAREAS
Metropolitan, suburban, fringe
 
OTHER*
 
Map shows areas designated in New Jersey's State Development and Redevel-opment Plan.
 
*Includes bodies of water, military installations and land in the Pinelands, Hackensack Meadowlands and state parks, much of it protected open space.
 
(Source: New Jersey State Planning Commission)(pg. B5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ASSEMBLY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ASSEMBLY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAND USE POLICIES; ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; ENVIRONMENT REFERENDUMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); BONDS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); FUEL TAX (74%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); TAX LAW (74%); TAX INCREASES (74%); MILLENNIUM (70%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (54%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



684 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Business District Vows to Fight City's Order to Shut It Down

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Setting the stage for a legal battle over the rules governing business improvement districts in New York City, the Grand Central Partnership said yesterday that it would seek a court order to block the seizure of its assets and financial records by the city.
Two days ago, the Giuliani administration said it would not renew its contract with the Grand Central group, one of the most powerful of the city's 40 districts, effectively putting the partnership out of business. Without the contract, the group will as of today lose its ability to raise money from district property owners for services like street cleaning and security patrols. 
 Yesterday, Norman Sturner, chairman of the Grand Central Partnership, said in an interview that the city's intentions went beyond denying the contract. The city's Department of Business Services, he said, sent the district a letter ordering it to turn over all financial assets in its "possession or control" to the city. The Grand Central group still has an unspecified amount of money in bank accounts.
"We cannot allow this to happen," said Mr. Sturner, general partner in Murray Hill Partners, a firm that owns several office buildings in the Grand Central district. He said lawyers for the group would seek a temporary restraining order today against any seizure by the city.
"The city is threatening to come in here with armed police," he said. "This is unfair and un-American, and it is time for the courts to determine how much a BID can be separate from the city."
Last night, Michael D. Hess, the city's Corporation Counsel, said the city's rights to the group's assets and financial records were spelled out in the contract.
"We don't intend to seize assets we are not entitled to, but I think a judge will see this is clearly laid out in the contract," he said.
The threatened legal clash came amid harsh criticism of the Grand Central Partnership's business practices by several city officials, including Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who said it had refused to submit to oversight of its financial dealings. The complaints were leveled mainly at Daniel A. Biederman, the president of the Grand Central Partnership, who also heads two other powerful districts in midtown Manhattan, the 34th Street Partnership and the Bryant Park Restoration Corporation.
The administration demanded that Mr. Biederman, who had what city officials said they considered an excessive combined salary of $335,000 a year, relinquish control of two of the districts. Mr. Biederman declined.
In addition, the city said, the Grand Central group refused to respond to requests for financial information and disobeyed rules requiring competitive bidding in awarding contracts.
"They just ignored the city and the Department of Business Services, so it is over now," Mr. Giuliani said yesterday at a news conference.
He added that he hoped a new group would be formed to replace the Grand Central Partnership, one which he said would "have an executive director who works solely for that BID" and would be "more responsive to the overall needs of the community."
But in calling for a new district, or at least new management, the Mayor apparently provoked a call to battle from Mr. Biederman, members of his board and several property owners whose support would be necessary if the group were to be reconstituted. Mr. Sturner said he and the chairmen of the 34th Street and Bryant Park groups stood behind Mr. Biederman, and would resign before the financial records sought by the city were relinquished.
Even though the 34th Street and Bryant Park groups have city contracts running until 2001, recent demands by city officials would severely undermine their effectiveness, he said, since they would be required to abandon a system of shared computers and management procedures controlled by Mr. Biederman.
"The city wants more than oversight, they want control," Mr. Sturner said. As an example, he said, aides to the mayor had said earlier this year that the Grand Central group would be denied a new contract if it tried to increase its budget of $10 million, even though the money for the budget is raised entirely from property owners and an increase had been supported by a 96-to-4 vote of its board, with only City Hall appointees voting against it.
Such questions as how much business improvement districts can intrude on what have been considered city services, and when city oversight crosses the line into government control, have been debated since business groups trying to enhance their neighborhoods and property values first organized districts like the Grand Central Partnership, which was formed in 1988.
At the core of the city's dispute with Mr. Biederman's groups is language in each district's municipal contract. Under the contract, the city's Department of Finance collects fees from the property owners who are members of each district, and transfers the proceeds to the district board.
In return for the city's assistance in collecting money, the districts agree to rules governing oversight of their finances, including how they buy goods and services and what civic improvements they take on.
To what extent the conflict between city officials and the Grand Central group will affect other business improvement districts remained unclear yesterday. But it erupted in the wake of repeated efforts by the Mayor to exert greater influence over the districts, which span sections of all five boroughs.
The mayor's most recent directive came in June, when he ordered all the districts to get approval of more of their plans for hiring, purchasing and for civic projects from the Department of Business Services.
Last year the city also banished the practice, employed by both the Grand Central District and the 34th Street Partnership, of raising money for their projects by selling bonds.
Several executives at the districts said yesterday that the Mayor's actions had provoked widespread anxiety, even though they said they did not expect City Hall to deny any additional contracts.
"You simply can't say anything that might even remotely be construed by the mayor's people as criticism of City Hall," said the manager of a district far smaller than any of Mr. Biederman's who spoke on condition that he and his group remain anonymous.
Still, at his news conference yesterday, the Mayor sought to assure property owners who have supported most of the city's business improvement districts that they still have City Hall's support.
"This is not in any way a suggestion that other BID's are doing anything wrong, just the opposite," the Mayor said. "There are BID's in the city that are doing a terrific job."
Tom Cusick, president of the Fifth Avenue Business Improvement -- the only one of several district managers approached for this article who agreed to be identified -- said he had "no concerns about the BID community in general."
"What is going on now is something specific to the Grand Central Partnership, and it's up to them to work things out with the city," he said. Despite complaints from some other district exectutives, he said, recent demands by City Hall for greater involvement in their affairs had not interfered with their effectiveness.
"Not only do I think the city's actions are acceptable, I think they are good," he said. "If we can't share information we are in trouble."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Daniel A. Biederman says he is mystified by criticism of his leadership. Page B6. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL PARTNERSHIP (NYC) BRYANT PARK GRILL (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRAND CENTRAL PARTNERSHIP (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS LITIGATION (90%); ASSET FORFEITURE (89%); CITIES (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (77%); CONTRACT AWARDS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TRENDS (74%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); BIEDERMAN, DANIEL RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



685 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: End of H.M.O. for the Elderly Brings Dismay in Rural Ohio

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: PIQUA, Ohio, July 26

 BODY:
For the elderly and disabled people of this weary looking city surrounded by cornfields, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield's Medicare health maintenance organization was a godsend.
It bought a motorized scooter for Ronnie Hines, who has diabetes and multiple sclerosis. It diagnosed Dorothy Kloecker's shallow breathing disorder, after many tests, and helped her to control it with daily two-hour walks through the hilly cemetery. It removed the benign but disconcerting lump in Rosie Stelzner's jaw. 
 Anthem provided exactly the kind of aggressive prevention-oriented care that Congress and other health planners envisioned when they opened up the 33-year-old Medicare program to H.M.O.'s and other forms of managed care.
But it did not last long. In late May, just a year and a half after it started its Medicare H.M.O. here, Anthem announced that it was discontinuing the service as of Dec. 31 in 19 Ohio counties and parts of 3 others. The decision affected 18,235 elderly and disabled clients, including many in Piqua (pronounced pick-wah and less often pick-way).
Becky Howe, 50, who has a degenerative joint disease, expressed the view of many of the subscribers when she said:"They gave us life. Now they're trying to suck that life out of us."
Two subscribers have filed a class-action suit in an effort to stop Anthem from pulling out.
Anthem officials said their company, which has successfully operated a Medicare H.M.O. around Cincinnati, about 75 miles south, for three years, found itself over-extended, over-subscribed and under-paid by the Federal Government when it expanded. Its experience highlights the difficulties managed care companies face as they try to extend service to Medicare clients outside the bigger cities -- and the upheaval that results when these companies stumble.
Anthem's retreat, like those of other H.M.O.'s recently from 10 counties in California, 10 in South Carolina and the whole state of Utah, also casts a shadow over the decision by Congress and the Clinton Administration, as part of the 1997 Balanced Budget Act, to steer more of the nation's retirees into managed care.
The goal was to slow the 10-percent annual increases in Federal spending for Medicare and the even sharper increases some expect as the baby-boom generation retires. Encouraging competition among managed care companies for Medicare beneficiaries, they reasoned, would mean more benefits for the elderly and lower costs for the Federal Government.
Here, however, managed care for the elderly and disabled is going, not coming, and in the process it is doing exactly what many critics feared: Building expectations among the elderly, then dashing them, leaving the subscribers angry and confused.
Until just a few months ago, three commercial television channels carried commercials for Anthem Senior Advantage, the Medicare H.M.O. The benefits over traditional Medicare were clear: Prescriptions would cost just $5 to $15; doctor visits $5; there would be no deductibles, no premiums beyond the $43.80 deducted from Social Security deduction for doctors' fee, and no charges at all for hospitalization, and there would be free screenings and free preventive care.
Medicare, by contrast, charges patients 20 percent of doctors' bills and $760 of their initial hospital expenses. It does not cover preventive care or most medicine or screenings.
"I called the number," said Mrs. Kloecker, 77, and signed up immediately.
Mrs. Kloecker told Mrs. Stelzner, 73, who also called. "I asked them, 'Is my doctor in this?' " Mrs. Stelzner said. Assured that he was, she signed up, too.
Along with the television commercials, Anthem sent a sales agent around. He knocked on Dolly Floss's door. Mrs. Floss, 58, is diabetic and has been disabled and unemployable since a patient she was treating as a nurse's aide fell on her back and shattered four disks.
"He said, 'If you think this is too good to be true, wait till you see the other things coming along,' " she said. " 'Eyeglasses, hearing aids, dental.' I could get my testing strips. I'm supposed to test my blood sugar eight times a day." The strips cost $48 for a box of 50, so she had been testing just four or five times a week.
Then the cancellation notice arrived.
Virginia Hirsch, 69, who lives in a 25-year-old mobile home on a Social Security check of $906 a month after losing two husbands to death, said: "I called Anthem. I was very upset. They said, 'Nothing is guaranteed.' I had great faith in Blue Cross and Blue Shield. But that went down the drain. They had never done anything as underhanded as this."
Lawmakers are just as peeved. Gov. George V. Voinovich, a Republican candidate for the Senate seat being vacated by Senator John Glenn, a Democrat, has publicly rebuked the company and ordered an investigation. The State Legislature sharply questioned Anthem officials at a hearing.
Kathy Keller, spokeswoman for the Ohio office of the American Association of Retired Persons in Columbus, noted that managed care had been widely proclaimed as the salvation of the Medicare program, and argued that the Anthem experience should trouble Congress on two counts.
Not only does it erode the elderly's confidence in managed care, Ms. Keller said, but it can also disrupt their treatment, pushing them back into traditional fee-for-service medicine without the preventative care that many H.M.O.'s promise.
Of the 18,235 subscribers affected, 6,500 live in Miami County, which includes Piqua, and five other counties where they are left with no H.M.O. at all. Many of Anthem's H.M.O. subscribers have incomes of $10,000 or $15,000 a year, mostly from Social Security.
Some of Piqua's retirees had Medigap insurance to cover the 20 percent of doctors' fees that Medicare does not, and they gave it up. Mrs. Stelzner expects to get hers back, at a cost of $238.60 every two months. But that will not be possible for everyone affected, and some others whose whose health has deteriorated might have to pay more for it.
Anthem, with headquarters in a new granite and glass suburban office building just north of Cincinnati, acknowledges excesses in trying to enroll Medicare recipients, in part to capture them before competitors did.
Having offered its Senior Advantage program successfully in seven counties in and around Cincinnati for three years, Anthem began expanding to 37 more counties at the start of last year. By the end of the year, enrollment had leaped to 56,000 from 16,000, and it is now up to 63,000.
"We didn't know what hit us, we were growing so fast," said Lynne Gross, Anthem's vice president for government programs. "We didn't predict the high sales in rural areas."
The more beneficiaries Anthem enrolled, the more money it lost, in part because of the Balanced Budget Act, which restrains spending for Medicare. In an analysis of last year's results, Ms. Gross said the company discovered that in urban areas it collected an average of $389 a month in Medicare reimbursements for each subscriber and spent $345, for a profit of $44. But in rural areas, it collected $325 and spent $361, losing $36, with the lower reimbursement rates.
Anthem also discovered that conventional Medicare, with its traditional fee-for-service copayments and deductibles, was a luxury that relatively poor retirees in places like Miami County often shunned.
"We had people saying for the first time, 'I'm beginning to live!"' Ms. Gross said. "Fee-for-service wasn't meeting the needs of these folks. I think managed care in rural communities may have created a demand for care where there wasn't any care before."
Experts say there are cautionary lessons in Ohio for Federal health planners. Congress's new Medicare program greatly expands upon more than a decade of efforts to encourage the 33.5 million elderly and 5 million disabled beneficiaries to enroll in managed care.
Called Medicare Plus Choice, the new program still allows people to choose regular Medicare. But it also lets them choose among a variety of alternatives, primarily several forms of managed care plans.
For each subscriber, the Health Care Financing Administration pays H.M.O.'s 95 percent of the average that the agency spends each year for people who use Medicare's fee-for-service care.
The base rates vary widely by county, from less than $400 a month in rural areas to almost $800 in New York City. To make the lower-rate areas more appealing to H.M.O.'s, Congress set up a formula to shrink the variations, but so far it has not enhanced the economic appeal of rural areas for H.M.O.'s. In addition, Congress limited increases in most reimbursement rates to just 2 percent -- less than the rise in health care costs.
"It is clear," said Senator Mike DeWine, Republican of Ohio, "that Anthem made some monumental mistakes and over-promised what they could do."
But Mr. DeWine added: "It would not shock me if Anthem is just the beginning of this. The preliminary evidence would indicate that there is a bigger issue than Anthem making bad business decisions."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Medicare H.M.O. is leaving Piqua, Ohio, affecting many like Ronnie Hines, in wheelchair, and, from left, Dorothy Kloecker, Becky Howe, Rosie Stelzner, Miyako Francis, Virginia Hirsch and Dolly Floss. (Mark Lyons for The New York Times)(pg. A16)
 
Map of Miami County: A popular Medicare H.M.O. is withdrawing from Miami County. (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 105 P.L. 33 BALANCED BUDGET ACT OF 1997 (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (94%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (95%); UTAH, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (94%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (93%); MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO; UNITED STATES (95%); OHIO, USA (95%); UTAH, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; MEDICARE; AGED HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (95%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); MEDICARE (90%); AGING (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (76%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (72%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); DIABETES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); BUDGETS (60%); BABY BOOMERS (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); CLASS ACTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



686 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Coffers Full, Massachusetts Slashes Taxes

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: BOSTON, July 30

 BODY:
How is this as a measure of the monetary euphoria sweeping statehouses across the country lately? Even here, in the state derided not so long ago as Taxachusetts, Acting Gov. Argeo Paul Cellucci signed a $19.5 billion budget today that incorporated part of a brand new, multiyear, $770 million tax cut, the largest in the state's history.
And one of Acting Governor Cellucci's biggest end-of-session fights with the Democratic-dominated Legislature is over whether its leadership's proposal for an additional one-time $200 million tax cut is enough. He is pushing for $650 million more in tax cuts, so that most of the state's nearly $1.1 billion surplus from the 1998 fiscal year will go right back to taxpayers. 
 "Any attempt to spend that surplus, I intend to veto," he said this afternoon after signing the budget for the 1999 fiscal year, "because I want that money to go to tax relief."
Truth is, the sniping old label of Taxachusetts (and occasional accompanying references to the Pay State instead of the Bay State) have been outdated for years, made obsolete mainly by the fiscal discipline introduced by former Gov. William F. Weld in the early 1990's.
Once the heaviest-taxing state in the nation, Massachusetts now imposes the eighth-highest tax burden on its residents, said Barbara Anderson, probably the state's best-known anti-tax advocate. Its income tax still rivals New York's for the top position, though, Ms. Anderson said.
But like many other states in these hearty economic times and this dawning election season, the state's revenue windfalls are turning into stunning tax cuts as rainy-day funds fill to the brim and ambitious new spending remains widely unpopular for almost everything but education. According to a recent survey by the National Conference of State Legislatures, 19 states cut taxes in the fiscal year beginning July 1, as budget surpluses reached new highs.
Under the tax-cut plan that the Republican Acting Governor signed into law last week, taxpayers' personal exemption on earned income is doubled, and the "investment income tax" -- tax paid on income from interest and investments -- is reduced to the same level as earned income, 5.95 percent, from 12 percent.
So rosy is the Massachusetts tax picture, and so quiescent the state's once-overburdened taxpayers, that Ms. Anderson and her Coalition for Limited Taxation and Government -- the group behind the landmark 1980 voter-approved cut in the state property tax known as Proposition 2 1/2 -- raised the question recently of whether they should disband.
Their membership had dropped, and they had just suffered a most painful defeat, failing by just a few signatures to gather the support needed for a ballot initiative on lowering the state income tax to 5 percent from its current level of almost 6 percent.
Announcement of the coalition's possible imminent dissolution brought a rush of support, Ms. Anderson said today, but its future remains unclear.
A McCormack Institute-University of Massachusetts poll in January found that when offered the option of returning the budget surplus to taxpayers or paying off state debt, only 40 percent supported returning the money to taxpayers, while 31 percent wanted to pay off state debt and 11 percent said both.
Opinions remain even further divided; some argue the tax cuts are simply going too far.
Ms. Anderson found the current tax cuts unimpressive, falling well short of the fundamental change she believes is needed and allowing a continued rise in spending that she expects to keep rising until the next fiscal crisis.
"We're all supposed to be grateful because they're letting us keep some of our own money," she said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BAY STATE PRESS (55%); TAXACHUSETTS ACTING (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAXACHUSETTS ACTING (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS; UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); VETO (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); REFERENDUMS (75%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); HISTORY (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); BALLOTS (63%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY; CELLUCCI, ARGEO PAUL (ACTING GOV) BARBARA ANDERSON (90%); PAUL CELLUCCI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



687 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE OVERVIEW;
PROSECUTORS SEEK TESTING FOR DNA IN LEWINSKY DRESS

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr. and JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30

 BODY:
Prosecutors are seeking genetic testing of a dress belonging to Monica S. Lewinsky that she says contains physical evidence of a sexual encounter with President Clinton, lawyers close to the case say.
Ms. Lewinsky turned the dress over to the office of the Whitewater independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr, on Wednesday, lawyers said. It had been kept for the past several months in the New York apartment of Ms. Lewinsky's mother, Marcia Lewis, putting her in jeopardy of an obstruction-of-justice charge for concealing evidence that prosecutors had sought in a search of Ms. Lewinsky's Watergate apartment this year. 
 Ms. Lewinsky and Ms. Lewis were given sweeping grants of immunity from prosecution this week in exchange for providing full accounts of Ms. Lewinsky's relationship with the President. They also agreed to turn over evidence, including the dress and answering machine tapes containing messages to Ms. Lewinsky from the President, the lawyers said.
The messages were innocuous, said a lawyer who had heard them. In one, just before Christmas last year, the President told Ms. Lewinsky that the brother of his private secretary, Betty Currie, had died. In another, the lawyer said, Mr. Clinton said: "Hey, it's me. Sorry I missed you."
Ms. Lewinsky met for several hours with prosecutors at an undisclosed location this afternoon in preparation for her grand jury testimony, which could begin as early as next week.
The President has maintained a resolute silence on the Lewinsky matter since late January, when he vehemently denied having had a sexual relationship with Ms. Lewinsky and said he had not told anyone to lie under oath.
The President's decision to submit to questioning, which was announced on Wednesday, came after numerous requests from Mr. Starr over several months, culminating in a subpoena issued on July 17. Many of the President's advisers urged him to resist or ignore the subpoena, but he decided that giving testimony now was the quickest way to conclude the investigation.
But even though the grand jury will hear Mr. Clinton's testimony two weeks from Monday, there is no sign that the President is prepared to speak publicly on the matter. Much depends on what Ms. Lewinsky tells the grand jury when she testifies and whether other testimony and physical evidence backs her up.
Ms. Lewinsky's dress is expected to be sent to an F.B.I. forensics laboratory for DNA testing to determine whether there is a stain containing Mr. Clinton's semen, as lawyers familiar with the case say that Ms. Lewinsky has asserted.
Mr. Clinton made no reference to the Lewinsky matter on a trip to North Carolina today, ignoring shouted questions and not addressing the issue in a speech on the environment or later at a political fund-raising dinner.
Michael D. McCurry, the White House press secretary said the President was scheduled to make an announcement on the economy on Friday in the Rose Garden and might take questions from reporters, who would almost certainly ask about the revelations of the past several days.
But Mr. McCurry said Mr. Clinton had no intention of speaking to the press or the American public in any detail in the next two weeks about his relationship with Ms. Lewinsky or about any of the other questions arising from the monthslong perjury and obstruction-of-justice investigation being conducted by Mr. Starr.
"We've all talked about it," Mr. McCurry said. "He clearly has to testify and he has to stay focused on that. Until we know what the testimony is, none of us is in a position to give advice on what he should say publicly."
Prosecutors first learned of the existence of a dress that might be evidence in the case from tape recordings surreptitiously made by Linda R. Tripp of conversations with Ms. Lewinsky, a lawyer with knowledge of the tapes said today. It is not known whether Ms. Lewinsky laundered the dress before sending it to her mother.
If semen is found on the dress, prosecutors would then probably seek a saliva or blood sample from the President to determine if the DNA matched. The tests are extremely reliable, said prosecutors and defense lawyers who use DNA testing in trials.
Such a stain would retain DNA material for many years, unless the dress had been cleaned with detergents, said experts in DNA testing. Dry cleaning alone would not remove it, nor would storage under poor conditions, they said.
With modern instruments and computers, matching could also be completed in a matter of days, said Barry C. Scheck, a prominent New York defense lawyer and an expert on genetic testing. He served as a consultant for the defense in the O. J. Simpson murder case.
"If there is no sperm on the dress, that's the end of the hysteria," Mr. Scheck said. "If there is, there is no legal basis for the President to resist giving a DNA sample, a simple swab from the inside his cheek."
To keep the results secret until Mr. Clinton's Aug. 17 testimony to set a "perjury trap" for the President would be unfair to Mr. Clinton and bad for the nation, Mr. Scheck said.
Mr. Starr, stung by accusations that his office had disclosed sensitive grand jury material to news organizations, issued a two-sentence statement today with Ms. Lewinsky's lawyers denying that members of his staff were the source of news accounts this week about Ms. Lewinsky's proposed testimony.
It was reported this week that Ms. Lewinsky told members of the independent counsel's office that she had had a sexual relationship with Mr. Clinton. It was also disclosed that Ms. Lewinsky was willing to testify that she and Mr. Clinton had agreed that they would deny the relationship to keep it private.
The procession of witnesses before the grand jury continued today, with seven Secret Service officers appearing before two separate panels at the Federal courthouse.
Mr. Starr has sought the officers' testimony to determine whether or when Mr. Clinton and Ms. Lewinsky were alone together in the White House.
On Capitol Hill, Representative Henry J. Hyde, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said the panel was "as prepared as we ever will be" should there be an impeachment inquiry based on a report from Mr. Starr.
But in a sign that the committee did not expect a report this month, officials began approving vacations for staff members for August.
Mr. Hyde said the House was "not bound" by Mr. Starr's report, and he added that the Judiciary Committee might decide to obtain evidence itself.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: RECORDINGS (AUDIO); IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION; ETHICS EVIDENCE (91%); GENETIC SCREENING (90%); LAWYERS (90%); DNA (90%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (90%); FORENSICS (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); TEST LABORATORIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GRAND JURY (89%); DNA TESTING (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); IMMUNITY (79%); ETHICS (75%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (73%); FUNDRAISING (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (61%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (61%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); VAN NATTA, DON JR; BRODER, JOHN M; LEWINSKY, MONICA; LEWIS, MARCIA; STARR, KENNETH W BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998



688 of 688 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Beverly Hills Journal;
Once Again, Tinseltown Brings Down the House

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., July 30

 BODY:
The big Tudor house on the corner was not exactly the old Granville place in "It's a Wonderful Life," and the man who lived there for nearly 50 years until he died last summer was named James Stewart, not George Bailey. But 918 North Roxbury Drive, with its towering trees, wide lawn and walled English garden, was a landmark on a leafy street where the neighbors included Lucille Ball, Jack Benny and Ira Gershwin.
Now the house, which was sold in the spring for $5.6 million, is gone, demolished over the last three weeks by its new owner to make way for an Italian-style villa twice as big, and all that remains is a hole in the ground. It is just one of the latest casualties in that affluent Tinseltown tradition, the "teardown." 
 "I'm haunted by the knowledge that this house will be torn down the minute I die," said Albert Moxie, an 86-year-old retired history professor at U.C.L.A. who has lived next door to the Stewart house since 1929.
The latest demolition was no surprise to Mr. Moxie: the house on the other side of his was torn down after its owner, Pandro Berman, who produced the Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers musicals at R.K.O., died two years ago, and a new house is just being finished there.
"In good economic times, people are willing to do teardowns because they say, 'I want exactly what I want, and I don't want anything less,' " said Fred Sands, a leading luxury real estate broker here. "During a recession, people will do some remodeling. But for many people now, it's simply the price of admission: you buy it, and you tear it down."
Mr. Sands should know. Last year he sold O. J. Simpson's old house in Brentwood for nearly $4 million, after the bank that foreclosed on it had spent $200,000 on elaborate renovations to make it more attractive. This week the new owner, an investment banker named Kenneth Abdalla, sent in bulldozers to reduce it to rubble.
"The reality is it was somewhat dated, and it was still subpar for a $4 million house," Mr. Sands said. "The second-story master suite wasn't what it should be for today's environment. The buyer brought in the architect and talked about gutting the second floor but then decided he might as well take the whole thing down."
In most markets, spending $4 million or $5 million on a dwelling only to demolish it would be unheard of. But in affluent areas like Beverly Hills or Silicon Valley, where land is precious and parcels like the Stewart family's 1.4-acre plot almost never come on the market, the lure is irresistible.
"It's a trend in major metropolitan markets where the land is in acute short supply and the prices are high," said Gopal Ahluwalia, director of research for the National Association of Homebuilders in Washington. "It was much more common 5 or 10 years back, and then land prices diminished somewhat, and now they're on the upswing again. It's the culture of this country. Here people move pretty fast."
Few of Mr. Simpson's former neighbors were distraught at the demise of his house at 360 North Rockingham Avenue. It had been a magnet for curious tourists since he was arrested there four years ago and charged with the murder of his former wife Nicole Brown Simpson.
But on Mr. Stewart's old stretch of Roxbury Drive, neighbors like Rosemary Clooney, who since 1953 has lived just up the street in the house where the Gershwin brothers wrote "Love Is Here to Stay," mourned the end of an era. Ms. Clooney and her husband, Dante DiPaolo, returned from an out-of-town trip a couple of weeks ago to find the Stewart house flattened.
"If only we'd known," the singer said. "We'd have taken a brick or something."
Greg Paul, the lawyer for the Stewart estate, said, "I think it's fair to say the family's preference would have been to leave the house standing and perhaps renovate it in some fashion, but they fully understood that the buyer had the absolute right to do it."
The property's new owner, Steven Wallace, who founded Pacific Brokerage Services, an on-line discount brokerage that he sold to Mellon Bank last summer, was unsentimental about his acquisition, which was built in 1928 by the director King Vidor.
"The house was just a dump," Mr. Wallace said in a telephone interview. "How he could have lived there, I don't know. There were cracks everywhere. The gardens were magnificent, but when I looked at it, I said: 'Why buy it? It's a total teardown.' "
In the end, it was the large corner lot that seduced Mr. Wallace, who already lives on the street, just up the block from Ms. Clooney, but wanted a bigger place. He plans a 12,800-square-foot house with a three-car garage to replace the old 6,300-square-foot house.
"It'll be kind of an Italian villa," said Mr. Wallace, who has hired the Stewarts' longtime maid as his own. "It'll look old, but be new."
The twist is that Mr. Wallace can build so big a house only because more than 30 years ago Mr. Stewart himself doubled the size of his property by buying the house next door and tearing it down to build his beloved garden.
"It's all relative," Mr. Wallace said.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 5, 1998, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on July 31 about the demolition of the actor James Stewart's house in Beverly Hills misidentified a next-door neighbor. He is Albert Hoxie, not Moxie.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Beverly Hills home of James Stewart is now just a vacant lot, another victim of wealthy Californians' custom of spending perhaps $5 million for a house and then tearing it down to build a new one. (Jill Connelly for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (74%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEVERLY HILLS (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; BRENTWOOD (CALIF); ; UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; DEMOLITION REAL ESTATE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); HISTORY (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); FORECLOSURE (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); INVESTMENT BANKING (68%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; STEWART, JIMMY; SIMPSON, O J; WALLACE, STEVEN JACK BENNY (57%); LUCILLE DESIREE BALL (57%); FRED ASTAIRE (55%); GINGER ROGERS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1998

 
