

201 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: WORKING;
Someone Has To Be an Adult

BYLINE: By MICHELLE COTTLE; Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer.

 BODY:

Q. I belong to two work teams that can't seem to get along. I am frequently asked to choose sides in their disagreements. Sometimes, all I have to do to raise the ire of somebody on one team is to mention the name of a member of the other. Any suggestions?
 
A. My condolences. As any parent could tell you, what your co-workers clearly need is a timeout. The boss should put them all into a corner until they learn not to turn their professional differences into a midlife version of playground warfare. 
 Barring such intervention, however, your best bet is to stay neutral, said Andrew J. DuBrin, a professor of management at the Rochester Institute of Technology's business college and the author of "Winning Office Politics" (Prentice Hall Trade, 1990). Trying to appease both factions -- by pretending that you're on the side of whoever happens to be grousing in your office -- only fuels the conflict, and is likely to catch up with you eventually.
Refusing to take sides should not be confused, however, with ignoring the problem. When conflict arises, feel free to voice your opinion of the merits and weaknesses of each side's position, he said, but take pains to remain as detached as possible. In time, people will understand that you are putting the company's interests first -- and they may even come around to your way of thinking.
In other words, by behaving like the one grown-up in this crowd, you may ultimately shame your colleagues into better behavior. At the very least, they'll realize that they can't use you as a sounding board for their whining.
If people continue to push you to take sides, gently push back, Mr. DuBrin advised. Tell them you realize that the two teams don't get along well, and ask them what they want you to do about it. This will challenge them to come up with constructive proposals or, failing that, to get off your case.
Do not feel obliged to assume the role of playground monitor. You shouldn't have to mediate among adults, said Elaine Duffy, a psychologist specializing in organizational effectiveness.
You can talk with team members individually, telling them you've noticed that the conflict is beginning to set them back in achieving their goals, said Ms. Duffy, who is also a consultant with Learning Systems International in Providence, R.I. But don't confront them, because then you will only receive angry responses.
Above all, don't beat yourself up if relations don't improve. You've done your best, and blaming yourself for other people's pettiness can only be self-defeating.
However, if the situation deteriorates to the point where you fear that your own performance is suffering, don't hesitate to take the matter upstairs. There's no reason that you should have to stay after class just because the other boys and girls refuse to play nice.
Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer. Each week, she will respond to readers' questions about career and workplace issues. Send them by E-mail to working@nytimes.com or by mail to Working, Money & Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: LEARNING SYSTEMS SCIENCES (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%); 

PERSON: COTTLE, MICHELLE MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



202 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / New Jersey;
In Long Branch, an Anchor for Redevelopment Area

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
OVER the last decade there have been several proposals to turn a shoreline tract in Long Branch into housing. But none materialized and the site, a small portion of which is used as a parking lot for beachgoers, has remained undeveloped.
Now new owners expect to start work this month on transforming the 9.2-acre tract at the southeast corner of Ocean and Brighton Avenues into a $30-million luxury residential enclave. Called Renaissance on the Ocean, it will have 87 residences, ranging from condominium apartments to town houses and single-family detached homes priced from $375,000 to $1.9 million. 
 Using bank financing and its own equity, Renaissance Construction, of Neptune, will develop the project, which has all its local approvals but is awaiting state approval. It will rise in the West End neighborhood of the Monmouth County seashore city of 29,000 residents, not far from a 150-acre oceanside district targeted by Long Branch for residential and commercial redevelopment.
A group of New Jersey investors -- including the principals of Renaissance Construction, Charles Silberberg and Michael Gohar -- bought the property for $2.3 million last year. The seller, the DeMatteis Organizations of Uniondale, L.I., had proposed several of the earlier unrealized housing projects on the site, including one for three towers with a total of 330 condominium units and another for 125 town houses.
Mr. Silberberg, executive vice president at Renaissance, said that among the reasons for the purchase were the limited supply of oceanfront land and the pent-up demand for "quality upscale housing" at the water's edge. He pointed to the successful sales campaign of the nearby 55-unit Villas at Harbor Island town-house project, where over the last year all but six units have been sold at prices ranging from $250,000 to $500,000.
Location was another reason. The city's West End neighborhood is less than a mile from Deal to the south, where some homes cost in the millions of dollars. And a mile to the north is the 150-acre oceanfront redevelopment district, part of Long Branch's five miles of shoreline, where an effort is being made to inject new economic life into the city.
Long Branch was a grand summer resort until the 50's when residents and businesses started leaving for shore communities farther south. The years that followed brought one revitalization plan after another that ran afoul of local politics, economic pressures or community opposition. While the mid-80's building boom brought a spate of development, including a 250-room hotel and some 500 condominium units, prosperity continued to elude the city.
Determined to turn the situation around, city officials together with residents and business groups, known as Long Branch Tomorrow, approved a redevelopment plan in 1996 for the mostly desolate oceanfront strip. It envisions a new village on the site that would have 1,300 market-rate residences, and 600,000 square feet of commercial space.
The plan also calls for some $20 million in public investment for such improvements as resanding and extending the city's beach, a project that is now nearing completion under an Army Corps of Engineers program.
In addition, Ocean Boulevard will be redesigned to help reunite the oceanfront with the rest of Long Branch. And an old amusement pier, shut down after a fire, has been razed by the city, which is negotiating with private investors to rebuild it into a commercial and entertainment center, said Carl Turner, planning director for Long Branch.
THE difference between the 1996 plan and earlier proposals, Mayor Adam Schneider said, "is that it opened up the planning process to the public, creating a public-private partnership and an environment where economic investment makes sense."
The plan also is consistent with state regulations for developments in the coastal region, extending along shorefront and inlets for 127 miles south of Raritan Bay in Perth Amboy. But the state has made an exception for Long Branch.
The state regulations -- governed under the 1973 Coastal Area Facility Review Act -- require developers to obtain a permit for most projects from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection in addition to local approvals.
In the case of Long Branch, however, the environmental agency amended its regulations to include what is known as "the Long Branch rule." Under it, the state last summer agreed to allow the city to approve projects within the redevelopment district, though the state retains veto power, said Raymond E. Cantor, assistant commissioner at the department's Office of Land-Use Management and Compliance, which oversees coastal development.
The result is that with city approval alone needed, subject to state veto, the review process is expedited, Mr. Cantor said, adding that the Long Branch rule "is viewed as a model that can be replicated."
Mr. Turner, the Long Branch planning director, said the city would consider tax abatements and other incentives, including helping developers acquire sites, to draw investment to its shoreline.
He also said the city had entered memorandums of understanding with developers for three projects that would produce 80,000 square feet of retail space and about 875 residences and that construction of the commercial project could start by next year. He said the operators of the existing hotel, the Oceanplace Conference and Resort, also hope to undertake an $8 million expansion and renovation project and to build a second building, for which approvals are in place.
"The goal," added Mayor Schnieder, "is not for Long Branch to be just a summer resort, but to become both a destination and a place to live by the ocean that has a year-round economy." He said estimates were that the plan, if realized, would take about 10 years, represent a $150 million investment and generate more than $3 million in new tax revenue a year.
Though not in the redevelopment area, the Renaissance on the Ocean project, along with the nearby 55-unit townhouse development, is considered crucial to the city's revival. "Both are anchors for the southern end of the redevelopment district," Mr. Turner said.
Mr. Silberberg, of Renaissance Construction, said while earlier plans for the site called for a greater number of residences, "we felt a lower-density, upscale project would be more attractive and more successful." What sells is ocean views, he said, noting that all the residences would have balconies and that most would have views of the water.
To meet the state's requirement for public oceanfront-view corridors the developers reconfigured the buildings on the site and scaled back the project from 90 units to its current size. Because part of the site was used for public parking for about 50 cars another concern from the state -- as well as a local surfers' group -- is the loss of those spaces.
So Mr. Silberberg said Renaissance would provide 34 parking spaces along Brighton Avenue for public use and is making a $100,000 contribution to the city to buy land in the neighborhood to create more parking.
Despite the recent gyrations of the stock market he said his company was proceeding with the project because the fundamentals of the housing market remain strong and the still-low mortgage interest rates have helped offset buyer uncertainty. Since sales opened in June, nonbinding reservations of $2,500 have been taken on 50 of the 87 units.
The project, designed by James J. Monteforte of Neptune, will contain two four-story buildings, one with 18 simplex and 20 duplex condominiums, the other with 8 simplexes and 8 duplexes. They will have two to four bedrooms and 1,920 to 2,838 square feet. There is also underground parking. Prices range from $285,000 to $625,000.
There will also be 26 town-house style condominiums, each with three bedrooms and 1,920 to 2,320 square feet of space. Some will have garages, others will have basements and garage parking. Prices range from $375,000 to $795,000. The project will also offer five single-family detached homes with 3,300 to 4,400 square feet priced from $1.5 million to $1.9 million and two attached houses, each with 2,320 square feet and priced at $950,000.
The architecture of the project is classic Southwestern style -- ivory-colored stucco facades with mission tiled roofs. Amenities include a 2,324-square-foot clubhouse, an outdoor swimming pool and a tennis court. Monthly maintenance fees are expected to be $318 to $610.
The project has been attracting empty-nesters, young families, and baby boomers who are "thinking of retiring and of enjoying life," Mr. Silberberg said. He added that the project would be built over the next two years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Model of 87-unit Renaissance on the Ocean planned for Long Branch.
 
Map.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (83%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: RENAISSANCE CONSTRUCTION THE DEMATTEIS ORGANIZATIONS (83%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: RENAISSANCE CONSTRUCTION MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG BRANCH (NJ); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); RESORTS (71%); CITIES (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); POLITICS (69%); SALES & SELLING (63%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



203 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / Connecticut;
Bridgeport Turns to Waterfront to Spur Economy

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
AFTER more than 30 years of grinding depression, failed attempts at urban renewal and dashed hopes for a casino, Bridgeport is now reclaiming its decaying waterfront in an effort to stimulate its economy.
It is replacing deteriorated industrial buildings and substandard housing with Harbour Place, a $1-billion, 3-million-square-foot commercial and retail project designed to attract tourists and generate economic activity in the surrounding area. 
 Capitalizing on the public's affinity for the sea and maritime environments, as demonstrated in the success of waterfront developments in Portland, Me., Portsmouth, N.H., Boston and Baltimore -- as well as Norwalk -- the city began acquiring 38 properties for the first 30-acre phase of the project last June. Demolition of existing buildings and relocation of residential and commercial owners and tenants is expected to be completed in December. Completion of the entire project could take 10 years.
The site is a 52-acre peninsula bounded by Interstate 95, the Pequonnock River, Yellow Mill Pond and Bridgeport Harbor. It is just across the Stratford Avenue bridge from downtown. "This will be a huge boon for the city," said Joseph P. Ganim, Bridgeport's Mayor since 1991.
The first phase of Harbour Place will be a 1.3 million square foot retail mall with restaurants, a 20-screen movie theater and a large-screen IMAX theater. Construction is expected to begin in about 18 months and an opening is planned for the fall of 2002.
The rest of the site would include an Early American "village" with restaurants, shops, a fishing pier, a waterside esplanade, a 400-room hotel and conference center next to a 250- suite hotel, a maritime museum and amphitheater, a fitness and wellness center and a 6,500-space parking garage.
Amenities envisioned at the shoreline or in the water include a marina, a docked ocean liner converted to a hotel, restaurant and nightclub, cruise ships, water taxis, a high-speed passenger ferry service to Manhattan and La Guardia airport and, possibly, two office buildings with parking for an additional 3,000 cars and a helicopter pad.
The plans, submitted by the Conroy Development Company of Greenwich, won the city's approval over two other short-list competitors "because of its scope and magnitude," said Mayor Ganim.
"We brought together a variety of destination uses that would make Bridgeport a point of first interest along the coast from Boston to Washington," said Alexius C. Conroy, founder and president of the 13-year-old company. The rival companies on the short list were Hines Interests Limited Partnership of Stamford and Bridgeport Maritime Partners, a joint venture of Collins Enterprises of Greenwich and Dames, Moore & Brookhill, a Manhattan developer.
Partial financing for Harbour Place will come from a $448 million package approved this year by the state legislature for projects in Hartford, New Haven and Bridgeport. Bridgeport will get $130 million of that package, plus a state grant of $20 million. "We wanted to start some entrepreneurship which would uplift depressed areas in cities that are trying to turn themselves around," said State Senator Alvin Penn, a Bridgeport Democrat who is chairman of the bonding committee.
Michael Freimuth, director of Bridgeport's Planning and Economic Development office, said the city would also issue $50 million in general obligation bonds. As the project moves forward property taxes of an estimated $10 million to $15 million a year will be committed to paying off the bonds. Marginal properties on the site now "bring in less than $1 million a year," said Mr. Freimuth.
The remaining $700 million is to be raised privately by the Conroy organization and its partner, Lend Lease of Atlanta, an international real estate and money-managing firm with a regional office in Manhattan. At present, said Mayor Gamin, "the work is moving along at an appropriate pace." And indeed, the few remaining stumbling blocks seem surmountable.
EIGHT appeals from landowners dissatisfied with the city's terms of property acquisition by eminent domain cannot by law halt the taking of property. One lawsuit, filed last July in Superior Court in Bridgeport by the century-old Pequonnock Yacht Club to gain a stay on a city order to move, is "in negotiation on a number of alternate sites," said Russell Liskov, assistant city attorney.
Securing an ocean liner will depend in part on the viability of dredging the harbor to accommodate such a vessel. Still open is the question of how many ferry services the state can support. A new task force on high-speed ferries is studying the matter.
Three ferry services are currently operating, one from Bridgeport to Port Jefferson, L.I., another from New London to Orient Point, L.I., and a summer service from Haddam to Greenport and Sag Harbor, L.I. But interest is high in Stamford, Norwalk and New London in running passenger ferries to Manhattan and the New York airports and to Glen Cove and possibly other points on Long Island. And Captain's Cove, a 19-year-old marina, entertainment and shopping complex west of Harbour Place, has been developing plans for a service with Seaconn, a ferry company in New Haven.
Captain's Cove could lose business to Harbour Place, but Kaye Williams, founder and owner of the popular 15-acre maritime complex, doesn't think so. "We're more of a no-nonsense, boat-building, free-and-easy people place," he said. Two of its main attractions are a reproduction of the 18th century British frigate H.M.S. Rose and the Lightship Nantucket, both open for tours.
On an infinitely grander scale, Harbour Place is also "heavily involved in nautical and historical theming," said J. Thomas Porter, senior principal at the architectural firm of Thompson, Ventulett, Stainback & Associates of Atlanta, designers of the project. "We are planning a large signature lighthouse on the point -- possibly as a restaurant and observation tower."
Along the water, he added, the village of individual shops, restaurants and the fishing pier would be built of wood, recalling the city's early history. The mall will be contemporary but with nautical references in lighting fixtures, decorative accents, directories resembling treasure maps and identification plaques resembling those on ships.
But Mr. Williams, like most people in Bridgeport, feels Harbour Place "will open up the city -- bring more people in," he said. Just as he benefited from the new baseball park at Harbor Yard, he hopes to profit from the Harbour Place overflow. Still, haunted by the city's decades-old identity crisis, he added: "Thank God Bridgeport's smokestacks are gone, but there's still a smokestack mentality out there."
Outsiders driving in on I-95 may admire the People's Bank building, but once past that all they see is power plants, rundown factories, dilapidated housing and mean streets. "The turnpike goes through the worst part of the city, giving people the wrong impression," said Charles Brilvitch, the city historian. "It's a common misconception that Bridgeport is not on its feet."
T HE city's decline from industrial powerhouse to rudderless city brought it close to bankruptcy in 1991. By 1995 it had a $4 million surplus but was still searching for an identity. Its development as a tourist attraction would be a third incarnation since the late 18th century.
"Harbour Place is to be built where a steel mill once stood, giving the peninsula the name of Steel Point," said Mr. Brilvitch. "Before the big industries came this was a major seaport. When the Hudson River froze the goods that came east on the Erie Canal came down through Bridgeport. Farmers brought their cornmeal and cider brandy here, traded it for factory goods and shipped it to New York and the West Indies. There was even a whaling fleet."
Black Rock Harbor on the west side was a shipbuilding port, and Bridgeport Harbor was a prime location for clamming, duck hunting, and oystering. Talmadge Brothers, one of Connecticut's largest oyster companies, is now one of the properties to be moved off the Harbour Place site.
Jose E. Rivera, Jr., his wife, Grace, and young sons, Jose 3d and Hector Luis, must also move. Their house at 23-29 Pierpont Street was condemned by the city. "The closing is on Nov. 22," said Mr. Rivera, "and we have no place to go yet." Surrounding him are other condemned houses and a scrap yard.
People like the Riveras, who are facing displacement, and Mr. Brilvitch who lives elsewhere in Bridgeport, are among the few city residents who are not pleased with what is happening at Steel Point.
"They could have restored the old oyster sheds, wharves, and houses," said Mr. Brilvitch, "but this city has a monumental aversion to historic preservation."
Next year's agenda for Harbour Place lists more land assembly and clearance, relocations, environmental remediation, design and engineering work, dredging, bulkhead construction, and street alignment.
And then, after a few years, Mr. Conroy believes Bridgeport will become a viable new venue for office construction because of "Stamford's constricted labor and real estate market."

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Rendering of Harbour Place in Bridgeport, where demolition is now near completion for the $1-billion commercial and retail complex. (Brian Gas-sel)
 
Map of Connecticut, highlighting Harbour Place in Bridgeport.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (60%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HINES INTERESTS LP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; REAL ESTATE; HOUSING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); MAYORS (87%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); FERRIES (77%); CRUISES (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); RETAILERS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (76%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); RELOCATIONS (72%); HOTEL AMENITIES (70%); FILM (70%); MOVIE THEATERS (70%); COASTAL AREAS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); TRENDS (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (63%); HELICOPTERS (61%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (60%); JOINT VENTURES (60%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



204 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 2; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: Habitats / Bedford Corners, N.Y.;
Bringing a House Back To the Way It Was

BYLINE: By TRISH HALL 

 BODY:
MOST people would have just fixed up the big old house and moved into its sun-filled rooms.
But Robert H. Saunders, a partner in the New York law firm of Shearman & Sterling, was looking for a project. Although he had majored in economics at Yale, and now works in international corporate finance, he has always been fascinated by architecture. Maybe that's what a childhood in a ranch house will do. At any rate, he said, "I had been wanting a significant house by a significant architect." 
 So for several years, he and Linda Mahon regularly set out from their New York City apartment and roamed through New Jersey, the north shore of Long Island, and Westchester and Dutchess Counties, looking for a house to buy. They weren't insisting on a particular kind of style.
"They were all different," said Ms. Mahon, who works in mutual funds at Salomon Smith Barney. "We were just looking for something interesting and authentic that had not been ruined."
Finally, they found the house in Bedford Corners, less than an hour north of New York City in Westchester County, where the lawns are large and rolling and the houses have names.
They were not alone in their enthusiasm for the nine-bedroom, three-story house, called Stonecrest, built in 1879, with its charming stone patio in back and huge beech tree in front. In just three days, five people bid on the house on Croton Lake Road, which was on the market for $875,000. Finally, with an offer of $930,000, Mr. Saunders and Ms. Mahon bought it.
Now, a year after the closing, they are about to begin putting in a new kitchen, their first big construction project.
They have been proceeding carefully because they want to return the house to the architect's original vision, and they have spent a great deal of time in the last year searching for documents that would reveal the house's initial configuration and detailing.
ALTHOUGH they knew nothing of the architect when they bought the house, they have since discovered that it was designed by Eugene Clarence Gardner (1836-1915), who was considered a leading architect of the Stick style, distinguished by gabled roofs and elaborate decorative detailing. He was also well known for his so-called pattern books on architecture and design directed at the general public.
The house, which may be Mr. Gardner's only one in New York, was built in 1879 for Mary Wood, the daughter of the family that owned much of the land in the area, and her husband, Francis Underhill.
It was substantially renovated in 1916 to take out the ornate flourishes that were no longer in style, like the second-story balcony, the porch, the roof overhang and the fireplace mantels. "Anything that made the house seem decorative, they took off," said Mr. Saunders.
Places tend to reflect not only their eras but also their owners, and this one is no exception. Only two families have lived in the house, and the second one occupied it without significantly changing anything. They also seemed to have saved everything, and for the purposes of a restoration, a pack rat is a godsend. In piles of paper left in the house, Mr. Saunders found the architect's original description of how the house should be built.
Outside, he found a dump at the edge of the property where pieces of the original house had been tossed and never carted off, providing another source of information. From the pile he has pulled pieces of wood that once adorned porches, as well as a toilet seat he believes was used in the top-floor servants' quarters.
IN a workshop behind the house Mr. Saunders is piecing together his discoveries, using skills he first developed when he clerked for a judge who had a passion for woodworking. Holding a chewed-up piece of wood that was probably part of the front porch, he said, "This isn't in usable shape, but it gives you an idea of what to rebuild."
Another piece of wood "is an interesting detail," he said, but he has not been able to place its origin. Determining the color scheme of the original house has been easier. He hired a laboratory that analyzed the original paint scheme from some chips taken from the walls.
Mr. Saunders ultimately hopes to have the house placed on the National Register of Historic Places. To help in the restoration, he has visited Gardner houses in Massachusetts, where the architect had his firm, and has hired Eloise Marinos, an architect based in North Canton, Conn., who specializes in restoration.
Ms. Marinos said the chances of getting the house on the National Register were good because dozens of Gardner's buildings are already on the register.
In addition, she said, the Bedford Corners house is one of the few relatively intact examples in New York State of the Stick style, which was popular for only two decades and did not always hold up well because its delicate carved woodwork, when used outdoors, tended to deteriorate.
The house is also in an area where other houses built by the Wood family are on the register, as is some Wood family property that was landscaped by Frederick Law Olmsted.
Although Mr. Saunders doesn't know how much the restoration will cost, he estimates it will take five years. Inside, he and Ms. Mahon will recreate the general circulation plan and many of the decorative details that were lost, including the paneling of various woods in each room, and the mantels.
They will reconstruct the original stairwell, removed in 1916, using diagrams they have discovered in books written by Gardner that Mr. Saunders found by tracking down rare-book dealers on the Internet.
They won't be absolutist, however. "We won't restore the baths to the original state," Mr. Saunders said. "You just decide what the compromise is between modern comfort and historical accuracy."
Many details are still intact, like the hardware on the doors into the second-floor bedrooms. And on the third floor, a big old lead tank, once used to collect water from the roof, remains.
Many of Gardner's moldings have been stripped from the first floor, but they remain on the second, with their complex and fanciful designs.
Although Mr. Saunders began the project wanting simply to restore a house, he has become a Gardner fan. "I think he's a very interesting architect," he said. "He had an unusual and unique style. Not too many architects had his ability to develop a personal style."
The couple will restore the exterior as best they can, including returning the driveway to its original location in front of the house. Right now Mr. Saunders is trying to figure out what covered the original roof. He thinks it might have been slate. And of course, they will remove the aluminum gutters that were added. The gutters "are not the most appealing," Mr. Saunders said.
SOME original details do remain outside, including a block of cement outside the back door that was used as a step to make it easier to get up on a horse. They'll keep that, not only because it is historically correct, but also because Ms. Mahon plans someday to keep horses on the property.
And on an outside porch is flooring of painted burlap, something rarely seen because it was only done in the 19th century, and most of it has been lost to decay or modernization.
Because they are living in the house as they work on it, they have painted some rooms and decorated them in colors they find pleasing. When the restoration is finished, Ms. Mahon said, "we'll try to decorate in period."
On a sunny fall day, Mr. Saunders and Ms. Mahon, like any other couple enjoying their weekend in the country, have lunch on the back terrace, with music drifting out from the house.
Ms. Mahon cheerfully offers a snack to some neighborhood dogs while Mr. Saunders, wearing a cap with the name of the house emblazoned on it, carefully catalogues the details of the house he has uncovered during his yearlong study.
Its reconstruction, Ms. Mahon said, is like a big puzzle. "I'm learning," she said. "But he has the passion for it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert H. Saunders and Linda Mahon at their nine-bedroom, three-story Bedford Corners house, called Stonecrest when it was built 119 years ago. Below, an original sketch; Living room, left, and the view down staircase from the second floor, below. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NQE (AMEX) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: SHEARMAN & STERLING LLP (93%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEDFORD CORNERS (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (53%); 

PERSON: HALL, TRISH; SAUNDERS, ROBERT H; MAHON, LINDA EUGENE CLARENCE GARDNER (66%); LINDA MAHON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



205 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / Long Island;
Quality Rentals for Aging Moderate-Income Tenants

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN 

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD

 BODY:
VISITORS at the 156-unit Riverhead Landing under construction here in a pastoral setting on Middle Road often do a double take. Even though the entrance sign clearly states that the 50-acre development is a "senior rental community" many feel there must be some mistake.
With its 4,000-square-foot clubhouse, outdoor pool, tennis court, putting green and two-story buildings with peaked roofs set amid lush landscaping, Riverhead Landing, whose architect is Greenberg Farrow Architects of Atlanta, has all the earmarks of a for-sale development. 
 "We have people driving in thinking this is a luxury condominium," said H. B. Gianos, president of East End Properties, which is building the project in a joint venture with the Whitney Capital Company. Both development groups are based in Manhattan.
Riverhead Landing is being built under the Federal Low-Income Housing Credit program, a linkage that often evokes resistance in local communities.
The housing initiative, which was authorized by the 1986 Tax Reform Act, reduces the cost of developing rental housing. Developers, in turn, must agree to charge their tenants below-market rents. Tenants can make no more than 60 percent of an area's median income, adjusted for family size, and they pay no more than 30 percent of that figure for rent minus a utility allowance.
At Riverhead Landing, where one member of the household must be at least 55,rents are $679 a month for a one-bedroom apartment, and $826 for a two-bedroom. Tenants pay their own heat and utilities. To qualify for an apartment, household income for 1998 cannot exceed $29,460 for one person or $33,720 for a couple.
The project is demonstrating, as are others being built under the Federal program, that subsidized housing can be not only affordable to people with moderate incomes, but also as attractive and as desirable as market-rate projects, said David Osiecki, a Ronkonkoma land broker who has negotiated deals for developers seeking to build this kind of housing.
Developers say that by building high-quality projects they will have low turnovers and will remain competitive over the long term so that they can make profits despite the below-market rents.
"One of our big selling points is that Riverhead Landing is fully amenitized and is similar to upscale projects," said Thomas G. Granville, the managing director of Whitney Capital.
The partnership has pledged to keep rent restrictions for 30 years, "so this doesn't only have to go through the initial lease-up," Mr. Granville added. "The pool, putting green and tennis court add to the quality of life and when people are looking for a place to go, that makes their decision to come here that much easier."
The clubhouse will include a business and conference center with copying and facsimile machines and computers. Apartments, which range in size from 720 to 871 square feet, will all have dining areas and a laundry room for optional washers and dryers as well as central air-conditioning. French doors lead to a private patio or terrace.
The two entrances to the development will have security gates and each of the eight buildings will also have a security system. The construction company is LSM Development Corporation of Riverhead.
Two buildings with a total of 32 apartments will be ready for occupancy in February, with the remainder to be completed over the following six months. Of the 156 apartments in the project, 49 have already found qualified tenants, and the remainder are being rented on a first-come, first-served basis.
Similar to Riverhead Landing is Eagleview, a 150-unit development under construction in Middle Island by a joint-venture partnership of Roizman Development of Norristown, Pa, and the Related Capital Company of Manhattan, an affiliate of Related Properties.
Eagleview, where occupancy began last weekend, has a pool, a clubhouse, a parklike setting on 42 acres and a secured entrance gate. It has the same income and age restrictions as Riverhead Landing.
Providing a good product makes good economic sense "if you want to maintain tenancy and get good tenants," said Alan P. Hirmes, senior managing director of Related Capital.
Rents at Eagleview range from $750 for a 720-square-foot, one-bedroom apartment to $950 for a 1,200-square-foot two-bedroom and den unit. About 100 of the 150 apartments are still available. The architect of the one-story buildings is GGK Architects of Philadelphia,
ANOTHER over-age-55 development being built under the Federal program is the 200-unit John Wesley Village II, which is also in Riverhead. Rents for the one- and two-bedroom units range from $640 to $750. Amenities include a clubhouse and a pool. About half the apartments are rented. The developer is Benjamin Development of Garden City.
Under the Low-Income Housing Credit Program, developers apply to the New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal for tax credits. Each state receives an annual allowance based on population. New York State's current share is $22.7 million.
Once a developer receives a tax-credit allocation it can sell the credits to an investor or syndicator, which pools them for sale to investors. The proceeds are used by the developer to provide a portion of the cash needed to begin the project. The balance of the development cost is either privately financed by a bank, or through long-term tax-exempt or taxable bonds, which offer below- market interest rates.
Investors become limited partners in the project. Primarily they are large corporations, which purchase tax credits to offset their Federal income tax liability over a 10-year period. Among other inducements is that the dollar-for-dollar credit corporations receive against income taxes is enhanced because credits are purchased at an individually-negotiated discount, The current rate is 65 to 70 cents on the dollar.
In New York State, developers must agree to comply with rent restrictions for at least 15 years, at which point controls are dropped. But many of the projects, Riverhead Landing and Eagleview included, have pledged to comply with rent restrictions for 30 years.
At Riverhead Landing, where development costs will be $16 million, the developers sold $9.5 million worth of tax credits to Related Capital, which is the financial services arm of Related Companies (and also the joint venture partner of the Eagleview development).
Long-term financing is being provided by 30-year taxable bonds insured by the State of New York Mortgage Agency. Key Bank is providing the construction loan.
Eagleview was allocated $11 million in tax credits, which were sold to Related Capital for syndication. The balance of the $18 million project is being financed through a combination of taxable and tax-exempt bonds.
John Wesley Village II, the Benjamin Development project, received a $10 million tax credit allocation and $14 million in financing from an industrial revenue bond purchased by North Fork Bank.
The long, laborious and highly competitive process of winning tax credits and meeting all the requirements of the Federal program is very worthwhile for developers who have attained the expertise and tend to develop many of these projects nationwide, said Mr. Gianos of East End Properties.
"You'll never make the same profit margin as the guy who hits a home run on a condo, but at the same time you'll never go broke if the market turns against you," he noted. "These are more conservative types of developments and much safer bets because there will always be an excess demand for affordable rentals. And at the end of the day, there is a tremendous social upside as well."
Long Island with its high median income (it is currently $70,200 for a family of four) offers great attractions for the tax-credit program, said Mr. Granville of Whitney Capital. Projects for older people are particularly needed because the population is aging, he said. But developers say they are often thwarted because of community resistance against any type of subsidized housing, and especially rental housing.
HOWEVER, would-be residents are often astounded and delighted at the housing they are being offered -- and they are often suspicious that what they are seeing is too good to be true.
At Eagleview, one prospective tenant came in with a lawyer demanding to know what the catch was because "they couldn't believe what they were getting for the price," said Israel Roizman, the president of Roizman development.
"Not everyone is wealthy on Long Island, but you don't treat people as lesser citizens because they don't have a lot of money," Mr. Roizman went on to say. "People applying for our apartments are on fixed incomes, but they don't want to move to Florida away from their families. Why not give them the opportunity to stay here and still have a decent place to live?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Completed rental residence at Riverhead Landing, above. Thomas R. Granville, managing director of Whitney Capital, joint developer, right.
(Photographs by Lois Raimondo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RIVERHEAD LANDING (93%); WHITNEY CAPITAL CO (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIVERHEAD (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; AGED REAL ESTATE (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (88%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (88%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RENT CONTROL (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); FAMILY (73%); TAX LAW (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX REFORM (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



206 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 8; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: VIEWS;
Now Playing: A Grand Movie House Restored

 BODY:
The marquee of the Loew's Jersey has been beckoning passers-by for 70 years. But the lure is no longer first-run Hollywood films seen in luxury; now it calls out for volunteers to scrape off decades of paint, dirt and petrified chewing gum to restore the movie palace.
The theater has been a dominant presence on Journal Square since it opened in 1929, but television and changing life styles contributed to its decline. After several years partitioned into three theaters, it closed in 1986 and was sold to a developer. 
 Preservationists battled to save the theater from the wrecker's ball and in 1993 the city acquired it. It leased the theater to the Jersey City Economic Development Corporation, and the Friends of Loew's volunteer group set out to do the restoration.
A $2 million grant financed the major renovations, but volunteers do most of the work. Now every Saturday, teams of volunteers come into the dusty halls to work. Some are skilled workers, but the most important commodities are concern and sweat. About 100 people come in at least monthly, helping a core group of about two dozen who work there every weekend. They are helped by volunteers from businesses and community groups and students in the film program at New Jersey City University, like Stefan Pietraszek, above, working on seat standards in the main auditorium. He earns academic credit for the work. Closer to the stage, the wooden armrests, right, were being restained and varnished. This volunteer work saved $150,000 out of a grant of $500,000 for the seat repairs, which will be invested in other areas of the theater.
The projection room has been restored, and the elevators for the orchestra and piano have been repaired. Robert Eberenz, a retired sound engineer from Oradell, is the chief engineer. He was able to restore the original light board, projection room and elevator lifts for the orchestra pit, piano and organ. "We had an estimate of $200,000 to repair the lifts, and he was able to get it working with some WD-40," said Colin Egan, chairman of the Friends of Loew's. On a recent Saturday, Mr. Egan, left, hung from scaffolding as he recaulked the marquee, which dates from 1949.
In the auditorium, which once sat more than 3,000, Peter Collen, above right, cleaned some of the original carpeting, which, beyond reuse, will be cut up into squares and sold as souvenirs to raise money.
The theater is expected to be ready for limited use in the spring. The restoration should be complete, including repairing the clock with its figures of St. George killing the dragon, top right, the next year.

GRAPHIC: Photos (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM SIMPSON)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WDFC (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325613 SURFACE ACTIVE AGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS324191 PETROLEUM LUBRICATING OIL & GREASE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2992 LUBRICATING OILS & GREASES (52%); SIC2843 SURFACE ACTIVE AGENTS, FINISHING AGENTS, SULFONATED OILS, & ASSISTANTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: WD-40 CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERSEY CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; THEATERS (BUILDINGS); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; LOEW'S JERSEY (JERSEY CITY, NJ, THEATER) VOLUNTEERS (90%); FILM (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (86%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (86%); FUNDRAISING (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); 

PERSON: COLIN EGAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



207 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 10; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1689 words

HEADLINE: ELECTION '98;
For the Republicans, Mitch Berkey

 BODY:

6/3/98 -- The day after our primary victory. We receive numerous phone calls from friends, relatives and neighbors offering congratulations, good wishes and help in the campaign. For me and my running mates, Mark Fusari and Armond Forcella, the real work has just begun.
6/5/98 -- Exxon has submitted a revised plan to the Zoning Board in connection with its application for a highway-sized service center near Harrison School. This is a curveball. As chairman of Citizens Organized to Promote Safety (COPS), I am one of the leaders of the residents opposing this proposal. The vote is expected on the 9th, based on the old plan. So many are counting on us. I call our land planner and attorney to strategize for the final meeting. 

6/6/98 -- A welcome break for family fun at the annual Kiwanis Karnival sponsored by the Livingston Kiwanis Club. Although tough to get around on crutches with my broken ankle, Mara, Jessy, Jared and I have a great time.
6/9/98 -- The final Zoning Board hearing on the Exxon application. Town Hall is filled. Months of work on the line. Our land planner testifies and we sum up. Exxon rebuts and it goes to the board. The application is denied by unanimous vote! David beats Goliath. Thank you, Zoning Board!
6/11/98 -- Our informal campaign kickoff at Monmouth Court. Mark, Armond and I slip on our new campaign T-shirts and make our first public remarks as candidates. One supporter suggests a campaign slogan to go with my crutches: I can't walk, but I sure can run!
6/18/98 -- Our gala cocktail fund-raiser at the Crystal Plaza in Livingston. Our committee does a great job as the place is packed. We exceed attendance projections by 50 percent.
6/25/98 -- We receive our shipment of new Livingston Town Council trading cards. A political first in Livingston, there are three individual cards plus a group shot. We plan to distribute the collection throughout the summer to children of all ages.
6/29/98 -- Jessy left for sleep-away camp yesterday. Today, we closed on both the sale of our home of 11 years and the purchase of our new home. We are staying put for six weeks as major renovations are to begin at the new house starting tomorrow. Mara is in charge and has the contractors ready to go.
6/30/98 -- As chairman of COPS, I write to the Town Council demanding that it act to prevent overbuilding similar to the Exxon proposal. I provide an analysis of the zoning law and describe the problem areas that could lead to another battle where residents have to defend the integrity of their neighborhoods. I show which zoning law provisions require modification. It's a real concern, but as a candidate for Town Council, I am curious as to how they will react.
7/5/98 -- I'm finally off crutches. At our town's Fourth of July event, we receive a great response to the introduction of our new trading cards. Kids want them and parents get a huge kick out of them. A fun, low-key way to meet and communicate with our fellow residents.
7/13/98 -- Town Hall is packed with hundreds of owners of commercial vehicles concerned about proposed restrictions regarding trucks in driveways. A very emotional issue. The law passes to mixed reviews.
7/22/98 -- We continue visiting the town pools and handing out our trading cards. They have received no attention in our town newspaper. We decide to pay for ads to promote the cards.
8/2/98 -- Another weekend afternoon outside Shoprite. People are friendly and supportive. Our contractors need at least an extra week at the new house. Camp will be over in three weeks. We're still packing. Our buyers need to know when we are moving. What will happen next?
8/10/98 -- The Town Council reacts to a June 30 letter from COPS by introducing a new law that would prohibit convenience stores at gas stations. They follow our suggestions and modify the exact zoning law provisions pointed out in our letter, but make no mention of COPS or our analysis. Still, the result is gratifying.
8/14/98 -- Moving day, at last. Most of the work on the new house is completed, but there are over 100 boxes to unpack. Camp is over in a week and Mara returns to her classroom in two weeks. The kids are each starting new schools. Things are getting hectic.
8/15/98 -- Our 17th anniversary. Mara and I celebrate by unpacking.
8/22/98 -- Mark, Armond and I conduct a voter registration drive outside of Kings Super Market. Lots of new voters and positive feedback.
8/28/98 -- Our one vacation day! Mara and I take the kids for our annual canoe trip on the Delaware. This year we travel with two other families and it works out great. No campaigning or boxes to unpack on the river.
9/3/98 -- The Town Council announces an "agreement" to negotiate the purchase of a site for a possible senior center, a hot campaign issue. The announcement is a bit confusing and the "agreement" nonbinding. Still, it indicates progress. A sign the election is getting closer.
9/6/98 -- A family day at Memorial Pool. It's been an uphill struggle. Except for one weekly photo and caption in the town paper, we receive no local coverage. Meanwhile, each announcement by our incumbent opponents on the Council is reported in detail. Our views will be reported only when all candidates' positions are printed in October. This is a major disadvantage. But we continue our door-to-door campaigning and reaching out directly to our neighbors. The response, from both Republicans and Democrats, is very encouraging.
9/12/98 --Mark, Armond and I work the crowd over hot dogs and pony rides at the Y.M.C.A. open house.
9/16/98 -- Tony Calcado, our campaign manager, presents our schedule and strategy for our campaign mailing. Less than seven weeks to go.
9/17/98 -- Attend County Executive Jim Treffinger's campaign kickoff in Verona. It is a packed house as we see the difference between the crowd for a county executive race and our municipal election.
9/23/98 -- The Newark Star-Ledger prints a nice article about our series of candidate trading cards, saying they are the first of their kind in the state.
9/27/98 -- After visiting the St. Raphael Church picnic, we have a wonderful backyard gathering at the home of Anne and Tony Crincoli. We are energized by the appearance of Congressman Frelinghuysen and many supporters.
9/30/98 -- Yom Kippur. The Jewish Day of Atonement. All campaigning stops for the High Holy Days. In temple all day, I reflect on family, life and the campaign. A friend needles me by asking whether politicians could use an extra day to atone.
That night I open a letter which claims that one of our campaign signs may have been erected on Rosh ha-Shanah the previous week. In a response, we mention that a non-Jewish contractor erected the sign and ask to convene our local Interfaith Council to discuss what extent the non-Jewish world should limit its business activities during the Jewish High Holy Days. The issue is never raised again.
10/4/98 -- Nine-year-old Howard Tilkin faxes an application to be assistant campaign manager. Perhaps the nicest moment of the campaign so far. I tell him he has the job and that his first assignment is to make a campaign poster with crayons and markers. He is very enthusiastic.
10/8/98 -- At a private gathering, we hear from businesspeople firsthand about the lack of economic development, the sewer moratorium and other issues of concern.
10/14/98 -- We visit Bunnie Ratner's house to attend a meet-the-candidates night for officers and directors of the Livingston Youth and Community Services and the Livingston Municipal Alliance Committee. These wonderful groups are responsible for successful anti-drug and other youth-oriented programs in Livingston.
10/18/98 -- We are told by friendly Democrats that our opponents plan to load the audience with personally embarrassing questions at the televised League of Women Voters Candidate Forum this Wednesday. We decide not to go this route and stick to the issues. We are warned to be ready.
10/21/98 -- A full house at the League of Women Voters Candidate Forum. We do extremely well and force our opponents to defend their record. As warned, bombs were dropped during the question period. Armond, Mark and I weather the storm and finish strong. In my closing I joke that, hearing so much legal talk, maybe Shakespeare was right about killing all the lawyers. One opposing party leader sitting only a few seats from Mara says I should be first. All in all, an exciting evening.
10/25/98 -- The day starts at 7 A.M. at the bagel store. Who wants to see a political candidate on a morning bagel run? I wouldn't. . . . Even so, the feedback is great. It's been like that throughout the campaign. Later it's Shoprite, more doorbells and soccer. With all this going on, I've never missed one of Jessy's or Jared's games all season. Keeping it all in perspective is critical.
10/29/98 -- The local newspaper's pre-election editorial comes out. There is no hiding how the writer feels about us and our campaign. Such is life when you are the outsiders fighting the status quo. We are proud of our effort.
10/31/98 -- With only three days to go, soccer playoffs take precedence over campaigning. Jared gets eliminated, but Jessy plays again tomorrow. My friends joke about my blazer and slacks attire at the soccer field as I jump back and forth from soccer dad to candidate throughout the day. I see Howard Tilkin, who says his campaign poster is ready. I invite him to our election night party where he can display it. He is beaming.
11/1/98 -- Back to the bagel shop at 7 A.M. Our opponents arrive at 8:30 for our first head-to-head campaigning. It's fairly friendly as Bill Williams and I joke about getting our lives back soon. Jared and Bill's daughter were classmates. We both coach Little League. Our wives sat next to each other at the League of Women Voters Forum. Just two regular dads on the opposite sides of an election campaign. I return to the soccer fields by 9 A.M. Jessy's team wins two playoff games by shootout to take the championship. In 48 hours, we'll see if I follow in her footsteps.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The candidates for the Livingston Township Council met last month for a debate sponsored by the League of Women Voters. Renee Lane, the moderator, talked with Bill Williams and Mitchell S. Berkey, two of the candidates. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XON (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EXXON CORP (57%); LIVINGSTON TOWN COUNCIL (85%); COPS) I (70%); LIVINGSTON KIWANIS CLUB (68%); ZONING BOARD (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIVINGSTON TOWN COUNCIL (85%); COPS) I (70%); LIVINGSTON KIWANIS CLUB (68%); ZONING BOARD (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LIVINGSTON (NJ); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; DIARIES PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); ZONING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); FUNDRAISING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); CHILDREN (75%); CITIES (71%); LAWYERS (70%); BONE FRACTURES (68%); BUILDING RENOVATION (60%); 

PERSON: BERKEY, MITCH ARMOND FORCELLA (63%); MARK FUSARI (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



208 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 3; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: ON THE MAP;
After 120 Years, the Last Apple Falls, and a Family Business With It

BYLINE: By KAREN DeMASTERS 

 BODY:
As always in November, the last of the apples have been picked and crated and the rows of trees visible from Milltown Road in East Brunswick are losing their leaves. But this fall is different from those of the last 120 years, when L. J. Smith Farms sold apples and cider and got ready for another growing season in the spring.
Soon, this land will be spotted with new houses instead of old apple trees The Matzel and Mumford Organization of Hazlet Township is buying the 49 acres of land and will build 83 single-family homes here. 
 Chet and Margaret Tkach are retiring from the apple business started here in 1879 by her grandfather, George Smith, and they will move to a home on the water in Toms River. Mrs. Tkach recently talked about closing the family business and shutting down the cider stand that had become a traditional destination on fall pilgrimages.
Q. How did the family get into apples?
A. The land was purchased by my grandfather, who cleared it and grew fruits and vegetables. He took first prize for strawberries at the Chicago World's Fair.
I remember apples all my life. When my father, Lawrence, took over in the mid-1930's, this area of Middlesex County was really farm country. There were trolleys that ran between New Brunswick and South River. I remember my father shipping apples to the troops in World War II.
Q. Was the business always apples?
A. The family owned 650 acres in South Brunswick where we had corn, potatoes and peaches, and another 100 acres in East Brunswick. Our family paid for paving Harts Lane because we were the only land owners back here then. But the family started with the basics, apples, and now we are back to the basics. My father was the Apple King of New Jersey.
We had our own retail store. We had other jobs for a while. I was a legal secretary and my husband was a computer programmer, but we were always working at the orchard on weekends.
Q. How much business did the store do?
A. We sold the best apples there. The seconds went to manufacturers for applesauce. We sold apple cider for years. We would sell 200 gallons a day. The day before Thanksgiving was always the biggest day when we would sell 800 or 1,000 gallons. We probably sold 12,000 gallons a year.
 Q. What has changed?
A. The new generation does not cook as much. They don't make applesauce and pies. The only farms that can make it now are what I call entertainment farms -- the ones that have hay rides and pony rides and pick-your-own crops.
There are also too many regulations now. It is just too expensive to operate the business. We used to show kids around the orchard but then we were afraid someone would be hurt. Neighbors complained of spraying. People want perfect fruit, and you cannot do that without a good spray program. Roadside stands are not as popular because the supermarket offers everything people want under one roof.
 Q. Why sell for a housing development?
A. The town did not want to use all their open-space money to preserve just one place. In order to sell the development rights and keep it in farming, our daughter would have had to take over the operation. We all felt it just wans't economically feasible. There was a plan to put a warehouse here that would have had buffer zones, so you wouldn't have even seen it, but some of the neighbors objected, so we sold to a housing developer. This is no longer a farm area. It is a commuter area. People just have to realize things change. KAREN DeMASTERS

GRAPHIC: Photo: Margaret and Chet Tkach on their 49-acre apple farm in East Brunswick, soon to be the site of 83 houses. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

INDUSTRY: SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MATZEL & MUMFORD (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST BRUNSWICK (NJ); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; APPLES; HOUSING; LAND USE POLICIES FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); APPLE ORCHARDS (78%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); STONE FRUIT PRODUCTION (77%); RETAILERS (77%); THANKSGIVING (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (69%); INTERVIEWS (66%); WORLD WAR II (64%); AWARDS & PRIZES (52%); 

PERSON: TKACH, MARGARET; TKACH, CHET MARGARET TKACH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



209 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Will Harmony Follow Campaign Discord?

BYLINE: By PEGGY McCARTHY 

 BODY:
WHILE they are not quite ready to stage a love-in, Democrats and Republicans say they are expecting to work for common goals in the next General Assembly session after elections last Tuesday in which candidates in both parties ran on similar issues: tax cuts, improving public education and increased liabiliy for health maintenance organizations.
While admitting disappointment that the Democrats retained their majorities in both houses of the legislature, the Republican State Chairman, Christopher DePino, predicted good working relations. "Democrats and Republicans mostly sang from the same page of the hymnbook in this cycle. It was hard to tell a Democratic handout from a Republican handout," said Mr. DePino, who was re-elected as a State Representative from New Haven. 
 But other lawmakers warned that if the economy takes a downturn, the cooperation between the parties, as well as between legislative Democrats and Gov. John G. Rowland could be endangered.
Howard L. Reiter, a University of Connecticut political science professor, said that with Mr. Rowland's overwhelming re-election victory, "there's no incentive to kick him while he's up. If the economy starts going down, which is a clear possibility, then we'll see a different dynamic."
Mr. Rowland, a Republican, defeated his Democratic challenger, Barbara B. Kennelly, of Hartford, by a wide margin, 63 percent to 35 percent. But his coattails were lacking. With the exception of a tight contest for State Treasurer, all the Democratic candidates for non-gubernatorial statewide offices, called the underticket, easily won election over Republican candidates.
Unofficial returns showed Denise Nappier, the Democratic candidate for Treasurer, almost 2,000 votes ahead of the Republican candidate, Paul J. Sylvester, pending a possible recount. Mr. Sylvester was appointed to the post after the incumbent Republican, Christopher B. Burnham, resigned. In the race for Secretary of the State, an open seat, State Representative Susan Bysiewicz, a Middletown Democrat, defeated Ben Andrews, a Republican and former president of the state N.A.A.C.P. The Democrat ran aggressive television commercials criticizing Mr. Andrews for personal financial problems.
Two Democratic incumbents, Richard Blumenthal, the State Attorney General, and Nancy S. Wyman, the State Comptroller, were re-elected.
In the state's six Congressional races, all five incumbents were returned to Washington. In the open First District seat vacated by Mrs. Kennelly, a Democrat, John B. Larson, defeated a political newcomer, Kevin J. O'Connor, who had received $60,000 from the national Republican party for his effort in the Democratic bastion.
Representative James H. Maloney, Democrat of Danbury, won a narrow victory for a second term over Mark Nielsen, a Republican State Senator, who had aggressively sought to ride Mr. Rowland's coattails.
The other Congressional winners were two Democrats, Sam Gejdenson in the Second and Rosa L. DeLauro in the Third District, and two Republicans, Christopher Shays in the Fourth District and Nancy L. Johnson in the Sixth District.
United States Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat, won a lopsided victory, 65 percent to 32 percent, over his Republican challenger, Gary A. Franks. Mr. DePino expressed belief that because Mr. Franks was "absolutely trounced in the second spot" on the ballot, it contributed to the Republican losses elsewhere.
While Democrats will control both the State Senate and State House when the new General Assembly convenes in January, there will be some changes.
State Representative Moira K. Lyons, a Stamford Democrat, is slated to become the first female Speaker of the House. Ms. Lyons, who has been majority leader for four years, was re-elected to a ninth term, with no Republican opponent. She would succeed Thomas Ritter, a Hartford Democrat, who did not seek re-election.
Ms. Lyons predicted that because she is breaking a barrier, people will watch her more closely, "perhaps expecting a little more." She said one of her major concerns is economic independence for women, which can be attained with government-assisted child care, scholarships and job training.
Republicans had been concentrating their legislative campaign efforts on the State Senate where Democrats held a tight 19-17 majority going into Tuesday's elections. But the G.O.P. did not gain any seats, and may have lost one in the 22d district which includes Trumbull and parts of Bridgeport and Monroe. Pending a recount, William Finch, a Democratic alderman from Bridgeport, had an unofficial 85-vote lead over the incumbent Republican, Angelina Lee Scarpetti.
In the House, Republicans, who admitted they had a slim chance of winning a majority, ended up not gaining any seats. The 96-55 Democratic majority will remain.
The Senate President pro tem, Kevin B. Sullivan, a West Hartford Democrat, said that Democrats would seek property tax relief and health care changes so that patients and doctors have more say over health care, and that health maintenance organizations have liability for malpractice, which means people would be able to sue them.
Like other Democrats, Mr. Sullivan accused Mr. Rowland of adopting Democratic positions for political expediency, including emphasizing education, environment and aid to cities. "We would hope the Governor would continue to embrace our issues as he has in the last year and a half," Mr. Sullivan said.
The Republican leaders of the House, Robert M. Ward of Branford, and of the Senate, M. Adela Eads of Kent, said their party's priorities include tax cuts, rewriting the education funding formula to provide more money for suburbs, continuing to finance a program to acquire more land for open space, and making H.M.O.'s more accountable.
On the economy, Ms. Lyons, the Democratic leader, said that the legislature needs to do more than maintain its current rainy day fund of $500 million. She said that action should be taken to reduce debt "to assure that in an economic downturn, we're in good shape."
The Democratic State Chairman, Edward Marcus, contended that Mr. Rowland was not prepared in case of an economic slide. "I know he hasn't set out any agenda or initiative to improve the economy," Mr. Marcus said.
But, Mr. DePino, the Republican Chairman, predicted that the state would continue to do well economically because there is a greater diversity of businesses than a decade ago. "I think Connecticut is much better prepared right now for an economic downturn than it was 10 years ago," he said.
Republicans, who began the elimination of the party lever from Connecticut voting machines when they were in the legislative majority in 1985, said they believed that the party lever would have helped them this year with Mr. Rowland faring so well. But removal of the lever, they said, is better for the election process, forcing voters to make clear choices.
Mr. Reiter, the politicial scientist, said, "Republicans shot themselves in the foot when in 1985 they eliminated the party lever." He said it came back "to haunt them this year."
Mr. Sullivan, though, contended that the Governor's campaign was strictly about himself. "I don't think John Rowland's message had coattails," he said.
Elsewhere, a much-publicized ballot question in Bridgeport -- to increase the term of the mayor from two to four years -- was approved. It had been defeated in prior elections. This time, supporters took the unusual step of buying television commercials promoting adoption of the question.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (52%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); TAX LAW (72%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%); 

PERSON: MCCARTHY, PEGGY CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (78%); RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (58%); JOHN LARSON (58%); ROSA DELAURO (58%); CAROLYN MALONEY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



210 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Working Out With a One-Armed Bandit

BYLINE: By BRETT PULLEY 

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS

 BODY:
AMID the hundreds of exhibits at the recent World Gaming Congress and Exposition, no new products better summed up gambling's place in the American psyche than the "Pedal 'N Play" cycle and the "Money Mill" treadmill.
What better way to get the heart pounding and the palms perspiring than to wager money while exercising? The stationary cycle and the treadmill both have slot machines attached, allowing casino customers to sweat and bet at the same time, or as they say in gambling parlance, to "stay in action," even while they're working out. 
 "People are going crazy about this," said Kathy Harris, president of the Fitness Gaming Corporation of Fairfax, Va., the company that created this latest way of efficiently separating gamblers from their money. Ms. Harris pointed out that the machines were wired so "you can't gamble unless you're peddling and you can't peddle unless you're gambling." The company's motto: "Put your heart into gaming."
To visit the gambling industry's September extravaganza, which drew more than 23,000 casino operators, entrepreneurs and government officials from over 100 countries, is to totally forget that legalized gambling itself is undergoing a re-examination by politicians and law-enforcement officials around the country.
The enthusiasm that caused the industry to mushroom throughout the 1980's and early 1990's is slowly giving way to trepidation, as local governments learn that casinos are no panacea for their economic infirmities.
Meanwhile, a Presidential commission is expected to release a report next year on gambling's impact on the nation. And casino operators themselves have even banded together to finance studies about compulsive gambling. The effort of the casino operators has as much to do with controlling the damage that full awareness of compulsive gambling could have on their industry's reputation as with any desire to expose the problem.
Still, studies continue to show that a majority of people support some form of legal betting. A recent survey by American Viewpoint, an opinion research company, and Gtech, the powerful lottery company, found that 7 out of 10 Americans believe that legalized gambling is an "acceptable form of entertainment."
And with one or more types of betting now legal in nearly every state, it is little wonder that the frontiers of wagering were on full display at the gambling exposition.
The cavernous Las Vegas Convention Center was filled with slot machines and table games, wildly colored casino floor carpeting and furniture, the latest technology in automated teller machines and coin counters and the gigantic fake trees, rocks and animatronics that have transformed the nation's gambling halls into alluring wonderlands.
Plenty of new games were displayed, and their enterprising creators used prize giveaways, free beer and seductive models to corner and cajole wide-eyed casino operators and government regulators into giving these new games a home in a casino. At the Digital 21 exhibit, which featured a new game of virtual Blackjack, a model attracted plenty of interest, although many of the players who crowded around her table were clearly having a difficult time paying attention to the cards.
One casino advertising and marketing company even beckoned delegates by packing its small booth with young women in tight clothing and posting a sign offering a drawing for "a free exotic dancer in the privacy of your room."
Among the celebrities at the convention was the pop star Michael Jackson, who has recently expressed an interest in investing in a Detroit casino. Priscilla Presley, his former mother-in-law, showed up to help promote a new Elvis slot machine, which allows gamblers to wager while they watch a video of The King himself in concert.
Within a few days after the convention ended, the Flamingo Hilton in Kansas City, Mo., became the first customer to order the Pedal N' Play and the Money Mill, according to Ms. Harris. Other potential customers are making plans to include the machines inside their casino hotel spas or create exercise areas on the casino floor itself.
And in Las Vegas, where slot machines can already be found at just about every two-bit bar and convenience store, Ms. Harris hopes to do what any health-conscious American entrepreneur would do: convince local health club owners to get gaming licenses and put her company's machines next to the weights, stair-climbers and aerobic exercise floors.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yes, it's for real. This latest gambling device was on display at a recent trade show in Las Vegas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GMC (LSE) (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FITNESS GAMING CORP GAMING CORP PLC (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: FITNESS GAMING CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS (NEV); UNITED STATES (94%); NEVADA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; EXERCISE GAMING (95%); CASINOS (92%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); LOTTERIES (50%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (50%); 

PERSON: PULLEY, BRETT MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



211 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE SHELF;
Bent Out of Shape by Flexibility

BYLINE: By DEBORAH STEAD 

 BODY:
CONSIDER the option offered to many working parents in the brave new "flexible" workplace: the right to earn a part-time salary for the privilege of leaving promptly at the end of a full day.
If that sounds like a bad bargain, there are deeper compromises to contemplate in today's corporate world of flex time, teams and short-term projects, according to Richard Sennett. 
 Mr. Sennett's provocative, and often persuasive, new book, "The Corrosion of Character: The Personal Consequences of Work in the New Capitalism" (W. W. Norton, $23.95), argues that for employees, the re-engineered, routine-bashing workplace is just as bad as the rigid bureaucracy it is replacing. Maybe worse.
All this flexibility, says the writer, a sociologist at New York University, may help feed the frantic product reinvention and short-term gains that our economy now demands. But it is not about personal power or freedom, as advertised. It's just another form of capitalist control: a confusing regime that erodes employees' sense of work, place and self.
To be nimble enough to succeed, he argues, employees are bending themselves too far. Human character cannot develop in a culture that worships risk, uncertainty and a plug-in work force, he says. Character is formed from long-term mutual commitments -- from sustained work, from a sense of purpose and, yes, even from steady routine.
Mr. Sennett, who with Jonathan Cobb wrote "The Hidden Injuries of Class" in 1972, has been watching workers for a while. And he stresses that he is not calling for a return to the days of Draconian work rules and the endless repetition of the same few, simple tasks.
Instead, he wants Americans to retrieve some of the values that stood alongside (or stood up to) the old, rigid way of management.
THIS, of course, is a tricky business, and "The Corrosion of Character" doesn't always pull it off. There's a whiff of nostalgia here, despite the author's protestations.
But Mr. Sennett's argument, which weaves the work of Denis Diderot, Joseph Schumpeter and Daniel Bell into everyday life, is illuminating.
 The book begins with the author's accidental airport encounter with a man he calls Rico, the son of a janitor he interviewed years ago for "The Hidden Injuries of Class."
Rico is a successful management consultant -- safe, it seems, from the kind of dull job his father held and from a life measured in small home improvements and savings.
But independent consulting is unsatisfying, confesses Rico, who was downsized out of an engineering position. He is tired of drumming up clients whose demands have little to do with his M.B.A. training and is unsettled by his four relocations.
His last move, he says, was for his wife's job, but now she, too, is disappointed. She is a manager, but feels she has little control; some of her staff work at the office, some at home and some a thousand miles away, where they are reachable only by computer. Because of her company's rules on how and when to send E-mail to her staff, her flexible workplace affords no flexibility for her.
Rico also worries that his children have no "ethical discipline." They take his success for granted, he says, and seem to be headed into Mall Rat mode. The couple's career paths are too fragmented, he adds, to provide life lessons about sustained endeavors, patience or loyalty.
"The Corrosion of Character" introduces us to other new-economy workers as well. The author returns to a Boston bakery he visited for his earlier book and finds its current employees -- in sharp contrast to their predecessors -- to be indifferent to their work. Their baking, which is now computer-supervised, is determined by the temporary daily needs of their local market niche: they make mounds of bagels one day, stacks of French bread the next. Mr. Sennett, who seems to be simply cranky about the changes at a once-familiar shop, doesn't make much of a case here.
The story of Rose, a smart manager-bartender at the author's favorite New York watering hole, proves more compelling. She follows the siren song of risk-taking and accepts a job at an ad agency. But she feels invisible working on a team that is always collectively blameless and that values soft communication skills over concrete ideas.
EMPLOYEES in the new economy are being cheated, Mr. Sennett concludes.
They lack a usable work ethic, because there is little long-term planning in a work culture that thrives on uncertainty and denies time's "trajectory" into the future. They lack social bonds based on mutual trust, because they're encouraged to hop from project to project. And they lack a respect for sustained routine.
"Today we stand on a historical divide on the issue of routine," the author says, after a bracing dip into the differing 18th-century views of Diderot (it's dignified and necessary) and Adam Smith (it's numbing). In our own century, the author notes, routine, or rather escape from it, has been an "arena of empowerment" for American labor as it fought for fundamental changes in the way work is done.
Are we sure, Mr. Sennett asks, that routine is inherently demeaning? That long-term commitments are stagnating? That flexibility is the same thing as freedom?

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CORROSION OF CHARACTER, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (57%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS ENGINEERING (89%); WRITERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FLEXTIME (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); LITERATURE (75%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (67%); 

PERSON: SENNETT, RICHARD; STEAD, DEBORAH MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



212 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
Energy Plan Gets a Lift In California

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
DEREGULATION of the electricity industry dodged a bullet when California voters thumpingly defeated Proposition 9 last Tuesday, 73 percent to 27 percent, to the industry's great relief. The complex model of competition introduced in California last year is now free to proceed there and in other states.
"The concept has been sanctified," said Dan Scotto, an analyst for Carnegie, Childs & Company. "For two years, many states sat on the fence. They are now going to feel a lot more comfortable going ahead." 
 Combined with the defeat of a similar measure in Massachusetts, the vote was a major setback to consumer groups' efforts to secure bigger rate cuts for consumers while forcing utilities and their shareholders to absorb more of the costs of utility plants that are no longer economically viable after deregulation.
Utilities in California will be reimbursed for most of their $28 billion in these costs, known as stranded costs, under a compromise negotiated two years ago. Consumer surcharges for the reimbursement spurred much of the support for Proposition 9.
The battle drew attention to a process that had been dominated by utilities, politicians and regulators. The large industrial power consumers, who have demanded lower rates, have been the main force pushing deregulation. Residential and smaller commercial customers have had little voice in the process, and few have chosen to buy power from the new unregulated suppliers.
Though the utilities won at the polls, some economists are beginning to question whether reimbursing utilities for stranded costs makes sense. Consumer advocates said that they were building support in spite of the measure's defeat and that they would keep pushing for a more favorable deal for small ratepayers.
"We had two million Californians voting for this," said Harry M. Snyder of Consumers Union, a leader in the effort. "We'll just keep coming at them."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; REFERENDUMS DEREGULATION (93%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (79%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (79%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (79%); REFERENDUMS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



213 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 12; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Acura 3.2TL;
The Luxuries Add Up, Except on the Sticker

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
HONDA -- more to the point, Acura, Honda's luxury-sport division -- has a problem. While the company's smaller cars, everything from the Honda Civic and Accord to the Acura Integra and NSX, are class beaters, its offerings in the hot "entry level" luxury market have been greeted with yawns. The now-forgotten Vigor struck few customers as superior to the less expensive Accord. And the 2.5TL that replaced the Vigor proved to be an overpriced, underpowered bore.
What to do? Acura stuck by the TL name, but transformed the car into a slick performer -- a worthy rival to the $30,000-plus sport sedans from Mercedes-Benz, Saab, Volvo, Infiniti, Lexus and many others. Moreover, on the assumption that half-measures would not be adequate to redeem the brand, Acura priced the new American-made 3.2TL -- last year's models, the 2.5TL and 3.2TL, were imported -- several thousand dollars below comparably equipped competitors from Europe and Japan. 
 Indeed, with a sticker of $28,405 and a long list of standard equipment, the sales strategists for the 3.2TL seem determined to make the car the price and performance leader in this crowded corner of the market.
Get past the bad news: the styling. While the new TL was designed at Honda's studio in California with an eye on the American market, the finished product is still hard to spot in a crowd of Japanese sedans. But that is the only criticism that sticks.
Inside, the 3.2TL is a model of comfort, functionality and cool good looks. The firm, nicely padded seats are covered in lush leather; the driver's eight-way power seat, with lumbar support, is infinitely adjustable. Controls, with oversize buttons and uncluttered dials, are easy to read and use. And thanks to the roomy cabin, the 3.2TL's back seat is a pleasure for two passengers and is perfectly adequate for three.
Virtually every luxury convenience is standard equipment. The front seats are heated. The rear-view mirror automatically darkens at night. The Bose-designed five-speaker stereo, complete with cassette and CD players along with an exceptionally sensitive radio, is superb. The automatic climate control system has a dust filter as well as separate vents for the rear passengers. A power sliding and tilting moonroof, keyless locking, anti-theft protection, side-window defoggers, an outside temperature gauge, steering-wheel-mounted audio controls, high-intensity-discharge headlights -- even a second 12-volt outlet -- are included for the base price. Indeed, the only factory option is a navigation system linked to global positioning satellites, at $2,000. Floor mats, from the dealer, will set you back $109.
But don't misunderstand what Acura has done. While the 3.2TL offers luxury at a bargain price, the engineers were very much in charge of the redesign. They abandoned the oddball five-cylinder engine of the Vigor and the 2.5TL in favor of a zippy, all-new 3.2-liter aluminum V6 with variable valve timing. This very modern power plant delivers 225 horsepower and rockets to 60 m.p.h. in less than 8 seconds, yet manages to go 27 highway miles on a gallon of gasoline.
To complement the new Ohio-built engine, which is exclusive to the TL as of now, Acura added a new four-speed automatic transmission that offers both "grade logic" that alters the shift patterns on hills and a Sportshift function that allows manual gear changes like Porsche's Tiptronic. Less obvious, but equally important, the engineers toughened the front suspension and installed a new rear suspension worthy of a real sport sedan. Anti-skid brakes, 16-inch wheels with low-profile tires and an advanced traction control system round out the package.
The proof is in the driving, of course, and here the TL does not disappoint. The sedan feels big because it is, measuring four inches longer and weighing 200 pounds more than an Accord. But size does not translate into awkwardness. The TL's road manners are crisp, nicely straddling the line between Teutonic firmness and Detroit sponginess. Cornering is a pleasure, with little evidence of the understeer that sends many front-wheel-drive cars forward when the driver wants to turn, or the dreaded torque steer, a wobbly feel in the wheel so common on takeoff in high-powered front-drive cars.
Most drivers, I would guess, won't use the Sportshift much because the automatic transmission does such a good job of adjusting to hills. But this semi-manual mode does offer an adrenaline rush on quiet, twisty roads, where it is practical to keep the engine revving near the 6,300 r.p.m. red line.
Still, the new 3.2TL is not a sports car in sedan disguise. It won't tempt drivers addicted to the more precise handling of a 3-Series BMW or the Audi A4. But the Audi and BMW are smaller vehicles that trade a measure of comfort for performance, and they are less indulgent for long-distance highway cruising. The more relevant comparisons are with the Lexus ES 300, the Infiniti I30, the C-Class Mercedes and perhaps the Cadillac Catera. Here, the TL is second to none, offering more bang for the buck along with the promise of good fuel economy and low maintenance costs.
Someday, of course, someone will come up with a better midsize luxury sedan at a better price. But for the moment, Acura is the top dog in the pack.
 
INSIDE TRACK: Isn't competition wonderful?

GRAPHIC: Photos: The name is the same, but the 1999 Acura 3.2TL is all new, including its 225-horsepower V6. Inside, there is more passenger space and a long list of standard luxury features. The only factory option is a navigation system, below left.
 
Chart: "Midsize Luxury Cars From Japanese Companies" lists features and specifications for selected midsize luxury cars from Japanese companies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (94%); 7267 (TSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP; MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP; MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES SEDANS (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (60%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (60%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (60%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%); THERMAL SENSORS (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



214 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Hold 'Em Or Fold 'Em: Betting On Pairs

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
DEALS, deals and more deals. Despite the summer riot in financial markets, 1998 may be remembered as the Year of the Deal.
New mergers -- and worries about some older ones -- have been on the market's mind. Since the middle of October, when the Federal Reserve cut short-term interest rates for the second time in less than three weeks, a half-dozen combinations worth $1 billion or more have been announced. 
 But the departures of James Dimon, president of Citigroup, and David Coulter, president of BankAmerica, cast doubt on whether their respective, newly merged organizations would prove to be harmonious, profitable marriages.
During a recent conversation, Tom Burnett, director of Merger Insight, an institutional research service that publishes daily reports for clients who own takeover stocks, shared some of his thoughts on the combination game, and how to play it.
 
Q. Do you see trouble brewing at either Citigroup or the combined BankAmerica and Nationsbank?
 
A. There was a lot of euphoria after the Citicorp-Travelers deal was announced, and we thought a lot of that was misplaced, even though we did not expect the Russian turmoil.
It will take some time to generate the synergies and cross-selling opportunities John Reed and Sandy Weill were talking about when they announced the deal. In a highly regulated industry like banking, you can't expect a bonanza overnight.
 
Q. Did James Dimon's dismissal surprise you?
 
A. I was surprised the stock didn't fall more than it did after that happened, because I saw it as a sign of overall management turmoil.
But when all is said and done, this is Sandy Weill's deal. Having a strong personality on the buyer's side is very important, because you need strong-willed senior management to make sure the merger happens. A far greater risk to the deal, in my view, is what happens in Washington.
 
Q. How so?
 
A. With the defeat of Senator Al D'Amato, who was chairman of the Senate Banking Committee and was in favor of bank legislation reform, no one knows what sort of legislative thrust we will get next year.
Senator Phil Gramm, who is next in line to be chairman, has put out an olive branch, saying he is not adamantly against reform. But he has been a big opponent in the past.
That could put a bit of a cloud over Citigroup, because it is hard to plan budgeting and capital spending for insurance, which is one-third of their major operations, that they may not own in three years. I think Citigroup would be very unhappy if they had to give that part of their business up.
 
Q. Is the situation at Nationsbank different?
 
A. Very much so. Hugh McColl had a vision to build a coast-to-coast banking operation, but unlike Sandy Weill he already has a formal approval, from the Federal Reserve O.K.'ing the merger. Those things are hard to get.
Going forward, all Mr. McColl has to do is grow the business.
People are talking about David Coulter's forced resignation right now, but in five years I don't think people will remember his name. But they will remember McColl's, because he built the first coast-to-coast banking empire.
 
Q. You have said that the characteristics of a successful merger tend to vary from one industry to the next. Still, there must be some generic guidelines to help investors determine if they should hold, sell or buy.
 
A. You should be careful of mergers of equals that end up with co-managers, like the HFS-CUC deal. That usually leads to management succession and accountability problems. In the period between when a deal is announced and consummated, it is very important to read senior management well, to make sure they are committed, because there is a certain amount of pressure that bubbles up.
Always invest in a company with a clear leader and clear reporting relationships. DaimlerChrysler has a clear organization chart. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter has a clear delineation of responsibility.
British Petroleum and Amoco is another good example. They have clearly labeled what the company in Illinois is going to do and what the company in the United Kingdom will be doing. It should be a big success.
 
Q. Is the pace of activity likely to slow next year?
 
A. We have had a slowdown from the first half of the year, and I think it will remain slow until we see if we are going into a recession. If companies sense that, they will pare activity. In the greater scheme of things, recessions are near-term events and a merger is a long-term decision. But the near-term impact can be painful if you pay for an earnings stream that dries up if a recession hits.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Burnett

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (74%); BAC (LSE) (74%); 8648 (TSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MERGERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAKEOVERS (79%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (72%); BONDS (72%); BANKING LAW (70%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); 

PERSON: BURNETT, TOM SANDY WEILL (78%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); JAMES DIMON (55%); JACK REED (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



215 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 3; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1922 words

HEADLINE: A Talk Show for an Indelicate Age

BYLINE: By NANCY HASS 

 BODY:
AN exchange many viewers probably never expected to hear from the likes of Meredith Vieira and Barbara Walters occurred the other day on network television.
Ms. Vieira, a former "60 Minutes" correspondent, described how her husband used computer lingo when they were having sex. Ms. Walters, far from being tipped off-balance, came back with an Internet double-entendre of her own. 
 If it seemed that television couldn't possibly get more surreal in the age of Presidential testimony about a White House affair, here comes "The View," ABC's salty, year-old talk show on which dialogue as unexpected as this takes place regularly.
Essentially an unscripted kaffeeklatsch with five bright, brash women representing different generations, the show is one of network television's most unlikely hits.
After a slow start in its first season, ratings in the past few months have jumped by 50 percent among traditional daytime viewers -- young mothers, older people and the unemployed. But what's even more surprising is that it has gained something of a cult following, watched in gyms and coffee shops, and taped for later viewing by people who are not traditional daytime watchers.
"Saturday Night Live," which has been lampooning "The View" in a recurring skit since late last year, already counts the routine among its classics. "It's great material for us, because we really don't have to heighten the reality much to make it absurd," said Tina Fey, one of the writers who created the sketch. She knew "The View" was ripe for parody the moment she saw Ms. Vieira give Wesley Snipes a spontaneous lap dance on air.
This year's Halloween parade in Greenwich Village featured a bevy of drag queens decked out as the women of "The View," and they received enthusiastic cheers from parade spectators.
Despite the layered-on glitter of daytime television, it's easy to imagine the women of "The View" as co-workers at, say, a Long Island insurance firm, who after work go out to talk frankly over margaritas. "It works because these are women whom the viewers wish they could hang out with," said Garth Ancier, the president for entertainment at the WB network, who created "The Ricki Lake Show." "They're just a little funnier and a little more glamorous. But not too much more."
In its 11 A.M. time slot, the show's ratings are crushing the talk shows of Sally Jessy Raphael, Roseanne and Montel Williams in New York, and it is running neck-and-neck with Jerry Springer's show, at the opposite, darker end of the daytime spectrum. "The View" was nominated for eight Emmys last year and won three.
Maybe every generation gets the talk shows it deserves. "My parents had Phil Donahue," said David Chen, 20, a film student at New York University. "It was all about sensitivity. Whereas we have 'The View.' "
"The View" is unlikely to be accused of sensitivity. This is surprising, considering it is the brainchild of Ms. Walters, a woman known more for her telegenic empathy than for her love of a bawdy good time. In fact, in the pantheon of daytime talk, from Oprah Winfrey's do-it-yourself spirituality to Rosie O'Donnell's child-friendly tour of Broadway, "The View" is as smart and salty as it gets.
Each of the women on "The View," all handpicked by Ms. Walters, plays an amplified version of herself. They were chosen not only for their on-camera charm but for the different decades and social backgrounds they represent, in an effort to appeal to a wide female audience.
Joy Behar, a comedian, is a divorced single mother in her 50's. Ms. Vieira is a 44-year-old married working mother. Star Jones is a flamboyant, 36-year-old single black woman. Debbie Matenopoulos, 23, is an N.Y.U. graduate who once worked at MTV. Ms. Walters herself, who appears on the set a few times a week when her schedule permits, appeals to the 60-plus demographic.
As stagy as the show sometimes may seem to be, there is undeniable chemistry: by all accounts, the stars get along well in real life. Of course, for all of them except Ms. Walters, the bonhomie is heightened by their quick rise from relative obscurity to the big time. "This is a pretty great job," said Ms. Behar, who after a decade on the stand-up circuit and as host of a radio show on WABC recently completed a wit-and-wisdom book, "Joy Schtick" (Hyperion). Ms. Jones, capitalizing on her new visibility, recently released an autobiography, "You Have to Stand for Something, or You'll Fall Down" (Bantam).
Ms. Vieira, the group's quasi-moderator, is alternately corny and self-mocking. Ms. Jones, every inch the plus-size diva (her term), veers from warm to sarcastic. Ms. Behar, who is the most comfortable on stage, insures that the conversation never gets too saccharine. Ms. Matenopoulos plays the dopey kid who needs life lessons and occasionally deserves a bop on the head (which she gets on the "Saturday Night Live" parody skits). Ms. Walters is the mom, simultaneously encouraging and reproving, trying to be hip, but ultimately a bit of a prude.
"I do get a little embarrassed sometimes about what we say, and I worry that it's going over the top," she said on a recent morning after the show as the phalanx of hair and makeup artists who trail her like a Secret Service detail finally cleared. She tries to maintain her image as a "serious journalist," she said, by not participating in the show's more personal moments, as when the group shared stories of losing their virginity. "I make it look like I'm sharing," she said, a little conspiratorially, "but I'm actually just moving the focus to the others." Still, she said, "people don't realize how much I get a kick out of this."
"The View" trots out the usual celebrities, most of whom Ms. Walters interviews solo with her usual soft-focus style. And there's a viewer-service section during the last 20 minutes, dealing with subjects like "How to Love Only the One You're With," and the pros and cons of Botox injections.
But it's the first 15 minutes of "The View" that has the most verve. That's when "the ladies," as everyone behind the scenes calls them, sit around the kitchen table of their elaborate "shabby chic" set and gab about the morning headlines. It's similar to the signature loose-patter opener of "Live With Regis and Kathie Lee," which plays on a monitor in their makeup room.
Although the show's producers brief the hosts on the topics to be discussed and arm them with fact oids culled from the morning newspapers, the conversation is unrehearsed. Although it is often frothy banter, it can also be unexpectedly intelligent. At its best, the talk is a collision of contrivance and spontaneity: racy, sly, dizzyingly anarchic.
A case in point: after DNA confirmation of Thomas Jefferson's affair with his slave Sally Hemings, the conversation centered on how the report might affect impeachment proceedings. Ms. Walters laid out why the parallels to the Clinton case were shaky, elucidated some Constitutional issues and contended that President Clinton's indiscretion was worse because he was married.
Ms. Jones, obviously appalled, took issue. "She was a slave, Barbara," she said, cutting off her boss without a smile.
"I read about all this this morning," Ms. Walters continued, gliding past the remark. "I didn't want you to think I knew it all before, though I could have pretended."
Ms. Vieira, not missing a beat, took a potshot at her senior colleague: "Well, you were around then."
The conversation may not be "Nightline" or even "Letterman," but it covers topics more sophisticated than "my boyfriend is sleeping with my sister," a staple of daytime television.
"You have a difficult line to walk," said Jessica Stedman-Guff, a senior producer of "The View." "We want to be smart, but you run the risk of alienating the audience if you're, well, not upbeat."
Ms. Walters is the first to admit that it may seem strange that after working so hard to build a prestigious career as a journalist, she would return to the daytime ghetto, where she started out as a co-host of the "Today" show. Some of her friends, she concedes, thought she was "well, nutty" to dabble in daytime. "This time slot had been a disaster for the network, and so they came to me and asked me if I had an idea for a daytime show, and it just so happened I did. The news department didn't want me to do it, but I didn't listen."
Her inspiration for "The View" was "Girl Talk," an early 1960's show starring Virginia Graham, and the last few minutes of "This Week" when David Brinkley was the host. "People just sat around chatting smartly," Ms. Walters said.
A powerhouse at 68, Ms. Walters still does two shows of "20/20" each week, which is scheduled to expand to three once "Monday Night Football" ends. She also does four specials a year. "The View" takes three hours a day at least three days a week, a big chunk of her time.
On the days she's not on the show, Ms. Walters still exerts control from afar. She often relays directions mid-show even when she's in one of her other offices or just away from the set for few moments. During a recent show, during a short segment that didn't include her, Ms. Walters was in the green room with her eyes on the monitor when she relayed a message, from her assistant to a producer in the control room to Ms. Jones's tiny ear prompt: "Tell Star to get to the point," Ms. Walters instructed in a clipped tone.
An instant later, Ms. Jones interrupted her guest. "Let me get to the point," she said with a flourish. "Perfect," Ms. Walters said.
It's tempting to think of "The View" as a mere bagatelle for Ms. Walters, something she will soon tire of. But in fact it may turn out to be her idea of a condo in Palm Beach, a nice place to spend time when she's ready to slow down. "Chasing the 'big get' is really exhausting," she said. "Maybe this is what I'd like to do down the road."
Backstage at "The View," its appeal is evident. The scene is as warm and as girly -- and as crazed -- as a sorority house on a Saturday night. Just moments before air time, in a cloud of powder and hair spray, "the ladies" dash between the makeup room and their dressing rooms. (Ms. Jones's is outfitted like a boudoir, Ms. Matenopoulos's is a dorm disaster of rumpled clothes topped by a yellow skateboard. Ms. Walters's looks as bare as a motel room.)
Ms. Vieira, who dashes in late because she actually is the conscientious mom she plays on the show, slides into a makeup chair and is swallowed up by a gang of hairdressers. ("The View" won an Emmy last year for best hair.)
A costumer, Fran Taylor, coaxes Ms. Jones into a maroon pants suit to offset Ms. Walters brown suit. Ms. Matenopoulos, her blond streaked hair being teased within an inch of its life, is given a crash course on John Glenn's first historic mission by a segment producer. ("Trust me, it was amazing," the producer said.)
"Debbie, darling, how's the cold?" asked Ms. Walters, frowning slightly at her stubby nails and iridescent light blue polish. "Much, much, much, much better," said Ms. Matenopoulos, lunging out of the makeup chair to chase Ms. Walters around for a bear hug. It's a ritual they seem to have enacted before.
It's hard to imagine Ms. Walters doing that with Hugh Downs. "You're so silly," Ms. Walters said. It takes her a moment to regain her composure, the calm smile bouncing back to her lips out of sheer instinct. "Now" she said, pulling the edge of her suit jacket back into place, "Ladies, let's behave. At least a little."

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Meredith Vieira, Debbie Matenopoulos, Barbara Walters and Star Jones represent different generations on the talk show "The View." (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. 7); Gathering for coffee and talk on "The View," from left, Meredith Vieira, Star Jones, Debbie Matenopoulos and Barbara Walters. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: VIEW, THE (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (73%); PARADES & MARCHES (63%); HALLOWEEN (50%); 

PERSON: BEHAR, JOY; WALTERS, BARBARA; JONES, STAR; MATENOPOULOS, DEBBIE; VIEIRA, MEREDITH; HASS, NANCY MEREDITH VIEIRA (92%); BARBARA WALTERS (91%); TINA FEY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



216 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: William H. Gross;
Pimco Total Return Fund

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
WILLIAM H. GROSS may never be popularly seen as challenging Peter Lynch's or Warren E. Buffett's status as America's pre-eminent market sages. After all, what are the chances of hitting investing grand slams -- with their attendant publicity -- in boring old bonds?
Actually, with Mr. Gross, they're quite good. And he is gathering as much acclaim as a bond investor can hope for. Pimco Advisors Holdings, Mr. Gross's employer in Newport Beach, Calif., expects that by the end of the month it will complete its own TV studio so he can better accommodate the growing requests for interviews. 
 Mr. Gross, 54, is portfolio manager of Pimco's Total Return fund, which has ranked in the top percentile of its peers in virtually all the standard return periods of the last decade, according to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago financial publisher. This year, it gained 8.7 percent through Oct. 31, compared with 6.3 percent for its peer funds and 7.7 percent for its benchmark, the Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index. In the last decade, Total Return has returned 10.3 percent, versus 7.5 percent for its peers and 9 percent for the index.
Widely available to individuals only since last spring -- the minimum investment, previously $1 million, is now $250 -- the fund has ballooned to $22.69 billion, twice as large as its nearest competitor.
In recent months, convinced that financial and economic contagion from Asia was proving more acute than widely recognized, Mr. Gross swung from what he called a milquetoast bullish stance to what became by summer a bold bet on lower rates. That was just in time, as a safety-obsessed market drove down the yield on Treasury securities, which moves in the opposite direction from prices. The benchmark 30-year bond briefly touched 4.75 percent, the lowest yield in a generation.
Then, about a month ago, Mr. Gross retreated a bit, cutting the duration of his portfolio to a somewhat less aggressive 4.6 years, from 5. (Duration refers to the average weighted life of all payments related to a bond, interest as well as the return of principal when it comes due. Maturity, which is usually longer than duration, refers simply to the time before a bond is due.)
"We took a bit off the table," he said, adding that the fund was primed for slight declines in the long bond rate over the next six months -- perhaps to 5 percent, from the current 5.38 percent.
Managers of general bond portfolios usually adopt the "top-down" approach to investing, which gives the most weight to economic trends. That is because bonds -- at least until recently -- have tended to move in tandem with economic forces.
But to Mr. Gross, who contends that the timing of the next recession is unknowable, there is more involved than just trying to plumb the business cycle or the impact of distress in Asia. In what Mr. Gross calls Pimco's "super tops-down" approach, he steps back to assess longer-term fundamentals like the graying of the populations of industrial countries.
"Some things, like demographics, are known with almost complete certainty," he said. The same, he added, goes for the trend toward globalization and the worldwide buildup of corporate and government debt.
BESIDES deciding on a portfolio's proper duration, bond managers must also fathom the yield curve -- the array of fixed-income rates ranging from a matter of days to 30 years or more -- to determine the best mix for producing that duration.
One common approach, called the "barbell," involves big commitments to the short and long ends of the curve. That method is attractive when the long-term sector is expected to do well relative to intermediate-maturity bonds.
Another is the "bullet" -- a heavy concentration in intermediates due, say, between 2 and 10 years -- a strategy toward which Mr. Gross aggressively shifted the Total Return portfolio in July and August.
"One of the main statements that the portfolio is making is that it's fairly concentrated in intermediate maturities," Mr. Gross said. "The bullet strategy," he added, "does well when the Federal Reserve is in the market, so to speak, and is actively lowering interest rates."
Before July, his portfolio had been in a half-barbell, half-bullet position. That was before he perceived the Federal Reserve as being seriously concerned about the possibility of a global meltdown and likely to lower short-term rates.
Total Return, which Mr. Gross calls a plain-vanilla bond fund, uses no leverage, though some 20 percent of its Treasury portfolio is in higher-returning futures. Because of quarterly expirations, they tend to magnify the portfolio's turnover rate, which is 173 percent.
Although Total Return could invest as much as 20 percent of its portfolio overseas -- and half of this in emerging markets -- Mr. Gross keeps foreign exposure to a minimum and says such holdings should be confined to the highest possible quality. "I've not had a Russian bond and never will," said Mr. Gross, who is no stranger to risk-taking: He played blackjack professionally in Las Vegas for five months after college.
He also doesn't much favor corporate issues these days, even though this sector has improved lately after its problems helped prompt the Federal Reserve to cut rates again last month, outside a scheduled policy meeting.
"I would continue to be leery about corporates," Mr. Gross said, citing the riskiness of such bonds in a recession. "We're hunkering down and climbing into the bomb shelter," he said, keeping to shorter maturities and stressing high quality.
Eventually, he added, corporate spreads and yields will become more attractive, and that "will be a better time to buy."
Such is Mr. Gross's impact and reputation, however, that he must shroud such decisions in C.I.A.-like secrecy, using as many as 10 dealers, few if any of them privy to more than minimal information.
He checks Bloomberg and Telerate monitors in his basement at home before heading for work but doesn't take action before reaching the office, usually by 6:30 A.M.
After graduating from Duke University, Mr. Gross honed his mathematical and analytical skills at the blackjack tables, where he turned $200 into $10,000 by playing every day for 16 hours, earning what today would be minimum wages.
"I was one of the best," said Mr. Gross, a card counter who said he has been thrown out of more than one casino. "I proved a point, that I could beat the system."
After serving in the Navy, he intended to find a stock-market job, but wound up as a credit analyst in the bond department of Pacific Mutual Life Insurance, from which Pimco evolved. Now he's the biggest owner of Pimco and the closest thing in the bond business to a cult figure.
Mr. Gross has relatively little involvement in Pimco's management, , though he was a co-founder. "It's very difficult to manage a business and run a portfolio at the same time," he said.
This results in a relatively modest salary of $200,000, but he makes many times that much in performance pay tied to Pimco's bottom line. Because he isn't an executive, the amount is not found in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As for investing his personal fortune, which runs into nine figures, Mr. Gross said the portion not in Pimco Advisors is mostly invested in the Total Return fund and in municipal bonds that he selects himself.
Something else he has been doing is buying more stock, actually partnership interests, in his own company, Pimco Advisors Holdings, traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
Pimco, growing at 15 percent a year, has a bond-like yield, largely because it pays no corporate-level income tax. But it provides a way for anybody to bet on Mr. Gross's continued success with bonds, about half Pimco's total business, while being well paid in the interim.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In managing Pimco Total Return, William H. Gross says he looks deeper than the usual economic trends. (Kim Kulish for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Pimco Total Return"
Category: Intermediate term bond
Net assets: $22.69 billion
Inception: May 1987
Manager: William H. Gross (since May 1987)
Minimum purchase (Class A shares): $250 ($25 I.R.A.)
Portfolio turnover: 173%
10-year annualized return (institutional shares): 10.3%
Category average: 7.5%
Average effective maturity: 11.3 years
 
Credit quality breakdown
 
U.S. Government/Agency: 39%
AAA: 20%
AA: 4%
A: 21%
BBB: 8%
BB: 8%
 
Fees (class A shares)
Front-end load: 4.50%
Deferred load: None
12b-1 fee: 0.25%
Expense ratio: 0.91%
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PIMCO TOTAL RETURN FUND MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); PIMCO ADVISORS HOLDINGS LP (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PIMCO TOTAL RETURN FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS BONDS (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BOND MARKETS (77%); TRENDS (74%); RANKINGS (54%); 

PERSON: GROSS, WILLIAM H; HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR BILL GROSS (94%); WARREN BUFFETT (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



217 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2725 words

HEADLINE: Executive Cash Machine;
How a Pliable System Inflates Pay Levels

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT 

 BODY:
BACK in 1993, Reuben Mark, chief executive of Colgate-Palmolive, received two million stock options in addition to his salary and bonus. Colgate's board explained that the huge grant was the only one Mr. Mark would receive until 1998.
But in 1996, Colgate hired two consulting firms, Towers Perrin and Hewitt Associates, to review the company's executive-compensation plans. The consultants found that Mr. Mark's long-term incentive package had fallen "significantly below the median" of companies they used for comparison. So in 1997, a year early, the board granted him 2.6 million more options -- a package it promised would have to last Mr. Mark through 2003. 
 In the grand scheme of things, giving Colgate's chief a new grant of stock options a year early is not such a big deal. Sure, his total compensation went up 83.5 percent annually, on average, over the last four years, while Colgate's total returns rose an average of 25.9 percent. But the company has outperformed the market, and the stock must keep rising for Mr. Mark to exercise his options at a profit.
Yet this and hundreds of other examples, each with their own twists, help illustrate how hard corporate America works to make sure that few chief executives feel underpaid.
Through an elaborate process fraught with conflicts of interest and marred by questionable assumptions, executive pay is often set with methods imported from Lake Wobegon, Garrison Keillor's imaginary place where "all the children are above average."
The issue is not just the hundred-million-dollar payouts that a few chief executives collect by reaping the rewards of huge stock-option grants. Nor is it simply that some executives whose companies do poorly are nonetheless richly rewarded.
Rather, an examination of the interplay among chief executives, corporate directors and the consultants who help set pay levels calls into question whether "pay for performance" -- the mantra of executive compensation for the last two decades -- has been distorted almost beyond recognition by the maneuvering that goes on behind closed boardroom doors.
Performance certainly plays a role in executive compensation. But other forces conspire to escalate pay beyond anything performance strictly justifies:
* By setting their chief executives' pay above the median of whatever peer group of companies they choose for comparison, boards constantly ratchet up the compensation base line. If all companies in the peer group aim to pay in the top quarter of the group, for example, that level will just keep rising.
* Top executives, rather than the board of directors, typically control the hiring and firing of consultants who are brought in to design pay packages.
* Many directors who sit on their board's compensation committees have ties to management that raise doubts about their independence and objectivity.
* Boards justify raises by saying they have to pay their chief executives "competitively" in order to retain them, even if those executives are underperforming.
Such mechanisms work against anyone trying to set compensation at appropriate levels, said Robin A. Ferracone, president of SCA Consulting, a compensation and management consulting firm based in Los Angeles. "Those forces tend to loom large and lead to abuses," she said. "And when you have a whole string of them, shareholders haven't gained a thing. Instead, they've paid out a ton of money to keep people around who are underperforming."
The confluence of all these forces is reflected in a study conducted for The New York Times by Graef Crystal, who edits a San Diego-based newsletter on executive compensation.
Mr. Crystal looked at the performance of 383 large companies where the same chief executive was in office from 1993 to 1997. An investor who put $100 in those companies at the end of 1993 would have had $202.10 four years later, for an annual return of 19.2 percent. If the pay of the companies' chiefs tracked that performance, their average compensation would roughly have doubled, from $2.78 million in 1993 to about $6 million four years later.
In fact, according to Mr. Crystal's analysis, the executives' pay climbed 38.1 percent a year, to an average of $10.1 million.
Who is to blame for this gap between pay and performance? Experts in both pay and corporate governance say that there is no single culprit -- except, perhaps, unchecked human nature.
"It's not evil of management to seek the highest possible pay package they can, because we all try to maximize our value," said Charles M. Elson, a professor at the Stetson University College of Law in St. Petersburg, Fla., and a director of three public companies. "And it's not evil for a compensation consultant to have an affinity for management. Nor is it evil for a director to feel an affinity for the C.E.O. who appointed them. But it's a process that creates a one-sided result."
To be sure, pay consultants say many directors have become more vigilant in recent years, in part because rich compensation packages have often come under sharp attack by large shareholders, including pension funds.
"The amount of backbone and independence has increased by several orders of magnitude," said Ira T. Kay, global practice director for compensation consulting in the New York office of Watson Wyatt Worldwide.
Still, with the average chief executive's pay rising twice as fast as performance over the last four years, such vigilance has not forged a very strong link between pay and corporate success.
 
Beyond Peer?
Running a large corporation requires a rare set of skills. So it is perhaps understandable that directors would consider their chief executive an above-average boss worthy of above-average compensation.
But many companies set their executives' pay by looking at what similar companies pay their executives. And if they all are trying to make their chiefs feel special -- say, by paying them above their peer group's scale -- that can create powerful updrafts for executive compensation.
"There is a huge problem with those surveys," said Jay W. Lorsch, a Harvard Business School professor who specializes in corporate board issues. "They are self-fulfilling prophecies. There is a ratcheting effect."
Many companies in the Dow Jones industrial average, for instance, pledge to keep their executives' pay well above the median of their respective peer groups.
Philip Morris's goal is to compensate its executives in the "upper quadrant" of its peer group. The same goes for Coca-Cola, while I.B.M. shoots for the 75th percentile. American Express uses the third quartile as its reference point.
It is not just Dow industrial companies that aim to compensate their executives at levels comparable to that of their peers. GTE's proxy states that the company's philosophy is to be 10 percent to 15 percent above "a median grant posture" of its comparison group of companies for long-term incentive pay. From 1993 to 1997, the company's stock rose at an average rate of 17.8 percent a year; the pay of Charles R. Lee, GTE's chief executive, rose an average of 75.8 percent a year, to $13.35 million from $2.15 million. Mr. Lee received a new grant of stock options every year from 1993 to 1997, for a total of more than one million options.
"The bulk of the chairman's compensation is in long-term incentives that are directly tied to shareholder value," a GTE spokeswoman said.
Options sometimes are used to motivate underperforming executives, and at other times to reward good past performance. But options issued simply to keep an executive apace with his peer group may have nothing to do with his performance.
Many companies first settle on an executive's compensation and then determine what performance will be expected of him, said Jean Head Sisco, a member of the compensation committees of Textron, Nieman Marcus, and Chiquita Brands International.
"The status quo should not allow a person to reach the upper percentiles," said Ms. Sisco, who is also a partner in Sisco Associates, a management consulting firm based in Washington. "But it is obvious that at certain companies, that is allowed to happen. Just studying the proxies tells you that."
 
The Friendly Consultant
When a company's directors want independent expertise as they design their executives' pay packages, they rely on the advice of a small coterie of compensation consultants.
The problem is that the selection and hiring of the consultants is typically controlled by management itself. If the executives do not like the opinions offered by their consultants, they can easily replace them with others more willing to act as their advocates before the board of directors.
In interviews with 10 consultants, estimates of the number of their prospective clients who have shopped this way for more accommodating advice ranged from 5 percent to 20 percent.
A more pliant consultant can, for example, select a more favorable group of peer companies on which to base a chief executive's recommended pay. Or the consultant can make adjustments that benefit the executive in the various parts of a pay package, including salary, bonus, restricted stock and many forms of long-term incentive compensation.
"Unfortunately, anything can be justified in executive compensation, because there are so many rules to the game," said Judith Fischer, publisher of Executive Compensation Reports, a newsletter.
Experts in the field of corporate governance generally agree that it is a mistake to leave management in charge of hiring compensation consultants. Instead, they say, it should be the responsibility of the board's compensation committee.
"It's the relationship that counts," said Ira M. Millstein, a partner at the New York law firm of Weil, Gotshal & Manges who advises many boards on governance principles. "Who do you report to? Who hires you? Who fires you? My answer to all three is that it should be the compensation committee."
It would be unusual, of course, for a company to report in its annual proxy statement that it had left the selection of its compensation consultant to top management. But many consultants say boards often defer to management's advice on which firm to hire. And some large companies acknowledge that their compensation committees follow the lead of management on pay matters.
In the 1997 proxy for Goodyear Tire and Rubber, for example, the compensation committee said it "met with the chief executive officer to receive his recommendations regarding 1997 adjustments" of top executives. It added that it relied principally on surveys to set pay levels, but also considered the chief executive's recommendations "on certain subjective factors, including his evaluation of the performance of each executive officer, the performance of the company and general economic and competitive conditions."
A Goodyear spokesman said that the chief executive did not make recommendations regarding his own compensation, and that his guidance on his aides' compensation did not influence board decisions on his pay.
At other companies, like Cummins Engine, the process is more clearly driven by directors on the compensation committee.
"We've thought of compensation consultants rather like auditors," said Hanna Holborn Gray, the retired president of the University of Chicago who has been the chairwoman of Cummins' compensation committee for six years. "We need an independent perspective."
 
Too Close for Comfort?
Who serves on the compensation committee is as important as where the committee gets its advice.
In a 1993 report, the National Association of Corporate Directors wrote that compensation committees "should be made up exclusively of independent outside directors selected by the outside directors and approved by the whole board."
The commission's rationale? "Achieving both the appearance and the reality of independence demands no less," the report said.
Despite this unequivocal recommendation, however, many compensation committees have members who at least have the potential to engage in mutual back-scratching with the chief executive.
Directorship, a consulting firm in Greenwich, Conn., said 67 of the 839 large public companies in its data base have current or former executives of the company on the compensation committee. And at 12 of those 67, the committee's chairman is a current or former executive. Among them is Occidental Petroleum, which has been criticized by institutional investors over the $95 million paid last year to its chief executive, Ray R. Irani, to replace his old contract with a new one.
A separate study of 1,197 companies by the Investor Responsibility Research Center, based in Washington, found that 522 directors on compensation committees had affiliations -- as suppliers or former employees -- that called into question their independence.
One example is the MBNA Corporation of Wilmington, Del., one of the nation's leading issuers of credit cards. The chairman of its compensation committee is James H. Berick, whose law firm provides services to MBNA. Also on the committee is Benjamin R. Civiletti, the United States Attorney General from 1979 to 1981, who is now chairman of another law firm that counts MBNA among its clients.
From 1993 to 1997, MBNA was an impressive stock-market performer, returning 49.5 percent a year, on average. But total compensation for Alfred Lerner, the company's chairman and chief executive, rose at roughly three times that rate -- an average of 147 percent a year.
In an interview, Mr. Berick said his firm bills MBNA for less than $30,000 worth of services a year. Mr. Berick, who was a college roommate of Mr. Lerner's, said that MBNA shareholders were satisfied and that he considered himself independent.
"The facts are important, and not the perception or appearances," he added.
Mr. Civiletti also said that the volume of legal work his firm did for MBNA was incidental and that he, too, considered himself independent. "I think substance is much more important than possible appearance," he said.
 
A Foot Out the Door
One common justification used by companies for above-average compensation is that "competitive" pay packages are necessary to retain top executives -- even underperformers -- who might otherwise be tempted by a better offer to leave.
The laws of supply and demand are certainly at work when a chief executive at one company is actively courted by another company. Many such executives will hire the likes of Joseph E. Bachelder, a New York lawyer who has negotiated on behalf of chief executives like George M. C. Fisher of Eastman Kodak and Louis V. Gerstner Jr. of I.B.M.
"As in all matters involving a willing buyer and a willing seller, the interplay of a free market, so to speak, is at work," Mr. Bachelder said. "When you're in the middle of a negotiation, you appreciate there is a market for the talents of these C.E.O's."
But most of the inflationary effects of executive pay do not occur at hiring time. Instead, chief executives are regularly granted raises on the assumption that they have one foot out the door, even though they may not. As consultants describe the scenario, directors decide that they must pay their incumbent chief executives "competitively," even if their performance alone would not justify such a level.
Time Warner, for example, states in its proxy that its compensation committee surveys a broad range of companies that it considers its "most direct competitors for executive talent." Even though Time Warner's stock dropped 15.3 percent from 1993 to 1996 -- a period during which the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 58.8 percent -- the company gave Gerald M. Levin, its chief executive, a bonus of $4 million each year. After Time Warner stock rose sharply in 1997, Mr. Levin got a $6.5 million bonus.
"There are major conflicts between providing competitive pay and pay for performance," said Donald E. Sullivan, who oversaw Towers Perrin's compensation consulting practice before retiring in 1994.
"If a company had a bad year -- a period of less-than-stellar performance when bonuses should appropriately suffer -- they will say that we have to stay 'competitive,' so let's ignore performance," Mr. Sullivan said. "It's an absolutely no-lose situation. There is only one side to that coin."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Charles R. Lee; Reuben Mark; Alfred Lerner (pg. 12)
 
Chart: "The New Math of Executive Pay"
Pay for performance is the mantra of executive compensation. But at many companies, other factors may be helping to determine the chief executive's pay. GTE's stock underperformed the market from the end of 1993 through 1997, a period in which the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 108 percent. Colgate-Palmolive's stock slightly outperformed the market and MBNA's solidly outperformed. Yet at each company, the chief executive's pay soared.
 
Pay and performance are indexed to show percentage change from year-end 1993. The data were calculated by Graef Crystal, a San Diego-based compensation expert, for The New York Times.
 
GTE
Telecommunications company based in Stamford, Conn.
 
Stock price
Dec. 31, 1993: $35
Dec. 31, 1997: $52.25
Percentage change, '93-'97: + 49%
 
C.E.O.'s pay
Dec. 31, 1993: $2.2
Dec. 31, 1997: $13.4
Percentage change, '93-'97: +521%
 
Ratcheting Up
A few years ago, GTE said in its proxy that it aimed to be at or near a median among its peers in granting stock options to its top executives. Last year, though, its board declared that long-term incentives should be 10 percent to 15 percent above the median. Aspirations to rise above the average have lifted the pay of Charles R. Lee, the chief executive, 10 times higher than the increase in the company's stock price.
 
Colgate-Palmolive
Consumer products maker based in Manhattan.
 
Stock price
Dec. 31, 1993: $31.1875
Dec. 31, 1997: $73.5
Percentage change, '93-'97: +136%
 
C.E.O.'s pay
Dec. 31, 1993: $13.0
Dec. 31, 1997: $114.2
Percentage change, '93-'97: +779%
 
CompetitivePay vs. Performance
Colgate's board declared in 1993 that its philosophy was to pay for performance. Through the end of 1997, total returns to shareholders averaged 25.9 percent annually, while the pay of Reuben Mark, the chief executive, rose an average of 83.5 percent a year. And when his pay package fell short of his peers', Mr. Mark was awarded extra stock options last year.
 
MBNA
Credit card issuer based in Wilmington, Del.
 
Stock price
Dec. 31, 1993: $4.3906
Dec. 31, 1997: $18.2031
Percentage change, '93-'97: +314%
 
C.E.O.'s pay
Dec. 31, 1993: $1.8
Dec. 31, 1997: $48.4
Percentage change, '93-'97: +2,589%
 
A Question of Independence
Alfred Lerner, MBNA's chief executive, has produced above-average returns for shareholders. But his compensation has risen far faster than MBNA's stock. Two members of MBNA's compen-sation committee work for law firms that provide services to the company -- including the committee's chairman, who was Mr. Lerner's college roommate.
 
*Includes salary, bonus, value of restricted stock grant on date of grant, paper profits year to year on stock options, actual profits from exercised stock options, payouts under other long-term incentive plans and miscellaneous compensation. Figures do not include present value of stock options on date of grant. +Stock price and reinvested dividends, adjusted for splits. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (72%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (72%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); CONNECTICUT, USA (59%); DELAWARE, USA (59%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (72%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); CONNECTICUT, USA (59%); DELAWARE, USA (59%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (92%); STOCK OPTIONS (92%); EXECUTIVES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); BONUS PAY (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM REUBEN MARK (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



218 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES;
Why Christmas Waits Until January

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of the Hulbert Financial Digest, a newsletter based in Alexandria, Va. His column on investment strategies will appear every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IT has all the makings of an investing whodunit. The so-called January effect -- the tendency of small-capitalization stocks to thrash their large-cap siblings in the first month of the year -- has occurred with such regularity over the last century that even hard-nosed statisticians are impressed.
Indeed, since 1926, small-cap stocks have returned five percentage points more in January, on average, than large-cap stocks. During the rest of the year, large caps have outperformed small caps by a tiny amount. 
 You'd think that by now, researchers would have figured out the exact cause of the January effect. But they haven't.
Of course, investors who want to take advantage of the phenomenon might think its explanation is irrelevant. Why not just buy small caps on Dec. 31, sell them on Jan. 31 and be done with it? Can't the philosophical debate be left to the ivory tower?
Well, no. The effect has become so accepted that unless there is some strong, specific force that confines it to the first month of the year, the effect should start occurring earlier and earlier -- before the new year even begins. That's because investors would start buying small caps sooner, to beat others to the inevitable climb in prices. Over time, the January effect would become the December effect, then the November effect. Eventually, it would disappear.
Until recently, perhaps the most plausible explanation of the January effect was the fact that many investors sell stocks to lock in losses for tax purposes as the year winds to a close. Such moves, the explanation goes, put intense downward pressure on the relatively illiquid small-cap stocks, setting up the conditions for a January rebound.
But two economists, Lucy F. Ackert and George Athanassakos, recently wrote a working paper for the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta that rejected this hypothesis. They discovered that the January effect is a combination of two separate seasonal patterns: small-cap strength as well as large-cap weakness. The tax-loss selling theory really can't explain the latter.
However, there is a hypothesis that can explain both patterns. Proposed over 10 years ago by two professors, Josef Lakonishok of the University of Illinois and Robert Haugen of the University of California at Irvine, it focuses on portfolio hedging.
Because most money managers receive performance-related bonuses at year-end -- and because many of these bonuses are geared to the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index -- many managers have an incentive to make their portfolios look increasingly like the S.& P. as Dec. 31 approaches. Amanager whose portfolio is now outperforming the index, for example, knows that he will receive a good bonus for beating the market -- provided that he can hold on until year-end. So he might aim to lock in his above-market performance by selling small caps and buying the S.& P. 500.
A manager who is lagging behind the market might do the same thing, but for different reasons. As Dec. 31 nears, his desire to take risks in order to bounce back is outweighed by another desire: to not end the year at the bottom of the rankings.
Come Jan. 1, however, the compensation slate of money managers is wiped clean, and they are suddenly free to take risks again. So they might dump many S.& P. 500 stocks they bought late in the previous year and replace them with small caps.
THE likelihood that portfolio hedging is the cause of the January effect is good news for those betting on it. As long as managers continue to receive performance bonuses, the effect is unlikely to either creep into December or to dissipate.
But before deciding to make a short-term bet on the January effect by buying a basket of small-cap stocks, investors should remember that the spread between bid and ask prices on such shares is typically high -- often 5 percent or more, versus 0.5 percent or less for large caps. That's a high hurdle for a short-term trade. A better tactic is to buy a futures contract on a small-cap index like the Russell 2000 while shorting a large-cap index like the S.& P. 500. Aside from the low commissions charged, the tactic is attractive because it will make money even in a market decline, as long as small caps don't fall as much as the S.& P. 500.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "New Year's Babies"
January is the best time of year for small-company stocks. Graph shows how small-cap shares, on average, have outperformed or lagged behind large caps from 1926 to 1997. (Source: Ibbotson Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (89%); CHRISTMAS (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); STATISTICS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); MERIT PAY (60%); 

PERSON: HULBERT, MARK

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



219 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Hey, Guys, Can't We Just Get Real? Sincerely, Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

 BODY:
Later this week, President Clinton heads for the annual meeting of the Asian Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, which this year, by quirky fate, is being held in Malaysia, a country that has denounced the West, rejected the International Monetary Fund's approach to the Asian crisis and tried to stop all trading in its currency. While in Kuala Lumpur, Mr. Clinton will also be seeing the President of China and the new Prime Minister of Russia. 
 Here is what Mr. Clinton might say if he were not restricted to polite diplo-speak.
 
To MAHATHIR MOHAMAD, Prime Minister of Malaysia:
Quite a city you've carved out of the jungles here. Hey, are those twin towers down the street really the tallest in the world?
Imagine, all this in an economy the size of Kentucky's. But then, you've always tried to one-up the rest of the world -- which brings me to my point.
I know you can't stand preaching from the decadent West any more than you can stand George Soros. So I won't preach. If you want to seal your borders and detach your currency from the global economy, that's your business. Heck, I've felt your pain -- in 1993 I was the one cursing the bond traders.
But then this fellow named Rubin (you've met Rubin, right?) clued me in: Even though I'd just been elected President of the most powerful nation on earth, I had no choice but to learn to live with the global markets. I had to throw out all my grand social plans to get the deficit down, and they were a lot more expensive than your towers.
It worked. The economy boomed, the whole world wanted to invest in my country -- and it saved my skin. If the economy had been in the tank when I ran into this Monica thing (you've heard of Monica, right?), you'd be staring at Al Gore right now.
You are doing fine for now, but soon you'll need big-time investment. If I've learned anything about markets, it's this: They hate unpredictability. And you, Mohamad, are behaving like a loose cannon.
If you can jail your Finance Minister, Anwar Ibrahim, on trumped-up charges for opposing your economic policies, then no one else is safe here. Before long the companies that turned this place from a rubber plantation into a maker of cell phones and memory chips and air conditioners, the Intels and Motorolas and Matsushitas, are going to look elsewhere.
 
To YEVGENY PRIMAKOV, Prime Minister of Russia:
How's Boris feeling? What do you mean you haven't spoken to him in a month?
I know you want to find a distinctively Russian way to the future, and that's your right. But there is no special Russian method of mathematics. International investors are pretty good at reading budgets, and yours doesn't make any sense.
If you can't figure out a way to collect taxes or run an economy that doesn't bleed to death with corruption, all that's left is printing rubles. Hyperinflation is just around the corner, and that will only make an impossible situation intolerable.
I've got every incentive to help you. The last thing I need at the end of my Presidency is a breakup of Russia, with crazies grabbing your nukes. But the key to arms control today is fiscal control. You need a realistic budget. Right now, that bear don't hunt.
To JIANG ZEMIN, President of China:
Loved my trip to China; a great start to a rotten summer. But those empty office towers in Shanghai worry me. So does the collapse of that big investment house in Guangdong.
You guys have been heroicly keeping your currency stable. But my friends Bob Rubin and Larry Summers, the ones who keep sending all those E-mails to your Finance Ministry, are quietly petrified.
You've got a banking system loaded with bad debts. You've got tens of millions unemployed. No one believes your economy is really growing 8 percent a year, and it doesn't help that you announced your fantastic third-quarter growth just hours after the quarter ended.
Every Chinese bank and brokerage house is trying the Japanese trick: Hide the depth of the problems. If you let them get away with it -- well, you don't want to go there.
Now, about getting you into the World Trade Organization. My national security adviser, Sandy Berger, argues inside the White House that we should bend the rules and let you in soon, as a good geopolitical gesture. After all, this is a matter of geopolitics, not just trade. But my trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, says she'd rather swim the Yangtze than let you in without making you open your markets.
If you're quick, you'll exploit the difference and cut a deal to open up over the next 20 years. I'll have to approve it, to show we're making progress on free trade in Asia even in the middle of a huge financial crisis.
To sweeten the pot, I'll even send you a bunch of American legal experts to live in the Chinese countryside and help build a modern, rule-of-law society. Ever heard of Ken Starr?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (95%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (73%); 

COMPANY: ASIAN PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (91%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (91%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; MALAYSIA; RUSSIA; CHINA; MALAYSIA (95%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FAR EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); BOND MARKETS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); BONDS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); TRENDS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (50%); MEMORY CHIPS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E; MOHAMAD, MAHATHIR (PRIME MIN); PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY M (MIN); JIANG ZEMIN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE SOROS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



220 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
For Finance Ministers, These Are Perilous Times

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THIS is supposed to be the Age of the Finance Minister. In the mythology of the 1990's, they are the titans of this unnamed era following the post-cold war. In many countries these days, the guardians of the treasury are running the show.
That's certainly the case in Europe, where the imminent introduction of a single currency is giving enormous power to the institutions that must make it work. And in Washington, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright joked recently that it only seems as if the Treasury Department has taken over vast swaths of American foreign policy. "Treasury Secretary Rubin," she said, "assures me that's not the case." 
 But as finance and diplomacy merge, the job of finance minister is becoming riskier.
More than a few finance ministers -- long accustomed to limousines, antique-stuffed offices and lavish meals paid for by Wall Street firms eager to cut deals -- have discovered that when economic globalization goes bad, the finance minister goes down. The unluckiest have swapped pinstripes for prison stripes, fall guys for long-brewing trouble that erupted on their watch.
 
Reversal of Fortune
 The most glaring case -- one that will haunt President Clinton's trip to Asia this week -- is that of Anwar Ibrahim, the 51-year-old former Finance Minister of Malaysia. Mr. Anwar was the darling of American industrialists, the like-minded buddy of Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, and the heir-apparent to Malaysia's testy, unpredictable leader, Mahathir Mohamad.
Then the Asian crisis struck. Mr. Anwar advocated going with the flow of a global economy that had turned Malaysia into a phenomenal production site for high-tech goods. He said it was time to tighten belts and follow the prescriptions of the International Monetary Fund.
Mr. Mahathir denounced the West and currency speculators, but he went along with Mr. Anwar's strategy until things really turned bad in September. Then Mr. Anwar was arrested, the strategy was reversed, and the Government imposed controls on the flow of currency across its borders. Days later Mr. Anwar appeared in court with a black eye and lacerations from beatings he said had been meted out by the police.
"What happened with Anwar is terribly, terribly troubling," Mr. Rubin said last month. "He is a highly respected member of the international financial community. He has really been a great force for great good, in many ways."
Soon other finance ministers and James Wolfensohn, the president of the World Bank, also rallied around their imprisoned comrade.. At his trial, which began last week, the country's top police intelligence official admitted he would lie under oath about Mr. Anwar's activities if ordered to do so by his superiors. But of course, the trial is really about the direct political challenge to Mr. Mahathir's iron control that Mr. Anwar's supporters have mounted.
 
Charges of Negligence
 Mr. Anwar is not the only finance minister in the dock. In South Korea, Kang Kyong Shik, a 62-year-old politician was arrested because he was unlucky enough to be in the Finance Minister's chair last year when the country had to turn to the I.M.F. for an emergency bailout. Since then the Korean currency has partly recovered, but the country is headed into deep recession. And Mr. Kang, who unquestionably sat on his hands as the situation grew worse, has become the scapegoat for a decade of financial sins in South Korea, a country where bureaucrats and the heads of Hyundai and Samsung have a lot more power than any mere finance minister.
Mr. Kang sat in jail for months after his arrest this year, charged with abuse of power and negligence of duty, before he was released to prepare for his trial. The prosecution says he should have informed Korea's president at the time, Kim Young Sam, that the country was on the brink of financial ruin. They have a point: The Finance Ministry was covering up the fact that it had wasted most of the country's currency reserves in a failed effort to prop up the Korean won. But if President Kim didn't know Korea was in deep trouble, he wasn't reading the newspapers.
"I don't think that I should be tried in this sort of situation," Mr. Kang said earlier this year. Others familiar with his case say they fear that if economic mismanagement suddenly becomes a crime, finance ministers around the world will be paralyzed.
In fact, since the global economic crisis began 16 months ago, it has become difficult to find people willing to become finance ministers. No Japanese politician wanted to get near the job when it came open in August. It was finally foisted on a former prime minister, Kiichi Miyazawa, who at age 78 isn't exactly putting his political future at risk. And anyway, Japanese finance ministers don't go to jail for mismanagement; if they did, Japanese construction firms would be building new jails the way they once built car factories.
Then there is Russia, which in September made an example of Boris Fyodorov, who was the nation's chief tax collector and top economic policy maker. Mr. Fyodorov was a wealthy investment banker and former finance minister, and his elevation to the job of head of the State Tax Service in May seemed like a sign to the West that the country was finally getting its act together. But then he did something no Russian tax collector had ever really done before: He began collecting taxes, including from Gazprom, the natural gas monopoly. He even joined high-publicity raids on deadbeats.
One might think that in a country desperate for revenues, Mr. Fyodorov would be a hero. But the Communists who came into the new Government, led by Yevgeni Primakov, demanded Mr. Fyodorov's head. When he refused to go quietly, he was fired.
Still hanging on, if by a thread, is Guillermo Ortiz, the man who the United States credits for engineering the $60 billion bailout of Mexico's banking system after the 1995 peso crash. Now opposition parties say the bailout was an illegal rescue of rich bankers at the expense of poor workers, and Mr. Ortiz is trying to dodge impeachment.
And what about Mr. Rubin himself? Last summer his Cabinet colleagues were predicting his imminent resignation, noting that he made his name on Wall Street by selling at the top of the market. But he has stayed on, through a period of rough times for both the President and the stock market. Now the Dow is back up, and so are the Democrats. And the rumors are circulating again that he will leave, before he is hit with the curse of the finance ministers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anwar Ibrahim, Malaysia's former Finance Minister, was arrested in September as his wife clung to him. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA; SOUTH KOREA; MALAYSIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS; FINANCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); COLD WAR (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); TRENDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONTUSIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); POLITICS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (68%); ARRESTS (61%); 

PERSON: ANWAR IBRAHIM; KANG KYONG SHIK; SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



221 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Why Both Parties Wooed Black Voters This Year

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
WHAT a difference a decade makes.
In the late 1980's and early 1990's, Democrats fretted that they had been soundly thrashed in three successive Presidential elections because the party had become too closely associated with black people, thus driving away white voters. To counter that impression, groups like the centrist Democratic Leadership Council, and its one-time chairman, Bill Clinton, wanted their votes but went out of their way not to be seen as pandering to blacks and even engaged in some public rebukes. 
 As a candidate in 1992, Mr. Clinton told blacks to take more "personal responsibility" for improving their lot and he chastised Sister Souljah, a black rap artist who once suggested that blacks should kill whites. As President, he told parishioners of a black church in Memphis that the high homicide rate among blacks would shame the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
This year, blacks have became the Democrats' new best friends.
The party spent millions of dollars advertising on black radio. Congressional candidates were urged by party leaders to make as many appearances as possible in black neighborhoods. In the closing days of the campaign, the President chatted on the Tom Joyner Show, a nationally syndicated black radio program, spoke before a black church in Baltimore and appeared on Black Entertainment Television.
The Rev. Jesse L. Jackson campaigned for black and white candidates and, perhaps more significantly, in black and white communities for Democratic candidates in 35 states -- a sharp contrast for a man whose presence was once so troubling that even L. Douglas Wilder, a black candidate for governor of Virginia in 1989, did not want Mr. Jackson to campaign in his state.
The effort paid off.
In 1994 blacks made up 19 percent of Georgia's voters. This year they accounted for about 29 percent. In Maryland, blacks went from 12.5 percent of all voters in 1994 to 21 percent this year. In Michigan, the black share of the vote leaped from 13 percent four years ago to 19 percent. Black turnout also jumped dramatically in North Carolina, Alabama, South Carolina and Illinois, providing the margin of victory in several Senate and gubernatorial races -- although an overwhelming black vote in Illinois could not save Carol Mosely Braun, the only black Senator.
 
'It's an Asset'
"There is no longer a problem with the Democratic Party being associated with black voters -- none," said David Bositis, a senior fellow at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, which analyzes issues involving black people. "Before it was: 'We've got a problem. We've got to divorce ourselves from the black community.' Now, it's no longer a problem. It's an asset."
The courting of blacks this year did not stop with Democrats. In Florida, Jeb Bush, the Republican candidate for governor, boasted that his victory stemmed from his ability to appeal to all groups -- blacks included.
Will the wooing continue? Turnout this year was the lowest since 1942. And in low-turnout elections political strategists make special efforts to bring out their most loyal voters -- blacks in the case of Democrats. It's an open question whether the Democrats' current embrace of blacks will be as tight in a Presidential election when appeals must be made to a broader electorate.
 
Where's Ours?
And while blacks tended to vote for Democratic moderates this time to defeat conservative Republicans, there is a question whether liberal black leaders, flush from the bravura performance of black voters, may try to push the party to the left once more -- and, by doing so, once again turn off Southern whites and Northern blue-collar ethnics. Already, the results of last week's elections caused Mr. Jackson to contemplate challenging Vice President Al Gore for the Democratic Presidential nomination.
The journey from pariah to savior represents a remarkable shift in the way blacks are viewed by Democrats -- and perhaps by the country as a whole.
Democratic strategists say the change stems from a realization that blacks remain the party's most loyal bloc of voters and that when their turnout is low, as it was in 1994, Democrats suffer.
"In '94 it became clear that most Democrats can't win nowadays without doing well with African Americans," said Ron Lester, a Democratic pollster. "Some people had to learn that through hard knocks and bad experiences."
But the patching up of the fractious alliance did not take place in a vacuum.
With crime rates falling, out-of-wedlock birth rates plummeting among black women and welfare rolls declining, many of the issues that -- fairly or not -- have been associated with blacks have lost potency. And although Washington State passed a ballot initiative banning race and gender preferences, the victories of Democrats there indicate that the issue of affirmative action didn't demonstrably turn whites against the party.
"If you think back to the 1980's, what was it that allowed race to work so much against the Democrats? It was a perception of people getting something for nothing," said Elaine C. Kamarck, a professor at the Kennedy School of Government and a former aide to Vice President Gore. "When you change the welfare system to a work system, you suddenly get rid of that."
Blacks now hold 38 seats in the House, a large enough bloc to convince the House Democratic Caucus that targeting black voters was a priority.
And Representative Charles B. Rangel of Harlem parlayed his position as the ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee to raise more than $1 million for his own campaign, mainly from corporate political action committees. He then donated $100,000 to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and sprinkled at least another $50,000 into the coffers of Democratic candidates around the country. Mr. Rangel also raised another $1.3 million for the congressional campaign committee.
Once the decision was made to target black voters, Democrats found a receptive audience. Polls conducted by Mr. Lester and the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies showed that blacks were becoming even more partisan than they had been in the past -- turned off by Republican oratory and policies and turned on by their improving economic lot, for which they gave President Clinton credit. Once a message was delivered to black voters that Republicans were trying to impeach and remove the President, blacks turned on the Republicans with a vengeance.
"The real lesson is that black people will vote," said Mr. Lester. "If you give them a reason to and make the effort to get the vote out, you can make a difference. We know how to do this."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Campaigning for Jeb Bush, the Republican candidate for governor of Florida, in a Democratic stronghold. (Cindy Karp for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: BLACK ENTERTAINMENT TELEVISION INC (90%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BLACKS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); HOMICIDE (69%); CRIME RATES (68%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (53%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A BILL CLINTON (88%); JESSE JACKSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



222 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Grand Old Problem;
The Republican Middle Looks for an Edge

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
AFTER a year of misery and distraction, White House aides repeated this joke with unabashed glee, given their surprising good fortune in last Tuesday's elections: "The Monica Strategy: It worked."
The reality is that -- intended or not -- an election that had been billed as a referendum on Bill Clinton ended up as much a referendum on the Republican Party. The verdict: A traditional and pragmatic Republican agenda of fiscal conservatism is in. A single-minded focus on social issues is out. 
 "It was a very bad day for the ideological, litmus-test Republicans," said Kenneth Duberstein, a chief of staff for President Ronald Reagan.
Many of the most conservative candidates had already been knocked off in primaries, and there were more casualties on Tuesday: Gov. Fob James of Alabama, a champion of fundamentalists who had pressed for posting the Ten Commandments in courtrooms; and Senator Lauch Faircloth of North Carolina, a favorite of the Christian Coalition. Representative Mark Neumann of Wisconsin, who repeatedly invoked his support for banning late-term abortions, lost his bid for the Senate. Jim Ross Lightfoot, who in a television blitz blasted his opponent for favoring nude dancing, lost what had been considered an easy election for Governor of Iowa.
In a race that was a high priority for religious conservatives, Tom Bordonaro, described by former President Gerald R. Ford as "one of those extreme right-wing" candidates, lost his drive to oust Representative Lois Capps of California.
And the retiring Gov. Pete Wilson of California, a Republican, said he was convinced his party's candidate, Dan Lungren, fell to the Democrat Gray Davis in part because Mr. Lungren opposed abortion rights. "He was attacked by Davis relentlessly in television ads," Mr. Wilson said. "It was practically a mantra."
There was more bad news in ballot initiatives: Nineteen statewide referenda asked voters to choose between generally liberal and generally conservative positions on taxation and social issues like abortion, affirmative action, gambling and gun control; voters picked the more liberal side in 14.
And in a New York Times/CBS News Poll a month before the election, most Republicans (including many self-described conservatives) said they wanted the new Congress to tackle problems like education before matters like abortion.
"The Republicans of the late '90's are the mirror image of the Democrats of the late '80's," said Al From, president of the Democratic Leadership Council, a centrist group founded in 1985 to try to marginalize, if not kill off, the left wing of the party -- unions, minority caucuses and gay rights advocates -- that had become its political base. "We drove off the left side of the road in the '80's and they're driving off the right side of the road. The party that stays in the middle dominates American politics."
Now there is even a Republican Leadership Council, founded early last year to do for Republicans what Mr. From's group did for Democrats. And Mark Miller, the Republican group's executive director, is singing Mr. From's tune. "The Democrats got to a point where they finally thought that the fringe of their party was in the driver's seat and it was driving them off the cliff," he said. "And we may be at that point in our party."
But identifying the problem is far easier than fixing it. The predicament for Republicans is that the party's supposed millstone -- social and religious conservatives -- is also one of its greatest strengths. These voters are among the most active and involved in state party organizations, and their support is essential for Republicans who want to win their party's Presidential nomination. Republicans have run up against the old adage: There is no such thing as a raging moderate. The point is that it is harder to motivate people from the middle.
Complicating the matter further, many Republicans contend that the party's problem is that it has not been conservative enough. Newt Gingrich's stunning decision on Friday to step down as Speaker of the House came after his fellow Republicans blamed him for the showing on Tuesday. They believe that, if anything, he has been too cozy with moderates.
And the parallel with the Democrats is not entirely apt. The Democratic left gradually took over a party in power, leaving a potent, if often frustrated, moderate group in state houses (like Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas) and in Congress. Republicans, by contrast, gained power from the ideological right, first in the White House with President Reagan, then in Congress through Mr. Gingrich. Moderates were few, and they were harshly pushed aside, so there is much less on which to build.
The remedy for Republicans might be, of all things, for them to find a leader like Mr. Clinton (a former head of the Democratic Leadership Council) who can disentangle the party from the demands of its conservative wing.
Until now, at least, those who have tried to move toward the center have found it difficult. Gov. Bill Graves of Kansas, for one, had a scare last August when David Miller stepped down as chairman of the state Republican Party and tried to oust him in a primary, accusing him of not being conservative enough. "I'm not tooting my own horn," the Governor said. "But we pulled in 73 percent in the primary and got 73 percent in the general election. You have to ask yourself: What was the state party chairman thinking?"
 
Rethinking Martyrdom
Now, Mr. Graves asks: "How badly do we want to win the Presidency? And are we willing to nominate a more centrist candidate who can win? Or is our goal to martyr our party over some principles that a good portion of our party may not believe in?"
Yet conservative leaders argue that the election was not a repudiation of their agenda. They blame the losses on the lack of an issue-based Republican message and a preoccupation with the Clinton scandal. Gary Bauer, president of the Family Research Council, said the party not only surrendered economic issues to Democrats but "seemed to cave in on social issues and values issues, and the sanctity of human life."
Many Republicans contend that voters do not mind conservatism, and some moderate voters can tolerate candidates who oppose abortion. But they are put off by politicians who appear to be trying to impose a moral agenda.
And part of the difficulty in the campaign this year may not have been that the Republicans lacked issues to talk about, but that in their zeal to focus on scandal they allowed Democrats to define them as extremists.
 
The Fabulous Bush Boys
That is why many party leaders are citing as an example the brothers Bush: Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, who easily won re-election, and his brother, Jeb, who was elected Governor of Florida. Both oppose abortion, for example, but they couch their conservative stands in ways that do not threaten those who are not hard-core Republicans.
Representative David Dreier, a California Republican and longtime friend of the Texas Governor, said they chatted the day after the election about the need for leadership modeled after the optimistic approach of Mr. Reagan. "George Bush could hardly be called a liberal or a moderate -- he's a conservative," Mr. Dreier said. "Yet he does so in such an upbeat, positive, happy way. That's really what I see as necessary for the Republican Party."
As he was showered with balloons and confetti last week, Governor Bush, who did strikingly well with blacks, women and Hispanic voters, sounded what could be a theme for a Presidential quest: "Tonight's resounding victory says a leader who is compassionate and conservative can erase the gender gap and open the doors of the Republican Party to new faces, new voices."
Mr. Bush is far from the only Republican who thinks he or she can run for national office by widening the appeal beyond social conservatives. After a failed run for the Republican nomination in 1996, Governor Wilson, who supports abortion rights, said the outcome on Tuesday made him even more tempted to try again. "The results indicated that people who have pretty much my views and record did well," he said.
For the party to recover, the feuding factions may not have to compromise. But they will have to learn to coexist -- perhaps even with Democrats -- something that is anathema to many.
There is one great incentive. "A near death experience," Mr. Duberstein said, "has the tendency to focus the mind."

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photoillustration by the New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (52%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (55%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN COALITION (55%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RELIGION (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ABORTION (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (75%); BALLOTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (66%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); LGBT RIGHTS (63%); GUN CONTROL (63%); GAYS & LESBIANS (63%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); DANIEL E LUNGREN (58%); LOIS CAPPS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



223 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY;
Surprises at the Polls, And a Ripple Effect

 BODY:
Ramifications of the most surprising midterm election in recent memory are still sinking in. Even as the voters were yawning at Washington's yearlong obsession with the President's sex life, they opened a host of unexpected new questions about the future political climate for business and the economy.
Of greatest concern to the financial services industry is the likely ascent of Phil Gramm of Texas to the chairmanship of the Senate Banking Committee, replacing Alfonse M. D'Amato. Senator Gramm's single-handed killing of a bill that would have repealed Depression-era restrictions like the Glass-Steagall Act, and his past penchant for clashing with Arthur Levitt Jr., chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, are seen on Wall Street as omens of a coming era of partisanship and contention on the panel. 
 The poor showing of Congressional Republicans, usually seen as friendlier to business interests than Democrats, raised the specter of leadership battles that may distract lawmakers almost as much as the Lewinsky matter has. By contrast, the voters' endorsement of candidates identified with campaign finance reform, especially Senator Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin, seemed to increase the odds that restrictions on "soft money" donations will be enacted by the new Congress.
Entrepreneurs made little headway as candidates, losing to sitting Governors in New York (Thomas Golisano of Paychex, a payroll services company) and New Hampshire (Jay Lucas, who runs a management consultancy). Georgia voters turned away two business founders: Michael Coles of the Great American Cookie Company, for the Senate, and Guy Millner of Norrell, a temporary-help agency, for Governor (his second failed bid).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PAYX (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (66%); SIC2045 PREPARED FLOUR MIXES & DOUGHS (66%); NAICS561330 PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYER ORGANIZATIONS (54%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (54%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SENATE COMMITTEE ON BANKING GREAT AMERICAN COOKIES (66%); PAYCHEX INC (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE COMMITTEE ON BANKING SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; ELECTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING LAW (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%); BOOKKEEPING & PAYROLL SERVICES (65%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (50%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: PHIL GRAMM (72%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



224 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 104 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY;
Surprising Strength In Auto Sales Figures

 BODY:
October turned out to be one of the strongest months in the car industry's history, with big sales gains in the United States market for nearly every auto maker. Over all, consumers bought 1.37 million cars and light trucks last month, nearly 10 percent more than in October 1997; Chrysler's 20 percent sales increase led the league. But the biggest surprise may have been General Motors, which rebounded from summer strikes faster than analysts had expected, selling 6 percent more vehicles than in the same month last year. Why such strong sales? Analysts mentioned low interest rates and cheap gasoline as reasons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES SALES FIGURES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



225 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: DIARY;
More Bullishness From the Dean of Bulls

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

 BODY:
The stars seem to have fallen back into alignment for Abby Joseph Cohen, the Goldman, Sachs investment strategist. Ms. Cohen, the bard of the bull market, was promoted to partner at her firm last month. And, for the first time since summer, her relentlessly upbeat forecasts for stock prices seem in tune with investor sentiment.
Ms. Cohen was literally bouncing on her feet last week at the annual meeting of the Securities Industry Association in Boca Raton, Fla., as she spoke of rising potential even for battered sectors of the economy, like semiconductors and energy. She stuck by her forecast of 9,300 for the Dow Jones industrial average by year-end, and 1,150 for the Standard & Poor's 500, targets now clearly in striking distance. 
 In fact, she said the gloomiest people these days tend to work in her industry, finance, which has been hit harder than most by the turmoil in world markets. Any lasting negative effects could well be limited "to lower Manhattan," she said, referring, of course, to Wall Street. For everyone else, her message is simple: "This bull market is equities is not over."
 JOSEPH KAHN

GRAPHIC: Photo: Abby Cohen

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (57%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (57%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FORECASTS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ABBY JOSEPH; KAHN, JOSEPH ABBY JOSEPH COHEN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



226 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: DIARY;
What Has Celtics' Shares Jumping Through Hoops?

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY JR. 

 BODY:
Is the stock market telling us that the start of the National Basketball Association season is closer than people involved in the labor fight are letting on?
Partnership shares in the Boston Celtics, which are relatively thinly traded on the New York Stock Exchange, have jumped 25.4 percent during the two weeks ended Friday, to $10.50, without benefit of any corporate developments, raising hopes of fans, not to mention investors, who have watched the stock fall as low as $7 after a reorganization in June. 
 "It may be some optimism about a resolution" of the labor dispute, said Andrew Zimbalist, a professor at Smith College and a consultant to the N.B.A.'s players. Then again, he added, the stock's climb may be a reaction to possibly undue pessimism related to the reorganization. Or just a revived popularity of small-cap stocks in general.
Though teams are being paid by broadcasters when no games are played, a settlement would be bullish, because these payments represent only an advance, said Rich Pond, the Celtics' chief operating officer.
 ROBERT D. HERSHEY JR.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON CELTICS NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); BOSTON CELTICS (94%); BOSTON CELTICS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON CELTICS BOSTON CELTICS (94%); BOSTON CELTICS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; LABOR; LOCKOUTS BASKETBALL (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); LOCKOUTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



227 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: Parlous Times in Russia

 BODY:
With food stocks dangerously diminished by a disastrous harvest and the economy still reeling, Russia is headed into a winter of deprivation and discontent. The critical question is whether Russians will stoically endure another season of hardship, as they have so many times before, or strike out in anger against the political order.
The answer depends in part on decisions taken in Moscow and Washington in the days ahead. With President Boris Yeltsin sidelined by illness and in political eclipse, Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov must develop a program that pulls Russia back from the abyss without abandoning democracy and economic reform. The United States must do whatever it can within reason to help Russia get through the winter and start down the long road to recovery. 
 Mr. Primakov is off to a shaky start. Though he shows little inclination to reverse course entirely and return Russia to a Communist-style command economy, he is embracing anachronistic advisers and policies that threaten to put Russia in a state of perpetual decline.
Mr. Primakov inherited a desperate situation. The Government cannot pay its bills, food imports have declined precipitously, foreign investors have fled and prices are skyrocketing while wages and pensions are stagnant, if they are paid at all.
But the economic plan Mr. Primakov recently outlined is misguided. It does little to deal with the oligarchs who control enterprises that have refused to pay taxes, and thus helped bring on the Government's fiscal crisis. Instead, it seeks to prop up favored enterprises and print rubles to pay back wages and other Government obligations. The Government says it wants to avoid the hyperinflation that will surely come if it prints too many rubles, but its only strategy to avoid this is to ask for Western aid.
Previous efforts to reform Russia's economy collapsed for a variety of reasons, including corruption and effects of the Asian economic implosion that scared investors and depressed the prices of commodities Russia exports, most notably oil. But that failure does not justify a return to the failed strategy of Soviet-era economic planning.
Russia badly needs foreign investment. To get it, the country will have to do more to establish rules of law so that investors know what they are getting and to assure that the capital is put to productive use, not siphoned into foreign bank accounts.
Russia will also need to negotiate acceptable terms for restructuring the billions it already owes. If foreign companies can be persuaded to help develop Russian natural resources, and to make use of the highly educated work force, a prosperous Russia could eventually evolve.
For now, the outlook is grim. The International Monetary Fund has rightly refused to support Mr. Primakov's plan, but aid for Russia may still be necessary. After the poor harvest, the country needs food aid this winter, and the United States has promised $625 million worth of grain, meat, milk and other goods. More should be provided if donors can assure themselves that the food will feed the needy, and not benefit the powerful.
These are perilous days in Russia's passage from tyranny to democracy. To navigate them safely, Mr. Primakov and Russia's friends in the West should not assume that the patience of the Russian people is infinite.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); TRENDS (74%); LABOR FORCE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); EXPORT PRICES (66%); 

PERSON: PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY M (PRIME MIN) BORIS YELTSIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



228 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: The New York Times Business Best Sellers

 BODY:

HARDCOVER
 
THIS MONTH/LAST MONTH 

1+/1 THE NINE STEPS TO FINANCIAL FREEDOM by Suze Orman (Crown, $23). Ways to manage your money now and in the future.
 
2/4 EAT THE RICH by P. J. O'Rourke (Atlantic Monthly, $24). The satirist tackles popular economic theories.
 
3/-- WORKING WITH EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE by Daniel P. Goleman (Bantam, $25.95). The attributes that enable people to become leaders in their fields.
 
4/-- THE JOY OF WORK by Scott Adams (HarperCollins, $22). A send-up of popular corporate management guides.
 
5/-- IN MY WILDEST DREAMS by Gail Blanke (Simon & Schuster, $24). Techniques for women to improve self-image and reach their goals.
 
6/-- THE 48 LAWS OF POWER by Robert Greene and Joost Elffers (Viking, $24.95). Three thousand years of writings about success and the strategies for sustaining it.
 
7/3 THE ROARING 2000's by Harry S. Dent Jr. (Simon & Schuster, $25). Building wealth during the coming economic boom.
 
8+/ 11 WORK IN PROGRESS by Michael Eisner with Tony Schwartz (Random House, $27.95). The business memoirs of the chief executive of the Walt Disney Company.
 
9/6 TITAN: The Life of John D. Rockefeller Sr. by Ron Chernow (Random House, $30). Portrait of the oil mogul and philanthropist.
 
10/-- VALUES OF THE GAME by Bill Bradley (Artisan, $30). Ten essays by the former United States Senator and Hall of Fame basketball player on qualities that make for winners in all endeavors.
 
11*/-- EAST AND WEST by Christopher Patten (Times Books/Random House, $25). The last British governor of Hong Kong defends the connections between democracy and prosperity.
 
PAPERBACK
 
THIS MONTH/LAST MONTH
 
 
1+/2 THE MILLIONAIRE NEXT DOOR by Thomas J. Stanley and William D. Danko (Pocket, $14). A look at wealthy Americans.
 
2+/3 A CIVIL ACTION by Jonathan Harr (Vintage, $13). A nonfiction account of a lawsuit brought by Massachusetts homeowners against industrial polluters.
 
3/1 JOURNEY TO CUBEVILLE by Scott Adams. (Andrews & McMeel, $12.95.) More Dilbert workplace farce.
 
4+/5 THE SEVEN HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLE by Stephen R. Covey (Fireside/Simon & Schuster, $14). Principles for success.
 
5/-- EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE by Daniel P. Goleman (Bantam, $13.95). Factors other than I.Q. that contribute to success.
 
6*/-- AGAINST THE GODS: The Remarkable Story of Risk by Peter L. Bernstein (Wiley, $14.95). A history of the laws of probability and risk management, especially in business and finance.
 
Rankings are based on October figures of almost 4,000 bookstores and of wholesalers serving 50,000 hardcover retailers and 60,000 paperback retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets). The numbers are statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. *Indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. +Some bookstores report receiving bulk orders for these titles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (82%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (82%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BESTSELLERS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (79%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (76%); BOOKSTORES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); HOMEOWNERS (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); BASKETBALL (64%); GOVERNORS (64%); LITIGATION (60%); RANKINGS (50%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



229 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: Ho! Ho! Ho! Boohoo-hoo!

 BODY:
The holiday season seems to bring out the best and the worst in bosses. We've all heard stories about workers who are fired on Christmas Eve, but then again, Scrooge himself ended up giving the long-suffering Bob Cratchit a raise. What holiday horror stories have emerged from your workplace? Or, to give the management world's guardian angels their due, how have the holidays melted the coldest corporate hearts? Send your anecdotes to On the Job, Money and Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. Or send them by E-mail to onthejob@nytimes.com. Include your telephone number. All submissions become the property of The Times and may be republished in any medium.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GUARDIAN ANGELS (57%); GUARDIAN ANGELS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUARDIAN ANGELS (57%); GUARDIAN ANGELS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CHRISTMAS (88%); 

PERSON: BOB CRATCHIT (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



230 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: A War for the Republican Future

 BODY:
The modern Republican Party seems to define itself through revolution. In 1980, Ronald Reagan overthrew the bland, accommodating style of the party's old guard, and then Newt Gingrich stormed the Capitol in 1994. Now that Mr. Gingrich has been booted, the House Republicans have to decide whether the 1998 election dictated that yet another fundamental shift is in order. The religious right says Mr. Gingrich erred by going soft. Yet the voters picked moderate Republican governors as the party's stars of the future. It promises to be a gory sorting out.
Representative Steve Largent, one of the first to challenge the Gingrich leadership team, wants a return to the "Reagan agenda" that he says the public never abandoned. But Representative Robert Livingston, whose public opposition to the Speaker signaled an anti-Gingrich stampede, proclaimed the newly revolutionary idea of conciliation toward the opposition. In announcing his challenge, Mr. Livingston spoke of replacing the "revolutionizing" talents of the Speaker with his own supposed talents at day-to-day governing. He seemed to be echoing the record of those Republican governors who have embraced pragmatism, ideological flexibility and impatience with litmus-test social issues. 
 From Gov. George Bush in Texas to Gov. George Pataki in New York, these Republicans rejected the "government is the problem" mantra of old. They embraced the use of public resources for children's health, schools, the environment and job placement for the poor. They carefully avoided Mr. Gingrich's divisive, wedge-driving rhetoric.
But Mr. Livingston's words cannot necessarily be taken at face value. He can be viewed as a moderate only in the context of the rigid conviction politics perfected by Mr. Gingrich and mimicked on the Senate side by the majority leader, Trent Lott.
There will be a civil war in the House Republican conference. Northeastern moderates may play a key balancing role, as they did in preserving Mr. Gingrich against his own disaffected rebels in the 1998 budget fight. But most House Republicans are hard-liners who still want to slash government and taxes, stop abortions and lift environmental laws -- but do it with a friendlier face. Mr. Gingrich says a handful of "cannibals" blackmailed him into resigning. He can take comfort knowing that they did not think him wrong, just loud, clumsy and irresolute.
This militant faction is in denial about the successes forged by Republican gubernatorial candidates like Mr. Bush of Texas, who clearly intends to test his brand of Republicanism in the next Presidential race. Like Governor Bush, the Republicans returned to the statehouses last week cut taxes when they could. But they also did things like balancing economic growth and environmental protection. Some Republican-led states enacted laws protecting patients against arbitrary moves by health-maintenance organizations, at a time when the Gingrich team walked away from the issue. Governors Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin and John Engler of Michigan prevailed as welfare reformers while actually spending more on day care and training to insure that welfare recipients do not just get dropped from the rolls but find jobs.
Mr. Bush, Mr. Pataki and their colleagues in other statehouses have brought back into the Republican mainstream the idea that while government may not be the whole solution, it is not the enemy either. As they choose their next Speaker, the Republicans in Washington ought to listen. But the ghosts of the Gingrich revolution will be strong in the House, and it will probably take another election to show the hard-liners that being mean does not sell so well anymore.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US) HOUSE REPUBLICAN (95%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US) HOUSE REPUBLICAN (95%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (68%); CIVIL WAR (67%); TAX LAW (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (64%); BUDGETS (62%); RELIGION (56%); EMPLOYMENT (51%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) NEWT GINGRICH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TRENT LOTT (58%); TOMMY THOMPSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



231 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Rising Russian Imports Fuel Dispute With U.S. Steel Makers

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 7

 BODY:
A new cold war has broken out between Russia and the United States, this time over hot-rolled steel.
More than just steel is at stake in the trade dispute, which is sure to drag in both Governments before it is over. The case turns on jobs and profits, but also on politics as it tests the American Government's support for Russia's painful economic transition. 
 Earlier this year, American steel producers became alarmed about a surge in inexpensive steel imports. As imports rose to record levels, prices fell -- from $300 a ton, to $220 for the hot-rolled coils that make up 55 percent of the American steel market.
On Sept. 30, American steel makers brought an anti-dumping case in Washington against Russia, Japan and Brazil, contending that their foreign competitors are selling steel below cost in the United States, at grave damage to the domestic industry.
Russia is not the biggest exporter of hot-rolled steel to the United States. Japan is. But squeezed by a drop in domestic demand and a collapse of their markets in Southeast Asia, Russian producers have significantly stepped up their shipments to the United States. Imports of Russian steel rose to 2.2 million tons in the first seven months of 1998 from 1.8 million tons in the corresponding period last year.
Seen from Magnitogorsk -- often dubbed the Pittsburgh of Russia -- exports to the United States are a matter of survival, as hopes for reviving the domestic market have been dashed by the economy. Magnitogorsk now sells 60 percent of the steel it produces abroad, of which 49 percent goes to the United States.
Nationally, Russian steelworkers have warned that losing the American market could cost them 100,000 jobs, and $1 billion a year in earnings.
Seen from Pittsburgh, headquarters of USX-U.S. Steel Group, which in the last decade has gone through a painful transition of its own, the Russians' aggressive sales techniques amount to dumping. "We have seen some horribly low prices that to our knowledge, are below the cost of producing a ton of steel," said Paul J. Wilhelm, president of USX-U.S. Steel. "There is a tremendous surge in imports that is coming out of the hides of U.S. steelmakers, and U.S. steel workers."
Russian steel producers insist they are not producing below cost, especially with the ruble devalued by 60 percent. "To say there is no free market in Russia is absurd," said Mikhail V. Buryakov, director of Magnitogorsk Metal Works' finance and economics department.
But Russia's economy is weighted down by barter transactions -- at this point, 40 percent of Magnitogorsk's domestic transactions are conducted in kind, not cash. So calculating production costs is no easy task. "We cannot afford to sell for less than it costs to produce," said Serafim Afonin, president of the Russian Union of Metal Exporters. "Exports are our only way of getting real money."
In an effort to forestall heavy anti-dumping penalties, the Russian producers have offered to cut their exports to 1997 levels, which by their estimates would amount to a 30 percent cut from monthly volumes in the first half of this year. But American steelmakers say they will oppose any quotas or any Government-brokered deals.
Mainly the Russians want their case to be set aside, and considered in light of their peculiar economic difficulties, which in their view resulted from reforms urged on them by the Americans. The case is now under review by the Commerce Department and a preliminary find is expected soon.
"Let us take a look at the transformations that have taken place, in the name of free, open market reforms," said Mr. Afonin. "They said, open your markets, and we did. Now they want to hit us over the head. If the Americans want Russia's reforms to continue, they should understand."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: X (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); BRAZIL (92%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; BRAZIL; MAGNITOGORSK (RUSSIA); UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); BRAZIL (92%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DUMPING (TRADE TERM); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) IRON & STEEL MILLS (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); DEVALUATION (60%); 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



232 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Bright Hopes for Florida Republicans

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 6

 BODY:
Helen Cluett remembers the indignities.
In 1955, when she tried to register as a Republican after moving to Florida from New York, a courthouse clerk told her flat out, "There's no such thing as a Republican." 
 "She was so Southern she didn't know," said Ms. Cluett, an auction house representative in Palm Beach. "The state was less than 10 percent Republican when I registered. For years I couldn't vote for governor because no Republican ran. We've come a long, long way, and I can't believe it's in my lifetime."
If longtime Florida Republicans walk around giddy these days, it can be traced to a few words uttered by former President George Bush in a Miami hotel ballroom on Tuesday night: "May I introduce to you the next Governor of Florida, Jeb Bush!"
To the former President, Jeb Bush's victory meant having two sons in charge of two of the nation's most populous states, Texas and Florida. And to Florida Republicans, it meant that their state became the first in the South since Reconstruction to have both a Republican governor and a Republican majority in the Legislature, a dominance that gives the party a formidable power base for the next Presidential election and the redrawing of legislative district lines after the 2000 census.
The victory comes when Republicans like Jeb Bush and his brother, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, are redefining what voters can expect of a Republican administration. Jeb Bush epitomized an ideological flux, toning down the hard-edge conservatism that characterized his unsuccessful run for the governorship in 1994 to become an advocate of compassion and inclusion in 1998.
In doing so, he raised the hopes not only of Republican constituencies that expect him to be friendly to business and hostile to taxes, but also of liberal Democrats and minority groups who expect him to improve public schools, open up economic opportunity and listen to them.
"I don't expect Jeb Bush not to be a politician, but I'm convinced that Jeb Bush will not sacrifice service to be politically expedient," said T. Willard Fair, president of the Urban League of Greater Miami and a partner with Mr. Bush in the founding in 1996 of a charter school in Miami's inner city that has raised student test scores. "I don't think he'll make decisions that would impact adversely on a group of people."
At his first news conference as Governor-elect this week, Mr. Bush, a 45-year-old real estate businessman, was specific on what Floridians could expect from him.
"I think crime will drop," he said. "I believe that they'll have an assurance that their taxes won't go up. They will see a new system of educating our kids, where they're going to see better results, where more children aren't going to be left behind, where reading scores will go up, particularly in the primary grade levels."
And Mr. Bush also set a tone of diversity. He announced that the top members of his transition team would be a black man, a Hispanic man and a white woman, and said Republican rule "does not mean that we don't need to create consensus and build some common ground."
The middle-of-the road approach echoes that of other successful candidates for governor and underscores that voters reward those catching on to the country's centrist leanings. In Florida, Democrats say they do not expect a dramatic tilt to the right, mostly because the conservative Democrats who dominated Florida politics in the past often voted with moderate Republicans.
That is not to say that the changing of the guard in Tallahassee will not be noticed. Bills passed by the Republican-led Legislature that were vetoed by Gov. Lawton Chiles, a Democrat who is retiring, but that Mr. Bush would be expected to sign include one that would require parental notification of a minor's plans for abortion, tort reform that would make it tougher for consumers to sue businesses and a tax rebate for property owners.
John E. Thrasher, a Republican who will be Speaker in the Florida House of Representatives, said Republican legislators were looking forward to "a governor we can work with."
But many others expect a friend in the governor's mansion as well. By broadening his base, Mr. Bush will likely face intense cross-pressures, especially from Republican fiscal and social conservatives who do not always agree.
Surveys of voters leaving polling places on Tuesday showed that Mr. Bush won by getting slightly more support from a cross-section of voters than he did when he lost to Governor Chiles, with not one demographic group handing him the election. A poll by The Associated Press and a consortium of news media organizations found that Mr. Bush, who won by 55 percent to 45 percent over his Democratic opponent, Lieut. Gov. Kenneth H. MacKay Jr., gained votes this time from women, older Floridians and blacks. Mr. Bush also remained strong with Hispanic voters -- about 60 percent voted for him.
But he did not transform himself enough to trouble earlier supporters. Mr. Bush, for example, has continued to hold conservative views on abortion and school prayer.
"I haven't seen any significant changes," said John Dowless, executive director of the Christian Coalition of Florida. "There's more moderation but there's no abandonment of principle."
Democrats like State Representative Addie L. Greene from West Palm Beach, who campaigned for Mr. Bush's opponent, said she expected Mr. Bush to work hard to fulfill election promises so that he could win a second term. But she remained skeptical of his sincerity, noting that among competing constituencies he must also pay back the special interests that helped finance his campaign. "This is going to be very good to watch," Ms. Greene said. "We're going to sit back and see how many lies he told."
Democrats also need to regroup, some political analysts say, and build strength to keep Florida a competitive two-party state. All is not lost, they say, because of the tendency of Florida voters to cross party lines. In typical fashion, on Tuesday they also re-elected Senator Bob Graham, a Democrat, and kept the state Cabinet split, with three Democrats, the Attorney General and the Insurance and Agriculture Commissioners.
Amadeo Trinchitella, 80, the president of the Democratic Club at the Century Village retirement community in Deerfield Beach whose 15,000 residents voted overwhelmingly Democratic, was philosophical about the Republican takeover.
"I'm not afraid, I'm not concerned," he said. "The pendulum swings and things change. If they don't do the right thing there'll be a changeover. The Democratic Party will grow again. We're not going to go away."
But Florida Republicans, who achieved their majority in the State Legislature in 1996 and have steadily gained on Democrats in registered voters over the last two decades but still lag in total registration, 40 percent to 45 percent, say nothing will stop them now.
"I'm confident that with the leadership of Jeb Bush, his fiscal conservative views with a compassionate touch, you're going to see a continued move to more equality between the two parties," said Ed Pozzuoli, a Fort Lauderdale lawyer who heads the Republican Party in Broward County, a Democratic stronghold.
In Palm Beach, Ms. Cluett, a relentless worker for Republican candidates, also harbors big hopes. "I hope and pray that's the best thing that ever happens in Florida," she said of the Republican rule that will start on Jan. 5. "This is special. This is my swan song. I'm going to relax after this."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Helen Cluett, left, and Barton Gubelmann watched the Florida election results at the Republican headquarters in Miami on Tuesday night. (Cindy Karp for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: I CAN'T BELIEVE IT'S YOGURT (57%); PALM BEACH HOTEL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (96%); FLORIDA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); AUCTIONS (71%); LIBERALISM (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (68%); CITY LIFE (65%); ACADEMIC TESTING (61%); CENSUS (52%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA; BUSH, JEB GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



233 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2147 words

HEADLINE: On Piping Out Caspian Oil, U.S. Insists the Cheaper, Shorter Way Isn't Better

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: BAKU, Azerbaijan

 BODY:
Soon after dawn each day, the promenade that runs along the shore of the Caspian Sea here fills with Americans and other expatriates out for a morning run.
Many of them are Texas oilmen, and after dark they congregate at Margaritaville, a Tex-Mex restaurant that serves tacos, enchiladas and refried beans. Gas executives from Louisiana prefer the jambalaya and gumbo at another favorite haunt, the Ragin' Cajun. Later, some join the newly rich Azerbaijanis who pack glittery local discos. 
 Once a distant and sleepy outpost of the Soviet empire, Baku is a boom town where the scent of big money hangs in the air. Huge amounts of oil and gas are believed to lie beneath the Caspian, and three new nations that share its shoreline -- Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan -- stand to reap billions of dollars from what looks like the century's last big bonanza.
Because the Caspian region is landlocked, however, pipelines must be built to carry its oil to world markets. Oil companies are soon to announce which route they prefer for their main export pipeline from Baku.
Many nations, including the United States, believe the decision will have profound economic and geopolitical consequences, and are lobbying intensely for their favored routes.
At stake is far more than the fate of the complex Caspian region itself. Rivalries being played out here will have a decisive impact in shaping the post-Communist world, and in determining how much influence the United States will have over its development.
"This is about America's energy security, which depends on diversifying our sources of oil and gas worldwide," said Energy Secretary Bill Richardson, who has put Caspian issues among his key priorities. "It's also about preventing strategic inroads by those who don't share our values."
"We're trying to move these newly independent countries toward the West," Mr. Richardson added. "We would like to see them reliant on Western commercial and political interests rather than going another way. We've made a substantial political investment in the Caspian, and it's very important to us that both the pipeline map and the politics come out right."
The Clinton Administration is making a final effort to persuade oil companies that they should build their pipeline across Georgia and Turkey, a route that would promote American interests in the region. Russia and Iran are pushing routes of their own, and urging the companies not to commit themselves to the American-backed one.
Oil executives must weigh pressure from Washington against a backdrop of low oil prices and the worldwide economic downturn. In this climate they are reluctant to commit themselves to multibillion-dollar investments -- especially, perhaps, the American-backed proposal, which oil companies estimate will cost $4 billion. This is roughly double the estimate for the other plans, which involve shorter distances.
Lands around the Caspian have been political and military battlegrounds almost since the dawn of history. The Persian, Russian, Ottoman and British empires sacrificed countless lives and enormous amounts of treasure to secure them. History's most ambitious conquerors, from Genghis Khan and Tamerlane to Peter the Great and Hitler, waged campaigns here.
Early visitors to this region recorded their amazement at the gaseous "pillars of fire" that rose from many meadows, and at the black goo that spilled from the ground. The 13th-century adventurer Marco Polo wrote that the goo, which we now call crude oil, was inedible but "good for burning." The very name Azerbaijan comes from an ancient Persian word meaning "garden of fire."
Azerbaijan has already lived through one oil boom. It reached its peak a century ago, led by pioneers with names like Nobel, Rothschild and Rockefeller. Many of the Azerbaijanis who made fortunes in that boom built elegant baroque and neoclassical mansions in downtown Baku, and they stand today as links to a fabled past.
For most of this century, only two states bordered on the Caspian Sea: the Soviet Union and Iran. Both had vast energy reserves in other places, and neither paid much attention to those under and around the Caspian.
In the early 1990's, however, the political geography of the region changed radically. Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan emerged from the debris of the Soviet Union. All three have come to realize that they control enough oil and gas to make them fabulously rich.
Hoping to share in that wealth, energy companies from nearly 40 nations have descended on the Caspian. William Courtney, a senior State Department official and former Ambassador to Kazakhstan and Georgia, has estimated that by 2010 foreign companies will invest as much as $50 billion in Caspian oil fields alone, not counting the billions they will spend to develop gas fields and build pipelines.
The sight of well-dressed young Azerbaijanis stepping from shiny Mercedes sedans and nodding at their bodyguards as they whisper into cell phones no longer attracts attention here. Nor do reports that one or another local "oil shark" has bought or ordered a lavish estate and paid for it with suitcases full of hundred-dollar bills. Clever entrepreneurs have already made millions of dollars from the oil boom, and that is nothing compared to what may lie ahead.
From their offices here, oil executives can gaze out at a sea dotted by oil platforms. But it is on the streets of Baku that the effect of the boom is most palpable. New restaurants and bars seem to open every week, some bearing names like Manhattan and Shangri-La. Bewildered pensioners, survivors from another age, wander past them begging for coins.
"It's not often that a whole region like this becomes available," said Igor Effimov, who directs Pennzoil's operation here from an office near the ancient city wall.
"Let's guess that the market price for oil stays where it is now, about $15 a barrel," Mr. Effimov said.
"Subtract about $5 a barrel for operating costs, transportation and taxes," he added. "What you're left with, the amount of money that is going to hit this country could easily be $50 billion to $100 billion or more. You and I will both be dead by the time all that money finishes flowing in, but it is just a mind-boggling number."
Before anyone can begin making these fortunes from Caspian oil, however, a decision must be made about where to lay the main export pipeline.
Under a 1994 contract between Azerbaijan and 11 foreign oil companies -- among them Pennzoil, Exxon and Amoco -- the companies will recommend rather than dictate a pipeline location to the Azerbaijani Government. But since they will pay for whatever pipeline is built, their recommendation carries great weight.
The Clinton Administration is fervently promoting a route that runs from Baku through Georgia and Turkey to the Mediterranean. At a port near the Turkish town of Ceyhan (pronounced JAY-han), the oil would be loaded onto tankers for shipment to European markets.
This Baku-Ceyhan route fulfills every American condition. It passes through only countries friendly to the United States -- Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey -- and avoids both Russia and Iran. It would also pull the Caspian region away from Russia's shadow and toward the West.
Leaders of Caspian nations met in Turkey on Oct. 29 and signed a declaration favoring the American-backed route. But they did not offer any financial support to reduce its $4 billion estimated cost.
The Clinton Administration has told oil companies that for political reasons it cannot give them large subsidies to build the Baku-Ceyhan pipeline. Instead it is pressing Turkey to do so. Turkish leaders are reportedly open to the idea because they badly want the pipeline, but have not yet produced a package of incentives.
President Clinton's special envoy to the Caspian countries, Richard Morningstar, is working to persuade Turkey to improve its offer, and says he believes Turkish officials are responding.
For half the estimated cost of the Baku-Ceyhan pipeline, however, oil companies might build a line either southward through Iran to the Persian Gulf or northward to the Russian port of Novorossisk on the Black Sea. A route to Georgia's Black Sea port of Supsa is shorter and would be even cheaper.
"Pipelines are supposed to be built for commercial reasons, not political reasons," said Robert Ebel, an energy specialist at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. "The plan to build through Turkey emerged as a way to help Turkey, and because our Government doesn't want a pipeline through Iran. But that doesn't put the project on a paying basis."
This attitude, which is widespread in the oil business, drives some American officials to distraction. They are deeply convinced that building a pipeline from Baku to Ceyhan is vital to the United States' long-term security.
Oil executives, however, stubbornly insist on their right to choose the cheapest alternative.
Richard H. Matzke, president of Chevron Overseas Petroleum, said the Baku-Ceyhan option favored by the United States "probably isn't the most rational solution at the moment," and other oil executives agree. As a result, some Administration officials have privately concluded that the Baku-Ceyhan line is not going to be built in the next few years. They believe the oil companies are preparing to announce that they will build a line only as far as Georgia, leaving open the possibility of a future extension to Ceyhan.
The Administration is preparing to portray the decision for Georgia as a victory, on the grounds that the pipeline will be built along an "east-west axis" rather than north through Russia or south through Iran. And Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott asserted recently that "an obituary for the Baku-Ceyhan pipeline is at least premature and, we believe, wrong and inaccurate."
If oil companies announce that they will only build a pipeline as far as Georgia's Black Sea coast, they must decide what to do with the oil once it reaches there. The only maritime route out of the Black Sea is through the Bosporus, which runs through the center of Istanbul and is already so crowded that the Turkish Government has announced plans to limit its ship traffic.
Officials in Bulgaria, Romania and Ukraine say they have the ideal alternative. They want to receive Caspian oil at ports on the western shore of the Black Sea, and then send it to European markets on barges or through existing pipelines.
But American officials scoff at these proposals. "We don't see them as practical and we don't see who would finance them," said a White House aide. "Baku-Ceyhan is the way to go."
Estimates of how much oil and gas lie in the Caspian region vary widely, often according to results of the most recent test drillings. A few dry holes were hit last summer, and several tracts in the Azerbaijani sector turned out to contain gas instead of oil. That news, together with low oil prices and the Asian financial crisis, has calmed the frenzy in Baku a bit.
"There's a very interesting split of oil people on one hand and geopoliticians on the other," said Thane Gustafson, a Washington-based energy consultant. "The geopoliticians are still breathing heavily, but for the oil people it's more like a sigh."
For the new Caspian nations, the prospect of riches remains very real. Their energy reserves are valued in the hundreds of billions or even trillions of dollars. Without doubt they have more oil than Alaska, probably at least as much as the North Sea and possibly half as much as Saudi Arabia.
"Estimates range from 20 to 200 billion barrels," said Paul Millar, a British Government official who monitors developments in the Caspian. "The true figure is more likely somewhere in between, but it is a brave person that approaches their bank or shareholders for funding on a market estimate that could vary by plus or minus 90 percent."
This uncertainty has made oil companies reluctant to support multibillion-dollar pipeline projects like the one Washington is backing.
But even if the Caspian region turns out only to have as much oil as pessimists believe, its strategic importance is all but guaranteed.
"This is not really about oil," said Julia Nanay, a Washington-based consultant who works with oil companies active in the Caspian. "It's about defense politics and world strategy. Whether you're talking about containing Russian influence or helping Turkey or containing Iran or building up new states in the region, oil is just a political cover."
"New oil is being found in Mexico, Venezuela, West Africa and other places," she added, "but it isn't getting the same attention because you don't have these huge strategic rivalries. There is no other place in the world where so many people and countries and companies are competing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: These offshore rig workers for Azerbaijan's state oil company are part of a vast new labor force that has changed sleepy Baku into a boom town. (Photographs by Staton R. Winter for The New York Times); The Caspian Sea region is poised to reap billions from the century's last big bonanza, and Baku is already showing new signs of sophistication. Oil executives favor a a pipeline under construction to the Black Sea port at Supsa, in Georgia.
 
Map of the middle east shows location of the Caspian Sea and the route preferred by the U.S.A.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); AZERBAIJAN (95%); GEORGIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); TURKMENISTAN (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

STATE: CASPIAN SEA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: BAKU, AZERBAIJAN (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CASPIAN OIL (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CASPIAN SEA; AZERBAIJAN; TURKMENISTAN; KAZAKHSTAN; BAKU (AZERBAIJAN); GEORGIA (GEORGIAN REPUBLIC); TURKEY; RUSSIA; IRAN; UNITED STATES (99%); AZERBAIJAN (95%); GEORGIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); TURKMENISTAN (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); CASPIAN SEA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); BAKU, AZERBAIJAN (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PIPELINES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (76%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LOBBYING (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); REFINED PETROLEUM PIPELINES (67%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL RICHARDSON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



234 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: THE SPEAKER STEPS DOWN: THE PRESIDENT;
A Sudden Case Of Confidence And Relief As Inquiry Looms

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 7

 BODY:
With Republicans in fratricidal disarray, the White House is preparing a new winter policy offensive and approaching the impeachment inquiry with new confidence that President Clinton can emerge with little or no further damage.
White House officials insisted that this week's election results and the departure of the President's chief Republican foil, Speaker Newt Gingrich, will have no bearing on the President's handling of the impeachment threat in the next few weeks. 
 These officials denied widespread speculation that Mr. Clinton would now feel emboldened to aggressively contest the Judiciary Committee's impeachment inquiry or the Paula Jones sexual misconduct suit. There is no chest-thumping or drum-beating going on in the White House, these aides said, even behind the bulletproof glass of the residential quarters.
But there was no mistaking the sense of relief and elation at the White House and among Congressional Democrats. One aide repeated the joke making the rounds of senior White House staff: "The Monica strategy worked."
But others warned that instability in the Republican leadership could pose new dangers.
"Their disarray makes that more difficult," said the White House official involved in handling impeachment matters. "Dangerous things happen in a disorderly situation. We're trying to get a little sense of how things are playing out on the other side, and we're not sure who's calling the shots now."
As the danger of impeachment receded, the President began planning a series of policy initiatives for the coming months to respond to the public will expressed in Tuesday's voting. Mr. Clinton said this week that the midterm election results were an "ear-splitting" public endorsement of his policies on education, health care and Social Security, and vowed to pursue them with new aggressiveness.
One thing at least has changed since Tuesday's balloting. Presidential advisers and Capitol Hill Democrats now speak openly of the possibility the Judiciary Committee will find no grounds for impeachment.
And while aides quietly let it be known as recently as a month ago that the President might be willing to accept Congressional censure or some other form of lesser punishment as an alternative to impeachment, there is now growing confidence at the White House that Congress may take no action at all.
However, a senior Democratic aide on Capitol Hill, who would not allow his name to be used, said Mr. Clinton probably cannot escape the Lewinsky matter untouched. "The sense up here is still that the exit will require some form of punishment, whether it's censure or whatever," the official said.
White House aides involved in handling impeachment matters said they were particularly heartened by the decision by Representative Henry J. Hyde, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, to call the Whitewater Independent Counsel Kenneth W. Starr as the panel's only witness. Instead of hearing weeks of repetitive testimony, the committee appears to be limiting its inquiry to areas Mr. Starr has investigated.
"Starr's not going to tell them anything we don't already know," said one senior White House official. "It's going to be tough for them to vote articles of impeachment based only on Ken Starr as a witness."
Instead of reassessing their scandal strategy, Democrats are gleefully watching the Republicans as they shoot their wounded and quarrel over the defeat.
"Who cares about impeachment?" one happy Congressional Democratic aide said at the end of the week. "We've got a war going on in the Republican Party."
One Presidential adviser said the White House impeachment strategy cannot be devised in a vacuum, but only in response to actions from Capitol Hill. The Judiciary Committee on Thursday sent the White House a list of 81 questions arising from Mr. Starr's investigation of the Monica Lewinsky matter.
White House lawyers said they planned to respond to the committee in a timely manner and would not try to drag out the proceedings.
But a broader reaction to the inquiry will await the Republicans' next move, aides said.
As the Republican drama plays out on Capitol Hill, the President intends to hew to the agenda he outlined last January in his State of the Union address and which Democrats used to their advantage in the fall campaign.
In two post-election public appearances, Mr. Clinton stressed revisions to the Social Security system and support for a health care bill of rights as the top priorities of the new year. Aides are now putting flesh on this skeletal agenda for presentation in the budget submission to Congress early next year and in the State of the Union speech in January.
"The lawyers will continue to handle impeachment stuff and the President will continue to be President," said Douglas Sosnik, a senior Presidential adviser. "Despite the fact that no one inside the Beltway was paying attention all year, we have been working on his agenda to improve education, preserve Social Security, pass a health care bill and maintain the strength of the economy. Tuesday's balloting reaffirmed that the people were listening, and that is certainly satisfying for the people here."
Mr. Clinton has been blessed, once again, by divided and inept opponents and by a tolerant, even indulgent, electorate. He has an opportunity now to seize the high ground of policy and dictate the terms of debate in Washington for the next several months. The President has a chance to command center stage against a Republican party with no clear voice or coherent policy.
The White House enters the last two years of Mr. Clinton's term with a new group of senior officials in place, under the leadership of John D. Podesta, the new chief of staff. Many of the team members, including Mr. Sosnik; Paul Begala, a former campaign consultant; Craig Smith, the political director, and Steve Ricchetti, the deputy chief of staff, have years of experience dealing with Mr. Clinton's propensity for self-inflicted wounds.
Despite the heady optimism brought by the Republican chaos and the dimming danger of impeachment, White House officials are chary of proclaiming another Clinton comeback.
"There's still time to mess up," one senior Clinton adviser said of the President's remaining time in office. "No lead is safe with us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton's advisers see opportunity amid the Republicans' turmoil. The Clintons left Washington for Camp David on Saturday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (94%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (94%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT; SEXUAL HARASSMENT; SUITS AND LITIGATION IMPEACHMENT (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (70%); LITIGATION (69%); WITNESSES (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BRODER, JOHN M; JONES, PAULA BILL CLINTON (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



235 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1577 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Inquiry Asks if City Deprives Poor

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS 

 BODY:
Federal officials say New York City's new welfare policies may improperly deprive thousands of poor people of access to food and medical assistance, and they have begun reviewing the public assistance programs to determine whether they violate Federal law.
The inquiry focuses on the city's application procedures and marks the first time Federal authorities have questioned Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's new welfare policies, which discourage the needy from seeking public assistance in an effort to push them to rely on themselves, not government. 
 Many states and cities have begun to urge the poor to depend on jobs and relatives instead of government checks, but officials say New York City appears to violate Federal rules which require city workers to allow the needy to apply for food stamps and Medicaid without delay.
Federal law says city workers must offer food stamp and Medicaid applications the first day a potential applicant steps into a welfare office. But under the city's new policy, the vast majority of those who arrive do not receive applications that day, city officials say. Instead, caseworkers encourage most people to seek child support payments, unemployment benefits or food from food pantries, offering applications only if a person returns for a second appointment.
As a result, while 53 percent of the people who asked to apply for welfare, food stamps and Medicaid were successful in the past, at the newly converted city welfare offices about 25 percent are, city statistics show.
"I am concerned that many eligible low-income children and adults are being exposed to additional barriers to Medicaid," wrote Sue Kelly, a regional administrator for the Federal Health Care Financing Administration of the Department of Health and Human Services, expressing her concerns about New York City in a letter in September to state health officials.
"While welfare reform has presented many changes for beneficiaries and local administrations, we must be assured that individuals wishing to apply for medical assistance are given that opportunity to apply without delay," wrote Ms. Kelly, echoing the concerns of food stamp officials.
Last week, Medicaid officials requested copies of the city's application and referral procedures after a flurry of letters from New York officials failed to ease their concerns about the fairness of the screening process and of a program intended to assess Medicaid applicants for fraud.
The Federal officials also requested documents from state health officials who oversee the city's compliance with Federal law.
Meanwhile, officials from the Federal Department of Agriculture are to arrive in New York City tomorrow to review the files of food stamp applicants who were denied benefits or had their cases closed. The department also plans to interview people who were diverted from applying at all.
Debra Sproles, a spokeswoman for the city's welfare agency, the Human Resources Administration, defended the city's procedures, saying that poor people were getting the help they needed. She emphasized that those with emergency needs always receive applications on their first visit and that requiring the rest to return is a reasonable and legal way of screening those who truly need help from those who do not.
She said people who return for applications receive their benefits just as quickly as if they had applied on the first day, describing the Federal reviews as a response to pressure from advocates for the poor who have "perpetuated the cycle of dependency for far too long."
The city began its new application process in April when it started converting welfare offices into "job centers." Limiting access to applications, city officials say, is an essential part of the effort to reduce dependency on government.
The situation in New York highlights the conundrum confronted by welfare officials across the country, who find themselves struggling to juggle two very different mandates. On the one hand, the new Federal welfare law allows states and municipalities to discourage people from applying for cash benefits and offers financial incentives for those with caseload declines.
On the other, the law requires states to encourage the needy to apply for food stamps and Medicaid, two benefits described by Federal officials as critical to keeping the working poor off welfare and the newly employed from returning
Federal officials fear the first message has had the most impact. Since 1996, the number of food stamp recipients in the nation has dropped by about 21 percent, a decline they say cannot be explained by the strong economy. (Comparable Medicaid statistics are not yet available.)
"We were hearing from anti-hunger advocates across the country with some real concerns, and the numbers we were getting were giving us a lot of reason to be concerned," said Julie Paradis, the Deputy Undersecretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services at the Department of Agriculture.
"We want to see how much of this is due to misunderstanding on the part of the client and how much of it might be due to tremendous pressures on state welfare offices to reduce caseload," she said.
In most states, applications for welfare, food stamps and Medicaid have been traditionally linked, which means that losing welfare often means losing all benefits. And poor people often fail to realize that they usually remain eligible for those supports even if they have found low-wage jobs or have been discouraged from applying for welfare. Consequently, Federal officials have begun urging states to re-evaluate their policies and expand their outreach.
Thus New York City, which has experienced a similar decline in food stamp and Medicaid recipients over the last three years, finds itself in a tricky position since its officials philosophically oppose the idea of encouraging people to apply for benefits, city welfare officials say. They vigorously defend their policy of delaying applications as an essential tool in their efforts to destroy the culture of dependency in poor neighborhoods and to push people to rely on themselves first, not on public charity.
Welfare-seekers, who are taught resume-writing skills and interview techniques, must search for work during the application process. Currently, about a third of the city's welfare offices operate under these rules; the remaining offices will be converted by spring.
"People who need it are able to get on, and people who can work are able to work," Mayor Giuliani said at a news conference at the Hamilton Job Center in Harlem last week. "I'm much heartened by the fact that the city is moving toward a city where people are moving in a direction of taking care of themselves. We had become a city of mass dependency."
But statistics suggest that this emphasis on self-reliance may result in city workers' failing to follow Federal guidelines that require them to encourage the needy to apply for food stamps and Medicaid even when they do not get welfare.
Of the 4,825 public assistance seekers who were discouraged from applying for welfare at the city's first four job centers between April and September, about 12 percent were referred to food stamp or Medicaid offices, city statistics show. Welfare officials say some of those people found jobs, although they refuse to say how many.
City documents, however, show that of the 319 people discouraged from applying for welfare at the Hamilton Job Center between Aug. 31 and Oct. 3, only one found a job.
Ms. Sproles of the Human Resources Administration said statistics collected by individual job centers were preliminary and possibly incomplete. But she declined to release any additional data, saying the statistics were still being analyzed.
She said the city was working closely with the state and discussing the possibility of placing Medicaid and food stamp workers in the city job centers. Officials at the Health Care Finance Administration said they began their inquiry in July in response to an article about the job centers that appeared in The New York Times.
Meanwhile the Agriculture Department was responding to complaints from advocates who said that people were not being provided with food stamp applications.
The concerns centered on the experience of people like Jack Kelly, 35, who says he was living in a homeless center when workers at the Hamilton Job Center told him he could not apply for welfare or food stamps on his first visit, giving him subway tokens and the address of a local food pantry instead.
Welfare officials say Mr. Kelly's story also demonstrates how the system succeeds despite its restrictions on handing out applications. When Mr. Kelly returned for a second visit, he was promptly processed for emergency food stamps and he received them within a week, as required by law.
But Federal officials are concerned about the people who never make that second appointment.
Valarie Rodriguez, an 18-year-old mother, said workers at the Greenwood Job Center in Brooklyn refused to allow her to apply for food or medical benefits, even during her second visit. They told her to come back for a third appointment, she said, but she gave up and scraped by for a month with the help of relatives. When she went to another welfare office, which had not been converted into a job center, she was immediately deemed eligible for food stamps, she said. "They said we were an emergency case," she said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK"
Shifting the Focus of Welfare Offices
 
New York City is converting its welfare offices into job centers, where people are encouraged to find jobs rather than rely on public assistance. Below are data from four of the first job centers.
 
JOB CENTERS
Greenwood, Brooklyn
Jamaica, Queens
Richmond, Staten Island
Long Island City, Queens
 
APPLICANTS(for week ending Aug. 7, 1998)
 
Greenwood, Brooklyn 83
Jamaica, Queens 163
Richmond, Staten Island 95
Long Island City, Queens 236
 
APPROVED FOR WELFARE BENEFITS
 
Greenwood, Brooklyn 18
Jamaica, Queens 44
Richmond, Staten Island 25
Long Island City, Queens 53
 
DENIED PUBLIC ASSISTANCE BUT . . .
 
Greenwood, Brooklyn 65
Jamaica, Queens 119
Richmond, Staten Island 70
Long Island City, Queens 183
 
 . . . REFERRED TO MEDICAID OR FOOD STAMP PROGRAMS
 
Greenwood, Brooklyn 5
Jamaica, Queens 20
Richmond, Staten Island 5
Long Island City, Queens 16
 
(Source: New York City Human Resources Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); FOOD STAMPS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH MEDICAID (92%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); FOOD STAMPS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); FOOD SECURITY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); HUMAN RESOURCES (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (66%); STATISTICS (65%); 

PERSON: SWARNS, RACHEL L; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



236 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: THE SPEAKER STEPS DOWN: THE REPUBLICANS;
Party Looks to Where It Went Wrong

BYLINE: By MELINDA HENNEBERGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 7

 BODY:
It was a wild week at the office for House Republicans, who, being Republicans, talked a lot after a bruising midterm election, about re-evaluating their company's sudden loss of market share, "looking at everyone from the C.E.O. to the janitor," as Representative J. C. Watts of Oklahoma put it.
But upon abruptly losing their boss, Speaker Newt Gingrich, on Friday, the same Republicans who had spent much of the year fighting -- scheduling votes and then postponing them, failing even to pass a budget -- seemed united, if for only a moment, in their relief. The worst seemed behind them now. 
 And in a moment, said Representative Marge Roukema, a moderate from New Jersey, the focus shifted to the immediate future and the enormous challenge of governing with a six-vote majority: "Now," Mrs. Roukema said, "we've got to roll up our sleeves and go to work."
Republicans already seemed to have a few ideas about how to do that, saying they should focus on tax cuts and work through disagreements rather than run from them.
"Any family therapist will tell you the worst thing you can do is sweep your problems under the rug," said Representative Matt Salmon of Arizona, one of the conservatives in the Class of '94 who have grown increasingly unhappy with Mr. Gingrich. Mr. Salmon had been first to say that he planned to block Mr. Gingrich's re-election as Speaker.
The fight averted -- the battle Mr. Gingrich had been expected to wage to hold on to power -- may yet give way to the fight to succeed him. But for now, some of the candidates for leadership roles were trying to out-nice one another on CNN's "Larry King Live," offering lavish tributes to Mr. Gingrich and to one another.
There was still no agreement on where Republicans had gone wrong. Had their error been in betraying their core conservative beliefs or in being held hostage by them? But in the days since the election, there has been a surprising consensus among both conservative and more moderate House Republicans on what agenda they should pursue and how they might push it more effectively in the next Congress.
All manner of Republicans said that one of their most serious problems had been their leadership's apparent fear of a fight.
"There was no reason we put off looking at appropriations for seven or eight months, with one excuse after another, and then came up at the end of the session with this omnibus bill that had everything but the kitchen sink in it and busted the budget," Mrs. Roukema said. "It was all because they didn't want to look as though they were giving in to the President, or forcing a shutdown, or showing divisions in the party. They didn't want to face any of it, but we should bring these things to the floor and that's it. We win or we don't."
Mark Souder, a more conservative Republican from Indiana, used almost identical language. "Sometimes you have to be willing to try something and lose," Mr. Souder said. "But we're afraid the news media and the public will decide we're not effective."
So instead of working through hard questions, he said, "We hold, we hold, we hold." And at the end of the session, he said, with another Government shutdown looming, nothing is accomplished.
Mr. Souder and others said that applying a few management principles from the business world would not hurt. Neither would a little discipline and organizational skill. "Last year we came in and diddled around for two months," Mr. Souder said. "Why can't the budget committee be meeting in December?"
There is also a basic agreement that economic issues have been shortchanged, to the party's detriment. The next Congress, many said, should be tightly focused on tax cuts, education, health care and protecting Social Security. Those who oppose abortion rights said they should fight hard, vote to ban certain late-term abortions -- and when they are vetoed, put the onus on the President.
And they hope to learn to sell that agenda with better marketing and public relations, a softer approach and a nicer smile.
"We've got to get serious about outreach" to minorities and others who have not traditionally been part of the Republican base, said Mr. Watts, who is black, adding: "I've been beating my head against the wall on that for four years. We've got to get more market share. You can't just throw mud on the wall 60 days before an election and pray some of it sticks; You have to have a plan that says, 'Here's my view of the future, and it includes you.' "
Anne M. Northup of Kentucky said that without such a clear message, "certain members that don't enjoy the popular support of the conference just take it upon themselves to articulate something" that damages the image of the whole group.
For example, she said, "There are certain members that have homosexual issues very high on their agenda." Ms. Northup said that Republicans might agree that homosexuals should not be able to marry or adopt children, "but it's not at the top of our agenda.
"If that's what wakes you up in the morning," she added, "then people will think well, maybe you are mean-spirited. And if you are mean-spirited about that, then maybe you're mean-spirited about our elderly or our handicapped."
Ms. Northup advocates a brand of "compassionate conservatism." But some of those who have been the public face of the party in the House, Ms. Northup said, "don't understand this in their core."
"People who represent districts where there is disregard for people who've struggled or who come at life from a different angle, leadership has had no concept," she said.
She is also among those who find fault with both conservative purists and an older generation of Republican legislators she described as altogether too cozy with Democrats, with "a holier-than-thou attitude towards the conservatives."
And while a whole raft of issues, notably social issues, still divide the House Republicans, many think that the more serious problem is one of attitude. "We've got a real comity crisis, and the public wants a more thoughtful process for resolving the issues with greater respect for various sides," said Representative Jim Leach, an Iowa moderate.
There is the sense that as a group, House Republicans may never know what hit them on Nov. 3. Speaking of the Republicans' apparently misguided decision to sponsor campaign commercials reminding voters of the Presidential sex scandal, Representative John Linder, the Georgian who heads the National Republican Congressional Committee, said: "It was Newt's consultant who said, 'We've got to deal with this,' and I agreed with him. It brought together all we had argued against. Then we were accused of doing unfair things by bringing up Monica Lewinsky. I don't know. I do not know how Americans respond to this."
With a deep sigh, Mr. Linder added, "But then, we must just go on."
There is also the sense that there is no more time to spend meditating on these mysteries a mere two years before the 2000 elections.
"We've got a lot to do in two years," said Representative Michael P. Forbes of Long Island, who has become increasingly moderate since his election in 1994 and was the first to announce he would not support Mr. Gingrich for Speaker two years ago. "I think the fight's over, so it clears the path," Mr. Forbes said. "Now we can do some of the things we've talked about."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) HOUSE REPUBLICANS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) HOUSE REPUBLICANS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (67%); 

PERSON: HENNEBERGER, MELINDA NEWT GINGRICH (79%); MATT SALMON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



237 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Plays Relocation Card, and City Pays

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Even as city and state officials were clinching a deal last week to keep one financial market in Manhattan, the New York Stock Exchange increased the pressure for its own generous deal by talking to developers about building a new trading floor in Jersey City.
The routine threat to cross the Hudson drew the routine reaction: officials in New York put a $600 million incentive package on the bargaining table, a sum that would cover more than half the cost of building and outfitting a new headquarters for the New York Stock Exchange directly across from its historic home on Wall Street, according to negotiators on both sides of the talks. 
 The subsidies would also be triple those granted to the Nasdaq and American Stock Exchanges in a tentative deal struck last week for a new joint headquarters, possibly near Times Square.
Flirting with New Jersey has become an enduring ritual for many of the city's largest and most profitable corporations, from Avon Products and Conde Nast Publications to the General Motors Corporation and NBC. No industry has used the tactic more than the commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies that make up New York's financial sector.
And whether the companies truly intend to leave, it has worked. City and state officials over the last 15 years have granted more than $2 billion in tax breaks, cash and low-cost electricity to companies that threatened to move to New Jersey, Connecticut and elsewhere.
"The City of New York has become the softest mark in the country for companies looking to extract corporate welfare from government," said State Senator Franz S. Leichter, a frequent critic of the deals. "We're spending hundreds of millions of dollars on the financial industry, which is -- while important to New York -- downsizing. Couldn't this money be better spent on transportation, schools and other economic development initiatives?"
Perhaps surprisingly, Mr. Leichter's view is shared by developers like Leonard Stern, chief executive of the Hartz Group, which owns the Colgate Center office complex in Jersey City. Some companies will move to less expensive space outside New York, he said, but most have no intention of doing so, even though they "routinely inquire about how to shake down the city." Despite the millions of dollars in subsidies provided by New Jersey or New York, he said, there is no net gain for the region's economy.
"The city is paying an unnecessary price in allowing itself to be shaken down by one tenant or another," Mr. Stern said. "Too many politicians know the price of everything, but not the value of New York City. I don't know how Giuliani allows this rape of taxpayer dollars to continue."
Mr. Stern acknowledged that his company was still talking to the New York Stock Exchange about a move to his Colgate complex. He said the exchange has "assured us" that New Jersey was not being used merely to extract larger concessions from New York.
The New Jersey Secretary of Commerce, Gualberto Medina, said on Friday that his state was still in the running, but two other developers in New Jersey who are negotiating with the exchange said they did not believe there would ever be a New Jersey Stock Exchange.
"They're going to stay in Manhattan," said one developer who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
City and state officials in New York contend that they have to take the relocation threats seriously, especially since New Jersey is luring companies with hefty tax subsidies of its own. Although the exodus of companies from New York has slowed to a trickle since the mid-80's, both Cigna Insurance and U.S. Trust are now considering moving a total of 900 workers to Jersey City.
"The public investments in the exchanges are not simply corporate retention deals," said Carl Weisbrod, former president of New York City's Economic Development Corporation. "They're infrastructure deals, no different than the Erie Canal. Financial services are the key to our economic health and future. Insuring that this industry remains concentrated in New York and competitive is a major public policy objective."
It certainly has been for both Democratic and Republican mayors over the last 15 years. During the real estate boom in the 1980's, Mayor Edward I. Koch gave a $235 million incentive package to Chase Manhattan and $90 million to Citicorp after those companies threatened to relocate some of their operations. During the recession in the early 1990's when the city's financial center appeared to be on the verge of disintegrating, Mayor David N. Dinkins continued the tradition, granting a total of $255 million in tax breaks to Morgan Stanley, Prudential Securities, Bear Stearns and the Bank of America.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who as a mayoral candidate in 1993 criticized the use of corporate retention deals, has accelerated the process. His administration has granted $445.4 million in tax subsidies to 20 Wall Street companies since January 1994, including $75 million for Bear Stearns and $50.5 million for Credit Suisse First Boston. Eight insurance companies got a total of $122.34 million.
In the latest example, city officials granted a $5.8 million incentive package to Zurich Centre Group, even after it had abandoned its previously announced plans to move to Stamford, Conn., where it had obtained a $190 million tax credit for a new headquarters.
Those so-called retention deals mostly involved cuts in sales taxes and property taxes. The city's financial markets, however, have bargained for far more by playing the relocation card for 30 years.
After talking with New Jersey, the Mercantile Exchange got a $183.9 million incentive package from the Giuliani administration in 1994, which included $129 million in cash, the equivalent of 59 percent of the cost of its new headquarters and trading floor at Battery Park City. The Merc currently pays $1 million a year in rent on the state-owned land.
Frank G. Zarb, chairman of the National Association of Securities Dealers, which owns the Nasdaq and American Stock Exchanges, also wanted a big subsidy package to build a joint home for both markets in New York or New Jersey. Mr. Zarb offered to move the N.A.S.D. headquarters from Washington. Many real estate executives and officials in New York doubted that Mr. Zarb, who has made no secret of his plans to create a financial market that could rival the New York Stock Exchange, would move to New Jersey, which offered $140 million in tax and cash incentives.
City and state officials said they struck a deal last week to provide the exchanges with $20 million in cash and $180 million in tax credits and low-cost electricity.
The subsidy package, however, is portable and can be used at a site near Times Square or in Battery Park City.
Michael Jones, a senior vice president at N.A.S.D., said on Friday that the company was "still in the process" of making a decision and obtaining board approval.
City and state officials are frantically trying to conclude a deal with the New York Stock Exchange, which says it is continuing to negotiate with both New York and New Jersey.
According to negotiators for both sides, the city and the state have offered to provide nearly $500 million in cash and $100 million in tax breaks toward the construction of a $1.1 billion trading complex on a block bound by Wall Street and Exchange Place, between Broad and William Streets. The $600 million package would be more than twice as large as any subsidy ever offered to a single company.
It is unclear whether those incentives include the $300 million it will cost to acquire the construction site. City and state officials are hoping to sell the right to build an office tower above the exchange's new trading floors, which will rise about 15 stories.
The stock market has maintained that it will not pay for the land, while state officials have refused to grant any subsidies for new computers and other equipment.
The bargaining is further complicated by the fact that the stock market favors moving to a vacant parcel at Battery Park City, while city and state officials want the exchange to remain in the city's traditional financial district. They fear that property values and the economic health of the district would be undermined by the stock market's departure.
In the meantime, New Jersey, which has long sought the prestige a financial market could offer, beckons with its own set of subsidies.
"I am convinced that both of these exchanges gave very serious consideration to New Jersey," said Mr. Medina. "If they don't come, this stalking-horse was involved in a photo finish."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AVP (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); AVON PRODUCTS INC (56%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; JERSEY CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); INSURANCE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); INVESTMENT BANKING (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



238 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2100 words

HEADLINE: Facing Oblivion, Rust-Belt Giants Top Russian List Of Vexing Crises

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

DATELINE: MAGNITOGORSK, Russia

 BODY:
Ten years ago, when economic reform began its uneven march through Russia's industrial heartland, the most visible landmark in this steel town was a deadly multicolored plume that hung over the vast Magnitogorsk Metal Works.
Now, on a misty autumn morning, the sky is still, a welcome breath of fresh air for the scarred lungs of the 430,000 people who live here on the banks of the Ural River. 
 One reason is the changes that have swept Russia under the banner of free-market reform. Directors of the mill, now privatized, have done what Moscow's all-powerful central planners refused to let them do: They have spent their own profits to replace 11 of the mill's 35 aged and filthy open-hearth furnaces that heat iron into steel with two cleaner oxygen furnaces.
But there is another reason for the clear skies, one that illustrates why so many Russians have come to associate economic reform with economic collapse.
Today Magnitogorsk -- once the largest mill in the former Soviet Union -- is producing less than half the raw steel it did a decade ago, with about the same work force. It is a story repeated across Russia, whose gross national product has slumped 42.5 percent since 1989, the most abrupt decline in any major industrial country since the Great Depression.
And new clouds loom on the horizon. The Magnitogorsk Metal Works is bracing for a blow that could shut off its sales to the United States, where it now sells 49 percent of its exports.
American steel producers, who say they are being undercut by imports from Russia, Japan and Brazil, have brought a trade case accusing the foreign competitors of "dumping" -- or unfairly selling steel in the United States for less than it costs them to produce it. A preliminary ruling is expected in a few weeks.
As winter approaches, workers here are collecting only half their wages in cash, with the rest provided as credit at stores owned by the mill. And there are fears that this crisis, more than others before it, will hit home -- hard.
"If we lose our exports," said Anatoly Tamchuck, deputy chairman of the local Mining and Metallurgical Union, "the drop in production will be about 50 percent, and layoffs could be about the same. This is the most frightening thing. Since Soviet times, we never have had mass unemployment. This is a new situation. The steel mill is the main enterprise in the city. There is no other work."
Of all Russia's problems, the most vexing lie in its Rust Belt, an interlocking series of industrial giants now living off barter and choking on bloated work forces. Many of the industries are pillars of communities that have no other reason for being.
 
Devalued Cash, Vanishing Assets
Solving these problems without causing social upheaval will be a key test for Russia's new Government, headed by Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov and staffed with old-style Soviet ministers who have pointedly set out to rescue Russian industry -- or, as they put it, the "real" economy.
By the end of the Communist era, Russia's heavy industry was already heading for a slump. But many fault President Boris N. Yeltsin's team of free-market reformers for failing to anticipate the economic disarray -- and corruption -- that followed their lifting of state controls.
In the last seven years, the bottom has fallen out of Magnitogorsk's domestic market. Steel consumption in Russia, once one of the highest in the world at 970 pounds per capita, has dropped to under 265. Russian factories that buy steel -- makers of tractors, tanks, railroad ties, ships and industrial machinery -- have verged on bankruptcy, struggling to sell what Russians either do not want or cannot afford.
Many analysts say that the real problems in Russia's once-formidable metals industry run deep in a Soviet-era mentality that continues to regard steel production in terms of targets rather than markets, that views outsiders with suspicion and that shares information reluctantly.
"Russian steel mills on the whole haven't managed to make the final leap," observed James May, the Russia specialist at the London-based Metal Bulletin, a trade newspaper. "They haven't grasped the fact that just producing for the Motherland is not enough. They have to look at their markets, at their costs. Mainly, there is a failure to grasp the bull by the horns, and come to terms with the fact that they are going to have to sack a lot of people."
Just a few months ago, Magnitogorsk was banking on the first hints of an industrial upturn. Then came the devaluation of the ruble in August and a simultaneous freeze on Russia's foreign and domestic borrowing. In one day, Magnitogorsk's bank accounts were blocked, foreign banks refused to finance steel exports and raw materials dwindled to dangerously low levels.
After the August crisis opened a sudden $50 million hole in the factory's cash flow, it took the next obvious step, one used across Russia to forestall layoffs. It delayed paying wages to its 55,000 employees, offering instead plastic cards to buy goods at company-owned stores.
"They are like credit cards, but without any money behind them," said Mikhail Buryakov, head of the mill's finance and economics department. He said the factory -- which depends on barter for 40 percent of its domestic transactions -- had found ways to quadruple its stock of goods, from food to boots, in factory-owned stores. "But that is the state we find ourselves in," he said.
That the steel mill and the city have held together is due to an eerie state of suspended animation, halfway between Communism and capitalism, that has been characteristic of the seven years of Russian reform.
Long after privatization began here in 1992, the mill remains in the hands of directors born and brought up in its shadow and educated mostly at the local mining institute. The Government holds a 23 percent stake in the factory, a testament to Magnitogorsk's special place in Russia's industrial galaxy.
 
Company Town With a 'Steel Heart'
But ownership is still a novel notion and, as elsewhere in Russia, has come with a fair share of scandal. Last year 30 percent of Magnitogorsk's shares disappeared when the director of a local holding company secretly tried to unload them in sales that have since been declared illegal. Those shares have been recovered and are soon to be pledged as collateral against a $95 million credit from the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development.
A Western steel trader tells of a visit to Magnitogorsk a few years ago when he asked a midlevel manager who now owned the metalworks. After a long conversation with a colleague, the manager came back with the memorable reply: "First, we think that is a strange question. And to answer it, we don't know and we don't care."
By various accounts, not all of Magnitogorsk's profits, earned in the export boom of the early 1990's, were plowed back into the steel mill. An untold share was siphoned into offshore trading companies, split between unscrupulous managers and their shady Western trading partners.
"The factory was set free to export," said a former deputy director who left in 1993, "and everyone in management understood that in their own way." The official spoke on condition of anonymity.
But changes have taken place. During the export boom, when Russian steel was selling at world prices and costs were artificially low, Magnitogorsk sank almost $1 billion into new equipment, including a hot-rolling mill. Even now, Magnitogorsk is seeking Government-backed credits for another $1 billion investment, this time in a cold-rolling mill for another stage in the finishing process.
Magnitka -- the nickname for both the town and the factory, intertwined since their birth in 1929 -- is a company town. The factory employs almost half of the work force and pays 40 percent of the city's taxes -- if delivery of raw steel, in lieu of cash, can be called revenues.
Very little happens here that is not connected with the "kombinat," as the mill is called. Besides steel, it produces furniture, cement, bread, meat and other unrelated products. Its electric generators -- including one still operating with boilers from the 1930's -- provide the city with light.
All this has lent a certain feudal stability to life here, with the mill's general director playing the role of baron. Workers, lining up outside the factory gates to pick up their delayed July paychecks on a gray October day, were both bitter and grateful. "At least work here is guaranteed," said Tatyana Konopolova, a clerk. "I see no danger of losing my job."
In 1987 the mill employed 65,000 people, which even then was considered far too many by industry experts. Today, thanks to retirements and other attrition, the number is about 55,000, of whom half make steel.
Such a work force, even sprinkled through the metalworks' array of daughter companies, flies in the face of economic common sense. But to the directors there is simply no other choice.
"Where would people go?" said Sergei Nosov, grandson of the factory's famous World War II director, and now director of its capital construction department. "There would be a huge social explosion, and that is something everyone is afraid of."
The seven years since the collapse of Communism have not been easy, but most people will acknowledge that life has improved. They still remember meat and butter rationing a decade ago, and the hours spent standing in line on cold winter mornings, waiting to buy milk.
Now the stores are full of goods, even if the prices are high -- particularly after the ruble's collapse on Aug. 17. Private restaurants and cafes, even a Baskin-Robbins ice cream store, have opened. People travel abroad, and the town is relatively well kept.
Monthly salaries at the mill average 2,000 rubles, worth about $300 last summer and about $120 today. By Russian standards, that is good pay, certainly better than the 800-ruble average salary of doctors at the city's hospitals, which struggle to afford imported medicines.
 
An Isolation Not So Splendid
But Magnitogorsk -- for decades virtually closed to foreign travelers -- is paying the price for its links to the global economy. First Europe stemmed the flow by imposing quotas. Next came the economic crisis in Asia, where until last year Magnitogorsk sold 43 percent of its exports.
Then Russian producers turned to the United States. If it, too, closes its doors, Magnitogorsk will have to cut production -- again.
This cuts deep into the legend of Magnitogorsk, which has been glorified in Soviet art as Russia's "steel heart."
In the beginning there was logic to Stalin's decision to raise a steel mill on the eastern slopes of the Ural Mountains, 800 miles from Moscow and 1,200 miles from the nearest port, but next to an outcrop of iron ore that continued to supply the plant until the 1970's. In World War II the factory, safely situated hundreds of miles from advancing German troops, cranked up production to provide steel for half of the Red Army's tanks.
But today isolation is a handicap. The mill's two main domestic competitors are in western Russia, closer to export markets and raw materials. In these hard times, transportation has become one of Magnitogorsk's many nightmares.
Another problem is product quality. Throughout the Communist period, Magnitogorsk fulfilled orders from Gosplan, the state planning agency, which emphasized quantity. Magnitogorsk's cold-rolled steel, even now, is not good enough for the Russian automobile industry, because its surfaces cannot hold paint.
The Soviet command economy also left Magnitogorsk at the mercy of monopolist suppliers. Seventy percent of the iron ore pellets it uses still come from a plant 200 miles over the border, in Kazakhstan, now an independent country that accepts payment in dollars, not rubles. It is unclear whether the Primakov Government will grant Magnitogorsk a new flow of money, or forgive its old debts. "Credits would be good for the factory, and the city," said Georgi M. Tikhonov, editor of Magnitogorsk Worker. "Whether it is good for the national economy is another matter."
As far as Mr. Buryakov, the financial director, is concerned, the Government owes the Magnitogorsk mill for the damage it caused on Aug. 17. "It is our Government that created a situation in which we have to live on credit from each other," he said. "They should be the ones giving us credits. I don't know what they will do, but my impression is that this Government will take any steps to avoid any sudden unrest."

GRAPHIC: Photos: COMPANY TOWN -- Little happens in Magnitogorsk that is not connected to its steel mill. The multicolored plume shrouding the mill was its most visible landmark. Newlyweds often pose at the World War II memorial. (Photographs by Jason Eskenazi for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Crews clearing land for the vast Magnitogorsk Metal Works, which was built in 1929. It was once the largest mill in the Soviet Union. (Tass); The Magnitogorsk Metal Works has delayed paying 55,000 employees. Some wait for checks under an artist's idealization of steelworkers. (Jason Eskenazi for The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 
Graph: "INDICATORS: Hammered Steel"
Russia's move to export steel to the U.S. proved success-ful, yet production has fallen off as economic setbacks hobble the industry. The graph shows the increase in exports to the U.S., while at the same time production has dropped off since 1993. (Sources: Russian Union of Metal Export-ers; American Iron and Steel Institute)(pg. 6)
 
Map showing the location of Magnitogorsk: Magnitogorsk is producing half the steel it made a decade ago. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN STEEL FOUNDRIES (54%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); AMERICAN IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); AMERICAN IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; MAGNITOGORSK (RUSSIA); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; STEEL AND IRON; BANKRUPTCIES; LABOR EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXTRACTIVE METALLURGY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TRENDS (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (65%); WORLD WAR II (59%); 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE; PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY M (PRIME MIN); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



239 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: November 1-7;
Russia in Deep Debt

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

 BODY:
After months of hedging, Russia acknowledged that it will default on its foreign debt next year and seek to renegotiate the loans. Its coalition Government put the blame on a collapsing currency. But the looming default also reflects Prime Minister Yevgeni Primakov's failure to put together an economic plan that would advance market reforms -- and win funds from the International Monetary Fund. Russia will also get 1.5 million tons of wheat and $600 million from the United States to buy more American-grown food next month, the United States Agriculture Department said. Russia's food stocks, its Government says, have fallen sixfold, to two or three weeks' reserve. MICHAEL R. GORDON

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harvesting carrots

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); CURRENCIES (87%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%); PRIME MINISTERS (85%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



240 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: CONNECTICUT;
Official Seeks Expansion Of School Choice Policy

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: HARTFORD

 BODY:
Any city school student wanting to attend school in the suburbs could do so under an expansion of school choice policy being considered by the State Board of Education.
The idea would speed up a school choice initiative that is part of a state law intended to reduce racial, ethnic and economic isolation, said Education Commissioner Theodore Sergi, who is proposing the plan. 
 In 1997, Gov. John G. Rowland signed into law a bill requiring the state to reduce racial isolation in public schools. A limited school choice plan began this fall, with more than 900 students being bused from schools in Hartford, Bridgeport and New Haven. Mr. Sergi's latest idea would broadly expand the program so it would eventually include students in the entire state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (91%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (75%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: SCHOOL CHOICE (60%); STATE BOARD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE BOARD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (91%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (75%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS PUBLIC SCHOOLS (95%); SCHOOL CHOICE (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); LEGISLATION (70%); 

PERSON: SERGI, THEODORE (COMR) THEODORE SERGI (81%); JOHN G ROWLAND (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



241 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Gambling: Married to the Action, for Better or Worse

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN; Timothy L. O'Brien, a reporter for The New York Times, is the author of "Bad Bet" (Times Books, 1998), a look at gambling in America.

 BODY:
WHEN California voters approved a measure last week giving Indian tribes broad permission to run casinos unhampered by state control, it was a big loss for the Coalition for Unregulated Gambling, one of the measure's fiercest opponents.
It's not that the coalition disapproves of gambling; in fact, it was financed largely by gambling companies based in that granddaddy of gambling states, Nevada. Why did Nevada's gambling bigwigs, many of whom have pushed aggressively for the acceptance of gambling in other parts of the country, work so hard to keep California from joining the club? Raw fear. 
 More than a third of Nevada's casino patrons come from California, and many of them will stay closer to home if Native Americans offer a more enticing menu of table games and slot machines, which the ballot measure permits. You don't need to be a bookie to know how bad that would be for business in Las Vegas.
California's tribes could end up with legal casinos with about 20,000 gaming devices, about 5 times the number at Foxwoods, the Indian casino in Connecticut, according to William Eadington, an economist at the University of Nevada at Reno. Foxwoods is the biggest gambling joint in the Western Hemisphere. Legislators in California may now feel compelled to legalize or expand gambling at card clubs, race tracks, bars and taverns, and other recreation centers. "All of this would indeed be bad news for Las Vegas," he said.
Nevadans also know that wagering is now a national industry and that the explosive growth of the business has made it available everywhere -- on street corners, on the Internet, and all along the Mississippi River. By the year 2000, 90 percent of Americans will live within 200 miles of a legal casino, the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority noted in a recent report that pointed out challenges facing a town that is still regarded as the mecca of American gambling. Only a generation ago gamblers had few choices but Las Vegas.
But all gambling moguls, not just those based in Las Vegas, are looking over their shoulders. Gambling's ubiquity is forcing the industry's impresarios to fret about the best ways to drum up new business.
"Americans have all the gambling they want," said Eugene Christiansen, a gambling analyst with Christiansen/Cummings Associates in New York. "The driver of growth over the past three decades -- the satiation of unsatiated demand -- is no longer there."
While Steve Wynn's new $1.9 billion Las Vegas casino, the Bellagio, aims to attract new gamblers with luxurious rooms, posh shops and a collection of Picassos and Matisses, analysts expect most gambling concerns to focus on something more basic to stir up new business: gamblers' thirst for action and the fast-paced, mindless devices like slot machines and video lottery games that quench that thirst most effectively.
Even if its growth slows, gambling is still a colossal business. Americans bet $638.6 billion legally in 1997 and lost about $51 billion of that amount -- more than the loot pulled in by the recording, movie and theme park businesses combined. Those losing bets were also up 70 percent from the $30 billion gamblers forked over in 1992, according to International Gaming & Wagering Business, a trade publication.
But that money is being lost in a lot more places now. In 1989, nearly all casino gambling took place in Atlantic City and Las Vegas; now it's just over half. Riverboat gambling is now far bigger than the action in Atlantic City. And the boats are no longer confined to rivers. Last week, voters in Missouri approved a measure legalizing slot machines in casinos floating in artificial basins.
So most gambling concerns are now focused on a core mission: pushing games that appeal to gamblers' need for speed. Speed sells. Speed hooks gamblers. Slot machines have long since replaced the plodding table games of craps and roulette as the mainstays of the casino business. Anyone walking into a casino a few decades ago, when the Rat Pack was in full swing in Las Vegas, would have encountered a room full of table games like blackjack and craps with slot machines relegated to the periphery where the little old ladies played. Today, slot machines dominate the floors of every casino and the allegiance of most gamblers -- especially retirees parked in front of the slots at their local gambling den. Slot machines are fast and simple; crap games are not. So slots and other electronic gambling devices accounted for about 70 percent of the money that gamblers lost in casinos last year.
 
'Video Crack'
Many state lotteries, the recent Powerball mania notwithstanding, are encountering gamblers who are increasingly blase about huge jackpots. The lottery industry calls it "jackpot fatigue," and many lotteries are relying on the speed of instant-ticket games to snag more gamblers. If piles of money aren't enough to get gamblers' attention, the adrenaline blast from a quick gambling hit usually will do the trick. The New York lottery, the largest state lottery in the nation, now gets more money from instant games than it does from its better known Lotto games that offer big jackpots and snare the lion's share of media coverage.
And on-line lottery games like New York's Quick Draw game -- labeled "video crack" by its critics -- let gamblers play a new game every few minutes. Video lottery terminals, though legal in only five states, generated a quarter of all lottery sales nationwide last year.
"There is no question that when you make these machines available, people use them," said Mr. Christiansen, the gambling analyst. "The other side of this is that with increased gambling you create social friction like compulsive gambling. It's a legitimate policy concern." The stakes in all of this are high, because compulsive gambling is still a fuzzy issue and is one of the key concerns of the National Gambling Impact Study Commission, which is currently examining the industry. It is expected to report its findings next year.
When criticized, the gambling industry rightly points out that most gamblers wager within their budgets and just do it for fun. Still, a significant number of gamblers -- about 20 percent in most markets -- lose the lion's share of the money, about 80 percent, according to casino executives. And within this core group, a sizeable though unquantifiable chunk are compulsive or problem gamblers.
Conventional wisdom has it that about 5 percent of the adult population, or some 10 million people, are compulsive gamblers. That is, they are hooked on gambling like others are hooked on nicotine, heroin or alcohol. But terms like compulsive and problem gambling are notoriously fuzzy, given that they are used to describe a wide variety of behaviors that do not fit easy definitions.
Last year, the Harvard Medical School published a study indicating that about 1 percent of the adult population and 6 percent of youths are what could be described as active compulsive gamblers. The same study found that about 3 percent of adults and 15 percent of youths are what could be described as problem gamblers, those who regularly wage beyond their means but are not addicted.
The same study also found that gambling disorders in the United States have been increasing over the last two decades. Needless to say, the growth in gambling problems coincides with the expansion of the gambling industry, and with faster games. It is the faster, repetitive games that tend to be the most addictive.
Still, attempts to put the brakes on gambling have little success. Frank Padavan, a Republican State Senator from Queens, sponsored legislation earlier this year to limit gambling, but it failed. "Compulsive gambling disorders," he said, "may be for Generation X what cocaine and crack were for their parents' generation."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 15, 1998, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Sunday tracing the growth of gambling in the United States misstated the amount of money gambled during the last decade. It has risen from about $250 billion in 1987 to about $600 billion last year, not from $250 million to $600 million. A map with the chart labeled North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Tennessee and South Carolina incorrectly. They do not have state lotteries.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Stakes Get Higher"
Just over 20 years ago, Americans had limited opportunities to gamble. Outside of Nevada, the only state with casinos, a hanful of Northeastern states offered lotteries. Now almost every state offers some form of gambling; only Hawaii and Utah bar all forms.
 
The Handle Has Tripled and . . .Profits Have Soared, from Casinos . . .to Lotto Games and Lotteries
 
But Bankruptcies Are Up Too.
Bankruptcy levels near active gambling are higher than average. Here are the levels for Las Vegas, Atlantic City and the county in Tennessee close to Mississippi's riverboat casinos compared to the state and national averages, in bankruptcy filings per 100,000 residents for the 12 months ended in June 1998.
 
Graphs track total dollars gambled each year in 1997 dollars since 1987, the revenues from lotteries in 1997 dollars since 1987, and bankruptcies in several states as of June 1998.
 
(Sources: Christiansen/Cummings; SMR Research Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (78%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); RENO, NV, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEVADA, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (78%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); RENO, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; INDUSTRY PROFILES GAMING (91%); CASINOS (91%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); APPROVALS (78%); REFERENDUMS (73%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BALLOTS (73%); DRINKING PLACES (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (68%); LOTTERIES (50%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (50%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L STEPHEN A WYNN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



242 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2583 words

HEADLINE: Newark's Toxic Tomb;
Six Acres Fouled by Dioxin, Agent Orange's Deadly Byproduct, Reside in the Shadow of an Awakening Downtown

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS 

 BODY:
THE crook in the Passaic River affords a view of downtown Newark to the left and lower Manhattan to the right. All around, the life of the city's Ironbound section proceeds for the 40,000 or so residents and thousands more workers on its industrial rim. Everyone agrees that this makes an especially poor site for storing hazardous waste.
Yet a riverfront lot on Lister Avenue, where the Diamond Alkali Company turned out nearly 1 million gallons of Agent Orange for the Vietnam war, is itself about to become a sprawling tomb for the herbicide's toxic byproduct, dioxin. And city officials, who are trying to shake Newark from its decay and neglect and partake of the Wall Street prosperity that neighboring cities have grasped at, have had little to say about the environmental embarrassment not far from the city's center. 
 Fifteen years after the discovery of contamination on the factory site, which sent men in moon suits across the neighborhood with sampling devices, the Environmental Protection Agency has decided on a remedy: rather than excavate or incinerate the soil and debris, Diamond's corporate successor, the Occidental Chemical Corporation, will wall it off and cap it, leaving a sealed six-acre mound amid the riverfront factories.
"They should put a monument to man's stupidity there," said Arnold Cohen, who heads the Ironbound Committee Against Toxic Waste and has spent 15 years in the messy negotiations between community, government and corporate owner of the property. "This could be with us forever."
A permanent installation is not the Federal environmental agency's intention; in fact, it has taken the unusual step of designating the burial plan an "interim remedy," to be re-examined every two years in the hope that eventually technology will yield an economically practical method of removing and decontaminating the soil.
Still, the poisoned parcel on Lister Avenue provides an illustration of how hard it is to make one of New Jersey's best-known products, toxic industrial waste, go away. A decade has passed since the agency and Occidental entered a consent decree setting out the containment plan that the E.P.A. approved only in August. Construction is to begin next year.
Moreover, the factory site is just one section of what is known as the Diamond Alkali Superfund site. The rest consists of a six-mile stretch of riverbed beginning in Clifton and wending through Newark, past the Performing Arts Center and Pennsylvania Station, on its way to Newark Bay. Studies of the dioxin-contaminated river sediments are expected to continue for several years.
Among the corps of activists who fought to have the factory waste removed -- a few suggested Texas, home of Occidental -- some say their elected officials, far from rushing to clean up one of the nation's most densely populated square miles, turned away from a poor community in a poor city.
 
Newark Officials Seem Unfazed
"The politicos have shown no interest whatsoever," Stephen Powell, a neighborhood resident, said after a recent community meeting.
Tirza Wahrman, a lawyer who as an adjunct professor at the Seton Hall law school, organized a symposium last spring on environmental issues in Newark, said: "Another thing going on here is New Jerseyans don't feel a sense of ownership about Newark. It gets lost between New York and Philadelphia, and city government can be hard to get through to."
In expressing frustration with local officials, the residents make an exception for Augusto Amador, their City Councilman, who took office five months ago and almost immediately helped organize a meeting at a housing project near the site.
Mr. Amador, while saying in an interview that the administration would "do the best it could for residents," added that the city had "relieved itself of responsibility with regard to what to do with the stuff."
"The Ironbound is a hotbed for toxic waste," he said. "It's too common for these things to happen in a community that up until recently has lost its political nerve."
Marc Poirier, a Seton Hall professor who organized the symposium with Ms. Wahrman, said the Ironbound was short on advocates and organization. In Newark, Mr. Poirier said, "once you got past the 60's, there's nobody with any political clout. And I don't see any source of political will here. E.P.A. announces they're going to build this giant mound, and in some parts of the world people would be out demonstrating."
Mr. Cohen said the neighborhood's indignation had been spread thin over the years. He can reel off a list of environmental assaults that the Ironbound has tried to repel, including the state's largest garbage incinerator, which opened in 1991, and proposals for a tire incinerator and a medical waste plant, among other things. "The community has been well organized and responsive," Mr. Cohen said. "It's just that they've had to respond to a lot."
For the neighborhood, the encapsulation project is not entirely a defeat. Rather, it is a compromise in what might be called the war of the remedies. The struggle had three sides with three solutions: the community activists, as represented by a citizens advisory board convened by the E.P.A., which wanted the waste dug up and taken away; the site's owners -- compelled by the Superfund law to conduct and pay for the cleanup -- who favored containment, and the agency itself, which initially supported containment but made an 11th-hour pitch for incinerating the contaminated material on site.
The site contains 66,000 cubic yards of dioxin-contaminated soil, the remains of factory buildings and equipment, and debris collected from nearby areas in the initial cleanup effort 15 years ago. Much of the debris is stored in 932 cargo containers stacked six high on one edge of the property; the most heavily concentrated contamination is in the soil, now covered by an impermeable tarpaulin to keep rainwater out and dust in.
The containment plan was devised by a group representing Occidental and other former site operators and their contractors. They maintain that the plan, which has cost $46 million and is expected to require another $20 million, is the safest alternative as long as there is any risk in incineration.
The citizens advisory group and local environmental advocates favored incineration -- as long as it would take place far from the site. "It's either got to be trucked to a hazardous waste landfill or burned at a licensed incinerator," said Michael Gordon, a lawyer who represented former Diamond workers and neighborhood residents in a negligence suit and has continued to advise community groups. "The E.P.A. said there's no place that can handle this material because it's too toxic, no place in the world. And we said, 'You're going to leave it surrounded by people, and the river?' That logic never made any sense."
The agency maintains that the only plant in the nation licensed to destroy dioxin by burning, which is in Coffeyville, Kan., could not handle the construction materials from the Diamond Alkali site and would take 7 to 10 years to process the contaminated soil. The agency also ventured a cost estimate -- $241 million plus transportation costs -- that it said would scotch the idea.
Moreover, said Sharon Jaffess, the E.P.A.'s project manager for the site, the agency does not have the authority to dump the contaminants elsewhere, or to compel Occidental to undertake a totally new plan. As recently as a year ago, the agency, while tentatively endorsing the containment plan, was still investigating the possibility of excavating the site in the hope that such a "walk-away" remedy would allow complete cleanup and reuse of the property. Then it turned to a new idea: on-site incineration, which had been successful in removing dioxin, albeit in lower concentrations, in Times Beach, Mo. Agency scientists estimated that the Diamond Alkali waste could be decontaminated by burning within two years, at a cost of about $40 million.
 
Containment Favored Over Incineration
The advisory group was unmoved. "We're very adamant," Mr. Cohen said. "We don't consider that a solution. We consider it a victory that E.P.A. listened to us. I prefer to deal with the reality of what we're doing now.
"We'd rather have things contained where they can be monitored," he went on. "Mistakes are made. They put rockets into space, and nobody expects to see an explosion. But then there's an explosion. Let's minimize the risks."
The Diamond Alkali team concurred. On-site incineration would be "a disaster," Mr. Jones said. "Dioxins at these levels have never been successfully incinerated anywhere. You've got to have a track record before you start experimenting, especially in a heavily populated area like this."
For the administrators of the Superfund law, that is a common story in New Jersey. The agency estimates that 14,250 people live within a mile of the Chemical Control hazardous waste plant in Elizabeth, for example, site of an explosion and fire in 1980. About 40,000 people live within a mile of the Diamond Alkali site, and 357,000 within three miles.
The Ironbound presented special public relations problems, which the agency said it has tried to address by meeting regularly with the citizens group. "These people have been through hell -- toxic waste, solid waste, all kinds of waste," said Rich Cahill, a spokesman in the agency's regional headquarters in New York. "They felt the shock of being a Superfund site. Guys in moon suits were going into their houses to collect their vacuum cleaner bags."
Given a choice between a dioxin burial ground and another incinerator in the Ironbound, in Mr. Cohen's words, "we chose bad over worse."
The containment project is well under way. L. Anthony Wolfskill, an engineering consultant and former M.I.T. faculty member who is overseeing the design, said two-thirds of the work was done: old tanks and buildings taken down, 500,000 pounds of steel shipped away for recycling, the construction plan all but final.
The mountain of cargo containers will be dismantled. Walls around the site's perimeter will rise. It will be capped, in a mound 15 feet high, with sand, gravel, plastic membranes and geofabrics to seal it from rainwater. Finally, wells will pump groundwater to filter contaminants; a water treatment plant is to be the only building on the property. Construction is expected to take two years.
In the meantime, a coalition of community and environmental groups is applying for a $50,000 grant from the environmental agency to hire its own experts to study the river contamination and to review the containment plan before construction starts.
The escape clause in the pact between the Government and Occidental is the requirement that the company re-investigate other alternatives every two years. Agency officials note that methods of destroying dioxin -- so far, by burning it -- have improved greatly in the last decade and might eventually promise a true cleanup.
But neighbors and environmental groups doubt that the tomb, once built, will ever be dismantled. "I consider ourselves fortunate because this is a court-ordered agreement," Mr. Powell said. "Nobody can back out. But another part of me says they're going to put a cap on it and say, sayonara."
At Superfund sites, putting a cap on the problem is not unusual. The majority are former dumps and landfills that have dribbled toxic substances into the groundwater. The waste usually cannot be treated, and removing it would only create a toxic dump elsewhere. The groundwater must be pumped and monitored for years.
There are now 1,192 sites on the Superfund list, including 107 in New Jersey. Since the first listing in 1983, 178 sites (14 of them in New Jersey) have been removed from the list, the cleanups deemed complete.
Only a few among them have involved dioxin, in its most common form a byproduct in the manufacturing of pesticides. In addition to Times Beach, contaminated by dioxin in oil sprayed on the town's dirt roads, one other dioxin-contaminated site in Arkansas, which also produced Agent Orange, has been put on the Superfund list. At that site, owned by the Vertac Chemical Corporation, the most heavily contaminated waste was shipped to the Coffeyville incinerator and some was buried and capped.
Whatever the exact level of danger it poses -- and there is scientific debate over its toxicity -- dioxin is different. Very few disposal plants can accept it.
Benjamin Longstreth, toxics coordinator for the Baykeeper environmental group, said that among sources of pollution in the waterways around New York, "this is the worst by far."
"You have to go up to the Hudson River Superfund site, the PCB's, to get something comparable," Mr. Longstreth said.
He said the Upper Hudson site, a 40-mile stretch of riverbed from Hudson Falls to Troy, had a much greater volume of contaminated material than the Passaic River or the Diamond Alkali plant. "But dioxin is so much more toxic, perhaps 100 times more toxic than PCB's," he said. "There's nothing like it."
The dangers were unknown for years, though Diamond Alkali was apparently informed in the 1950's that the byproducts from its processes posed health hazards to workers and that using higher temperatures could destroy the toxins.
The Lister Avenue plant had started producing DDT and other herbicides that were precursors of Agent Orange in the 1940's. Diamond, which acquired the plant in 1951, dumped DDT waste products in the river. In their lawsuit against the company, former workers testified that employees were directed to wade out surreptitiously at low tide to chop up mounds of DDT so they would not be detected.
Agent Orange production continued until 1969, and the plant operated off and on until 1983, when the state documented the contamination, believed to be the largest concentration of dioxin in the world. Months later the E.P.A. issued its first listing of sites to be cleaned up under the Superfund law.
A year later, after residents watched workers scrape and sweep the yards and streets around them, the Lister Avenue property was designated a Superfund site.
 
Attention Is Shifting To the Passaic River
The next 15 years brought the halting negotiations and technical studies that the law required. It was a pace fairly typical of problematic Superfund sites -- and a pace that community activists say made residents forget the problem in their midst.
"To E.P.A.'s credit, they've fulfilled a mandate by holding meetings and keeping people abreast of what's happening," Mr. Cohen said. "Have they been aggressive enough in moving this forward?" he asked, repeating the question slowly. "It's been 15 years."
Now, the agency will turn its focus to the river. Already the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has spent millions on dredging dioxin-contaminated material from Port Newark, and long and expensive studies of the six-mile Passaic River portion of the Superfund site are in store. Dioxin binds to soils, and it is unlikely to leach into the river after the flood wall and slurry walls are constructed around the old factory.
Still, the property is a flood zone, and the presence of toxic waste there unsettles everyone. "What scares me is that it's close to the river," Councilman Amador said. "The river should be treated as the heart of the community. Until we decide to change the quality of life in the river, I think we have a long way to go."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 1998, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Nov. 8 about a Superfund site on Lister Avenue in Newark, where dioxin-tainted material from the manufacture of Agent Orange is to be walled off and capped, referred incompletely to a representative of the current and former owners. He is N. Scott Jones.

GRAPHIC: Photos: What is left of the Diamond Alkali Company plant on Lister Avenue provides an illustration of how hard it is to make one of New Jersey's best-known products, toxic industrial waste, go away. In inset, people from the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, the company, and the Ironbound section gather on the site amid some of the cargo containers that are filled with contaminated debris. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Arnold Cohen, left foreground, a founder of the Ironbound Committee Against Toxic Waste, meets with neighbors at the Hawkins Street Elementary School about what to do with the old Diamond Alkali plant on Lister Avenue in Newark, above. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 13)
 
Chart/Map: "Made in New Jersey"
The following New Jersey sites were among 546 in the first national listing of sites to be cleaned up under the Federal Superfund law. The list, issued in September 1983 and called the National Priorities List, ranked all 546 in order of seriousness of contamination. (The ranking system was dropped in revisions of the list, which now includes 1,192 sites.) New Jersey had 85 sites, more than any other state, including the nation's worst, Lipari Landfill in Gloucester County. Here are the original 10 highest-ranked in the state.
 
SITE AND LOCATION, NATIONAL RANKING, ACRES FORMER USE, STATUS OF CLEANUP
1. Lipari Landfill, Pitman, 1, 15, Landfill, Landfill capped; most nearby areas restored
2. Helen Kramer Landfill, Mantua Twp., 4, 66, Landfill,Containment complete; water treatment continues
3. Price Landfill 1, Egg Harbor Twp., 6, 26, Disposal pit, Water treatment delayed, containment incomplete
4. CPS/Madison Industries, Old Bridge Twp., 10, 35, Manufacturing plants, Water treatment under way; final remedy not yet chosen
5. Gems Landfill, Gloucester Twp., 12, 60, Landfill, Close to completion
6. Lone Pine Landfill, Freehold Twp., 15, 144, Landfill, Containment complete; water treatment continues
7. Bridgeport Rental and Oil, Bridgeport, 33, 33, Waste oil storage, Site restored for use
8. Burnt Fly Bog, Marlboro Twp., 37, 1,700, Chemical dump site in swamp, Extensive excavation complete
9. Caldwell Trucking Co. Fairfield, 45, 11, Waste-disposal lagoons, Soil excavated; water treatment not yet in place
10. Brick Township Landfill, Brick Twp., 50, 42, Landfill, Some waste removed; protective cap not in place
(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DIAMOND ALKALI CO; OCCIDENTAL CHEMICAL CORP; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OCCIDENTAL CHEMICAL CORP (68%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: DIAMOND ALKALI CO; OCCIDENTAL CHEMICAL CORP; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; AGENT ORANGE (DEFOLIANT); DIOXIN (CHEMICAL); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (94%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); HERBICIDES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (86%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); RIVERS (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (77%); SUPERFUND (76%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (72%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (64%); 

PERSON: MANSNERUS, LAURA MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



243 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 2; Page 43; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
At Play With Space and Its Ideal Proportions

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
ELIZABETH DILLER and Ricardo Scofidio, the New York architects, once took issue with the conventional wisdom that mass tourism, with its comfort, ease and homogenization, has replaced the hardy travel of yore. Actually, they suggested, tourism inflicts an enormous amount of stress, risk, and discomfort. Delayed flights, mixed connections, metal detectors, lost luggage, toddler-size airplane seats, crying infants, pestilentially recycled air and inquisitorial customs officials: this is a new kind of travel, but not a less taxing one.
I was reminded of this recently when I went to Finland to see Kiasma, Helsinki's new museum of contemporary art. The building, which opened in May, was designed by Steven Holl, one of New York's most gifted architects. It shouldn't be necessary for a New Yorker to endure jet lag to check out one of his buildings. And what if the thing turns out to be a turkey? 
 Fortunately, Helsinki's new museum is worth the trip, in part because it is informed by an awareness of the twists and surprises of contemporary life, the unexpected departures from plans, the vast tracts of unknown experience that reside even in a built-up, shrinking world. Artists can explore that experience, and Steven Holl is one of them who does. Hooray for John Glenn's second voyage into outer space; three cheers for Steven Holl for creating a new space on Earth.
Kiasma stands in the center of modern Helsinki. Compared with Senate Square, the city's 19th-century neoclassical core, this nameless zone lacks cohesion and grace. A case study in modern disjunction, it is a mixture of the civic, the commercial and the industrial. Monumental buildings, like the Finnish Parliament and the city's main train station, swim around in the same tepid urban soup with a 50's hotel and shopping complex and a movie theater from the 1930's. All are basically background buildings trying to be foreground buildings.
Holl's design reverses the equation. Firmly planted at the center of this disarray, it is a foreground building that behaves as if it were a background building. Its formal variety, its collagelike use of materials, its reflective surfaces of glass and water, pick up fragments from the city around it and mold them into an astonishing sculptural presence. The views from within -- carefully framed and scaled vistas of the city -- also knit Kiasma into the urban fabric, and transform the way you see it.
The architect got to name his own building. There's not a donor's plaque in sight. Kiasma, a neurological term, refers to a crossing of optical nerves at the base of the brain. Though I doubt that Holl intended a literal depiction, the building's ground floor plan does suggest a cross-over structure: two reflecting pools are joined by a water cascade that runs beneath the museum at the point where it flares out into the horn-shape that terminates the building's northern end. (Holl envisions a water park that will eventually connect the pools to the broad expanse of Helsinki's Toolo Bay.)
But I assume that the optical twists Holl is aiming for are those between art and the city: between the contemplative and the bustling, the metaphoric and the urban domain of material reality; between retinal experience and what the mind's eye makes of it. This he accomplishes with a strikingly assured interplay between windows (including skylights -- the path of the sun was a major force shaping the design) and walls, curves and grids, voids and planes. The result emerges as a symphonic variation on the city itself.
Helsinki never had a museum of modern art. The Finns were probably too busy creating great design. Crowds have flocked to Kiasma since the day it opened. They animate the square as well as the building. A bookstore and cafe are on the ground floor, both open to the public without charge; in one corner of the cafe there are some stools and a shelf with laptops that can also be used free of charge. They are being heavily surfed.
In plan, the museum looks something like a boxcar colliding with a comet. It has two wings, joined by a skylit circulation spine. The roof and inner wall of the largest wing, five stories at its highest point, are both dramatically curved, with the roof curling down to form part of the outer wall. The flat-roofed "boxcar" slams it at an oblique angle. The exterior is clad in polished industrial materials: zinc, aluminum, brass and glass.
Holl's method of design makes it nearly impossible to read his work from plans spatially scenographic. He begins with perspective renderings and then works on constructing the spaces he has envisioned. The building does not express its structure. But the result differs from the scenographic architecture of, say, Charles Moore or Michael Graves. Holl's drawings, while two-dimensional, represent deep and highly plastic space.
On entering, the long ramp of the circulation spine pulls the eye upward and forward; the body follows. As Vesa Honkonen, Holl's associate architect, writes in a book about the museum, this is about movement in space, and the entrance establishes that. No works of art are presented on the the ramp because it is one.
The wings partly overlap and are fused with a seamlessness that makes the building's organization difficult to hold in mind but pleasant to explore. There are four floors of galleries, two of them devoted to the museum's permanent collection, the others to changing exhibitions, special projects and a 230-seat cinema.
None of the galleries resemble the perfect white cube envisioned by modern architects. Entrances to the galleries are not aligned on axis. The walls dividing some of them are not parallel but radiate outward from the shallow curve of the central circulation spine. Side walls echo the curve of the spine or the buildings exterior skin. The galleries are art-friendly. In each, three walls are properly perpendicular and square. But Kiasma is not an egg crate. Its interiors are continually and subtly varied.
Complaint Department:
1. Too much detail. These are mostly finely worked, but not entirely. The small, metal-lined cascade running beneath the building fills up unattractively with grit and now looks like a gutter. But Holl is still relatively young for an architect, and I would much rather see him design with a young man's excessive exuberance than affect an old man's simplicity. And many of the details are wonderful. At night, a small triangular skylight in one of the galleries perfectly frames a blue neon advertising sign floating high up on the skyline in the dark sky. It was delightful to see this in a museum featuring a Bruce Nauman retrospective.
2. Holl's esthetic fundamentalism. Holl is much attached to the Golden Section, not only as a system for determining proportions but also as a means of establishing his lineage from Le Corbusier, whose Modulor system was also based on the Greek ideal. This may be a problem for a contemporary art museum built at a time when many artists are questioning the enduring validity of classical ideals. I myself like a nice, classically ordered space. But when the Section motif turns up repeatedly and emphatically in, say, the design of window mullions, it begins to seem like a crutch.
In 1947, John Summerson gave a lecture at the Architectural Association attacking the orthodoxies of the Modern movement. He believed it would take 10 more years for architects to rebel against them. His hope was that by then architects would "learn to study not merely minimum requirements, but maximum possibilities; to learn not only how to economize space but how to be extravagant with it; to study the overtones of architecture and the geometrical discipline of space as space: to learn not only to use space but to play with space."
Well, a rebellion did occur, but it did not proceed in the direction Summerson had hoped. In America, at least, architects did begin to play, but not with space. They were playing with images, with decorative motifs, visual quotations drawn from pop culture or the historical styles. But by the late 1980's, the post-Modernism dispensation, too, had reached a state of crisis. Today, many architects are beginning to realize something much closer to Summerson's vision. Zaha Hadid, Rem Koolhaas, Tod Williams and Billie Tsien, Henry Smith Miller and Laurie Hawkinson, among others, are producing work that aims toward realizing the maximum possibilities of space.
Holl's building is a first-rate example of this development. Too bad it takes practically a space mission to get there.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 29, 1998, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, two pictures on Nov. 8 with an article about Kiasma, a new museum of contemporary art in Helsinki, Finland, were printed in mirror image. In the larger picture, the interior ramp leading to gallery space should have appeared at the left; in the exterior photo, the museum should have appeared at the right.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The ramp leading into Steven Holl's new art museum in Helsinki. Outside (left), it looks something like a boxcar colliding with a comet. (Photographs by Paul Warchol); Steven Holl starts with watercolor sketches of spatial relations, like this, not with exact plans. (Steven Holl)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FINLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (95%); 

COMPANY: KIASMA ART MUSEUM (HELSINKI, FINLAND)

ORGANIZATION: KIASMA ART MUSEUM (HELSINKI, FINLAND)

GEOGRAPHIC: HELSINKI (FINLAND); FINLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (95%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; REVIEWS; ART ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); FILM (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); METAL DETECTORS (72%); 

PERSON: HOLL, STEVEN; MUSCHAMP, HERBERT JOHN HERSCHEL GLENN JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



244 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO;
Models Without Runways

BYLINE: By SARAH SCHMIDT 

 BODY:
A JET plane roars across the screen. The camera cuts to a speeding Gillette razor, which flies into the outstretched hand of a handsome, towel-clad actor. After shots of the shaving actor and a close-up of the razor's triple-blade system, the razor zooms through the air again and lands in its package.
Gillette manufactures its razors in South Boston, but the three-foot-long Mach 3 razors in this 30-second television commercial were made by John Kuntzsch and his crew at Brooklyn Model Works, one of the handful of advertising model makers in New York. 
 Product models have been used in television commercials since Lucky Strike cigarette packages came dancing onto American screens in the 1940's. But the industry's roots, in the print field, are much deeper.
"It goes back to the advertising early in this century," said Mr. Kuntzsch from his Red Hook studio, where plastic bars of Caress soap share workbench space with 10-inch-by-15-inch credit cards and a Maalox tablet 3 inches in diameter. "A photographer must have looked at the real thing with all the lights on it through the lens and said: 'This doesn't look so great. Let's build a better one.' "
Real food melts, real pills are too small, and shooting exotic spots on location is costly and time-consuming. And even the most beautiful actors can't make a gooey bar of soap look good on camera. But cover a sculptured bar of plastic soap in lather, do a close-up, and the viewer sees a fresh bar of soap with sharp lines and a readable logo.
"We make things look hyper-real," Mr. Kuntzsch said.
While most of the visual effects for movies and television shows are done in Los Angeles, most advertising models are built in New York, where most agencies are based. (Agencies frequently check up on the models as they are being built.)
About a dozen model-making businesses, usually with a couple of full-time employees and a group of freelancers, handle most of the advertising work in the city. Generally, a model maker is hired by the director or the photographer of the advertisement, although agencies and clients may have a preference. Individual models can cost from $500 for a simple item (an oversized pill) to $100,000 for an extremely detailed model (a small-scale city, say, with buildings, landscaping and moving parts). Materials are inexpensive, so the price depends mainly on the labor involved.
It was in the 1980's that New York's model-making business came into its own, with the booming economy and an advertising trend away from the goofy character costumes of the 1970's, like the Kool-Aid Man and the Fruit of the Loom gang.
In the 80's, "There was this glut of very similar products, and every manufacturer was trying to persuade you that theirs was the best," Mr. Kuntzsch said. "The differences in reality would be very small, so you'd have to get in really close to exploit those differences."
Today, typical requests include large-scale models of small products (cereal flakes), small-scale models of large things (monuments) and long-lasting models of the ephemeral (ice). Then come items that just don't exist, like dancing gas pumps.
But though advertising models are still in demand, improvements in computer graphics "have put a huge dent" in the business, said Arthur Portnoy, who represents advertising visual-effects companies.
Smaller model-making companies are starting to worry. "It used to be that they'd spend literally $20,000 on one small model of something like a fancy icicle," said Dan Castelli, whose shop in the Garment Center, Castelli Models and Effects, is cluttered with items like a 2-foot-long Dr. Scholl's foot cushion and a 13-inch Prozac capsule. "There was no other way to get a really nice picture of it. Then about four years ago, computer graphics programs started getting really good."
Computer-generated imagery, known as C.G.I., is most often used to replace models for precise or glossy items: logos, credit cards, gears, computer circuits. "If you want to go inside of a razor and look around, that's something that should be done with C.G.I.," Mr. Portnoy said.
But the more irregular something is, the less well C.G.I. works, at least at the moment. Anything organic -- skin, wood, plants, food -- is still nearly impossible to do with C.G.I, nor can it duplicate the movement of water convincingly.
"You could have done these letters C.G.I.," said Christo Holloway of Clockwork Apple, a shop in the meatpacking district, as he showed how his movable "Plaque" letters are rigged to break apart and dissolve when hit with a splash of Plax mouthwash. "But you never could have gotten a good enough splash."
Moreover, at least for now, actual models are cheaper than virtual ones. Thirty seconds of computer animation can cost up to $650,000, Mr. Portnoy said.
More advertisements are combining C.G.I. with models. For Gillette Mach 3, three large-scale razors were used for the close-ups, while Digital Domain, which did special effects for "Titanic," used computer animation to create the airplane.
Model makers are even employing computer graphics themselves. In a Sprint advertisement, Mr. Holloway used a computer drafting program to design a miniature city connected by phone circuits. He sent the designs to an etching company, which transferred them to metal panels, which he bent into three-dimensional buildings.
"Twenty years ago, I did a miniature New York skyline for a liquor ad and I had to cut out each window by hand," Mr. Holloway said.
Although model makers admit that their field is becoming more specialized, Mr. Kuntzsch predicts there will always be room for their art.
"There's only so much you can do with a bunch of pixels," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dan Castelli wearing one of his creations. Christo Holloway (above) and John Kuntzsch (right). (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times (above and bottom right) and Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Snapshots: New York's Other Models"
Some facts about the business of making product models for television and print advertisements.
 
COMMON REQUESTS
 
Oversized pills
Miniature cities
Letters carved of fake ice
Oversized toothbrushes
Out-of-season fruits
Oversized razors
 
THE UNREAL
 
A beaver, made with a combination of taxidermy and puppetry, which can gnaw on a pirate's peg leg (Hershey's ad)
Photocopier with a special indented plate used for making copies of one's derriere (Saturday Night Live parody of a commercial)
Clear, full-scale kitchen carved out of acrylic (Windex ad)
 
THE SMALL MADE LARGE
 
6-inch Tylenol tablet
Candlestick-size whisker (embedded in clear plastic for shaving by a giant Schick blade)
4-inch Lifesaver
5-inch Bausch & Lomb contact lens
 
THE LARGE MADE SMALL
 
 3/8-inch-long Clydesdale horses (pulling a Budweiser beer wagon in a snow globe)
12-foot cruise ship (Benson and Hedges)
6-inch-tall New York skyline
5-foot Saturn V rocket (stopping at the drive-through of a 3-inch-tall Hardee's before blastoff).
 
Chart: "Lingo: Don't Drop the Hero Worm!"
Some terms used in the product-model business:
 
KNURDLE (NER-del) -- A solid model of an application of toothpaste which is curled at both ends; seen in Aqua Fresh ads.
 
WORM -- A solid model of an application of toothpaste which is not curled at the ends.
 
POUR -- A solid model of a liquid that appears as if it is being poured; used in Mountain Dew ads.
 
HERO -- A specially built model of a product that will star in the final take for an ad.
 
PRACTICAL -- A stand-in for the hero; used in rehearsal so the hero does not get scuffed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; MODELS AND REPLICAS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; TELEVISION MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (88%); TOILET SOAPS (87%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); TRENDS (72%); FILM DIRECTORS (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (65%); 

PERSON: SCHMIDT, SARAH JOHN KUNTZSCH (73%); ARTHUR PORTNOY (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



245 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1877 words

HEADLINE: A Busy Man of Opera Gets Even Busier;
Domingo, Artistic Director in Washington, Is 'Upgrading' His Job in Los Angeles

BYLINE: By ALLAN KOZINN 

 BODY:
Even by his own standards, Placido Domingo has accomplished an extraordinary hat trick in recent weeks. At the same time he was discussing extending his contract at the Washington Opera, where he has been artistic director since 1996, he was also meeting individually with members of the board, and with the entire executive committee, to explain why they should not be alarmed at his decision to become the artistic director of the Los Angeles Opera while continuing to hold the reins in Washington.
Mr. Domingo's contract in Washington ends in 2002, and the extension under discussion would take it to 2004. The Los Angeles post, which was announced last week, begins in July 2000. The announcement comes at a time when the Los Angeles company is hoping to increase its number of productions and performances, and Mr. Domingo says he is willing to curtail his own performing schedule in order to keep up with his new responsibilities. 
 Still, Mr. Domingo says he regards his Los Angeles position as more of an upgrade than an entirely new job. His connection with the company goes back to its founding in 1984. At first, he signed on as a member of its board, and when Peter Hemmings became its first general director, Mr. Domingo took the title of artistic consultant. He sang the title role in the company's first production, "Otello," in 1986 and became artistic adviser in 1995.
At 57, he now succeeds Mr. Hemmings, who is retiring at 64. Mr. Hemmings has already planned the 2000-01 season, so Mr. Domingo's own programming will not be seen until 2001-02.
"I think of my new position as an upgrading," Mr. Domingo said in a telephone interview between rehearsals in Washington, "because as artistic adviser I was involved in discussions with Peter Hemmings about the productions, the casting. It was a collaboration, although it was minor compared with what I will have to do now."
Still, Mr. Domingo's dual directorship raises questions. The most immediate is: Where in his schedule is the room to pencil in further commitments? He continues to give more than 60 performances a year in international opera houses, and in recent years he has been conducting as well, both in the opera pit and on the symphonic podium. Every four years, when the World Cup games are played, he joins Luciano Pavarotti and Jose Carreras to trawl for megabucks as the Three Tenors. He sponsors Operalia, which is billed as the world's largest opera competition, held annually. And to keep things exciting, he owns a restaurant, called Domingo, on East 49th Street in Manhattan.
If the Washington Opera board members have doubts about Mr. Domingo's ability to run two companies effectively, they have not expressed them publicly. Robert Craft, the president of the company, said that after he faxed board members to warn them, on Oct. 30, that the Los Angeles appointment would be announced the following Monday, he received no protests, comments or questions.
Mr. Domingo and spokesmen for both companies have advanced a variety of reasons why the dual directorship poses no problems for either side. But weighing heavily in the equation is something the companies do not go out of their way to point out: Mr. Domingo's value as a fund-raising asset more than offsets any problems that might be caused by potential scheduling conflicts.
Opera companies, and arts organizations in general, learned long ago that if they are associated with an artist who is a household name, corporate and private donations flow more freely. Beverly Sills discovered this when she was director of the New York City Opera, and she has continued to put her celebrity to use in raising money as chairwoman of Lincoln Center. Mr. Domingo, as one of the best-known opera singers of his generation, has proved to be a similar lure.
 
No Mere Figurehead
But those in the opera world who expected Mr. Domingo to be little more than a money magnet have been surprised at his hands-on approach to the Washington job. No mere figurehead, he taken charge of the company's programming, offering both standard repertory and unusual works. His success has been mixed: rarities like "Il Guarany," by the 19th-century Brazilian composer Antonio Carlos Gomes, and the company's current production of Verdi's "Simon Boccanegra" have been skewered by critics; others, including a revival of an American classic, Douglas Moore's "Ballad of Baby Doe," have fared better.
Mr. Craft, noting that Mr. Domingo has also been involved in administrative aspects of the Washington company, said the level of energy he had brought to his work helped persuade the board that his taking on another directorship would not be a problem.
"I really don't think there were doubts expressed in the executive committee after hearing him explain how he could do both these jobs," Mr. Craft said.
Part of Mr. Domingo's presentation, both Mr. Craft and Mr. Domingo said, was a demonstration that the production schedules of the two companies did not overlap, allowing Mr. Domingo to focus on each during crucial times.
"We can organize the dates so that if something is happening on one company, it is not also happening in the other," Mr. Domingo said. "In other words, as an artistic director, I begin to think three years ahead about a production: about casting, conductors, designers, directors.
"And then, if you have the right people with you, they can start to get in touch. That's not work I have to do. I have the ideas. Then, when the production begins, I am involved in the beginning moments, I attend the first rehearsals; I look in as the rehearsals develop and I attend the final rehearsals and the opening. I don't have to be in the city the whole time."
Mr. Hemmings, the outgoing general director of the Los Angeles Opera, noted that Mr. Domingo was succeeding him only partly, coming in as artistic director, not general director. "So there will be someone else to take on that part of the job," he said. "And the search for that person has not yet begun."
 
How Much Work Can Be Delegated?
But that raises further questions. Can a directorship be maintained if so much is delegated? And what will happen if crises occur when Mr. Domingo is on the other side of the country? A division of responsibilities of this sort, however, is hardly without precedent. Artistic and administrative duties are handled by separate staffs, under separate directors, at both the Metropolitan Opera and the New York City Opera; and James Levine, the artistic director of the Met, spends time away from his company.
The model that Mr. Domingo presented to his board in Washington, moreover, included some tempting blandishments, including the possibility of sharing productions, and therefore costs, with the Los Angeles Opera. The two companies have borrowed each other's productions on occasion; now that arrangement would be formalized.
"There could be some synergies and economic possibilities," said Christine Hunter, the chairwoman of the Washington Opera's executive committee. "It would be an ace in hand to assemble a wonderful cast for a production and have it performed both places. Even if the production begins in Los Angeles and comes to Washington, we have a true ensemble when it arrives."
Mr. Domingo did not think that was quite what he had proposed.
"It's a nice dream," he said, "but I don't see it working exactly that way. It's difficult to get singers to commit that much time, for rehearsals and a production in one city, and then moving to another city.
"I was thinking that our shared productions would not coincide in the same season. But there are exceptions. In 2003, for example, I hope to celebrate the anniversary of Berlioz with a big production of 'Benvenuto Cellini.' That could be in both theaters. But it would be an exception."
 
Energy Inspires Confidence
Mr. Craft expressed complete confidence in Mr. Domingo's energy, noting that one week recently, he sang at the Met on a Saturday night, stayed up until 5 A.M. studying the score of Saint-Saens's "Samson et Dalila," which he was about to conduct, then attended a Sunday noon brunch in Maryland on his way to "Simon Boccanegra" rehearsals in Washington.
That night, he flew to the West Coast, and was back to conduct "Aida" at the Met on Tuesday.
Mr. Domingo, however, has started to rethink his ability to take on an imprudent number of commitments, and he said that when he began in Los Angeles, the shape of his performing schedule would change.
"I will cut my touring," he said, "so I can spend more time around Washington and Los Angeles. When I am working at the Washington Opera and singing at the Met, I can commute. When I am in Los Angeles, that will give me a chance to perform more with the San Francisco Opera, which is a company I love very much. But to do this, I will have to give up some of my European engagements."
At the moment, the Washington and Los Angeles companies are of comparable size: Washington, with a budget of $25 million, presents 70 performances of 8 productions a year; Los Angeles has a $19 million budget and presents 54 performances of 8 productions.
Both, however, have cautious expansion plans. After the renovation of the Kennedy Center Opera House, the company may add slowly to its production schedule, assuming it can raise the money to do so. The Los Angeles Opera, which shares the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion with the Los Angeles Philharmonic, will be in a position to expand when the Philharmonic moves to Walt Disney Hall, possibly in 2002.
Within the next two years, Mr. Hemmings said, the company expects to add another production, and by the 2003-04 season, it envisions giving 80 to 90 performances of 9 or 10 productions. This expansion is tied to the ability to raise money and expand the audience. Besides his skill at attracting donations, Mr. Domingo has another edge in Los Angeles: The company hopes that having a Spanish-speaking director -- and one with a passion for zarzuela, a form of popular Spanish opera -- will help it reach into the growing Hispanic community.
 
The Structure Is In Place
There is a sense, too, that time is on Mr. Domingo's side. Neither company is likely to expand much before 2000, and his responsibilities in Los Angeles do not begin in full until 2001. By the time that growth at either company begins to exert any real pressure on him, Mr. Domingo will be in his early 60's, and may be reconsidering his singing schedule yet again. If worse came to worst, he could decide between companies.
Mr. Hemmings, who is returning to his native England, where he will consult and oversee the construction of an opera house, discounts assertions that holding two positions will be unduly taxing for Mr. Domingo, and in any case, he has no fears for the company he built in Los Angeles over the last dozen years.
"He is an incredibly busy and active man," Mr. Hemmings said. "He has considerable roots here. Because I'm not a performer, I've always been resident in the place I'm working, and have therefore had time for a lot of the administrative details. But those will now devolve upon an executive director. So a lot of the structure is in place, and I think he'll succeed."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Placido Domingo's well-filled schedule will now include duties as artistic director at the Los Angeles Opera as well as at the Washington Opera, even as he continues to sing and conduct. Below, he led a rehearsal of "Aida" in September at the Metropolitan Opera. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times (left); Reuters (above))

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES OPERA; WASHINGTON OPERA LOS ANGELES CO (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES OPERA; WASHINGTON OPERA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: OPERA; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION OPERA (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (60%); 

PERSON: KOZINN, ALLAN; DOMINGO, PLACIDO PLACIDO DOMINGO (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998



246 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Out of work for a year, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco's cartoon endorser now faces Government charges.

BYLINE: By Stephen Labaton 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
JOE CAMEL, the advertising icon that became a powerful symbol to critics of the tobacco industry's efforts to get minors to smoke, will go on trial today, more than a year after he was retired by the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company.
The Federal Trade Commission brought the case contending that Reynolds, a unit of RJR Nabisco, committed an unfair trade practice by using the Joe Camel character to attract children and adolescents to cigarettes. Government lawyers assert that once Reynolds introduced the campaign, Joe Camel became as recognizable to children as Mickey Mouse, promoting a lethally addictive product for a segment of the cigarette market that was central to the company's future. 
 The case is the culmination of an eight-year struggle between the F.T.C. and Reynolds over the Joe Camel campaign. It is also the first time that the commission has characterized a tobacco advertising program as unfair because of its effect on young consumers.
Since the company voluntarily decided to pull the campaign last year just weeks after the commission filed its complaint, the case has turned into the regulatory equivalent of a probate contest, with the two sides fighting over Joe Camel's corpus.
The Government seeks a permanent ban blocking Reynolds from ever using Joe or his brethren characters, which include Buster, Max and Floyd, in cigarette ads. Government lawyers have also asked the administrative law judge hearing the case to order Reynolds to pay for a consumer education program intended to discourage adolescents and teen-agers from buying cigarettes.

 Reynolds has tried to transform Joe Camel from a cool and goofy promotional character to a protector of the First Amendment. The company says that Joe Camel has had no significant impact on smoking by people younger than 18 and contends that the commission's complaint poses fundamental constitutional issues that are certain to affect how other industries can go about marketing their products.
"The witnesses and other evidence the F.T.C. will put on will not show that Joe Camel caused anyone -- let alone underage persons -- to start smoking, smoke more or not quit when they otherwise would have," said Guy M. Blynn, vice president and deputy general counsel of Reynolds. "This attack on cigarette advertising will fail both because it does not meet the Federal Trade Commission's own standard for establishing unfairness, and because it tramples on the constitutionally protected right of a lawful industry to advertise a lawful product."
Lawyers at the commission respond that the First Amendment does not protect unfair trade practices, particularly in a case like this in which the product at issue causes deaths and illnesses. In a trial brief filed two weeks ago, the F.T.C. said that the Camel campaign "had immediate and dramatic effects on youth smoking behavior."
"Within one year, Camel's brand share of smokers below the legal smoking age almost tripled and within five years quadrupled," the brief said. "More disturbing, the incidence of youngsters age 12-17 smoking their first cigarette began to increase, as did the incidence of daily smoking by this age group."
According to a Federal survey, the brief concluded, the incidence of new smoking increased by nearly a third, and the incidence of daily smoking rose by 50 percent, during the years of the Joe Camel campaign.
But the company contends that the Joe Camel campaign was aimed primarily at the 18-to-24 age group. The case will feature a stream of testimony and company documents about its advertising campaign, disclosing the marketing strategy of Reynolds at a time when it was beginning to see a serious erosion in sales.
In addition to company executives who worked on the campaign, the two sides are expected to call experts in health, marketing and economics.
The Joe Camel character was created in 1974 by a British artist, Nicholas Price, for a Camel advertising campaign in France that subsequently appeared in other countries throughout the 1970's. The character arrived in the United States in 1988 in materials created by Trone Advertising in Greensboro, N.C., for the 75th anniversary of the Camel brand.
The figure almost immediately attracted the attention of officials studying the problem of smoking among the young.
After studies found that Camels were 10 times as popular among teen-agers as adults and that illegal sales of cigarettes to minors had reached $500 million, the Surgeon General, Antonia Novello, called on Reynolds to withdraw the Joe Camel campaign.
Five years ago, the F.T.C. staff recommended banning Joe Camel ads because of their appeal to children. But in 1994 the commission rejected the recommendation by a vote of 3 to 2. President Clinton then attacked Joe Camel, saying the campaign told minors that "smoking is cool."
In March 1997, the staff of the F.T.C. again recommended taking action against the campaign, and two months later, the commission approved the complaint that is to be heard today.
The case is expected to be completed next month.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Federal Trade Commission contends that R. J. Reynolds Tobacco unfairly advertised to minors using Joe Camel ads like this one. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (84%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (57%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: REYNOLDS, R J, TOBACCO CO; RJR NABISCO INC; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION R J REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO (84%); KRAFT NABISCO (57%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (92%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: REYNOLDS, R J, TOBACCO CO; RJR NABISCO INC; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (92%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; ADVERTISING; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; SUITS AND LITIGATION TOBACCO INDUSTRY (95%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); LAWYERS (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (89%); SMOKING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (86%); YOUTH MARKET (78%); TEENS MARKET (78%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (78%); WITNESSES (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (72%); JUDGES (72%); PROBATE (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (71%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (71%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN JOE CAMEL (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998



247 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW;
A New Drama on Broadway And a New Son in Turmoil

BYLINE: By PETER MARKS 

 BODY:
Talk about a play with legs: "Side Man" has been using them on a veritable walking tour of Manhattan. The production's unusual journey began last spring with a brief, acclaimed run in a little Off Broadway theater and continued with a successful move for the summer to the main stage of the normally revival-driven Roundabout Theater Company.
Now "Side Man" has entered an even unlikelier phase of its nomadic life, leaving the relative security of nonprofit theater for a commercial Broadway run at the 800-seat John Golden Theater. The significance of the drama's rise, and the bravery of its producers, should not be understated. Although in recent years new musicals like "Rent" and "Bring In da Noise, Bring In da Funk" have moved popularly and profitably from Off Broadway, uprooting a new straight play to Broadway is an altogether iffier proposition because the production can't count on the musical-devouring tourist trade or on the kind of built-in hype that often attends a glittery London transfer. Its survival depends on a smaller, specialized audience of serious playgoers, many of whom may already have discovered it. 
 The odds, therefore, may be especially long on Warren Leight's lovely "Side Man," which reopened last night. The show is such an anomaly on Broadway, a tender, deeply personal memory play about the turmoil in the family of a jazz musician as his career crumbles at the dawn of the age of rock-and-roll, that seeing it on a big stage is like peering at Broadway through the giant stereopticons of "Ragtime." It's a gentle reminder of bygone days, when a new play by Tennessee Williams or William Inge would stir up the public and fill seats for months.
In its depiction of a young man struggling to remain the glue in the troubled marriage of his vacant, trumpet-playing father and unbalanced, alcoholic mother, the play has an abiding power, although of a muted variety. (Men, I think, whose fathers were emotionally unavailable will respond especially strongly to the hero's predicament.) But if you go to "Side Man" expecting tour de force portrayals or actorly pyrotechnics, you're liable to feel as if you've walked into the wrong neighborhood. Go instead for the more refined pleasures of Mr. Leight's offbeat story and his true-to-life, as opposed to larger-than-life, characters.
The production, directed by Michael Mayer, is practically a mirror of its Roundabout incarnation, with one important exception: the addition to the cast of the movie actor Christian Slater in the central role of Clifford, the play's put-upon son and narrator. (Robert Sella, the role's originator, left to fill in for Alan Cumming as the M.C. in "Cabaret.")
Mr. Slater's performance is courageously economical and without showiness; it retains the actor's cinematic sense of containment in close-up. This works extremely well in a role that is all about the witnessing, absorbing and denying of pain. His composure pays off remarkably at the play's subtle climax, when Clifford must thoroughly assume the role of parent to his parents and cast his ineffectual father, Gene (played by Frank Wood), out of the family's apartment.
The actor never overplays Clifford's festering anger. It's expressed, in fact, only once, when Gene suggests that he has no responsibility for the pathetic condition of his wife, Terry (Wendy Makkena), now confined to a psychiatric hospital. Disgusted, Mr. Slater sends Mr. Wood flying helplessly into a chair. Suddenly aware of his power, and inclined to use it, the son has taken control. Mr. Slater pulls this off so unself-consciously that you believe in it as an act of frustrated love rather than rage.
Alternating between the family's apartment and Gene's world of versatile, freelance jazz musicians -- the side men of the title -- the play conjures an extremely specific slice of New York City between 1953 and 1985. It pairs the story of the decline of jazz with the disintegration of Clifford's family, and yet some of the moodier interludes erupt with astonishing joy, as when, in flashback, Gene woos Terry with a bluesy trumpet version of Debussy.
No moment is better than the one in which Gene, sitting with two of his cronies, played delightfully by Michael Mastro and Joseph Lyle Taylor, is swept away listening to a cassette of an heartache-filled trumpet solo. Mr. Wood's rapture is even more wrenching than the music.
Mr. Mayer holds onto much of what made "Side Man" so touching, but a few things have also slipped in the move around the corner to West 45th Street. It may be that the actors are too conscious of the higher stakes on Broadway because they are now misguidedly pushing things, trying to convince us that this is a punchier, more monumental play than written.
Ms. Makkena, saddled with the difficult job of ending Act I with the declaration of a not-very-potent threat, has become intolerably broad and cartoonish. This is only partly her fault. Terry is the play's toughest role, consisting largely of volume-raising rants and pitiful tears. How many ways can an actor do meltdown? And the gang of jazz men suddenly seems to be actively courting audiences (and Tony voters) by telegraphing the laugh lines, which, of course, only makes the laughs harder to come by.
The strength of "Side Man" is that it holds its characters accountable and, with affection and efficiency, tells us things about people in a quirky little cul-de-sac that reminds us of people in our own imperfect worlds. This honesty and directness is what makes it a vital and refreshing experience, and what, if anything in the unpredictable whirlpool of Broadway, will sustain it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christian Slater has taken over the central role of the beleaguered son in "Side Man" at the John Golden. (Carol Rosegg/"Side Man")(pg. E4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SIDE MAN (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (93%); THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); FILM (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (74%); FILM DIRECTORS (74%); POP & ROCK (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); MUSIC (69%); JAZZ & BLUES (67%); TOURISM (53%); 

PERSON: LEIGHT, WARREN; SLATER, CHRISTIAN; MARKS, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998



248 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Netscape Co-Founder Plans To Invest in VCR Alternative
A co-founder of Netscape Communications is expected to announce today that he has invested in one of two companies developing digital television recording systems, a technology intended to replace the traditional home VCR.
The investment by Marc Andreessen in Replay Networks Inc., a small Silicon Valley start-up, would be an important vote of confidence for the systems, which enable viewers to watch, store and retrieve programs in novel ways, including recording a complete program that is already in progress, automatically recording programs that meet certain criteria -- for example, movies with a particular actor -- and skipping commercials. Page C2. 

 
Trial to Start for Joe Camel
Joe Camel, the advertising icon that became a powerful symbol to critics of the tobacco industry, will go on trial today, more than a year after he was retired by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco. The case is the culmination of an eight-year struggle between the Federal Trade Commission and Reynolds over the campaign, which the commission contended was an unfair trade practice because it used Joe Camel to attract children and adolescents to cigarettes. Advertising. C8.
 
'Jerry Springer' Warms Back Up
Despite promises earlier this year by the owner of "The Jerry Springer Show" to tone down the program's violence, the brawling or attempted brawling have resumed, along with so many bleeps that it is often impossible to follow the dialogue, and the show's ratings have risen in tandem with its ribaldry. C7.
 
Magaziner to Leave Government
Ira C. Magaziner, who has led Government efforts to foster the growth of the Internet and electronic commerce, said he would leave the White House before the end of the year. The announcement comes as the Government prepares to turn over governance of the Internet to a private multinational organization and as it heads into a period of what are expected to be tough negotiations with the European Union over data privacy issues. C2.
 
Thrust and Parry at Microsoft Trial
As its antitrust trial moves into the fourth week, Microsoft finds itself trying to deflect a flood of allegations of threats and bribes. The Justice Department contends that the digital-age monopolist showed up in the doorway, brandishing a club in one hand while offering price discounts and marketing support with the other. Microsoft insists that its tactics are not hurting consumers. News Analysis. C6.
 
Coastal Differences in Capital
Different attitudes toward venture financing at established technology companies on the East and West Coasts have resulted in very different environments for the incubation of high-technology start-ups in Silicon Alley and Silicon Valley. On the West Coast, entrepreneurs routinely seek out larger, established technology companies as part of the start-up process. On the East Coast, the corporate-to-entrepreneur network is not as evolved. Prospectus. C4.
 
Separate Home for Public Relations
In a sharp departure from other journalism schools, which have incorporated advertising and public relations under the rubric of mass communications, the University of Maryland's College of Journalism has dropped public relations, which will be part of a communications program in another department. C7.

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow Industrials -- 8,975.46 up 383.36
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.38% up 0.23
The Dollar -- 119.10 yen up 2.96

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (52%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); STARTUPS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TOBACCO MFG (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (72%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); INTERNET PRIVACY (68%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (63%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (62%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%); 

PERSON: MARC ANDREESSEN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998



249 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1690 words

HEADLINE: Investment Maverick Navigates the Internet

BYLINE: By PETER TRUELL 

 BODY:
He seemed to be where all the new-media financial wannabes would want to be. But last April, Robert H. Lessin quit his successful career as a vice chairman of one of the country's bigger investment banks to devote his time and money to the Internet -- and to the many new companies he believes it can still spawn.
Perhaps the best-known Wall Streeter to make such a dramatic change, Mr. Lessin, 43, left his lofty perch at Salomon Smith Barney Inc. and within days became chairman of the Wit Capital Corporation, (www.witcapital.com) a tiny two-year-old private investment company with offices above the Strand bookstore on Broadway in Greenwich Village. 
 With about 65 employees and some $11 million in capital -- and a couple of slow elevators to its rather dowdy sixth-floor offices -- Wit is seeking to make itself the conduit of choice for individuals interested in investing in young fast-growing companies, most of them ventures related to the Internet. And just this week, Mr. Lessin said, Wit expects to get a further capital infusion of several million dollars from a group of outside investors.
Wit caught the eye of the investment community in 1996 when it became the first company to sell stock directly to investors over the Internet, in an initial public offering for the Spring Street Brewing Company (www.witbeer.com). Wit is the brainchild of Andrew D. Klein, 37, a former associate at the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore, who set up the investment firm to finance Spring Street.
Now, under Mr. Lessin's guidance, Wit aims not only to invest in the Internet economy, but to use the Internet to help change the economics of investing. "We want to empower the individual in the capital-raising process," Mr. Lessin said.
Traditionally, Mr. Lessin said, getting in on the ground floor of initial offerings has tended to be a privilege available only to insiders, investment bankers and big institutional investors. Wit's aim, Mr. Lessin said, is to bring individual investors into the game by using the Internet to build a community of investors.
The focus, he said, is not so much on stock trading and brokerage services, but on building and maintaining an on-line capital-raising franchise for individual investors.
So far, in a succession of 31 initial public offerings that was halted by the August downturn in the stock market, Wit has raised about $50 million from individuals for start-up companies. The offerings in which Wit has participated, along with other underwriters, include Micro Strategy, an information technology consultant; 24/7 Media, an on-line advertising sales company, and Cyberian Outpost, an electronic commerce site for technology products and services.
Some big investors, meanwhile, have taken stakes in Wit itself, including the Mitsubishi Capital Corporation, a subsidiary of the Japanese financial giant, and the Silicon Valley venture capital firm Draper Fisher Jurvetson. And some established names in finance have taken their place on the Wit board, most notably Joseph Hardiman, the former chairman and chief executive of the National Association of Securities Dealers, and Edward H. Fleischman, senior counsel at Linklaters & Paines and a former commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Mr. Klein, Wit's founder, now plays the role of strategist for the company, which has also brought in Ronald Readmond, a former executive vice president at Charles Schwab, as its vice chairman and president, as Wit seeks to win acceptance among Wall Street's established firms.
Yet, promising as this all may sound, skeptics note that until Wit takes a bigger part in more initial offerings larger than its biggest to date -- an undisclosed portion of the $600 million offering for Capstar Broadcasting, the radio properties sold off by Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst -- Wit's promise remains just that.
What is more, the summer turmoil in the stock and bond markets, most analysts agree, has curtailed much stock-issuing activity for months, if not years, to come.
"It'll take a long time to happen, longer than they think," said Tom Taulli, a market analyst in Newport Beach, Calif., who works for Silicon Investor, an on-line financial site in Seattle.
And whatever Wit's talk of empowering individuals, Mr. Taulli cautioned that a little power can be a dangerous thing. Mr. Taulli, who is writing a book on initial public offering investing for individuals, said "when you open markets, you have to be very careful how you educate investors."
Initial public offerings are particularly risky investments, Mr. Taulli said: "Every research study shows I.P.O.'s underperform the market. Most of them don't do well."
Mr. Lessin, who readily conceded that Wit has not yet had time to prove its model, said the recent stock market turmoil nevertheless was "a net positive" for his firm -- because it has allowed Wit to demonstrate that it had placed shares into steady hands that would not sell at the first sign of trouble. Of the stock placed by Wit, 85 percent remains with the original investors two months after being issued, a proportion that compares favorably with much of mainstream Wall Street, he said.
And, should there be any doubt about his commitment to the Internet as an investment opportunity, Mr. Lessin said he had sunk millions of dollars -- more than $15 million, by some estimates -- of his own money into tens of different Internet-linked ventures.
These bets, placed separately from Wit, include budding, still private companies like Culture Finder, (www.culturefinder.com) an on-line source about cultural events around the country; Inns and Outs, (www.innsandouts.com) an on-line bed and breakfast site, and the Main Xchange, (www.mainx.com) which Mr. Lessin described as "the leading teen-age oriented on-line stock exchange site."
Mr. Lessin, meanwhile, devotes about one-quarter of his time to Dawntreader, an investment fund that is separate from Wit but that shares his services as its chairman. Dawntreader, which aims to invest at much earlier stages in start-up ventures than would Wit, has so far put money into Watch World, (www.watchworld.com) a retail business selling watches that now is expanding onto the Internet, and Sports Cappers, (www.sportscappers.com) a fee-based on-line business with tips for sports bettors.
If Mr. Lessin's plate-spinning act sounds frenetic, it belies the assumption by some on Wall Street that it was the serious stroke he suffered in 1994 that led to his decision to forgo the stress of the financial big leagues for the whimsical pursuit of Internet start-ups. Mr. Lessin, who had returned to work at Smith Barney in a wheelchair within weeks of his stroke, said his leap into cyberspace was anything but an escape. Instead, he described it as a logical move made after analysis of the pending societal changes he summarized in a book "The Middle Chapter: Musings of an Investment Banker," that his employers at Smith Barney published in 1997.
In the book he enthused that "the Internet is replicating in five years the superstructure of retailing (distributors, wholesalers, boutiques, malls, superstores, catalogues, etc.) that developed over centuries." After writing that, he said, it would have been hypocritical not to follow his own advice by staking his future on the Net.
To some on Wall Street, Mr. Lessin and his new path seem rather outre. "He's very bright, but very strange," said one former investment banking colleague, speaking on condition that he not be identified by name. "Sometimes, he'd turn up to work in chinos and no shoes."
Mr. Lessin disputed that account, saying he had always worn shoes to work. And while he may on occasion have shed such formal wear as coat and tie, he noted, he always wore the mandatory business suit for meetings with Fortune 500 companies. That said, he conceded, "No one has ever accused me of being normal."
Yet, until his sudden move to Wit, Mr. Lessin, in many ways epitomized the Wall Street establishment. A native of Lexington, Mass., and a graduate of Harvard, Mr. Lessin, the son of a college teacher, followed a well-beaten path to Morgan Stanley & Company after he earned his M.B.A. at Harvard Business School in 1978. A sportsman who loves to ski and play tennis, he met his wife, Naida S. Wharton Lessin, through his passion for ballroom dancing. The couple, who live in Englewood, N.J., have three children.
In 1993, along with his mentor Robert F. Greenhill, and other Morgan Stanley bankers, Mr. Lessin left for Smith Barney where he and his colleagues tried, with only limited success, to power that firm into the top echelon of investment banking.
Now, after raising billions of dollars for the biggest companies in the country, Mr. Lessin -- laptop computer and HP620 personal organizer in hand -- now busies himself with small start-up companies that may be long on promise, but often are struggling to make even a few thousand dollars in profits.
While Wit has suffered significant losses in the recent carnage in the securities markets, and particularly in the market for initial public offerings, it is now seeking to negotiate a capital infusion that would push the capital invested in it to over $25 million, Mr. Lessin said.
The biggest challenge to Wit's business model remains the fact that the vast majority of initial offerings still are handled by traditional brokerage houses. And Internet investors account for only an infinitesimally small fraction of one percent of all investment in new stock offerings.
"It's certainly small, very small," Mr. Lessin said, "but I intend to make it much larger."
Toward that end, Wit has in recent months affiliated itself with a loose collection of companies that calls itself the E-group -- whose members also include Waterhouse Securities, Quick & Reilly's on-line brokerage operation, Datek Online and some 10 other firms that, together, account for about 30 percent of the on-line investing market. The plan is to band together to participate as a group in I.P.O. underwritings involving bigger, conventional brokerage houses.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Lessin left the security of a top position at Salomon Smith Barney to head Wit Capital, a tiny investment company. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NQE (AMEX) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS443141 HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (50%); SIC5722 HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WIT CAPITAL GROUP INC CRAVATH SWAINE & MOORE LLP (82%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%); FRY'S ELECTRONICS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: WIT CAPITAL GROUP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (78%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); STARTUPS (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (72%); BONDS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); BOOKSTORES (69%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: LESSIN, ROBERT H ROBERT H LESSIN (90%); TOM TAULLI (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998



250 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Disarming a Giant: U.S. Case Stresses Anticompetitive Pattern by Microsoft

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
As its antitrust trial moves into the fourth week, the Microsoft Corporation finds itself trying to deflect a flood of charges of threats and bribes. The litany of shameful misconduct, according to the Government, was directed not only at Microsoft's rivals but just about everyone in the industry -- including personal computer makers, Internet service suppliers and others.
The Justice Department's story line is that, time after time, the digital-age monopolist showed up in the doorway, brandishing a club in one hand while offering price discounts and marketing support with the other. It is, as an antitrust expert said, an "800-pound gorilla" case certainly entertaining, but is it a strong legal case? 
 No, Microsoft insists, as it asks "where's the body?" -- where, in other words, is evidence that consumers are being hurt by the company's tough business tactics.
That is a real hurdle for the prosecution, particularly because the personal computer industry where Microsoft is so powerful is not flashing the conventional warning signal of consumer distress: rising prices.
But that hurdle is by no means insurmountable, antitrust experts say. What the Government must do, they say, is to marshal enough evidence of anticompetitive behavior by Microsoft to convince the court that there would be more innovation, more competition and probably lower prices if the company were forced to change its ways. For example, the next Government witness is to be Steven McGeady, an Intel vice president, who will testify that Microsoft prodded the big chip maker to step back from developing Internet and multimedia software and from supporting Netscape Communications.
The prosecution's case is largely about the future -- the loss of opportunities, the Government says, in a field at the forefront of a new economy. "It does require a court to make an inference, to decide that the corporate behavior in question simply has to have negative effects," William E. Kovacic, a visiting professor at George Washington University Law School. "But since the Standard Oil case, courts have been willing to make inferential leaps into the future if they are persuaded that the bad conduct is serious enough."
Indeed, the Supreme Court's ruling in 1911 to uphold the breakup of Standard Oil was one of the biggest judicial leaps into the future. Standard Oil, in its defense, had argued cogently that kerosene prices had declined since the 1880's and that the company, led by John D. Rockefeller, was an engine of industrial innovation, wealth creation and job generation. "Standard Oil's pitch was why tamper with success, just as Microsoft is warning today," Professor Kovacic said.
In Microsoft's view, the Government "simply doesn't have the evidence to make its big-is-bad case," said Charles F. Rule, a former senior Justice Department official who is now an adviser to Microsoft.
"All of these alleged anticompetitive meetings," Mr. Rule said, "amount to Microsoft basically informing another software company that it plans to compete vigorously in some new field and telling that company you can consider joining us. Saying you're going to compete like heck is not a violation of the nation's antitrust laws."
The Justice Department and 20 states suing Microsoft recognize that they must present an array of damaging evidence to overcome the company's defense -- that rivals may be hurt by its actions but consumers are not. Since the trial began, the Government has used piles of E-mail it has subpoenaed to make its case.
In his opening statement, David Boies, the Justice Department's trial lawyer, showed an E-mail message from an executive at Hewlett-Packard to a Microsoft executive. The message protested restrictions Microsoft had placed on personal computer makers, barring them from making changes on the first screen that appears on computers when Microsoft's Windows operating system starts up.
Microsoft had said its contract restrictions were to insure a "uniform consumer experience," but the Government says that the curbs were intended to restrain the distribution deals that its rival in the Internet browser market, Netscape, could strike with PC makers.
The Hewlett-Packard executive wrote that his company was "very disappointed" with Microsoft's restrictive contracts. "From the consumer perspective," he said, the restrictions are "hurting our industry and our customers."
After displaying the E-mail message in court, Mr. Boies declared: "This is not a better-product, consumer-driven approach, your honor. This is a monopolist, able to ignore the demands and the complaints and the protest of their customers."
The Government's early witnesses have repeatedly advanced the argument that the future of computer software innovation would be brighter if Microsoft were held in check. James L. Barksdale, Netscape's chief executive, testified that he thought there would be more innovation and more competitors in the browser market if Microsoft had not bundled its browser, the Internet Explorer, with its industry-standard Windows operating system and given the browser away free -- essentially removing the commercial incentive for entrepreneurs to invest in the browser market.
And last week, Avadis Tevanian Jr., a senior vice president at Apple Computer, described a series of threats from Microsoft. The company, he testified, succeeded in getting Apple to make Internet Explorer the main browser on Macintosh computers, and Microsoft also tried to force Apple to step back from the new market for multimedia software. Market muscle and deep pockets -- not innovative smarts -- are the forces that make Microsoft a winner in new software markets, Dr. Tevanian asserted.
With its industry witnesses, the Government is arguing that Microsoft bullied companies into deals that reduce competition and do not result in any discernible consumer benefit. Thus, the Government adds, these deals must hurt consumers, even if there is little immediate evidence of harm.
"The Government is closing in on what is critical -- a loss of consumer choice and prices that are higher than would be the case if there were unrestricted competition," said Stephen Axinn, an antitrust litigator who is a partner of Axinn, Veltrop & Harkrider in New York.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Boies, the Justice Department's top lawyer in antitrust case. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (94%); INTEL CORP (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; BRIBERY ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (96%); MISCONDUCT (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); BRIBERY (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); ELECTRONICS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LAWYERS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); FUEL MARKETS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); MULTIMEDIA SOFTWARE (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%); 

PERSON: BOIES, DAVID; LOHR, STEVE JAY ROCKEFELLER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998



251 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Envoy to the Internet Will Resign by Year's End

BYLINE: By JERI CLAUSING 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 8

 BODY:
Ira C. Magaziner, the author of the Clinton Administration's ill-fated national health plan, who most recently has led Government efforts to foster the growth of the Internet and electronic commerce, said on Friday that he would leave the White House before the end of the year.
The announcement came as the Administration prepares to turn over governance of the Internet to a private, multinational organization and heads into a period of presumably tough negotiations with the European Union over data-privacy issues. 
 Mr. Magaziner, a senior assistant to the President for policy development, has led a push for industry self-regulation of how personal data on consumers is collected and used, a stance that has placed the United States at odds with the Europeans.
But he said he was satisfied that he had completed the main job by moving the broad issue of electronic com merce onto the world's agenda. Although he has not set a departure date and was not prepared to say what he would do next, Mr. Magaziner said he hoped to wrap up his duties in the next month and move back to Providence, R.I. His wife and children returned a year ago, and he has been commuting since then.
Mr. Magaziner joined the Administration five and a half years ago to draft what turned out to be a doomed effort to create a national health care system. Then he turned to the Internet, where he has been aggressively trying to shape domestic and international policy for electronic commerce and the Internet.
In addition to helping win passage of two Federal laws imposing a moratorium on new Internet taxes and protecting digital age copyrights, he successfully pushed for international agreements to keep the Internet duty-free and to set standards for international payment systems.
Brian O'Shaughnessy of the Internet Alliance, an association of companies with Internet interests, said: "I think it's pretty clear to say that at a time when there was a lot of confusion about where the industry was going both domestically and internationally, Ira Magaziner was the guy who rolled up his sleeves and got into the nitty-gritty of how technology works, what the effect would be on our society, and then took those notions and began to be the evangelist for the Internet industry in a global marketplace."
In June 1997, after studying the Internet for 15 months, Mr. Magaziner released the Administration's "Framework for Electronic Commerce," which called for a hands-off, market-driven approach to Internet regulation. His philosophy then and now is that while the Internet is growing rapidly, it could be slowed by Government intervention.
Since then, he has led efforts to hand administration of the network over to private ownership and has traveled widely, pushing other nations to endorse his tax-free, unregulated approach to the medium.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ira C. Magaziner: from health care architect to electronic libertarian. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INTERNET & WWW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); INTERNET SALES TAX (77%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (76%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (75%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: MAGAZINER, IRA C; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLAUSING, JERI BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998



252 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: Kazakhstan's Empty Election

 BODY:
One of the candidates in Kazakhstan's presidential elections in January claims to be clairvoyant, but anyone can predict that the winner will be the incumbent, Nursultan Nazarbayev. Mr. Nazarbayev is a thinly disguised dictator who stages elections he has no chance of losing. Few Western leaders complain because he is seen as the guarantor of stability in an oil-rich nation.
Mr. Nazarbayev was initially one of the more democratic of the Central Asian rulers, but since 1995 he has steadily expanded his powers. A compliant parliament recently passed constitutional amendments extending the presidential term from five years to seven and lifting term limits. Mr. Nazarbayev has been jailing political opponents on libel charges and last week kicked his leading opponent, former Prime Minister Akezhan Kazhegeldin, off the ballot on a technicality. Mr. Nazarbayev has also been shutting down the country's few independent newspapers. Television is controlled by his daughter. 
 American officials raise such issues with Mr. Nazarbayev when they visit, and call democratic development an important American goal in the region. But oil takes precedence, as Kazakhstan's proven oil reserves alone come to 10 billion barrels. Mr. Nazarbayev controls these contracts and provides stability in a region where fundamentalist Islam is growing. He has been received warmly by President Clinton. Kazakhstan's democratization is not a priority for Washington, and Mr. Nazarbayev knows it.
This is not only wrong, but also shortsighted. The absence of accountability in Kazakhstan has allowed corruption to thrive. It is beginning to interfere with foreign investment, as officials have arbitrarily revoked or renegotiated contracts. Corruption is also helping to wreck the economy. Powerful businessmen have blocked needed economic reforms, such as bankruptcy laws. Kazakhstan cannot pay wages or pensions on time.
No one expects Central Asia to become a haven of democracy overnight, but the region has built virtually no democratic political institutions under its current leaders. Mr. Nazarbayev's speeches promise fair elections and a free press. The West should hold him to this, starting with the restoration of Mr. Kazhegeldin's right to challenge him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (93%); ASIA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KAZAKHSTAN; UNITED STATES (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (93%); ASIA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; KAZAKHSTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); CORRUPTION (74%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (74%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (70%); LIBEL & SLANDER (69%); FUNDAMENTALISM (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); RELIGION (51%); 

PERSON: NAZARBAYEV, NURSULTAN (PRES); KAZHEGELDIN, AKEZHAN (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998



253 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: After Elections, the Republicans Are on Top, of the Mountains, That Is

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: DENVER, Nov. 8

 BODY:
One day in January, Bill Owens will shuttle cardboard boxes down a hall of the State Capitol here, moving from the treasurer's office to the governor's. For the first time since 1974, the year President Nixon resigned, Colorado is to have a Republican governor.
On a larger scale, Mr. Owens's election on Tuesday seals the interior West as the most Republican region in the United States. Republican governors are set to rule every state in the 14-state expanse bounded by the Sierra Nevada to the West and Missouri and Arkansas Rivers to the East, a gain of three for the G.O.P. 
 The region known in the 1980's for Democratic stalwarts like Gov. Richard D. Lamm of Colorado, Gov. Cecil D. Andrus of Idaho and Gov. Pat Williams of Montana has decisively shifted into the Republican camp.
"When I was head of the Western Governors' Association in the late 70's," marveled Philip M. Burgess, president of the Center for the New West, a regional policy and research group here, "we had only one Republican governor, everyone else was a Democrat."
The new Republican dominance can be seen at all levels. In 13 of the 14 states, Republicans control 20 of the 26 chambers. (Nebraska has a single nonpartisan chamber.) In the region's Congressional delegation, Republicans have a 2-to-1 advantage -- 64 Republicans and 33 Democrats. If Texas is excluded, the Republican advantage jumps to 3 to 1, or 49 to 16.
After the 2000 census, the interior West is expected to gain seven House seats; the Northeast is expected to lose five.
Thinly populated, the interior West traditionally has received scant attention from national political strategists. The states in the Mountain time zone -- Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, New Mexico, Utah and Wyoming -- have a combined population of 14 million, the same as Florida's. But in the 2000 Presidential election, political attitudes in the Mountain states may carry more weight. On Nov. 16, leaders from these states, plus Nevada, are to meet in Salt Lake City to decide on a date for a joint Presidential primary.
"Issues important to the interior West have been virtually ignored in past elections," said Gov. Jim Geringer of Wyoming, a coordinator of the effort. "If several states band together to hold a primary, we increase the odds that the voice of the West will carry beyond our borders and all the way to Washington, D.C."
In contrast to the interior West, Democrats rule the Pacific West. Democrats will be governors and will control Legislatures next year in California and Washington. Oregon will have a Democratic governor and a Republican-controlled Legislature.
"It clearly is not one West anymore," said William T. Pound, executive director of the National Conference of State Legislatures, a research group based here. "There is a striking contrast between the Pacific West and the mountain West."
On a simplistic level, conservatives have moved from coastal Southern California to the interior West, tipping ideological and partisan balances. In the last decade, 1.6 million people have migrated from California. And Nevada, Arizona, Idaho, Utah and Colorado have experienced the nation's highest population growth rates, with California supplying the largest group of migrants.
In Colorado, polls indicate that the newcomers have been far more likely to register Republican than Democratic, according to Floyd Ciruli, the president of Ciruli Associates, a polling company here.
"We got the Southern Californians, the people facing the fires, the floods, the riots, and all the other reasons to leave," he said. "Republicans out here speak of an orderly society, personal responsibility."
In the last decade, Colorado has gone from having a roughly equal number of registered Republicans and Democrats to an advantage of 130,000 for the Republicans.
"If you look at the whole Rocky Mountain area, to win as a Democrat is an uphill climb," conceded Gov. Roy Romer of Colorado, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee. Governor Romer did not seek re-election on Tuesday.
With three interior Western states -- Nevada, Utah and Arizona -- experiencing the nation's highest rates of job creation, Democrats had hoped that the influx of newcomers would foster activist environmental politics. Instead, affluence has reinforced existing conservative, small-government values.
"The Rocky Mountain West is becoming more economically viable, and when people are comfortable, they vote Republican and for incumbents," said Dottie Lamm, Colorado's Democratic candidate for Senator and wife of the former Governor. Last week, she was defeated by a ratio of almost 2 to 1 by Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell, a Republican.
Jim Nicholson, a Colorado real estate developer and chairman of the Republican National Committee, said on Friday, "The spirit of the Rocky Mountain West, the emphasis on freedom and rugged individualism, coincides well with Republican values and ideas."
Hindering the Democrats, their core constituency groups, like union members and racial minorities, are at low levels in the Rockies. But critics say that Democrats have also allowed Republicans to carry the flag on issues popular here: term limits, tax cuts, local control and individual responsibility.
While the Civil War may still define politics in the South, public lands still define Western politics.
Federal lands account for about half of all Western lands. Bruce Babbitt, President Clinton's Interior Secretary, alienated many Westerners when he sought to charge ranchers and miners more to use Federal land. About five years ago, conservatives started talking about the Clinton Administration's "War on the West." They described Mr. Babbitt, who comes from an Arizona ranching family, as Washington's colonial agent for the West.
Democrats also have lost a generation of political figures who managed to take care of their liberal base and to capture the moderate middle.
"The Lamms and the Romers gave East Coast folks the wrong impression that this was a liberal region," said Gary Hart, a Denver lawyer who served as a Democratic Senator for Colorado in the 1980's.
"In Colorado, the Romers, the Lamms, the Harts -- that generation has passed," said Dick Wadhams, the campaign manager who engineered Mr. Owens's razor-thin, 8,297-vote victory over Gail Schoettler, Colorado's Lieutentant Governor and the Democratic candidate. "The defeat of Gail Schoettler put the final spade of dirt on that generation of Democratic elected officials."
Others caution that the Western voter is not a partisan voter but an independent. In the 1992 Presidential campaign, the West was Ross Perot's strongest region.
Governor Romer, who at 70 has been in Colorado politics for 40 years, predicted confidently, "This is going to swing back."
Predicting that rampant growth would create a need for a more activist government, he said: "In Colorado, it was wide-open spaces and, 'Leave us alone.' Now, everybody is stuck in a traffic jam. They can't get into their parks."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Owens, right, a Republican, was elected Governor of Colorado on Tuesday. He celebrated in Denver with his running mate, Joe Rogers. (Associated Press)
 
Chart: "ADDING IT UP: The Interior West: Republican Country"
The 14-state expanse bounded by the Sierra Nevada to the West and the Missouri and Arkansas Rivers to the East is firmly in Republican control. Here is the balance of power after last week's elections. Chart shows the number of seats occupied by each political party in the afore mentioned geographic area.
 
(Sources: National Conference of State Legislatures; Almanac of American Politics 1998)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (95%); MONTANA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) NEW WEST PRESENTATIONS (55%); NEW WEST FOODS (55%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; WESTERN STATES (US); COLORADO; UNITED STATES (95%); COLORADO, USA (95%); MONTANA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS GOVERNORS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); MOUNTAINS (85%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); CENSUS (66%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; OWENS, BILL JAMES W OWENS (79%); RICHARD NIXON (72%); DAVE CAMP (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998



254 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Changing Social Security

 BODY:
To hear the politicians' post-mortems, you might conclude it was Social Security, not impeachment, the economy or anything else, on which the midterm elections were fought. In fact, exit polls showed that Social Security was on the minds of many voters, and that the issue worked better for the Democrats. But there was little in the way of informed debate on the issue from either side.
Why? First, the potential for demagogy is high, with both parties quite happy to accuse opponents of endangering benefits. Second, any serious discussion might have made clear that the Government's current budget surplus is a mirage. Last year's budget surplus -- about which both the President and the Republicans crowed incessantly -- was due to a big surplus in Social Security. The rest of the budget showed a deficit of almost $30 billion. Most of the Social Security surplus, which supposedly goes into the Social Security Trust Fund, was spent on other programs. 
 Away from the campaign trail, there has been a flood of suggestions for "fixing" Social Security. In fact, the potential shortfall after the baby boom retires is not nearly as great as the one that may confront Medicare, the other entitlement program for the elderly. Modest tax increases, slight increases in retirement age or a decision to raise benefits by less than the rate of inflation could go a long way toward solving the Social Security problem. Nonetheless, there are calls to "privatize" the system and put Social Security money in stocks, which in the past have generally shown better returns than bonds over long periods of time.
Some of the arguments ignore the fact that Social Security was never a real pension plan. It is a system that taxes working Americans to finance payments to people who are retired or disabled. Any plan to convert Social Security to a pension plan, in which a worker's own taxes are put aside to pay for his or her retirement, must take into account the need to finance payments for those now retired or nearing retirement age.
The lure of stock investing is based largely on the idea that by assuming relatively high returns one can avoid tough choices. But remember that there have been prolonged periods when stocks were poor investments. Those periods often began when -- as is currently the case -- stocks were trading at extraordinarily high valuations.
Privatization advocates would have individuals own stocks through accounts like the 401(k) plans offered by many companies. Such plans are very attractive to Wall Street, but the fees Wall Street would collect would come out of profits available to pay beneficiaries. Will the Government -- that is, the taxpayers -- be willing to guarantee that Social Security recipients would not suffer if stocks fell too far? If so, that would create an incentive for those managing the funds to use risky strategies. If not, the idea of a safety net begins to fade.
Some propose that the Government itself buy the stocks. That could cut down on administrative costs but would make the Federal Government a major owner of American industry within only a few years. How would it decide what companies to buy, and how would political interference in corporate governance be avoided?
It was good to learn after the votes were counted that both parties thought Social Security was so important. Now we will see if they can avoid the temptation of seeking short-term political gains rather than constructive long-term solutions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); EDITORIALS; PRIVATIZATION; STOCKS AND BONDS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); RETIREMENT AGE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); AGING (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BONDS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); US 401K PLANS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MEDICARE (75%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); TAX INCREASES (70%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (67%); TAX LAW (65%); SECURITIES TRADING (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998



255 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: A Look at Voting Patterns of 115 Demographic Groups in House Races

BYLINE: By MARJORIE CONNELLY 

 BODY:
After a year dominated by scandal in the White House and an inquiry into the impeachment of the President, Democrats made unexpected Congressional gains on Election Day, picking up five seats in the House and not losing any ground in the Senate.
Surveys of voters leaving polling places throughout the country showed that some groups that had shifted toward the Republicans in 1994 are moving back toward the Democrats, including voters in the East, Catholics and those who live in big cities. 
 The table, based on the voter surveys, shows how 115 demographic groups voted for House candidates this year and in the past nine elections. The surveys used to draw this portrait are based on large numbers of respondents, making it possible to examine the preferences of some groups whose proportion of the voting population makes them too small to look at in typical surveys.
 
Gender and Age
Men continue to be more likely than women to vote for Republicans. Before 1994, the percentage of men who voted Republican was 3 to 6 percentage points higher than the percentage of women who voted Republican. In 1994, the difference soared to 11 points, in 1996 it was 9 points and in the latest election there is a 7-point gap between the number of men and women who voted for the Republican candidate.
The differences between men and women are particularly evident among voters with college degrees and voters under 30.
In the last three elections, a majority of voters 60 and older has given its votes to Republican candidates, perhaps signaling the departure of the New Deal generation.
This trend toward supporting Republican candidates among older voters is seen among both men and women. Sixty percent of older white people voted for the Republican candidate in their district, but older black voters continued to support Democrats overwhelmingly.
 
Party Loyalty
Since 1994, the Republicans have been doing a better job of holding on to most self-identified Republican voters, getting at least 90 percent of their votes. Democrats have also been doing well at retaining their party's adherents.
For the last three elections, increasing numbers of independents, who make up a little more than one-fourth of all voters, have been voting for Republican candidates. This year, the votes of independent women are divided equally between the Republicans and the Democrats. Independent men are more inclined than independent women to vote Republican, but not to the degree that they were in 1994.
A majority of the white voters who consider themselves independent supported the Republican candidate in their district. And although a large majority of black independents supported the Democratic candidate, one-fifth favored the Republican candidate. Over all, only 11 percent of blacks voted Republican.
 
Financial Concerns
Candidates from the party of the incumbent President tend to be favored by voters who believe their economic situation has improved. In 1980, 1994 and 1996, the Democratic candidates were backed by a majority of voters who said their financial situation had improved. And voters appear to turn against the incumbent party when they believe their situation has worsened. Most of the voters who described their family as being either less well off or the same voted for Republican candidates, as they did in 1994 and 1996.
 
Social Alliances
There are still some signs of the social alliances that have existed since the Great Depression. For example, less affluent voters, those with annual income under $30,000, gave the majority of their votes to the Democrats. Black, Hispanic and Jewish voters remained strongly Democratic. Voters who lived in a household with a union member continued to support the Democratic candidate, as did urban voters.
By contrast, voters whose income exceeded $30,000 and white Protestants voted for Republican candidates. Republican candidates were favored by suburbanites, as well as by those who live in small towns and rural areas. MARJORIE CONNELLY
Data for 1998 were collected by Voter News Service based on questionnaires completed by 10,017 voters leaving 250 polling places around the country on Election Day. Data for 1994 and 1996 were collected by Voter News Service: 11,308 in 1994 and 16,637 in 1996. Data for 1990 and 1992 were collected by Voter Research and Surveys: 19,888 in 1990 and 15,490 in 1992. Data for 1980 through 1988 were based on surveys conducted by The New York Times and CBS News: 9,901 in 1980; 7,855 in 1982; 9,174 in 1984; 8,994 in 1986, and 11,645 in 1988.
Family income categories in 1980: Under $15,000, $15,000-$24,999, $25,000-$50,000 and over $50,000. In 1982: Under $10,000, $10,000-$19,999, $20,000-$29,999, $30,000-$50,000 and over $50,000. In 1984 and 1986: Under $12,500, $12,500-$24,999, $25,000-$34,999, $35,000-$50,000 and over $50,000. In 1988: Under $12,500, $12,500-$24,999, $25,000-$50,000, over $50,000 and over $100,000.
Independents include respondents who consider themselves not to be Democrats or Republicans but "something else," since 1990. Standard of living is based on questions about the respondent's family's financial situation compared with their situation a year ago in 1980; two years ago in 1982, 1990 and 1998; and four years ago in 1992, 1994 and 1996. College graduates include those with post-graduate education.
Those who gave no answer are not shown. Those who voted for third-party candidates are not included.
-- Indicates a question was not asked or a category was not provided in a particular year.
* Indicates that there were an insufficient number of responses in that sub-group.
 1 In 1980, the Congressional vote does not include respondents from New York and California. Since the West is largely made up of voters in California, the 1980 percentages for the West are omitted.

GRAPHIC: Chart compares several demographics, and their voting patterns since 1980

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US); ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US); ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; EASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; URBAN AREAS; VOTER BEHAVIOR ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); MEN (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); IMPEACHMENT (78%); TRENDS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); WOMEN (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); 

PERSON: CONNELLY, MARJORIE

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998



256 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2240 words

HEADLINE: A RISING MOVEMENT CITES PERSECUTION FACING CHRISTIANS

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN 

 BODY:
In a cramped loft apartment in Macungie, Pa., a grass-roots group that includes a mechanic, a retired teacher, a physician and a concrete salesman gathers every Tuesday to pray for what it calls Christian martyrs around the world who are victimized, raped and killed for their faith.
In Highlands, Colo., volunteers fill a Presbyterian church hall to hear a Nigerian refugee testify that Muslims in his village back home tied him to a tree, beat him and left him for dead, all because he tried to preach the Gospel of Jesus. 
 In Austin, Tex., 5,000 people march through the streets singing hymns to honor the Christians they are told are suffering in countries like China, Saudi Arabia and Sudan.
Slowly and without much publicity, a new kind of solidarity movement is gaining force among Christians across the country. Their focus is what they call "the persecuted church" -- the fellow Christians throughout the world who they say have been targets of abuse solely because of their faith. The concern has grown as Christianity has sprouted up in parts of the world long cultivated by other faiths, resulting in increasing clashes.
The Christian persecution movement has gained momentum despite the advice from international scholars and some foreign aid groups that what outsiders often label Christian persecution is often a complex brew of racial, economic, political, tribal and religious rivalries.
Nevertheless, photographs of tortured pastors and burned churches have had a powerful effect. Concern about persecuted Christians first emerged about two years ago in the conservative and evangelical churches usually associated with the Christian right. But now it is transcending denominational and political boundaries. Churches that have long found themselves on opposing sides in the debates over abortion or homosexuality are finding common cause in Christian persecution.
"All Christians everywhere, the body of Christ, are really one body, so if one part is feeling pain, we should all be feeling pain," said Amy Wierman, who is the host of the prayer group in her apartment in Pennsylvania each Tuesday. "The Christian woman raped in Egypt, that is my sister. The guy shot in Pakistan, that is my brother."
Now a wide swath of Americans who admit they never before paid much attention to foreign affairs or human rights is beginning to exert its influence on American foreign policy. They are lobbying cities to stop doing business with nations that they say persecute Christians. They are writing letters to countries -- some whose names they cannot pronounce -- demanding the release of Christian prisoners.
They are swelling the coffers of groups that aid and evangelize persecuted Christians. They are traveling to refugee camps in Africa and Asia, taking donated Bibles and gathering testimony of suffering to bring back to their congregations in Ohio or California.
Last month, this fledgling movement succeeded in persuading the Senate to pass by unanimous vote the International Religious Freedom Act, which requires the President to take action against countries that the State Department finds are violating the religious rights of their citizens. The punishments could range from sending a private diplomatic note to invoking economic sanctions. President Clinton signed the bill into law on Oct. 27.
"Human rights is now no longer the prerogative only of the left," said Richard Cizik of the National Association of Evangelicals. "Believe it or not, the religious right is making a distinctive contribution to American foreign policy. We are shaping policy. And on human rights? Who would have predicted that?"
"It has reached critical mass," said Richard D. Land, president of the Southern Baptist Convention's ethics and religious liberty commission. "This movement has traction."
In a movement that is even more spiritual than political, the antidote often promoted is prayer. Next Sunday, as many as 100,000 American churches -- about a third of the churches in the nation -- are expected to participate in the International Day of Prayer for the Persecuted Church, an annual event that began two years ago in just 5,000 churches. Organizers of the Day of Prayer say the event will be observed by an array of congregations that rarely find themselves allied, including Methodist, Southern Baptist, Roman Catholic, Pentecostal, Orthodox and Salvation Army churches.
As a result, from both the theological left and right, a consensus is emerging. After decades of soul-searching over the indifference or even complicity of some Christians in the Holocaust and in genocidal wars in Rwanda and Bosnia, Christians are seeing themselves as the victims and martyrs of the moment.
In church services, in literature and in videos put out by the persecuted church movement, they are likening Christian persecution to the Holocaust. They quote from Anne Frank and Elie Wiesel. For moral reinforcement, they frequently note that two Jews, Michael Horowitz, director of the conservative Hudson Institute, and A. M. Rosenthal, a columnist at The New York Times, have been raising the loudest protests about the persecution of Christians.
"The same thing that happened to the Jews -- to the people of the book -- is now happening to Christians," said John Noska, the concrete salesman whose prayer group in Pennsylvania has produced a video on Christian persecution for cable television. "Here in America, many of us are living in a comfort zone, and the Lord is saying: 'Come out of your comfort zone. What about your brothers and sisters who are suffering?' "
 
A Change in Focus
No Longer Praying For Missionaries
As a child, Steve Haas always ended his bedtime prayers with a plea to the Lord to protect the American missionary families he knew who were risking their lives to share the Gospel in Asia, Africa and Latin America.
Mr. Haas, president of Prayer for the Persecuted Church, says that his prayers are now for the Asians, Africans and Latin Americans whom the missionaries converted to Christianity. Indigenous Christians on those continents, not white missionaries, are the victims of Christian persecution, Mr. Haas said.
This reflects the global shifts in Christianity in the last 30 years. In 1960 more than 70 percent of all evangelical Christians were Americans, Canadians and Europeans, according to Prayer for the Persecuted Church. By 1990 the picture flipped, and 70 percent of all evangelical Christians were Africans, Asians and Latin Americans. In a mere 30 years, a "born again" brand of Christianity has spread to countries inhabited primarily by Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists and Animists, resulting in some places in religious conflict and rivalry.
"When Christians begin to have some influence in the life of a nation," said Andrew Vanderbijl, a Dutch missionary better known as Brother Andrew, "morally, maybe politically, culturally, economically," then others in the community turn against them. In predominantly Muslim Indonesia, for example, Chinese Christians control the economy, he said, "and when they exert influence, they have opposition, and that may turn into persecution."
Where Christians are a minority, they are subject to human rights abuses. A State Department report last year listed about 70 countries in which there are a wide range of violations against Christians, including censoring tracts, detention and torture.
Yet many missionaries, aid workers, scholars of foreign affairs and State Department officials say they fear that the American churches' framing of Christian persecution as a global threat is a misguided oversimplification. They point out that where there is persecution of Christians, there is also widespread persecution of people of many religions and ethnicities (for example, Muslims and Tibetan Buddhists in China, Animists and moderate Muslims in southern Sudan, Bahais in Iran and Ahmadiya Muslims in Pakistan). Also, scholars say, Christians persecute other Christians in places where the dominant church senses a threat to its supremacy -- in Russia and Greece, for example, and in Central America and South America.
Trying to solve these problems by focusing only on Christians is "like pulling on one strand of a sweater," said David Little, a senior scholar at the United States Institute of Peace.
"Meanwhile," he said, "the whole sweater is unraveling.
"Where you have smoke, you have fire. Where you have religious persecution you invariably have violations of all other kinds. There are local forces, local interests, so it's not subsumable under one kind of conspiracy against Christians."
Some leaders of the Christian persecution movement acknowledge these flaws in their approach, but say it is only natural for American Christians to care first for their own suffering brethren. Leaders of established human rights organizations agree. William Schulz, executive director of Amnesty International U.S.A., said many people got engaged in human rights work by fixating first on their counterparts; feminist groups focus on women overseas, labor unions on workers.
Kenneth Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch, said, "Whenever we can get a large, powerful constituency interested in human rights issues, so much the better."
Christian missionary groups that for years had been crying in the wilderness about Christian persecution are seeing their contributions soaring, enabling them to do even more evangelizing overseas. At Voice of the Martyrs in Bartlesville, Okla., a group founded in 1967, the mailing list, number of staff members and income have tripled in the last two years. Christian Freedom International in Front Royal, Va., has experienced similar growth.
 
A Martyr's Account
Tempering Fears Of Islam
In suburban Cherry Creek Presbyterian Church outside Denver, 87 Christians from six local churches turned out on a Saturday night earlier this year to hear the testimony of a Nigerian Christian lay preacher. The preacher, Sati, who said he feared revealing his last name, recounted a personal history of horrors at the hands of his Muslim neighbors: blinded at age 6 by Muslims jealous of his fathers' flocks; tied to a tree and stoned at age 20 by Muslims who accused him of insulting the prophet Mohammed.
"They tried to kill me," Sati said. "I was merely debating them, and you don't do that if you're trying to reach an Islamic person."
His audience listened in silence. Afterward, 30 people submitted green and white response cards volunteering to start Christian persecution task forces in their churches -- just one indication that this movement is being fueled primarily by lay people, not church pastors.
It is events like this in Colorado that have led some critics to accuse the Christian persecution movement of fanning the flames of confrontation between Christianity and Islam.
On this particular evening in Colorado, Sati's story of Muslim persecutors -- which he has repeated in many churches -- was tempered by a follow-up talk by the organizer, Mr. Haas. Mr. Haas told the audience the problem was not with most Muslims but with "a radical form of Islam now invading North Africa and the Middle East."
But such distinctions probably elude most American Christians who are unacquainted with Islam. One woman in Mr. Haas's audience raised her hand and asked him to please explain the difference between Muslim and Islam (one is a person, the other a religion).
Concern about anti-Muslim undertones in the Christian persecution movement is voiced by American Muslim leaders and even by some Christian missionaries active in Islamic countries.
"I think we are creating an enemy image of the Muslims and making it worse, aggravating the problem," said Brother Andrew, who began 40 years ago by smuggling Bibles into Communist nations and now works primarily in the Islamic world.
"It is not as bad as it is often portrayed, as if Muslims are always persecuting Christians," he said. "Culturally and historically Muslims and Christians have usually gotten on fairly well together, and we are distorting the history when we are saying the Muslims are persecuting Christians."
 
The Church
Revitalization And Martyrdom
Previous solidarity movements -- like those concerned with South Africa, Central America or Soviet Jewry -- have defined success as the end of oppression. But people active in the Christian persecution movement say their goal is not to stop the persecution. For one, they say that it is not possible. But they also have a theological reason: they say that just as Jesus suffered, modern-day Christians will inevitably suffer for their faith. Martyrdom feeds the faith.
"Other faiths have said, blood is spilled, that's when we grow," Mr. Haas said. "That's very true in Christendom."
Ultimately, many Americans devoting themselves to spreading the word about Christian persecution say they hope not only to save the victims but also to save a moribund church here in America.
"It's done me a world of good in my commitment," said John Wildenthal, a municipal judge in Houston, "to see the examples of these people who have joy and strength in their faith while they daily face the threat of personal disaster.
"It would produce a religious revival in the U.S. if the people in the pews were to realize the strength and joy that those living in daily danger exhibit. It would revitalize the church in America."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Nigerian Christian lay preacher, Sati, who said he feared giving his name, spoke to the Cherry Creek Presbyterian Church outside Denver last May. He recounted his experiences at the hands of Muslims. (Rodolfo Gonzalez for The New York Times); Participants in a "March for Jesus" in Austin, Tex., praying for Christians they believe are persecuted in places like China. The march, last May, grew out of a new movement gaining force across the country. (Christine Galida for The New York Times)(pg. A14)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NIGERIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); SUDAN (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (78%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); SUDAN (79%); TEXAS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (78%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; FREEDOM OF RELIGION RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (89%); CONSERVATISM (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); REFUGEES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); TORTURE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (71%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: GOODSTEIN, LAURIE

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998



257 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
Monkey Business: Strippers, Testosterone and the Dow

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
IN late July, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani began shutting down strip clubs, and over the next month, the Dow Jones industrial average plunged 1,500 points. In September, a court ruling gave some clubs a partial reprieve, whereupon the market began to recover. Last Wednesday, a strip club won another round in court, and the Dow surged 250 points the rest of the week.
Mere coincidences? The Mayor apparently thinks so, since he is continuing his dangerous crusade. But the stripper-Dow connection is all too obvious to those versed in the scientific literature of endocrinology. The market plummeted in August -- and will plummet again if Mr. Giuliani prevails -- because of a testosterone drought. 
 This phenomenon was demonstrated by Emory University researchers who studied the closest scientific approximation of New York's financial district: a group of rhesus monkeys competing for status in a confined space. When one male defeated another in a contest over a female, the testosterone level rose in the winner and fell dramatically in the loser, who would subsequently cower in the winner's presence.
But there was a quick cure if, when the winner was not around, the loser got a glimpse of a sexually receptive female monkey. His testosterone level promptly rose. It surged even though he had no chance of having sex because he was inside a cage looking out at an unobtainable female -- the closest scientific approximation of a guy looking at a stripper.
"One implication of the study," explained Dr. Kim Wallen, a psychologist at Emory's Yerkes Primate Center, "is that strip bars are popular because male losers can retreat there to raise their testosterone levels."
This finding has vital economic implications because testosterone promotes feelings of well-being and helps people concentrate on tasks. Although it is popularly blamed for causing dangerous aggression, like the "roid rage" said to afflict athletes on steroids, scientists say this is largely a myth. "Testosterone doesn't make guys go out raping and pillaging," Dr. Wallen said. "It generally makes them feel self-confident and ready to take on the world."
It makes them feel like Mark McGwire, the affable slugger who did so much for the St. Louis economy while raising his testosterone with pills. Think of McGwire losing his concentration and confidence, or of those cowering monkeys, and you see the risks of the Mayor's crackdown. When Wall Street's masters of the universe lose their focus and turn skittish, they bring down the Dow and the rest of the city's economy. When they're cowering, how can real estate agents hope to sell them two-bedroom apartments for seven figures?
 DR. WALLEN declined to speculate on the stripper-Dow connection -- he has his academic reputation to consider -- but he noted that this might be a good time for women to get ahead on Wall Street. Their levels of testosterone are more stable than men's, which is one reason they do not need to go to strip clubs after a bad day in the market. Male losers are in a bind, though, especially the recently laid-off Wall Streeters who need a boost of testosterone to find a new job.
Some strip clubs are staying open by putting bikinis on their dancers, but customers are unhappy, which jibes with the results of another study of primate behavior. In this experiment with baboons, researchers found that the male voyeurs were highly selective and a bit simple-minded.
The baboon voyeurs did not respond to just any female. The female baboon had to appear to be in heat, which the researchers simulated by attaching a red plastic mold to her rear. As with men at a strip club, it took a crude illusion of sexual receptivity to jolt their endocrine systems.
If clothes on a dancer ruin that illusion, where can male losers get a boost of testosterone? The only quick alternative suggested by the primate research is to win a fight with another man. "New Yorkers," Dr. Wallen said, "might want to consider which is socially preferable, a place where guys go to look at naked women, or a place where they go to beat up other guys?"
It is a perilous choice, as Mr. Giuliani's own role model demonstrated with tragic consequences. The last time a righteous mayor crusaded to close down strip joints, New York endured a long testosterone drought known as the Great Depression, and it took a world war to get the economy moving again. Fiorello H. La Guardia thought those were just coincidences, too.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY; STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; ZONING CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PRIMATES (88%); STEROIDS (88%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (88%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998



258 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
U.S. Prepares 2 Plans For Attack on Iraq
The Pentagon has drafted separate plans for a sharp, swift strike against Iraq that could begin at any time and a larger, more punishing assault that would require sending more forces to the region, officials say. As the Administration once again considers using force against Iraq, President Clinton met for two hours with his senior national security aides at Camp David, Md., to discuss strategies for responding to Iraq's new defiance of the United Nations weapons inspections. A1
 
Dalai Lama Courts Support
The Dalai Lama, courting support for a new initiative that he hopes will lead to talks with Chinese leaders, is expected to meet with Vice President Al Gore at the White House during his current visit to Washington. While China's position on Tibet has yet to soften, on the surface China's political climate seems more open to talks on Tibet than at any time in a decade. A1 

2 Israelis Accused of Spying
Two Israelis have been arrested on suspicion of spying on a military installation in Cyprus, immediately raising questions in Israel about whether it was the latest in a series of bungles by the Israeli intelligence agency Mossad. The arrests spotlighted increased regional tensions about the growing security cooperation between Israel and Turkey. A6
 
Pinochet Speaks on Extradition
Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former Chilean dictator, said he was hurt and bewildered by his arrest in London, and he vowed to fight "with all my spirit" efforts to extradite him to Spain to stand trial. A10
 
Death for 15 in Bangladesh
A judge in Bangladesh convicted 15 former military commanders and sentenced them to death in the 1975 assassination of the country's first Prime Minister, Sheik Mujibur Rahman, father of the current Prime Minister, Sheik Hasina Wazed. A10
 
Ethiopia-Eritrea Talks End
A meeting of African leaders trying to resolve the frontier dispute between Ethiopia and Eritrea, which erupted into war earlier this year, ended without a breakthrough in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso. President Blaise Compaore of Burkina Faso, head of the mediation effort by the Organization of African Unity, told reporters that officials had held intensive talks on a peace plan and would now wait for the two parties to give their views. (Reuters)
 
New Caledonians Put Off Vote
New Caledonians in a referendum overwhelmingly approved "shared sovereignty," putting off a vote on independence for the French territory in the Pacific. The measure, approved by 71 percent of voters, will give the territory broad new powers, but delay an independence vote for 15 to 20 years. The territory will directly control taxes, foreign trade, transport and communications, leaving key sectors like defense, justice and police to France. (AP)
 
NATIONAL A12-20
 
Livingston of Louisiana Lays Claim to Speakership
Representative Robert L. Livingston of Louisiana all but declared himself Speaker of the House, two days after the abrupt resignation of Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia. Reports spread through the Capitol that the only other announced candidate for Speaker, Representative Christopher Cox, a conservative from California, would withdraw from the race today. A1
 
Many members of the fervent Republican class of '94 in the House are throwing their support behind Representative Livingston, a signal that they are ready for more pragmatic leadership. Although Mr. Livingston considers himself a staunch conservative, his ascension as the front-runner in the Speaker's race in many ways represents the demise of anti-establishment impulses in the
House. A1
 
Mr. Livingston said that lawmakers should consider public sentiment that President Clinton has not committed impeachable offenses, even as a House panel prepared to begin impeachment hearings today. A19
 
Christian Solidarity Grows
A new kind of solidarity movement is slowly and quietly gaining force among Christians across the country. Their focus is what they call "the persecuted church" -- the fellow Christians throughout the world who they say have been targets of abuse solely because of their faith. But international scholars and some foreign aid groups say that what outsiders frequently label Christian persecution is often a complex brew of racial, economic, political, tribal and religious rivalries. A1
 
Glenn Feeling Fine
John Glenn, the world's oldest space traveler, admitted that he "didn't feel too hot" when he emerged from the shuttle Discovery upon landing on Saturday. But he said he slept "like a log" his first night back on Earth and was "probably 95 or 98 percent back to normal now." A12
 
New Stamp for a New Rate
The United States Postal Service will start today to flood the country with a new 33-cent stamp -- one that pictures Uncle Sam's hat, but does not show any value -- to ease customers into the new postal rates that take effect Jan. 10. The basic rate will increase to 33 cents from 32. A18
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Union's Troubles Seen Tied To Its Governing Structure
The presidents of several union locals say the troubles at District Council 37, the umbrella group representing 120,000 New York City municipal workers, stem largely from the council's awkward governing structure. A broad corruption investigation is leading to increasing calls for change within the council. B1
 
Faster Response on Benefits
A Federal inquiry into Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's new welfare policies has prompted his administration to speed up the granting of applications for food and medical benefits, the city's top welfare official said. Jason A. Turner, Commissioner of the city's Human Resources Administration, said that starting this week, all people seeking such benefits would receive the full applications on their first visit to a welfare office. Until now, many applicants had to make a second trip to get the application packets. B1
 
Praising the Care of Inmates
New York City's Health and Hospitals Corporation has released a report praising the recent shift to a managed-care system in the city's jails, even as investigations continue into whether poor medical care played a role in the deaths of at least four Rikers Island inmates this year. B6
 
Murder Trial to Start
Opening arguments are to begin today in Manhattan in the second-degree murder trial of Christopher Vasquez, now 16, a troubled, soft-spoken son of working-class parents. He is charged with stabbing to death and eviscerating a 44-year-old Upper East Side real estate broker in Central Park in May 1997. Prosecutors say he stabbed Michael McMorrow more than 30 times. B4
 
OBITUARIES B8
 
Wendell Chino
The longtime president of the Mescalero Apache Nation who helped to lift his tribe from tar-paper shack poverty with his persuasive style of "red capitalism," he was 74. B8
 
Patrick J. Frawley Jr.
A high school dropout who made millions of dollars in business, gave millions to conservative causes and candidates, then made it his business and his life's work to combat alcohol and drug addiction, he was 75. B8
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-10
 
Investing in VCR Alternative
A new technology intended to replace the traditional home videocassette recorder is expected to get an important vote of confidence today with the announcement that a co-founder of Netscape Communications, Marc Andreessen, has invested in Replay Networks, one of two companies developing digital television recording systems. C2
 
Magaziner to Quit Government
Ira C. Magaziner, a senior assistant to President Clinton for policy development who most recently has led Government efforts to foster the growth of the Internet and electronic commerce, said that he would leave the White House before the end of the year. C2

Trial to Begin for Joe Camel
Joe Camel, the advertising icon that became a powerful symbol to critics of the tobacco industry's efforts to get minors to smoke, will go on trial today, more than a year after he was retired by R. J. Reynolds. The Federal Trade Commission brought the case, contending that Reynolds committed an unfair trade practice by using Joe Camel to attract children and adolescents to cigarettes. C8
 
Business Digest C1
 
ARTS E1-8
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-10
 
EDITORIAL A24-25
 
Editorials: Changing Social Security; voters and the environment; Kazakhstan's empty election; back to the city's budget.
Columns: William Safire.
 
Bridge E6
 
Metro Diary B2
 
Crossword E8
 
Weather D10

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); BURKINA FASO (93%); CHINA (93%); TIBET (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BANGLADESH (92%); ERITREA (92%); ETHIOPIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); FRANCE (91%); SPAIN (79%); TURKEY (79%); CYPRUS (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: TERRITORY AHEAD (50%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); BURKINA FASO (93%); CHINA (93%); TIBET (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BANGLADESH (92%); ERITREA (92%); ETHIOPIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); FRANCE (91%); SPAIN (79%); TURKEY (79%); CYPRUS (79%); CHILE (79%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EXTRADITION (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); MILITARY BASES (76%); SENTENCING (75%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); REFERENDUMS (74%); INSPECTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); JUDGES (70%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); DALAI LAMA (69%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998



259 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 3; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK;
Updated Fable Turns Brecht, and Life, Inside Out

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY 

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
The play in an East Berlin theater, a story of economic negotiation between Chinese peasants and American capitalists, has obviously pleased no one. The rich-looking blonde from America, who admits she prefers "warmth" in her dramas, politely chirps about the troupe, "Aren't they just different?" And the outraged East German cultural secretary fulminates: "I thought we were going to see a play by Brecht. I don't think this is it at all."
Well, no, it isn't quite Brecht, is it? And neither is the play to which this scene serves as a prologue, Charles L. Mee's "Berlin Circle," performed here by the Steppenwolf Theater Company. 
 It's true that this bouncy, freewheeling production, directed by Tina Landau, does follow the basic plot outline of the same Chinese fable that inspired Brecht's "Caucasian Chalk Circle." It is also worth noting that the introductory play within the play (itself a parody of the prologue in "Chalk Circle") is presented as the work of the Berliner Ensemble, the troupe with which Brecht was long associated.
But if you remember your "Chalk Circle," you'll know that the heroine who shelters an abandoned baby during a bloody revolution was a noble servant girl. Here, the woman left holding the infant (in this case, when the Berlin wall comes tumbling down) is that same socialite who asked only for warmth in the theater. She is called Pamela Dalrymple, but if you changed her last name to Harriman, you wouldn't be wrong.
What's this? The famous seduction artist, who made her name from liaisons with high-powered capitalists, holding center stage in a work that takes its cues from the great alienation artist? And it is Mr. Mee's sly point that the mixed-up world of dissolving international boundaries and economic flux of recent years makes Brecht's instructional morality tale more than a little passe.
As a play, "The Berlin Circle" is a bit of a mess. But then so is the newly consolidated Germany that's portrayed here. And under the direction of Ms. Landau, a new member of Steppenwolf who is known in New York for her vivid stagings of works like "Floyd Collins," this production gives off a giddy energy appropriate to a social landscape in a state of addled transition. The maxims of socialist propaganda simply don't stick anymore. In this world, when a character with the familiar name of Warren Buffet starts spouting his economic philosophy, people listen.
Mr. Mee has said that he wanted his "Circle" to be, in part, a collage of found materials, after the model of Max Ernst's series of "Fatagaga" pictures, and he incorporates passages from biographies and autobiographies of the real Mr. Buffet, Mrs. Harriman, Andy Warhol and Katharine Graham as well as such far-flung sources as Robert Darnton's "Berlin Journal" and "The Pillow Book," the medieval Japanese diary.
Ms. Landau, working with an ensemble of 20-some actors, stirs these ingredients into a bubbling stew that, while expressly satiric, is definitely more warm than cold. In this show, when the Berlin wall falls, the whole cast, which includes a man on stilts juggling rolls of toilet paper, sings "Y.M.C.A.," the perky Village People song, to herald the advent of a new era.
Like Brecht's "Circle," the play is centered on a question of motherhood: Who has the right to bring up the infant who is discarded by his mother (Elizabeth Laidlaw), here the mistress of an East German party official, who gets out of Dodge when the political situation turns sticky? Pamela (Amy Morton) finds herself warming to the little fellow, but she isn't exactly well versed in child care, so she picks up an au pair, a drab local student named Dulle Griet (Mariann Mayberry).
Fleeing from a pair of Keystone Kops-like soldiers (deliciously played by Ian Barford and Yasen Peyankov), the two women bound through a series of adventures that include crossing a perilous rope bridge suspended over the Steppenwolf audience (part of James Schuette's ingenious Pop-Meyer holdian setting).
Poor, dutiful (and aptly named) Dulle does the drudge work, changing the baby and pushing the motorless truck that is the only available form of transportation. But, while her stories of amusing dinner parties and glamorous romantic conquests scarcely seem appropriate to the situation, Pamela demonstrates plenty of spunk and stamina.
Played with contagious effervescence by Ms. Morton, Pamela is the key to what makes this production so likable. Yes, she's a frivolous chatterbox in a Chanel-style suit, but neither Mr. Mee nor Ms. Morton is willing to write her off as a mere airhead.
There's a strong-willed, dynamic quality about Pamela, and if "The Berlin Circle" has a concrete message, it's that the strong and the dynamic will prevail in times of crisis. The fabled episode from which Brecht's play took its title, in which the claims to the baby are fought out in a chalk circle, here ends in a compromise. Compromise, after all, is what makes the contemporary world go round.
Mr. Mee's play is best in its vaudevillian mode, which embraces such scenes as a wonderfully tacky drunken wedding party that is interrupted by the ever unflappable, logorrheic Mr. Buffet (hilariously embodied by Tim Grimm). The more earnest, lyrical passages, spoken by the hopeful Dulle and the morally conflicted Heiner Muller (named for the German playwright and director and portrayed by Matthew Sussman), tend to fall flat.
Despite its tendency to long-wind edness and its occasional dead spots, the sheer subversive bravado of this "Circle" goes a long way in maintaining its audience's affections. And how refreshing to come upon a political satire that refuses to peddle easy answers and agitprop.
Mr. Mee generously gives his play a happy ending. (You'll be delighted to know that Pamela and Warren, true soul mates, finally find each other.) But he also makes it abundantly clear that the knotty social problems with which this work deals aren't even close to being solved.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Amy Morton, Mariann Mayberry and Elizabeth Laidlaw in "The Berlin Circle." (Michael Brosilow/Steppenwolf Theater)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BERLIN CIRCLE, THE (PLAY)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (70%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); 

COMPANY: STEPPENWOLF THEATER CO STEPPENWOLF THEATER CO (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: STEPPENWOLF THEATER CO

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (93%); THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); 

PERSON: LANDAU, TINA; MEE, CHARLES L; BRANTLEY, BEN WARREN BUFFETT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998



260 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 40 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

YEN WEAKENS. Japan's currency fell to its weakest level against the dollar since Oct. 7 on speculation that the Federal Reserve will not lower rates at its Nov. 17 meeting. The dollar cost 121.57 yen in New York, up from 119.10.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since April, 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (85%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES JAPANESE YEN (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); INTEREST RATES (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998



261 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Ciba Is Set For a Merger With Clariant

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
Ciba Specialty Chemicals and Clariant, already two of the largest players in the rapidly growing specialty chemical industry, are merging in a share swap valued at about $7 billion.
The new company, which will sport the Clariant name but the Ciba butterfly logo, will have sales of more than 18 billion Swiss francs ($13 billion). 
 The merger surprised chemical industry watchers, many of whom thought the two companies were big enough. "Each was getting the economies of scale and clout that size confers," said Michael K. Eckstut, who heads A. T. Kearney's chemical industry consulting practice.
Bardia Mesbah, a chemical industry consultant at Kline & Company, wondered whether the merged company "may be too big to react quickly to marketplace needs."
In the world of specialty chemicals -- technologically complex products with niche markets and high margins -- Clariant and Ciba do seem to have a jigsaw-puzzle fit. Both are big in dyes and pigments. And both spend heavily on research.
But while Clariant is in more European markets, Ciba has penetrated more of North and South America and Asia. Clariant is a marketing powerhouse; Ciba a new-product machine. Clariant has more pharmaceutical and electronic chemicals; Ciba's forte is water-treatment chemicals.
"Now we will be active in all of the most attractive segments of the specialty chemical market," said Rolf A. Meyer, the current Ciba chairman who will be the merged company's chief executive.
Analysts say the new Clariant will be able to wrest very low prices from suppliers -- a big plus in the specialty chemical industry, in which materials can account for 60 percent of the cost of goods sold. And, where American companies usually let savings drop to the bottom line, European companies tend to pass them along as price reductions.
"Even giants like BASF and Bayer are going to feel a tremendous amount of price pressure from the merged company," said Purna R. Saggurti, an investment banker at Deutsche Morgan Grenville.
For smaller companies, the pressure could be lethal. "This company can inflict considerable pain, and that should send a wake-up call to the board room of American chemical companies," said Timothy Gerdemon, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, who expects that midsize companies like Great Lakes, Cytec, Morton International and Crompton & Knowles will soon seek mates.
In fact, merger fever has been sweeping the specialty chemical industry. Last year, I.C.I. spent $8 billion to buy the specialty chemical business of Unilever; Clariant traded 45 percent of its stock for the specialty chemical business of Hoechst; Ciba won a bidding war against Hercules to buy Allied Colloids Group, a British maker of water-treatment chemicals. Hercules turned around and bought BetzDearborn, an American water-treatment company.
The consolidation is a sure sign that the specialty chemical industry, despite its relative newness as a stand-alone entity, is rapidly maturing. Until recently, most of its major players were part of diversified chemical companies, which had shed them to focus on higher-growth products like pharmaceuticals and agricultural chemicals.
Ciba and Clariant would already have been part of the same family had their respective parents not gone the spinoff route. Ciba Specialty was once part of Ciba Geigy, while Clariant was the chemical arm of Sandoz. Both parents divested themselves of their chemical units, then merged themselves to form Novartis, a pharmaceutical and life sciences company. Under the terms of the Ciba-Clariant deal, each existing share of Clariant stock will be worth 5.35 shares of the new company, while existing Ciba shares will swap on a 1-for-1 basis. Effectively, Ciba shareholders will own 46 percent of the new Clariant, while current Clariant shareholders will own 54 percent of the company. Rolf W. Schweizer, Clariant's current chairman, will be chairman of the new company. The two existing chief executives, will leave after the integration is complete.
Clearly, shareholders think Ciba got the better deal. Its shares closed at 144.75 Swiss francs on the Zurich exchange, up 13 percent. Clariant shares closed at 779 Swiss francs, up only 4.14 percent.
The deal will result in 3,000 job cuts from a combined work force of 55,000.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BFA (LSE) (94%); BASF (BIT) (94%); BAS (FRA) (94%); CLN (SWX) (92%); UNIA (AMS) (51%); UNA (BIT) (51%); UNA (AMS) (51%); UN (NYSE) (51%); ULVR (LSE) (51%); UL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (94%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (94%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (94%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (92%); NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (65%); 

COMPANY: CIBA SPECIALTY CHEMICALS; CLARIANT CO BASF SE (94%); CLARIANT AG (92%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (51%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); ALLIED COLLOIDS GROUP PLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: CIBA SPECIALTY CHEMICALS; CLARIANT CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (65%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CHEMICALS CHEMICALS (94%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (94%); CHEMICALS MFG (92%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (91%); MERGERS (90%); CHEMICALS TRADE (90%); SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MFG (90%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); DYES & PIGMENTS (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); CHEMICALS MARKETS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (74%); NEW PRODUCTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998



262 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Livingston, at Center Stage

 BODY:
Almost as quickly as Newt Gingrich's power base collapsed last week, Representative Robert Livingston has moved to pick up the pieces. But the ascension of Mr. Livingston to the post of Speaker of the House will not end the struggle among Republicans for a new message, style and sense of balance in Congress. The scramble for leadership positions is healthy, and Republicans would do well to change as many positions as possible. On the theory that a losing team does more than change its coach, the party should look hard as well at replacing Dick Armey, John Boehner and other lawmakers in the leadership cluster who led the party over the cliff in the last election.
With Mr. Livingston leading the House and Trent Lott leading the Senate, the main thing now separating the two top Congressional Republicans will be the lower Mississippi River. Surely a party looking to expand its base around the country might want to choose a team that reflects the views of other parts of America, particularly the bases of dozens of moderates in the Northeast, Midwest and Northwest. It is in everyone's interest for Republicans to look for new ideas and new faces. As vacuous as it sounded, the message from Representative Steve Largent of Oklahoma that the party needed a more likable face on its programs was something that Ronald Reagan understood and Mr. Gingrich did not. 
 But the problem gripping the Republicans, with their razor-thin House majority in the next Congress, is as much a matter of followership as of leadership. The irony of Mr. Gingrich's downfall is that the hard-right conservatives who pushed him out for his failure to lead effectively were the ones most responsible for undermining his leadership. If Mr. Livingston and his new team cannot establish a right-of-center coalition that includes some Democrats, even if it costs him a chunk of Republicans on the far right, he will lose control of the House just as Mr. Gingrich did in the last session.
If he fails, the Democrats will be ready to establish their own center that would include most Democrats and perhaps 40 to 60 Republicans to deliver on measures as they began to do earlier this year. That majority beat back assaults on the environment and voted for campaign finance reform, support for the arts and many other budget measures.
The Democrats have their own problems, of course, which mirror the splits in the Republican Party. Dozens of conservative Democrats say they are concerned that Richard Gephardt may deliver the party to the labor and left-leaning activists who got out the vote and helped it pick up seats last week. Our guess, though, is that they would prefer to stay with the Democrats and help them try to bring in the moderates on the other side of the aisle.
A lot has been written about how the Democrats will miss Mr. Gingrich as a convenient punching bag, especially in their coming campaign commercials. But if the Republicans persist in their plan to keep demanding huge tax cuts, Democrats and others will probably find new ways to sell their "save Social Security first" approach, which remains enormously popular. Now that the budget is balanced, the two biggest priorities in the next Congress are to insure the Social Security system's solvency in the next generation and to begin a discussion about what to do in the face of economic crises in Japan, China, Russia and Latin America. This election was a tremendous amount of fun to politicos, but it completely ignored the single biggest threat to American prosperity, the deteriorating global economy.
Mr. Livingston has been a tough competitor in Congress. He has stood up to right-wing Republicans determined to paralyze the budget process with their pet riders, to Democrats who wanted to spend more money and to House leaders who did not much care about passing separate appropriations bills and thought it was a better idea to combine all spending into one omnibus measure. The omnibus spending approach, reviled by moderates and conservatives alike, may have cost the Republicans in the election and helped cost Mr. Gingrich his job. If Mr. Livingston, who says he is descended from the politician who administered the oath of office to George Washington, has learned that lesson, he will be off to a good start.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (56%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (56%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); LIBERALISM (68%); 

PERSON: LIVINGSTON, ROBERT L (REPR) NEWT GINGRICH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (77%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); TRENT LOTT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998



263 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2010 words

HEADLINE: All That Glitters Isn't Gold;
Charlotte Area Feels Ill Effects From the Asian Crisis

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C.

 BODY:
The downtown skyline comes suddenly into view just over a rise on Interstate 85. In the distance, the morning sun sparkles on the glass and polished-stone office towers, which seem to rise straight up from the green countryside. More than one visitor, catching sight of the skyline for the first time, has compared the experience to Dorothy's wide-eyed first glimpse of the Emerald City.
The comparison is apt, if exaggerated. Greater Charlotte, a star performer in the economic expansion of the 1990's, does have an aura of having sprung from the soil overnight. The towering skyline did not exist a decade ago. Nor did most of the industrial parks, luxury homes, hotels, office buildings and shopping centers that now spread for miles, adding thousands of jobs. 
 But the global financial crisis is beginning to erode this achievement. Manufacturing is particularly vulnerable. Many companies here make products that are also made, less expensively, in Asia. Currency devaluations have increased this cost advantage. And with recessions shrinking demand at home, the Asians are shipping more merchandise to America, cutting into Charlotte's markets.
What is happening in the Charlotte area -- a seven-county region with 1.4 million people -- appears to be happening in other Southeastern metropolises that have enjoyed similar booms. A shining example of the South's rising prosperity in the 1990's, Charlotte now illustrates how the Asian financial squeeze is starting to undercut that growth.
"The South has gone from being a high-flying economy to a more moderately expanding one, with signs of more slowing down the road," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Regional Financial Associates. "But unlike the weakening that has occurred in the West or the Farm Belt, the weakening here is related more to competition from imports than to difficulty exporting."
The Charlotte metropolitan area has flourished because of its prosperous banks, because of its advantages as a distribution center and because of the constant influx of new companies, drawn here in part by a relatively low-wage work force and by state laws that restrict labor unions. Dozens of telephone marketing and customer service operations have located here. So have several corporate headquarters and all sorts of service companies.
But the largest contingent is low-cost manufacturers. No industry employs more people in the area than manufacturing: 141,000 in a work force of 764,000. Historically a center for textile and apparel companies, the Charlotte area, like elsewhere in the South, is host today to a variety of manufacturers that have migrated here from higher-wage states or from abroad. They make, among other things, machine tools, fiber optic cable, chemicals, paper, electronic switches, auto parts, tires, yarn -- all items Asian companies are selling in the United States in growing quantities.
Consider Carolina Pad, one of the many manufacturers whose single-story plants have devoured the farmland along I-85 and I-77, which intersect here. The company makes all sorts of pads and notebooks, using paper increasingly imported from Indonesia. Given the shrinking demand for paper in Asia, the Indonesians are converting their paper to pads and offering them for sale in the United States. Yellow legal pads -- one of Carolina Pad's products -- are a big Indonesian item.
The Indonesians "took Staples' business, not from us, but from a competitor, at 24 1/2 cents a pad when the going rate was 29 cents," said Joseph K. Hall 3d, chairman and owner of Carolina Pad, which employs 130 people at $7 to $10 an hour. "I'll know by mid-December how we stand against them in the back-to-school market for next fall, and if they get in enough I may have to cut out our second shift."
Construction activity in the Charlotte area offers a more visible signal of the erosion taking place. Buildings are going up everywhere. But it is construction that began months ago; ground is being broken for very few new offices, factories and warehouses. Less visibly, job creation, strong last winter, has slowed now, mainly because of a decline in manufacturing jobs, a problem everywhere in America. Banks are lending more cautiously, encouraging developers, for example, to sign up more tenants in advance before actually borrowing money to put up an office or apartment building. Corporate relocations, once such a huge source of growth, have declined. And so has human migration. Fewer people from elsewhere in the nation are asking the Chamber of Commerce about opportunities in Charlotte.
"The home-building numbers I have seen have started to tail off; you don't have the same influx of people," said William A. Hodges, managing director for real estate at Bank of America, which moved its headquarters here after merging this summer with Nationsbank, a Charlotte institution that has expanded exponentially in recent years.
Bank of America, a unit of the BankAmerica Corporation, and First Union, another banking giant based here, have generated much of the downtown office tower construction to accommodate their expanding national operations. Each occupies a skyscraper and each is planning to construct another office tower.
"We have a built-in demand in this community that will drive commercial construction growth for some time," said Malcolm E. Everett 3d, president of First Union's North Carolina operation -- referring mainly to the demand created by the banks themselves.
Overcapacity is inhibiting other construction. That is the problem for warehouses in Charlotte, which is second only to Atlanta as a distribution center for the Southeast. The warehouse vacancy rate has risen gradually, to a discouraging 15 percent from 10 percent in 1994. Nor does the banking industry's building boom hold for hotels. Two big hotel projects have either been canceled or delayed, including a 1,000-room structure that was to have gone up on Jim and Tammy Faye Bakker's old revival grounds in nearby Rock Hill, S.C.
"A lot of new industrial capacity has been brought on line, and people are going to wait until they fill up some of that capacity before they go out and do it again," said James K. Buchanan, First Union's chief of commercial lending in the Carolinas. "That would have been the case even without Asia."
Even Bank of America and First Union are pulling back on one front. With the global financial disarray curtailing bond market activity, they are no longer importing high-wage investment bankers to beef up their capital markets operations, which are based not on Wall Street but here. The hiring freeze, in turn, has curtailed the bidding for $1 million homes in the swankier suburbs.
But manufacturers are hurt the most. Drive south on I-77 from downtown Charlotte and stop at the Okuma America Corporation, which manufactures machine tools in one of the sprawling industrial neighborhoods. Meet John D. Hendrick, 60, the president and chief operating officer, and listen to him bracing for the months ahead.
"If I were talking to you a year ago, I would have been very upbeat," he said in an interview. "We have had a very strong 1998, but there are too many soft spots developing. Orders are already down and that means the first six months of 1999 are going to be down for us."
Okuma is a Japanese-owned manufacturer of computer-controlled lathes and machining centers, which cut metal into precisely measured rectangles and cubes. The largest, most expensive, most technologically sophisticated are made in Japan and exported for $1 million apiece.
Several are installed at the Okuma plant here. Okuma had a distribution operation on Long Island before locating its factory in lower-cost Charlotte in 1987. The big Japanese machines cut the intricate metal parts that go into the smaller, blue-and-beige lathes and machining centers made here and sold by the dozens in the United States for between $100,000 and $150,000 as standard equipment in factories and machine shops. "Commodity machinery," Mr. Hendrick calls it. Companies in South Korea and Taiwan make similar commodity machinery, and that is Mr. Hendrick's growing headache.
"They have always been in the United States to some degree," he said, "but now with their home markets hurt, their presence is much greater. We sell through dealers and they tell us that the Koreans and Taiwanese are calling them, offering prices 10 to 15 percent below ours."
Okuma's goal, Mr. Hendrick said, is to hold onto market share, which means cutting prices and reducing profits, and this at a moment when Okuma America generates half of the parent company's annual revenue of nearly $900 million. It also means a cap on hiring in Charlotte, after two years in which the work force grew to 485 from 402.
Some Charlotte-area companies cut labor costs through layoffs. Okuma is taking a different tack. Its 300 assembly line workers, earning up to $15 an hour, have been collecting 25 percent of their annual income through overtime. That built-in overtime is being cut back to 10 percent. "We are slowing the assembly line," Mr. Hendrick said.
Drive west, to Gastonia, on the Catawba River, an old center of the textile industry, still a big employer in the Charlotte area. Through relentless spending on new technology and machinery, yarn manufacturers have survived against foreign competitors and Gastonia is now a yarn-making center.
Some companies have thrived, among them Parkdale Mills, the nation's largest cotton yarn manufacturer, operating 31 plants, most of them in North Carolina, including three in Gastonia, the company's headquarters. The work force of 3,500 is only 300 people higher than in 1988. But Parkdale's yarn production has doubled.
Lands' End sells shirts made from fabric woven in the United States with Parkdale's yarn. This is higher-quality yarn that the Asians do not make, says Duke Kimbrell, Parkdale's chief executive. The problem is at the low end.
First, Asian yarn is going into inexpensive T-shirts and golf shirts made in Asia and entering the United States in growing quantities. They are displacing similar shirts sewn in Mexico using fabric woven in the United States with American yarn.
Second, there is Pakistan, which has a huge yarn industry. With their sales in Asia shrinking, Pakistani companies are selling more lower-quality yarn to American fabric makers. "A basic Pakistani T-shirt yarn sells in the United States for under $1 a pound while American yarn makers charge just over $1," said Jim H. Conner, executive vice president of the American Yarn Spinners Association.
The upshot in Gastonia has been plant closings and production cutbacks, although the town's growing role as a prosperous bedroom community for Charlotte masks the impact on its textile workers, who earn $8 to $11 an hour. Parkdale's mills now operate 120 hours a week, down from 168 hours earlier this year. And the entire yarn industry is planning a four-day shutdown at Thanksgiving and 10 days at Christmas.
Still, many companies in Charlotte continue to prosper. BellSouth is one. It employs 3,000 people in the southern third of the state and operates out of a modern office building in a crowded Charlotte industrial park that did not exist 12 years ago.
"We are working more overtime than ever," said Robert Freedman, BellSouth's regional director, and he ticks off the growth of telephone access lines in his region: 435,000 in 1996, 467,000 in 1997, 493,000 in 1998.
"I hate to sound like a Chamber booster," Mr. Freedman said, "but the future is so bright that you have to wear shades."
The Chamber is not quite so enthusiastic. Tony Crumbley, its vice president of research, insists that recent job growth is not as weak as the Labor Department now shows it to be. But ask him about Charlotte's economy and he puts out his hand, holds it flat, then slowly tilts it slightly downward.
"I am a firm believer that nothing goes up forever," Mr. Crumbley said. "And I guess we are at a moment when we are catching our breath."

GRAPHIC: Photos: John D. Hendrick, 60, the president and chief operating officer of Okuma America, on the company floor in one of Charlotte's industrial neighborhoods. He says "there are too many soft spots developing." (Nancy Pierce for The New York Times)(pg. C4); Charlotte's skyline still sparkles, but the area economy has been hurt by events taking place thousands of miles away. (Nancy Pierce for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Graphs: "Southern Slowdown"
Like other boom towns in the Southeast, Charlotte, N.C., a top performer in the economic expansion of the 1990's, is slowing in response to the Asian downturn. Graphs show year-over-year change in employment for the Charlotte area and for the U.S., plotted monthly from 1996 through 1998, annual percentage change in housing permits issued for the Charlotte area and for the U.S., from 1990 through 1998 and Charlotte area manufacturing, plotted monthly from 1996 through 1998. (Source: Regional Financial Associates)(pg. C1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ;OKUMA AMERICA FINANCIAL ASSOCIATES (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;OKUMA AMERICA

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEASTERN STATES (US); FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; CHARLOTTE (NC); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNEMPLOYMENT; WORKING HOURS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; CURRENCY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); RETAILERS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MACHINE TOOLS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CITIES (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); DEVALUATION (73%); TRENDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (72%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); TEXTILES (60%); TELEMARKETING (60%); FIBER OPTICS (60%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; HENDRICK, JOHN D

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998



264 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: Deal Is Reached For Lippo Bank

BYLINE: ByThe New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 9

 BODY:
The Indonesian businessman at the center of the controversy over campaign donations to the Democratic Party is selling the California bank that is his main business in the United States.
James T. Riady is selling the Lippo Bank California to Commercial Bank of San Francisco for $15.9 million in cash, the banks said today. 
 Mr. Riady and his family control Lippo Group, an Indonesian conglomerate that like other companies in that country has been hurt by the Asian financial crisis. Many Asian banks are selling, closing or scaling back their operations in the United States.
In a statement issued last month, when his intention to sell the California bank was first announced, Mr. Riady said the Asian crisis meant he could not devote enough attention to the bank in California.
Mr. Riady and his business associates have been major donors to the Democratic Party, and he had ready access to President Clinton, whom he knew from the days when he was a banker in Arkansas and Mr. Clinton was Governor.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LIPPO BANK CALIFORNIA; COMMERCIAL BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); COMMERCIAL BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (58%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIPPO BANK CALIFORNIA; COMMERCIAL BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (88%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (88%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); 

PERSON: RIADY, JAMES T BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998



265 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Signs 10-Year Pact to Buy Aluminum From Alcan

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 9

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation announced today that it had signed a 10-year agreement to buy aluminum from Alcan Aluminium Ltd., using a complex financial arrangement to shield the giant auto maker from the highly volatile price of aluminum in commodity markets.
The purpose of the arrangement is to keep G.M.'s long-term costs for aluminum close to its production costs. G.M. will pay Alcan roughly the market price for aluminum but is entering into contracts with a group of financial institutions to limit its exposure to price fluctuations, said Alan G. Brown, an Alcan spokesman. 
 G.M. did not disclose the details of its plans other than to say in a statement that it would "stabilize the price of aluminum using third-party financing to manage the pricing risk." Such financial contracts, which are increasingly common in the commodities business, would typically require the financial institutions to pay G.M. when the price of aluminum climbs. But G.M. would be required to pay the financial institutions if the price of aluminum fell unexpectedly.
The agreement was intended to even out G.M.'s aluminum costs over time.
Julie A. Rochman, a spokeswoman for the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, a trade group that seeks to reduce insurers' accident claims, said that cars could be built safely with more aluminum parts. "If they are designed properly, there should be no detriment in terms of safety," she said.
For a few raw materials with high and volatile prices, like palladium for catalytic converters, auto makers have traditionally used long-term contracts with mines at prices that stay fairly constant. But the auto industry's biggest suppliers have resisted the risk associated with setting prices far into the future and have limited the duration of their contracts.
The auto makers now buy steel, for example, under contracts that also insulate them from fluctuations in global steel prices. But these contracts never last more than three years, said Nicholas Tolerico, the executive vice president of Thyssen Inc. North America, the American subsidiary of the big German steel and auto parts company.
Aluminum industry contracts had typically been for up to three years until now, too, Mr. Brown said. Because the new contract with G.M. called for payments at close to the market price, "we're satisfied we will make a decent return," he said.
G.M. now buys 1.7 billion pounds of aluminum a year, an average of 210 pounds for every car or truck it produces around the world, and forecast today that it would increase that use by 7 percent or more a year. The price of aluminum typically ranges from 60 to 80 cents a pound but sometimes jumps as high as $1.50 a pound during shortages.
An old rule of thumb in the auto industry, which has held true for a remarkably long time, is that aluminum offers half the weight of steel for twice the cost. Reducing weight is important because lighter vehicles have better fuel economy.
The Big Three are having great difficulty meeting Federal fuel-economy standards for light trucks -- sport utility vehicles, minivans and pickup trucks. The domestic auto makers are being forced this year to offer deep discounts on their less heavy models, so that the average fuel economy of their light trucks will meet Federal minimums.
G.M. has had the greatest difficulty this year, with repeated revisions in its production schedules to avoid building too many of the heavier but more profitable models, like the Chevrolet Tahoe and Suburban. The Ford Motor Company has also had trouble, and industry trade journals have recently reported that it plans to start building a mostly aluminum sport utility vehicle in 2002.
There has been no clear consensus among researchers on whether the substitution of aluminum for steel helps or hurts safety. Compared with steel parts, aluminum auto parts can be designed to be stiffer, stronger and have more capacity to absorb energy in a crash, said Jon F. Harmon, a Ford spokesman.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332312 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS331523 NONFERROUS METAL DIE-CASTING FOUNDRIES (96%); NAICS331315 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (96%); SIC3353 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL (96%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALCAN ALUMINUM LTD RIO TINTO ALCAN INC (96%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (93%); THYSSEN INC NORTH AMERICA (52%); INSURANCE INSTITUTE FOR HIGHWAY SAFETY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALCAN ALUMINUM LTD INSURANCE INSTITUTE FOR HIGHWAY SAFETY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; ALUMINUM; FINANCES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (77%); MISC MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (77%); INSURANCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998



266 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Kosovo Crisis Strains Relations Between the U.S. and Europe

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BERLIN, Nov. 9

 BODY:
When Richard C. Holbrooke reached an agreement last month with President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia to avert NATO air strikes in Kosovo, the German Government waited two days for a copy of the accord before finally squeezing one out of the Yugoslav Embassy in Bonn.
"It was almost funny, if it was not so worrying," a senior German official said. "There seems to be very little willingness to treat the Europeans on an equal footing. Our impression is sometimes that the Americans prefer to cut us out and that they are no longer capable, intellectually speaking, of being part of a team." 
 As with Bosnia, Kosovo has once again sharpened tensions between the United States and the European Union over security issues, revealing a European incapacity to mount a concerted response to a crisis in Europe without American leadership.
When the Balkan wars began in 1991, the Europeans at least had pretensions to resolving the crisis themselves. The Luxembourg Foreign Minister, Jacques Poos, representing the European Union, uttered the famous phrase, "The hour of Europe has dawned."
But as fighting raged in Kosovo this summer, senior European officials conceded, there was not the first inkling of a coherent European response, even as the continent prepared to take a decisive step toward greater economic union. The vacuum opened the way for Mr. Holbrooke's whirlwind negotiations -- and then deep European misgivings about continuing American domination of security issues in Europe almost a decade after the end of the cold war.
"We get criticized for too little leadership in Europe and then for too much," Mr. Holbrooke said. "The fact is the Europeans are not going to have a common security policy for the foreseeable future. We have done our best to keep them involved. But you can imagine how far I would have got with Mr. Milosevic if I'd said, 'Excuse me, Mr. President, I'll be back in 24 hours after I've talked to the Europeans.' "
Western officials said the Europeans were particularly incensed by Mr. Holbrooke's failure to attend a meeting of the so-called contact group on Oct. 15, two days after the agreement had been reached in Belgrade. It was that group -- made up of Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Russia and the United States -- that formally gave Mr. Holbrooke his mandate to negotiate with the Yugoslav President.
Although Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott attended the meeting, Europeans felt that they had been slighted. Almost a week later Mr. Holbrooke made a special trip to Paris to have dinner with the French Foreign Minister, Hubert Vedrine, in an effort to make amends.
Europeans were also angry at how the appointment of an American, William Walker, to head the mission to Kosovo of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe had been decided. "We provide two-thirds of the expense and the personnel, and then the appointment is made with almost no consultation," said an official.
At one point, angered by what was seen as a lack of consultation, the top British official in the Foreign Office formally protested to the National Security Council, officials said.
Mr. Holbrooke said the European protests were generally overblown or insignificant expressions of frustration and masked a reality of fruitful cooperation. "It took us four years to put together anything effective in Bosnia and four months in Kosovo," he said. "That is progress."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA (96%); GERMANY (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); EUROPE; EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA (96%); GERMANY (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; HOLBROOKE, RICHARD C RICHARD HOLBROOKE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998



267 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
BELGIUM: FOOD AID FOR RUSSIA -- The European Commission proposed a $480 million package of food aid for Russia to offset shortages that are feared this winter because of the financial crisis and the worst harvest in four decades. The European initiative followed the conclusion of an agreement between the United States and Russia on Friday. (Agence France-Presse) 

RUSSIA: YELTSIN RESTING -- President Boris N. Yeltsin is resting at a country home outside Moscow after returning from vacation on the Black Sea coast. Mr. Yeltsin was recovering from fatigue and high blood pressure, his office said, but still plans to be host to a succession of foreign leaders this month, beginning with the Japanese Prime Minister, Keizo Obuchi. (AP)
 
FRANCE: SEEKING DEBT SUSPENSION AS FLOOD AID -- Paris called for a moratorium on international debt owed by Central American countries that were devastated by Hurricane Mitch. President Jacques Chirac plans to meet leaders of Honduras, Nicaragua and El Salvador in their capitals next week to discuss emergency needs of the countries hit hardest by the disaster, French officials said. Craig R. Whitney (NYT)
 
FRANCE: JOSPIN DEFENDS WORDS ON MUTINY -- Prime Minister Lionel Jospin responded to President Chirac's criticism of his call last week for rehabilitation of the reputations of French soldiers who mutinied in a failed offensive in World War I. "All I did was say some humane, just and necessary things," Mr. Jospin said. He had made his appeal on Thursday at a memorial to 180,000 soldiers killed in an futile attempt in 1917 to break through German lines. Craig R. Whitney (NYT)
 
GERMANY: DEMAND FOR POLICE DOCUMENTS -- Former East German dissidents called on President Clinton to return the archives of the former Stasi secret police, which the United States seized after the fall of Communism. They said the files would help throw light on the huge network of agents. (Agence France-Presse)
 
ASIA
 
INDIA: BORDER DISPUTE DISCUSSED -- Indian and Pakistani officials met in New Delhi to discuss a settlement of their longstanding boundary dispute over a potentially oil-rich tidal channel, Sir Creek, on their western coasts, but made no progress in reaching a resolution in the fourth day of talks, officials said. Celia W. Dugger (NYT)
 CHINA: PUSH FOR OPPOSITION PARTY -- Chinese dissidents are planning another attempt to register the nation's first opposition party since Communist rule began in 1949, a Hong Kong-based human rights group said. The dissidents, from 23 provinces, decided at a meeting in Hangzhou to try to proceed with their Chinese Democratic Party, the Information Center of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in China said. (Reuters)
 
INDONESIA: MILITARY REORGANIZATION ANNOUNCED -- Gen. Wiranto, the armed forces chief of staff, announced a structural reorganization that would diminish the military's political influence by abolishing the post of Chief of Socio-political Affairs. But the general said the reorganization did not mean that the military was prepared to withdraw from Parliament, where it holds 75 appointed seats. Seth Mydans (NYT)
 
AFGHANISTAN: TALIBAN REJECTS U.N. COMPLAINTS -- The Taliban movement dismissed complaints by the United Nations' World Food Program that it had stolen 1,500 tons of food and said the missing grain had been distributed to the needy when it captured the area where the grain was stored. (Reuters)
 
TAJIKISTAN: REBELS WITHDRAW TO MOUNTAINS -- Government troops, left, chased the last large group of rebel fighters into the mountains after five days of fighting in the Central Asian nation. Forty rebels were killed and 10 government soldiers were wounded, a presidential spokesman said. Whereabouts of the rebels leader, Makhmud Khudoberdyev, were unknown, Itar-Tass said. (AP)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAQ: TURKISH ATTACK IS DENOUNCED -- Baghdad condemned Turkey for launching a fresh military operation into northern Iraq against Kurdish separatist guerrillas. Turkish officials said troops backed by armor were pursuing guerrillas of the Kurdistan Workers Party deep inside northern Iraq. (Reuters)
 
AFRICA -- ETHIOPIA: BORDER DISPUTE UNSETTLED -- Ethiopia has accepted a peace plan drawn up by the Organization of African Unity to resolve its border conflict with Eritrea, Foreign Minister Seyoum Mesfin said. But Eritrea has not yet accepted the plan, which includes the deployment of international peacekeepers. (NYT)
 
NAMIBIA: PLANS FOR ANTI-GAY LEGISLATION -- Namibia's Home Affairs Minister Jerry Ekandjo has announced plans to introduce legislation to "curb the spread of homosexuality in society" by imposing heavy penalties, the Mail and Guardian newspaper in Johannesburg reported. While Namibia's Constitution bars discrimination, President Sam Nujoma and others say homosexuality is inimical to African culture. (NYT)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
MEXICO: IMMIGRATION CONTROLS TIGHTENED -- Mexico and China signed agreements to tighten control over undocumented Chinese immigrants who pass through Mexican territory into the United States, the Foreign Ministry said. In recent years, smuggling groups have used Mexican territory, especially Baja California, to infiltrate undocumented Chinese into California. (NYT)
 
VENEZUELA: LEFTIST COALITION PREVAILS -- The left-wing coalition of a former coup leader is the strongest force in the new Congress. With 67 percent of the vote on Sunday counted, the Patriotic Pole coalition of Hugo Chavez won 34 percent of the seats. Mr. Chavez, an independent supported by millions of peasants, is favored to win the presidential election on Dec. 6. (AP)
 Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Map highlights the Indian - Pakistani border.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); FRANCE (94%); INDIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); BELGIUM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); EAST CHINA (76%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (57%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); FRANCE (94%); INDIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); BELGIUM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); JAPAN (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); EAST CHINA (76%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ARMED FORCES (86%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); TROPICAL STORMS (70%); WORLD WAR I (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); HURRICANES (68%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (63%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (63%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); JACQUES CHIRAC (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998



268 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: White House Is Said to Favor a Swift Move Against Iraq

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 9

 BODY:
Senior Clinton Administration officials said today that they were leaning toward using force against Iraq sooner rather than later and were making contingency plans about how President Clinton's trip to Asia might be curtailed, or even canceled.
The Pentagon also took the first step to bolster its forces in the region, dispatching another guided-missile cruiser, the Anzio, toward the Persian Gulf, Defense officials said today. Its arrival later this week will increase the number of warships in the region to 14, led by the aircraft carrier Dwight D. Eisenhower. More significantly, it will increase to eight the number of vessels -- two cruisers, five destroyers and one submarine -- that can fire Tomahawk cruise missiles. 
 But officials emphasized that Mr. Clinton has not made a decision about using force or when to use it.
As his top national security officials met again today at the White House, the officials quietly debated the virtues of striking Iraq now, while there appears to be international disgust with Saddam Hussein and he maintains a defiant position toward the United Nations.
Mr. Clinton has already delayed his departure for Asia by one day, the White House announced today. Rather than leaving on Friday for a scheduled 10-day trip to Malaysia, Japan and South Korea, Mr. Clinton will leave on Saturday.
His spokesman, Joe Lockhart, said the delay was simply because Mr. Clinton did not want to be in Guam before a Monday runoff in an election there for governor. But other officials were skeptical of Mr. Clinton's sudden reluctance to intervene in party politics, suggesting that the delay is meant to leave more options open for ordering force.
It is important for Mr. Clinton to be in Washington to monitor any use of force and deal with the diplomatic and public fallout, the officials said. Vice President Gore could travel in his place. But the President is eager to go to Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Malaysia and grapple with the issues of Asia's economic troubles. He skipped an APEC meeting once before in 1995, at the time of the Government shutdown, and Asians were hurt and angry.
Mr. Lockhart said it could take a couple of days for Mr. Clinton's national security team to refine the options for the timing of any attack. After some departures over the weekend, some 100 United Nations weapons inspectors remain in Iraq, and they would presumably be withdrawn before force is used.
But no ultimatums will be issued before force is used, and no new negotiating missions to Baghdad are planned by any country, officials said.
Mr. Clinton is described by some officials as reluctant to appear bloodthirsty. "He's not gung-ho; he'd rather not resort to this," one official said. "But there's a feeling that it's the best of bad alternatives."
The options for the use of force revolve around timing -- strike now, while Mr. Hussein continues his defiance, or wait until more American and allies forces can be moved to the gulf to make a strike more forceful.
"If there's going to be one morning-after reaction," one official said, "it's likely to be, 'Gee, we didn't know it would be that big.' "
He and other officials said they were tired of Mr. Hussein's constant challenging of the United Nations and the United States, and his continued defiance, after repeatedly breaking vows to comply with the United Nations and allow arms inspectors unfettered access to sites in Iraq.
Now Mr. Hussein's refusal to cooperate with the inspectors of Unscom is complete, officials said. "This is a first, for Saddam to stiff the U.N. to such an extent," an official said. "We've been through this so many times. Saddam bought himself eight or nine months, but it's time to pay the piper."
Mr. Clinton is also asking what the use of force would accomplish, as precisely as possible, and what will follow any use of force. "The day-after scenario gets dicey, and we may not be coming up with the right answers," another official said.
Any use of force would likely mean the end of the Unscom inspection regime, which Mr. Hussein has not allowed to work for 8 of the last 12 months in any event, officials say. If Mr. Hussein were to attempt to reconstitute nuclear, biological or chemical weapons afterward, the State Department spokesman, James P. Rubin, said today, "we will act."
But Mr. Rubin and other officials noted that even Mr. Hussein's normal advocates have been silent this time. "What we're hearing around the world is a clear and ringing call on Saddam Hussein to reverse course, from every quarter, from every country," Mr. Rubin said.
The Anzio, which had been stationed in the Adriatic Sea, is expected in the Persian Gulf by the end of the week, but it could be in a position to strike Iraq sooner if Saudi Arabia were to allow the missiles to pass through its airspace.
If the Administration opts for a quick strike, Tomahawk cruise missiles would play a dominant role. Although the Administration significantly reduced its air and naval forces from a peak in February of more than 400 warplanes, it has doubled the number of Tomahawks, to somewhere between 250 and 350.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); GULF STATES (88%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); GUAM (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT ASIA PACIFIC VENTURES (53%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; PERSIAN GULF; ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); GULF STATES (88%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); GUAM (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ANZIO (SHIP); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY VESSELS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998



269 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Expectation Aside, Water Use in U.S. Is Showing Decline

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 

 BODY:
In a little-noticed environmental turnabout, Federal analysts report that Americans' use of water declined by about 9 percent from 1980 to 1995 -- even as the United States' population grew by 16 percent over the same period.
The drop in water use, which came after decades of steady increase, is attributed by experts largely to a gradual shift in focus away from finding ways to capture more water -- building dams, for instance -- and toward devising ways of using it more efficiently once obtained. 
The recent disclosure of the decline, by the United States Geological Survey, runs contrary to a deeply seated conventional belief, namely that water use inevitably rises along with economic and population growth and that priority must therefore be given to opening up new sources.
But now, agriculture and industry, especially, have become more frugal in using water. As a result, some experts say, the once-solid linkage between water and growth may have been broken.
"The data are showing a fundamental change in the way we're using and thinking about water," said Dr. Peter H. Gleick, director of the Pacific Institute for Studies in Development, an environmental research organization in Oakland, Calif. Dr. Gleick is also the author of a new study, "The World's Water" (Island Press).
Whether the decline in water use will continue is unclear. Most of the drop occurred in the 1980's, with a decline of only 2 percent reported from 1990 to 1995, the latest year for which numbers are available. Moreover, the numbers are estimates and therefore subject to some error. Nevertheless, the experts say, it seems clear that a steady, century-long upward trend in the use of water has at least been halted.
"We feel pretty confident in saying that things have stabilized over the last 15 to 20 years," said Wayne B. Solley, a hydrologist at the geological survey's main office in Reston, Va. He is the lead author of the agency's report, released last month.
The decline in water use is especially striking when measured against population growth. The use of water per person declined, on average, by about 20 percent from 1980, the all-time peak year, to 1995, Dr. Gleick said. The demand for water is shrinking in Europe as well, he said.
Sandra Postel, director of the Global Water Policy Project, a research group in Amherst, Mass., said, "Globally, we're seeing a big slowdown in the expansion of irrigation."
But population pressures and rapid industrialization are expected to put increasing pressure on the water supply in some developing countries, and Ms. Postel said its inefficient use might eventually cause these countries to "bump up against limits" of the supply.
On the other hand, Dr. Gleick said, developing countries might be able to exploit the gains the United States has made in water efficiency and skip the United States' early stage of water profligacy.
"Their steel industry will never use as much water as our old steel industries used," he said.
In the first eight decades of this century, as the American economy went through its biggest burst of industrial development, the growth in the use of water was continuous, outstripping population growth by about 5 to 2. Expansion of irrigation, industry and electrical power generation accounted for most of the increase. Then, the experts say, a number of factors combined to reverse the trend. The best sites for dams (the main means of gathering water for use) had been taken, and building new ones became ever more expensive. Widespread concern about the negative environmental effects of dams added to the pressure against building new ones. In the case of industry, it became less expensive to recycle water than to remove pollutants from it and return it to the stream, as required by Federal law. And industrial expansion itself slowed down.
In the West, where most of the United States' irrigated land lies and water is scarce relative to the rest of the country, the prospect of shortages, the steady depletion of water under the ground and rising pumping costs prompted users to seek better efficiency in using water.
Western farmers, for example, have increasingly abandoned irrigation systems consisting of long, rotating sprayer arms that waste water by projecting it high into the air, where much is lost to wind and evaporation. In their place are systems that use less water by applying it directly to the root systems of plants. As a result of this and other efficiency gains, the average amount of water used per acre of irrigated land fell by 16 percent from 1980 to 1995. The amount of land under irrigation has remained about constant.
Likewise, the recycling of water and conservation measures, along with new technologies, reduced the industrial use of water by 35 percent, to the lowest level -- 29 billion gallons a day -- since record keeping began in 1950. This amount does not include water used for cooling power plants, both nuclear and those powered by fossil fuels like coal. Water used for that purpose -- the biggest single category of use, at 190 billion gallons a day in 1995 -- fell by nearly 5 percent in the 1980's and has remained about stable for several years.
The amount of water used for domestic purposes, both inside and outside the home, increased sharply in the 1960's and 1970's as the size of houses grew, along with the number of bathrooms, and homes were stocked with more water-using appliances. Since then, Mr. Solley said, the domestic use of water has stabilized at about 100 gallons per person per day as more water-efficient dishwashers, clothes washers and toilets have been installed. Even so, domestic use increased as a share of the total, rising to 12 percent in 1995 from 10 percent in 1985.
The use of the public water -- water withdrawn from natural sources by suppliers and conveyed to users rather than withdrawn directly by users like farmers and factories -- is one of two categories in which the use has continued to increase. It grew by 18 percent from 1980 to 1995. But because of greater efficiencies, the per-person use in this category has stabilized at about 180 gallons a day.
The amount of water used by livestock and rural households has risen 58 percent since 1980. Much of the jump is attributed to growth in the raising of fish, fur-bearing animals, horses and pets.
Most water is returned to rivers and streams after being used. Consumption of the rest by people, animals and crops dropped by almost 8 percent from 1980 to 1985 but has since rebounded to its 1980 level.
All of these categories apply to water withdrawn from its natural location, or off-stream use. It is this overall category that declined by about 9 percent, to 402 billion gallons in 1995, from 440 billion gallons a day in 1980. Far more water is used without being removed from the source, by hydroelectric power generators. This type of use declined by about 4 percent from 1980 to 1995.
Among regions of the country, the area designated by the geological agency as the Northeastern quadrant (basically, the Midwest, Northeast and Middle Atlantic region) led in the overall drop in off-stream use with a decline of about 17 percent from 1980 and 1995. The decline was nearly 5 percent in 17 states in the Great Plains and West, and nearly 3 percent in the Southeast.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "STATUS REPORT: Using Less Water"
Americans' use of water has declined since peaking in 1980. Graph shows how the water was used, from 1950 through 1995.
 
GENERATING ELECTRIC POWER
OTHER INDUSTRIAL
IRRIGATION
SELF-SUPPLIED, DOMESTIC AND LIVESTOCK
PUBLICLY SUPPLIED, DOMESTIC AND COMMERCIAL
 
(Source: U.S. Geological Survey)(pg. A18)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (83%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (83%); PACIFIC RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (83%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (83%); PACIFIC RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POPULATION GROWTH (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); TRENDS (78%); WATER CONSUMPTION (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (76%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (74%); WATER QUALITY (63%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (62%); IRRIGATION (60%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998



270 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
Pataki's Luck On the Road To Triumph

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:
Successful politicians make their own luck, and on that score, give Gov. George E. Pataki his due. He did what he promised -- cut taxes and reinstated the death penalty -- and he has shown a knack for taking advantage of what fate and Wall Street have handed him.
Some are luckier than others, though, and this Governor must rank near the top. Any incumbent politician is blessed to run for re-election in such affluent and placid times, but even measured against such company, Mr. Pataki has been particularly lucky. 
 Factors beyond his control have contributed to the broad popularity that carried him to a second term in last Tuesday's election, in a year that proved unkind to so many other Republicans. The economic boom has been louder, the drop in crime more dramatic, the decline in welfare rolls more astonishing in New York than in other parts of the country.
"He's adapted well to his circumstances," said Gerald Benjamin, dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at the State University at New Paltz, who closely watches state government. "But there's no question he's been very fortunate."
Since 1994, the year Mr. Pataki was first elected Governor, the national economic expansion has been accompanied by an impressive rise in the financial markets that has not only made many New Yorkers wealthier but has also transformed state government.
How? New York traditionally relies heavily on its personal income tax. Mr. Pataki kept his promise and cut income tax rates 25 percent, yet thanks to the Wall Street run-up, the tax generates more money for the state than when he was elected.
What that means in Albany is that the budget cuts Mr. Pataki imposed to pay for his tax cuts have been reversed, and then some. He piled new tax cuts on the old ones, while raising spending on popular causes like education and the environment. Not a bad platform for re-election.
Though it would surely gall him to hear it, it has also been Mr. Pataki's good fortune to govern while his sometime ally, Rudolph W. Giuliani has been New York City's Mayor. Mr. Pataki crisscrossed the state this year boasting of falling crime, but experts contend that he was taking credit for changes due more to City Hall's actions than to Albany's.
Serious crime has been in decline in New York since the early 1990's, before either man took office, part of a national trend that criminologists attribute to several factors, ranging from demographic changes to an improving economy.
But since 1994, the drop in New York City has been much steeper than in most other cities. That was the year that Mr. Giuliani took office and that he and his first Police Commissioner, William J. Bratton, transformed police tactics -- another factor the experts cite. That was a year before Mr. Pataki became Governor. Since the decline began, about 85 percent of the drop in serious crime statewide has been in the city; in many upstate counties, it has actually risen in the last few years.
"The state has done a good job, built the prisons, toughened parole, set the right tone," said Thomas A. Reppetto, president of the Citizens Crime Commission, a private organization. But, he added, "the connection between what a state does and crime on the streets, over the short run, is pretty weak."
Mr. Pataki also takes credit, with reason, for the state's shrinking welfare rolls. He increased enforcement of child-support orders, moving thousands of families off welfare. He also made it easier for local governments to insist on workfare and screen out applicants, though such moves were overtaken by the 1996 Federal welfare law.
But the number of people on welfare in New York began to fall just as Mr. Pataki took office in 1995, before he had a chance to influence it, a coincidence due most likely to the growing economy.
Again, Mr. Giuliani's role cannot be underestimated. Most of New York's welfare recipients live in the city, and the Mayor, more than his counterparts around the state, has taken advantage of new rules on work and eligibility to reduce the rolls, so the statewide decline in the number of welfare recipients mostly reflects changes in the city.
All of which gives one pause to wonder what happens when the economy fizzles. Do the tax cut bills come due, without enough revenue pouring in to pay for them? Do the welfare rolls grow again? What happens when crime begins to rise again? Does Mr. Pataki's luck run out? And what if it does as he pursues national office?
"Presuming there will be another economic downturn someday, there is a real political risk to him," Mr. Benjamin, the university dean, said. "But he's surprised me before. I wouldn't sell him short."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; WELFARE (US) TAXES & TAXATION (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TRENDS (88%); CRIME RATES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); MAYORS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INCOME TAX (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); POLICE FORCES (68%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (67%); CITIES (65%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998



271 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Federal Express Pilots Move Closer to a Strike
Pilots at Federal Express began refusing to fly overtime and their union mailed strike authorization ballots, increasing the odds that the world's largest air freight service could be crippled during the peak season between Thanksgiving and Christmas. 
 The 3,200 members of the Federal Express Pilots Association will cast ballots over the next three weeks. If more than two-thirds vote in favor of granting the union's leadership permission to call a walkout, the strike could begin after Dec. 3. Page C4.
 
Dow Corning's Bankruptcy Plan
Dow Corning filed a bankruptcy reorganization plan that included $3.2 billion to settle claims from women over its silicone breast implants and $1.3 billion in payments to commercial creditors. C8.
 
Slower Economy Seen in Argentina
In the first concrete sign that recession in Brazil may be slowing Argentina's economy, leading auto makers have temporarily idled plants and are reporting a drop in car sales. Argentina has been one of the strongest economic performers in Latin America this year, but Roque Fernandez, the Economy Minister, said recently that economic growth would be virtually flat in the second half of this year. C7.
 
Intel Says Microsoft Made Threats
Microsoft repeatedly threatened Intel, its key ally in the computer industry, as part of the software giant's campaign to stifle the challenge to its business posed by the rise of the Internet, an Intel executive testified. C2.
 
GPU to Sell 23 Power Plants
GPU, which owns utilities serving large parts of Pennsylvania and New Jersey, announced the sale of 23 power plants to Sithe Energies, a major independent power producer and affiliate of Vivendi of France, for $1.68 billion. C6.
 
G.M. Reaches Deal for Aluminum
General Motors announced that it had signed a 10-year agreement to buy aluminum from Alcan Aluminium, using a complex financial arrangement to shield the giant auto maker from the volatile price of aluminum. C14.
 
Another Citigroup Departure
Steven D. Black has resigned his position as a vice chairman of the Salomon Smith Barney, a departure that points to continued disarray in the executive suite at the Citigroup unit. C15.
 
J. P. Morgan to Cut 740 Jobs
J. P. Morgan, squeezed by global financial turmoil, will cut its work force by 740 people by the end of the year. C8.
 
Clinical Trials Bolster Centocor
Shares of Centocor rose more than 9 percent after researchers at separate medical conferences reported positive outcomes from clinical trials of the company's two major drugs: Remicade, which Centocor hopes to sell to treat rheumatoid arthritis, and Reopro, which researchers said could reduce the risk of death in patients whose coronary arteries have been surgically opened. C14.
 
Two Are Accused of Stock Fraud
Two people affiliated with Sterling Foster & Company, a defunct brokerage firm, were indicted on charges of cheating investors out of $100 million by manipulating the prices of stocks the firm underwrote and sold. Three others have pleaded guilty in the case. C15.
 
Hershey Seeks Buyer for Pasta Unit
Saying it wants to stick to making candy, Hershey Foods is shopping for a buyer for its pasta business, which includes the Ronzoni, San Giorgio and Mrs. Weiss brands. C10.
 
Lippo Bank California to Be Sold
James T. Riady, the Indonesian businessman at the center of the controversy over campaign donations to the Democratic Party, is selling Lippo Bank California to Commercial Bank of San Francisco for $15.9 million. C7.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,897.96 down 77.50
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.29% down 0.09
The Dollar -- 121.57 yen up 2.47

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (65%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); VIV (PAR) (53%); VIV (BIT) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332312 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS331523 NONFERROUS METAL DIE-CASTING FOUNDRIES (82%); NAICS331315 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (82%); SIC3353 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL (82%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); FRANCE (71%); LATIN AMERICA (56%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RIO TINTO ALCAN INC (82%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (65%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); DOW CORNING CORP (57%); INTEL CORP (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); VIVENDI (53%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); FRANCE (71%); LATIN AMERICA (56%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); STRIKES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); AUTOMAKERS (88%); POWER PLANTS (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (88%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (86%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (86%); LAYOFFS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); AIR FREIGHT (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); THANKSGIVING (72%); CHRISTMAS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (70%); TESTIMONY (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (68%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (65%); CLINICAL TRIALS (64%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (63%); RESIGNATIONS (61%); AUTOIMMUNE DISORDERS (60%); INDICTMENTS (60%); ARTHRITIS (60%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998



272 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: East 40, West 40, All Around the Farm;
High School Agriculture Program Thrives in the Heart of Queens

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

 BODY:
Walk up the steps of John Bowne High School one chilly fall morning and you'll find a familiar tableau: school safety officers roving the grounds, portable classrooms parked out back, teen-age boys and girls with their bulky parkas and fuzzy dreams about the future.
But walk on ahead, past the narrow path lined with purple ageratum, and the picture changes: a crimson barn with 150 squawking, egg-laying hens; a girl with a safety pin pierced through her ear learning to groom a calf; a four-acre farm brimming with collard greens and green beans and sunflowers with their mammoth faces turned to the ground. 
 Here on Main Street in Flushing, Queens, next to the Long Island Expressway and down the road from a bustling corridor of halal butcher shops and Taiwanese bakeries, lies the largest agricultural science program of any high school in the state. Here, nearly 600 students learn to tend an orchard of peaches and apples. They look after a roomful of snakes and birds native to the jungles of India and Brazil. And they dig into the ground with their spading forks every summer so that tiny green seedlings can grow into beefy tomatoes and sweet red peppers by fall.
For many of the students, who come from throughout the city, it is their first time growing anything. And in the spring, when weeds had to be yanked and the soil prepared for planting, there was considerable skepticism in the air.
"At first, I thought it wasn't going to go anywhere," confessed Laura Fragoso, a John Bowne sophomore who grew up in an apartment house in Flushing. "I didn't think it was possible until it started growing."
On July 20 -- she remembers it clearly -- the first tiny green tomatoes appeared. Soon, the vines began to spill over, and she had to hold them in with thin wire cages. By summer's end, her doubts had been washed over by a bountiful harvest, the last of which she washed and set aside the other day: cherry tomatoes, shiny round eggplant, fat stalks of broccoli.
Established in 1917, when there were family farms on much of Queens and Long Island, John Bowne's agriculture program once trained young people mostly for on-the-farm jobs. But these days, farming isn't exactly a booming niche in the metropolitan region's economy, or beyond, for that matter: over the last several decades, family farms have closed nationwide and the number of jobs has declined. Moreover, new citywide high school graduation requirements have compelled vocational programs like this one to prepare their students to pass a battery of college-prep Regents examinations.
So, John Bowne has had to reinvent itself in recent years to adapt to the changed industry, offering courses in landscaping and creating animal labs to teach students how to care for exotic snakes and iguanas.
"Our kids are not really thinking farming," said Steven Perry, the assistant principal in charge of the program. "They're looking to enter plant and animal careers that aren't rural-based."
Approximately three-fourths of the graduates go on to college, with some continuing their studies in agricultural fields, Mr. Perry said. A perennial favorite of the graduates continues to be veterinary school, while others major in marine biology and plant science. Other graduates go on to work in nurseries, fish farms and landscape design businesses in and around the city, Mr. Perry said.
"Are 100 percent of these kids die-hard aggies?" he offered. "No. I'd be lying to you."
Yet there still are a handful of graduates who want to leave the bustle of the city to live and work on a farm upstate. And for students like Ana Huerta, 14, the school has also provided a family tie. The small, quick-talking girl from Corona, Queens, had only seen pictures of her grandfather's big, beautiful garden in Mexico. But over the summer, Ana got her own taste of growing a real garden -- eggplant and basil and green beans, bordered by a bed of daisies and sunflowers.
"My parents were really surprised that I grew stuff," said Ana, who is now considering a career in horticulture or, maybe, going to veterinary school -- though her father wants her to eventually take over the family flower shop in Corona. "Most of the stuff I took home from here -- they looked better than what they buy at the store. They tasted better too."
Although less than 2 percent of American workers are employed directly on farms, Federal economists say that agriculture continues to be an important source of employment. Today, compared with 25 years ago, agricultural workers include more gardeners, both commercial and residential, and animal caretakers -- those working in horse riding stables, for instance.
Wages for the most abundant agricultural jobs remain paltry. Farmworkers -- who have recently been in such high demand that Federal lawmakers proposed a bill to import guest workers from outside the country -- earn on average $273 a week, while gardeners bring in $298, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics; a bartender, by comparison, earns $312 weekly.
The decline in on-the-farm jobs has led John Bowne to expand its course offerings to include landscaping and design, where students learn how to fashion and maintain a garden, as well as to build trendy accouterments like gazebos.
"This is the flavor of the week," Mr. Perry said, pointing to one that this year's class recently constructed. "Gazebos are big time now."
Mr. Perry says he is also trying to look ahead. In the spring, for the first time, his students will raise fish in a 400-gallon tank and grow hydroponic lettuce in nutrient-filled cups of water instead of in soil. Fish hatcheries, Mr. Perry said, are booming in the nearby suburbs, and the hydroponic crops are already the rage at fancy Manhattan health food stores. There are plans to build an aviary in the near future.
At the same time, the makeup of the school's student body has changed.
Its more than 3,600 students comprise a mix of youngsters from the world over -- a fact that became apparent when a small white bean from Latin America showed up on the school farm. Teachers had never seen such a bean before. Most likely, said Mr. Perry, it came from a student's pantry at home.
Today, nearly half of John Bowne's students are Hispanic; about 25 percent are Asian, 20 percent are black, and less than 10 percent are white. Nearly a third have limited English skills. The demographics of the students in the agriculture program, Mr. Perry said, roughly mirror those of the overall student body.
To accommodate the diverse student body, the school offers, among other things, a plant science class for students whose English is limited. One classroom is also stuffed with the so-called "exotic" animals that are all the rage among the teen-agers -- among them, a tortoise with amber-colored spots on its back, a Goffins cockatoo that performs stunts in its cage, and an iguana named Lucifer that demands to be fed by hand every day.
Like all high school students citywide, students here must take the standard math, English and social science courses. Students in this program are also required to choose to major in either animal or plant science. They must work on the school farm the summer before their sophomore year. What they grow on their own small plots they take home; the rest, including the eggs laid in the barn, is sold at a farmstand on Main Street in the summertime and at school in the fall.
But if many of John Bowne's students have never before gotten their hands dirty tilling the earth or sweeping a barn, some are only a couple of generations removed from the country life.
There is the soft-spoken young man from Jamaica, Queens, who remembers riding horses on his grandfather's farm in Mississippi, and another, from Kew Gardens, whose grandfather lived on a farm in Ecuador.
Another classmate, Shaheim Kallum, 15, of Bushwick, recalled his mother's amazement at the stories he tells of his days at school, about cleaning the chicken coops and weeding.
Shaheim, also a sophomore, said he now was thinking of becoming a veterinarian. The idea came from his uncle, who is alsoone. But the program at John Bowne exposed him to the flesh and blood of the trade. "It puts you on the field of life," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Bowne High School in Flushing, Queens, prepares students for a variety of agricultural careers on and off the farm. Terry Crews, 15, learned how to handle a cow, above; at top, tibachini plants grown by the students adorn the grounds. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Hugh Drumgoole, 14, center, and Charles Thompson, 16, right, brought harvested vegetables in at John Bowne High School in Flushing, Queens. The school prepares students for a variety of agricultural careers. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (70%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; AGRICULTURE STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); FAMILY FARMS (89%); MODULAR SCHOOL BUILDINGS (78%); CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (76%); FARM LABOR (76%); AGRONOMY (75%); CROP RESEARCH (75%); ANIMALS (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); MEAT STORES (54%); 

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI ANA HUERTA (65%); STEVEN PERRY (65%); JOHN BOWNE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998



273 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: THE SPEAKER STEPS DOWN: MAN IN THE NEWS;
A Classic Republican: Robert Linlithgow Livingston

BYLINE: BY KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 9

 BODY:
The man who would be Speaker is in many ways a classic Republican. He is a hawk on defense. He is an advocate for business, especially the oil and gas industries in his home district in Louisiana. He opposes abortion. His formative political years were spent reading Ayn Rand and George Orwell.
And he is no softie. He has a black belt in karate. His temper has flared openly on the House floor and in private behind closed doors -- anywhere he decides to dig in his heels, Bob Livingston can suddenly shout, turn red and flail his arms as if trying to take flight. 
 But friends and adversaries alike say these outbursts are usually done for effect, and when they are over he will catch someone's eye and laugh. In any case, he now promises to keep his cool.
Representative Robert Linlithgow Livingston, 55, a lanky Louisianan with an aristocratic New York pedigree, is the presumptive Speaker of the House, second in line to the Presidency after the Vice President. He secured the position unofficially today after a monthslong campaign in which he doled out thousands of dollars to fellow House Republicans and, over the last week, commanded a five-day panzerlike roll across his potential rivals, including the current Speaker and his longtime friend, Newt Gingrich.
Mr. Livingston is expected to be picked by his fellow Republicans in a secret ballot on Nov. 18. Then the entire House is to vote for Speaker in January, a vote that normally runs along party lines and will almost certainly propel Mr. Livingston into the top spot. He is presenting himself as a calming influence in the House, a day-to-day manager and a reassuring figure of stability after a wild ride under Mr. Gingrich and two elections in which Republicans have lost seats.
Members of both parties said today that Mr. Livingston's taking over the helm would probably have little effect on the Republican policies that have emerged over the last four years but that he would put less emphasis on the social issues pushed by the hard-core right. They said the biggest change, at least initially, would be to take the sting out of the fierce partisanship that developed under Mr. Gingrich.
"He will have pretty much the same agenda that Newt had," said Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin, the ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, which Mr. Livingston heads. "You will still have a pro-big business, very much pro-oil industry party, and it is still very much a Southern-led party."
But, Mr. Obey added, "the main difference is that Livingston is an institutional man and Gingrich was an anti-institutional man. Gingrich was willing to turn the institution into a snake pit in order to take power and hold power. This place will become much less cannibalistic and much less of a snake pit."
Some conservatives worry that Mr. Livingston will prove too conciliatory to Democrats. Some worry that, as a manager, he will be too narrowly focused on the details of the budget and forgo the role of inspirational leader.
To Mr. Livingston, this is a virtue.
"The big picture is easy," he once said. "Anybody could sit around and direct the big picture. But where the second-guessing occurs and you get your problems are on the hundreds and perhaps thousands of little issues that can develop all of a sudden into a big issue and hang up your bill."
When he announced his candidacy for Speaker on Friday, he promised a devotion to day-to-day governing. With a mere six-vote majority, he has played down expectations about what he can accomplish.
"If we aren't realistic about those goals," he said on Friday, "we will not achieve them."
Representative Jim Kolbe, an Arizona Republican and one of Mr. Livingston's top lieutenants, said: "He will insist on getting the budget out. There is more of an understanding among Republicans now that four years of pushing a social agenda has not succeeded in expanding our majority."
With Mr. Livingston's respect for the institution of the House, his supporters say he plans few internal changes, except for making members work longer weeks.
Mr. Livingston also likes to convey a sense of being in control, occasionally resorting to theatrics like wielding a machete to show he is a budget cutter. As Appropriations chairman, he had a habit of standing up throughout his committee meetings.
"When he's running the committee," said a Republican, "he likes to see the whole terrain."
At 6 feet 4 1/2 inches, Mr. Livingston has an imposing bearing. He is descended from New York's Livingstons, who once owned a million acres in the Hudson Valley. The family patriarch, Robert R. Livingston, swore in George Washington as President and helped negotiate the Louisiana Purchase; Philip Livingston signed the Declaration of Independence.
The family fortune was wiped out in the Depression. His father was an alcoholic, who divorced his mother when Bob was 7. His mother supported Bob and his sister working at the Avondale Shipyards. In an interview earlier this year, Mr. Livingston said that the lesson he took from his father was this: "I wanted to do better than he did."
The question facing Mr. Livingston is whether he can keep control of the House. John Maginnis, a longtime Livingston watcher and editor of The Louisiana Political Fax Weekly, said Mr. Livingston sometimes faltered at crucial times.
"When it comes down to being able to rise to the moment, he sometimes hasn't been very good," Mr. Maginnis said, recalling Mr. Livingston's failed bid for governor a decade ago in which his verbal stumbling in a debate doomed his candidacy. "He's shown now that he can handle pressure, but the question is whether he can handle the pressure and the national spotlight."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Robert Linlithgow Livingston"
 
BORN: April 30, 1943.
 
BIRTHPLACE: Colorado Springs.
 
HOME: Metairie, La.
 
EDUCATION: St. Martin's High School, New Orleans, 1960; Tulane University, B.A., economics, 1967; Tulane University Law School, J.D., 1968.
 
CAREER: United States Navy, 1961-63; United States Naval Reserve, 1963-67; assistant United States Attorney, 1970-73; chief special prosecutor, Orleans Parish District Attorney's office, 1974-75; chief prosecutor, organized crime unit, Louisiana Attorney General's office, 1975-76; elected to House of Representatives in 1977 in a special election; chairman, Appropriations Committee, since 1995, named to the post by the Speaker-to-be Newt Gingrich over more senior Republican committee members.
 
FAMILY: Wife, Bonnie Robichaux. Four children, Robert, 32, Richard, 29, David, 26, SuShan, 24.
 
HOBBIES: Golf and fishing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) ARIZONA REPUBLICAN (66%); TULANE UNIVERSITY (84%); LOUISIANA STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (84%); TULANE UNIVERSITY (84%); US NAVY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) TULANE UNIVERSITY (84%); LOUISIANA STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (84%); TULANE UNIVERSITY (84%); US NAVY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); APPROPRIATIONS (71%); MARTIAL ARTS (71%); ABORTION (57%); 

PERSON: LIVINGSTON, ROBERT L (REPR); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; LIVINGSTON, ROBERT LINLITHGOW (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) ROBERT A LIVINGSTON (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); DAVE OBEY (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998



274 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
The Mets Leave Options Open on General Manager

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

DATELINE: NAPLES, Fla., Nov. 9

 BODY:
Saying that extramarital affairs are not necessarily a reason to fire a general manager, the Mets' admittedly disheartened owners nevertheless left open the possibility that Steve Phillips would not return from his leave of absence to resume his role as the team's No. 1 baseball executive.
The Mets announced on Sunday night that Phillips was taking temporary leave to deal with an allegation of sexual harassment by a former employee, and to attend to family matters following a series of other consensual sexual relationships that Phillips acknowledged having. 
 In a conference call with reporters today, neither of the co-owners, Fred Wilpon and Nelson Doubleday, spoke of when Phillips would return, but rather if he would. And they acknowledged that they held executives to a higher standard than players. At one point, Wilpon talked about "when Steve gets back, or some other action is taken if Steve can't come back."
Doubleday said, "The sooner this problem is resolved one way or another, the better off the whole organization is."
Nevertheless, Wilpon said, the organization had not concluded that infidelity warrants a termination. "We do not believe that his admission of a consensual relationship of short-lived duration with a woman is reason to say that he cannot carry out his responsibilities with the Mets," he said.
An official in the Mets' organization and a high-ranking executive of another team said they did not believe Phillips would be taken back. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, both people said they based their views on what they knew of the situation.
Wilpon and Doubleday discussed the development in a wide-ranging question-and-answer session with reporters as Frank Cashen, the reluctant interim general manager, began leading Phillips's staff in business-as-usual talks with other clubs at the general managers' meetings here and with representatives of free agents by telephone. The owners, who on Sunday issued only a brief statement on Phillips's situation, confronted the matter directly and expansively today.
The allegation of sexual harassment against Phillips and the general manager's marital infidelity were particularly difficult for them, they said, because they thought they had succeeded in eradicating an image created by a series of player incidents in the last decade.
"Both Nelson and I said that we don't condone this kind of infidelity; we think it's wrong," Wilpon said.
Speaking of Cashen's willingness to serve on an interim basis, Wilpon said: "He said he'll do it, but he said, 'I want to get back as soon as I can.' We see this as a short duration. Either Steve is going to be able to pull this together, or if he can't, Nelson and I and the board will have to make another decision."
Wilpon said he could not put a time on Cashen's interim term, "but I don't believe it's months. I don't think we'll be going into spring training without this being resolved."
If the Mets decide to seek a new general manager, two veteran executives are unemployed. Fred Claire was dismissed as the Dodgers' general manager last season, and Pat Gillick left the Orioles at the end of the season.
The organization has suffered from a wide variety of embarrassing incidents. In spring training in 1992, Dwight Gooden, Vince Coleman and Daryl Boston were named in a rape complaint filed by a woman from New York City, but they were never charged. In spring training this year, four minor leaguers were arrested on sexual battery charges involving a gang-rape of a 17-year-old woman. Three were recently convicted, and their lawyers have filed motions for the verdict to be overturned. In 1993, Coleman threw a large firecracker in the parking lot at Dodgers Stadium, injuring bystanders. The same year, Bret Saberhagen was involved in an incident in which he sprayed bleach on reporters.
"It hurts; it's not what we like," Doubleday said about the new problem. "But Steve's a good guy and we're going try to work our way through it."
Asked why Omar Minaya, the assistant general manager, was not elevated to the interim job, Wilpon said: "It would have been awkward for him to take over. I think it would have given the message of a fait accompli. Nelson and I did not want to do that. We wanted to give every chance for Steve to come back."
Phillips and the Mets decided he should take a leave of absence while he gets counseling and tries to work out his problems with his wife, Marni. The Mets became aware of Phillips's situation when a lawyer for a former Mets employee at their complex in Port St. Lucie, Fla., advised Phillips in a letter that the woman was considering suing him and the club for sexual harassment.
The letter was shared with David Howard, the Mets' vice president for legal affairs, and one other in-house lawyer. Howard then talked with Phillips and called Wilpon on the night of Oct. 28.
The owners met with Phillips the next morning at Wilpon's home. Phillips told them about what he said was a consensual sexual relationship with the former employee, as well as other affairs he said he had had.
The Mets concluded after an investigation that there had been no sexual harassment. A Mets official said tonight that the investigation was conducted by a group of lawyers inside and outside the organization. The official would not say whether private investigators were used or whether the woman was questioned.
During the conference call, Wilpon was asked why Phillips had included his admission of other affairs in the statement he issued on Sunday.
"Just to be forthcoming and honest as he has been with Nelson and me," Wilpon said. "He didn't want to leave that out and then have a call like this and have someone ask the question. He and Marni, his wife, felt it was necessary."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NAPLES, FL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); FLORIDA, USA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NAPLES, FL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; SEXUAL HARASSMENT EMPLOYEE LEAVE (90%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (90%); BASEBALL (90%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); CONFERENCE CALLS (75%); RANKINGS (72%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; DOUBLEDAY, NELSON; PHILLIPS, STEVE; WILPON, FRED NELSON DOUBLEDAY (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998



275 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 6; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: PLUS: PRO BASKETBALL;
Quick Settlement To Dispute Unlikely

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
With no negotiations scheduled and neither the National Basketball Association nor the players union budging, the chance of ending the stalemate and putting a starting date on the season this week seem extremely remote.
 More about the N.B.A.'s labor dispute will be known when 20 to 30 players convene in Manhattan tomorrow. The players, who compose the union's negotiating committee, and several team player representatives will decide whether to submit a new proposal to the owners and whether to have a full bargaining session later in the week. 
 Since halting talks indefinitely last Friday, the two sides have been politicking on behalf of their proposals.
 Billy Hunter, the union's executive director, was angered last week by the owners' move to tell players directly about the league's latest plan. Hunter said efforts were under way in Boston, Cleveland, Miami and Milwaukee to get players to support the N.B.A.'s plan. The union added Charlotte, Detroit, Orlando and the Nets to the list yesterday.
 The union will spend the next few days talking to players to keep them abreast of developments.
 The two sides are far apart on several key economic issues, including an escrow plan and total revenue distribution. The players have proposed a 60-40 division of basketball-related income; the owners have countered with a 50-50 share. More than 57 percent of revenue last season went to player salaries, a figure that prompted the reopening of the old labor agreement. MIKE WISE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); FLORIDA, USA (53%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); MIAMI, FL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (55%); NEW JERSEY NETS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (55%); NEW JERSEY NETS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); FLORIDA, USA (53%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); MIAMI, FL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; LABOR; LOCKOUTS BASKETBALL (95%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); LOCKOUTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE BILLY HUNTER (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998



276 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 2051 words

HEADLINE: Blockbuster Shows And Prices to Match;
Museums' Costs Just Keep on Rising

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI

 BODY:
Visiting Boston this weekend? You can have tea at the Ritz-Carlton for $14.50 (including scones, fruit bread and fruit tart), eat a roast beef dinner at the landmark Durgin Park Restaurant for $12.95 (for a 16-ounce cut) or visit the aquarium for $11.
Or you can pay $17.50 to see "Monet in the 20th Century" at the Museum of Fine Arts. Add a service charge of up to $4 if you buy your dated-and-timed ticket by phone, as most people do. 
 In a scale unimaginable just a few years ago, art lovers seeking to see masterpieces at museums frequently face sticker shock. Boston's museum, which normally charges $10 for adults, may have the record of the moment, but other museums are not far behind. The Art Institute of Chicago is asking $14 on weekends for "Mary Cassatt: Modern Woman." The San Diego Museum of Art charged $15 this summer for "Monet: Paintings of Giverny from the Musee Marmottan." Last year the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum asked the highest price so far in New York, $15 for the Robert Rauschenberg retrospective that filled its uptown and downtown galleries. (In every case, service charges for advance-purchase tickets are tacked on.)
When the Los Angeles County Museum of Art opens its doors to "Van Gogh's van Goghs" in January, weekend adult visitors will have to pay $20, plus service charges. Weekday tickets will be $17.50.
"Van Gogh is costing us many millions of dollars," said Andrea L. Rich, president of the museum, refusing to be more specific about the amount being paid to the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam, which is lending the works while it is closed for renovation, or about the show's total cost.
"It's the most expensive show we've ever put on," Ms. Rich said. "The question was, could we afford it?" The only way to say yes, she said, was to raise the price of admission.
At art museums around the country, capitalism is combining with curatorial ambitions, and the result is blockbuster prices for blockbuster exhibitions. As art prices have jumped sharply over the last two decades, museums say, so have the costs of security, insurance, shipping, catalogues, ticketing, marketing and other expenses related to mounting a show. Participation fees, the term used for sharing the closely guarded costs of organizing and borrowing works, have also risen steeply.
For institutions just to break even, ticket prices have to go up, museum directors contend. And yet the crowds go.
"How much does the Metropolitan Opera cost, around $180?" said J. Carter Brown, chairman emeritus of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, who says museums are still "a bargain."
Met opera seats do cost more, $25 to $250, depending on the location, day and production. But while no organization surveys museum prices for special exhibitions, they do seem to be climbing faster than those of for-profit arts attractions. At the movies, the average ticket price in the United States was $4.59 in 1997, up from $4.22 in 1990, and on Broadway, $48.59 last season, up from $36.47 in 1990-91.
And along with the higher prices come a few perils that museum professionals are well aware of, starting with the chronic complaint that museums cater to the elite. "The real question is whether it is changing the nature of who goes to museums, which it very well may be," said Stephen E. Weil, an emeritus senior scholar at the Smithsonian Institution's Center for Museum Studies.
Another pitfall is more subtle: either ticket prices for special exhibitions will keeping rising, regardless of the cost of staging each exhibition, or ticket prices will bounce up and down, signaling the relative value of a particular artist, perhaps falsely because the market value of an artist's work is only part of the cost equation of putting on a show.
 
Ranking the Artists By Ticket Prices
The Philadelphia Museum of Art, for example, considered that it might be sending an unfortunate message about Eugene Delacroix this year when, after asking $12.50 for its spectacular Cezanne retrospective in 1996, it set a $10 fee for its current Delacroix show. But it decided to go ahead no matter how people construed it, said Gail Harrity, the museum's chief operating officer, because the charges reflected the costs of the exhibition.
"That may not be a good message," said Mr. Brown, who is chairman of Ovation, a cable television arts network, "but it's a realistic message. It's a market economy, and you do charge more for caviar than you do for hot pastrami. But that doesn't mean it tastes better."
So far, if the number of people buying tickets is any guide, the public seems to be swallowing the higher prices without complaint. Sales of Monet tickets, for example, have been robust ever since the Museum of Fine Arts made them available in August. More than 400,000 have been bought, ahead of projections for the show, which runs until Dec. 27. Other museums report similar experiences.
Museum administrators say the prices are unavoidable. "People who love art don't like to see that there's a business behind it," Ms. Rich said. "They like to think there's a great subsidy from the sky to allow us to do this without charging these prices. I wish it were that way, too -- but it's not."
The Monet show provides a measure of how prices have escalated. When the same museum put on "Monet in the 90's" in 1990, it charged $9. In today's dollars, that would be $11.22, far below the $17.50 weekend and $15 weekday tab for the current Monet show.
 
Trying to Compete With Movie Tickets
Even museums that have not approached the $15 ticket level have significantly raised their fee for special exhibitions. The Museum of Fine Arts in Houston, for example, normally charges $3 for adults but is asking $10 for special shows like "A Grand Design: The Art of the Victoria and Albert Museum," now on view. The Phillips Collection in Washington doubled its charge to $10 from $5 for its current "Impressionists in Winter" exhibition.
In years past museums strove to keep admissions charges low, and many still do. Several, even some big institutions like the Cleveland Museum of Art, are still free. Others have been raising general admission prices gradually, trying to stay below or at the cost of a movie ticket, the old standard.
Before costs rose so much, museums largely ignored pricing strategy or set ticket prices on a seat-of-the-pants basis, partly because they did not try to associate the money spent on an exhibition with what it brought in. But museums are growing sophisticated about the real costs of an exhibition; many subject individual shows to rigorous profit-and-loss analysis. They also have begun to look around, seeing that symphonies, theaters and sports centers were charging high admission prices as a matter of course.
Hence the price increases. "All of this is making up for when they didn't relate costs to prices at all," Mr. Weil said.
Museums say they are still trying to hold the line, some more successfully than others. In New York, the Metropolitan Museum of Art's director, Philippe de Montebello, decided years ago that the Met would not sell special tickets for special exhibitions but would retain a standard suggested donation (now $8) for admission to the entire museum. That way, Mr. de Montebello says, the museum is relieved of the pressure to stage one profit-making exhibition after another.
The Museum of Modern Art, meanwhile, does add a $3 surcharge for special exhibitions, like the recent Bonnard and the current Jackson Pollock shows, making admission $12.50, which is still behind other institutions' charges.
But it was a show at the Modern that may have opened the floodgates. "A critical thing occurred during the Matisse show at MOMA" in 1992, Mr. Weil said. "There were scalpers on 53d Street selling tickets for $50, and that made people think that one way to go is charging what the market will bear." The Modern was asking $12.
(Scalpers were soon getting much more, in fact; for its Monet retrospective in 1995, the Art Institute of Chicago was mobbed with nearly a million visitors and scalpers were reportedly getting $200 and more for a ticket that cost $12.50 on weekends, $10 during the week. For the "Van Gogh's van Goghs" show in Washington, the National Gallery of Art has "sold out" its tickets, all free because it is a taxpayer-supported institution, and scalpers are asking up to $100 a ticket and $125 for Thanksgiving weekend.)
Some people think the price increases really began in earnest with the 1996 Cezanne retrospective in Philadelphia. Although service charges put tickets above $15, a capacity crowd of nearly 550,000 people went.
The Guggenheim, for one, was watching, said Laura Miller, its director of visitor services. Once Philadelphia met no price resistance, the Guggenheim decided to set its charge for the Rauschenberg show at $15. Boston's Museum of Fine Arts did likewise for "Picasso: The Early Years" last year. The race was on.
Museums insist they are not raking in profits with these shows but are budgeting to break even or make a small profit if the draw is really big. To reach the less-than-affluent, most of them give discounts to senior citizens, students and school groups; some allot one day or one evening to "pay as you wish" visitors.
But even if high prices are an economic necessity, some museums admit that they have an ulterior motive when they set them. It's called membership. Administrators hope people will join the museum for $40, $60 or more a year as a way to get free tickets to the special and regular attractions. "Membership leads to a high-quality relationship," said Malcolm Rogers, the director of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. "We don't want people to be exhibition junkies; we want them in all the galleries."
The strategy often works. By the time the 1995 Monet retrospective in Chicago closed, the Art Institute's membership roster had jumped by 65,000 to 157,000. In Boston, the museum began its fiscal year in July 1997, with 57,000 members, and now, after the Picasso show and in the midst of the Monet show, there are more than 85,000. In Los Angeles, during its current show, "Picasso: Masterworks from the Museum of Modern Art," membership has climbed by 12,000 to 73,000 members.
The trick then becomes retaining them. Mr. Rogers says he is doing that by paying more attention to visitor accommodations. To allow people to actually see the Monet show, for example, the paintings are spread out in more gallery space than any previous exhibition. Higher weekend charges are also an attempt at crowd management.
"We're trying to create lifelong members," Mr. Rogers said. "People should perceive value, and the key is an exciting program."
Which is precisely the problem, some experts like Mr. de Montebello worry. Museums, they say, should not simply program what is popular, lest the result be all shows about Monet, van Gogh, the Impressionists, Picasso, Egypt and gold.
 
Creating Excitement And Justification
"I want to balance the museum's finances, I don't want to be a blockbuster junkie," Mr. Rogers counters. "But you need a Monet every now and again to create excitement."
And to justify higher prices. Mr. Rogers is among the many who do not think prices will fall, as they did in Philadelphia. "It makes a negative statement if you charge a $5 surcharge for Monet and $2 for Cassatt," Mr. Rogers said, a reference to the Cassatt show that will open in Boston in February after its run in Chicago. To make up for the increases, Mr. Rogers said, occasionally the museum will not levy a surcharge on a special exhibition, citing its 1996 exhibition of photographs by Herb Ritts as an example.
But the situation is still in flux. For example, the Guggenheim, which after insisting that people pay a total of $15 for the Rauschenberg exhibition in both branches, has decided to let people buy separate $12 tickets for its special exhibitions uptown, $8 tickets for the accompanying downtown shows and $15 for a combination ticket.
How high can museum prices go? "Ask the Red Sox," Mr. Rogers said. In 1998, the team charged $30 for a box seat and $20 for the grandstand (though an upper bleacher seat could be had for $10). Prices for 1999, Fenway Park's recording says, have not been announced.

GRAPHIC: Photos/Chart: "The Price of Admission"
In recent years ticket prices for museum exhibitions have soared, partly because museums are putting together more blockbuster shows. Here are weekend admission prices for selected exhibitions.
Vienna 100 (1986)
Museum of Modern Art, New York
Cost: $6
Masterpieces of Impressionism and Post-Impressionism From the Annenberg Collection (1989)
Philadelphia Museum of Art
Cost: $6
Monet in the 90's (1990)
Art Institute of Chicago
Cost: $6.00
The Still Lifes of Picasso (1992)
Philadelphia Museum of Art
Cost: $8.50
Monet Retrospective (1995)
Art Institute of Chicago
Cost: $12.50
Winslow Homer Retrospective (1996)
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston
Cost: $12
Cezanne Retrospective (1996)
Philadelphia Museum of Art
Cost: $12.50
Robert Rauschenberg Retrospective
(1997)
Guggenheim Museum, New York
Cost: $15
Monet in the 20th Century (1998)
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston
Cost: $17.50
Monet: Paintings of Giverny From the Musee Marmottan (1998)
San Diego Museum of Art
Cost: $15
Van Gogh's van Goghs (1999)
Los Angeles County Museum of Art
Cost: $20
Top: "Water Lilies" (1906) by Claude Monet at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; left, "Cloister (Arcadian Retreat)" (1996) by Robert Rauschenberg; above, "A Pair of Shoes" (1885) by Vincent van Gogh. (Photographs By Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Associated Press, National Gallery of Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

COMPANY: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (91%); ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (91%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (59%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (91%); ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (91%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (59%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); TICKET SALES (89%); PAINTING (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); OPERA (60%); 

PERSON: DAVID T BROWN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



277 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: Coveted Collections Of Art At Auction

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
As Sotheby's and Christie's prepare for their big fall sales, which begin tomorrow night with Christie's sale of contemporary art, auction house experts are as concerned about the world financial markets as they are about the number of collectors prepared to buy art. More than any other segment of the art market, auctions rely on buyers' confidence. When the mood in a salesroom is buoyant, so are the prices. But nervousness can be equally contagious, making even those who came to bid get cold feet.
That's not to say that the art market always mirrors the stock market. In 1987, just three weeks after the market plunge labeled Black Monday, Sotheby's Impressionist and modern art auction topped $100 million in sales for the first time in its history, a 45 percent increase from six months before. This season, while pessimists are saying that the problems in the economy are deeper and more widespread than in the last 11 years, auction house officials are trying to paint a rosy picture. 
 "The state of the financial markets has given people pause, but the sky has not fallen in," said Charles S. Moffett, co-chairman of Sotheby's department of Impressionist and modern art worldwide. With the Dow Jones industrial average at around 8,900 points, he continued, "a huge amount of wealth has been created."
Is there enough wealth to support the staggering number of works on offer during the next two weeks, when an estimated $400 million worth of paintings, drawing and sculptures by artists like van Gogh, Picasso, Cezanne and Modigliani go up for sale?
"The real test of this market will be in the grade-B works," said Christopher Burge, chairman of Christie's in America. "But the indications from collectors worldwide suggest that the art market is still healthy. In the area of top-quality works there will always be buyers, and prices will always be strong."
What distinguishes this season from last is the large number of special collections coming to auction. In fact, Sotheby's has so much to sell in just two evenings that the auction house is beginning its Impressionist and modern art auction and its sale of contemporary art at 6:30 P.M. rather than at the usual 7 P.M.
By far the biggest collection of the season is the group of 39 Impressionist, Post-Impressionist and modern artworks being sold by the financially troubled Reader's Digest Association. The collection was formed by Lila Acheson Wallace and her husband, DeWitt Wallace, who founded Reader's Digest in 1922. They began buying art in the 1940's and continued through the 1960's. The collection, valued at $100 million, is uneven. There are some extraordinary works, but also some that are considered mediocre.
The best painting and sculptures are world-class. The cream of the collection includes a Giacometti sculpture, "The Forest: Seven Figures and a Head" (1950), depicting a group of tall, slender figures with the bust of a man thought to represent the artist's brother, Diego. Sotheby's has estimated that the sculpture could sell for $4 million to $6 million.
Mrs. Wallace loved nature, which explains why there are many landscapes, garden scenes and flower paintings. Few works in the collection can top Monet's "Lily Pond" (1917-1919), a more colorful rendering of the artist's famous waterlilies than most. Monet was working on this painting while he was creating "Large Mural Decoration," the two rooms of large-scale paintings of his waterlily pond that are in L'Orangerie in Paris. Sotheby's officials predict the work will bring $9 million to $12 million.
Portraits were also an interest of the Wallaces. For sale are two by Modigliani. Both are of Jeanne Hebuterne, the artist's wife. One, painted in 1918, shows her sitting in a pale-blue upholstered chair posed like an 18th-century Madonna. The other, painted a year later, depicts Hebuterne perched on a more fragile chair with one hand touching her shoulder. Both are estimated to sell for $9 million to $12 million.
In the category of portraits, however, it is Christie's that has the blockbuster, a self-portrait by van Gogh that the artist painted in 1889 as a present for his mother, Anna Cornelia Carbent van Gogh. Experts believe it is the last self-portrait he painted before his death in 1890.
The work, "Portrait of the Artist Without His Beard," was painted when van Gogh was ill in St. Remy and wanted to reassure his mother that he was all right. It shows him with heavily chiseled features and an intense stare and without a beard, since he thought that he looked younger and healthier when clean-shaven. The work is estimated to sell for $20 million to $25 million, which would make it the highest-priced painting of the two weeks of sales.
"The self-portrait has been in the same collection for over 30 years, and the fact that van Gogh self-portraits rarely come to auction makes the sale of this painting an event," said Franck Giraud, head of Christie's 19th- and 20th-century art. "As soon as word got out that it was available, we had major collectors expressing serious interest."
The van Gogh is one of 10 works being sold by the heirs of Jacques Koerfer, a German-born collector and former chairman of BMW A.G. who died in 1991. This is the fourth block of Koerfer property that Christie's has sold in the past six years.
Another important painting from the collection is Cezanne's "Chateau Noir" (1904), which was once in the collection of Lord Kenneth Clark, former director of the National Gallery in London. Christie's estimates it will sell for $5 million to $7 million.
Also for sale at Christie's on Nov. 19 is a group of paintings from the collection of Harry Torczyner, a Belgian-born writer, scholar and collector who was also Magritte's lawyer. Fourteen Magrittes form the core of the collection, and some are among the artist's best-known images. One of the most widely recognized, "Son of Man" (1964), depicts a man in a bowler hat with a green apple obscuring his face. It, too, carries a $2 million to $3 million price tag. These works have not been on the market because Mr. Torczyner bought them directly from Magritte.
"Boatmen in Argenteuil," a Monet in Christie's Impressionist and 19th-century sale next Wednesday, has not been on the market for 103 years. It is a sun-dappled scene of sailors and rowers painted in 1874. "It is the quintessential Impressionist picture, especially the way the artist captured the early morning light on the water," said Mr. Giraud. The work comes from heirs of the Parisian dealer Paul Durand-Ruel and is estimated to sell for $6 million to $8 million.
Tomorrow night, Christie's starts things off with its sale of contemporary art, which the auction house now defines as art from 1970 to the present. It is a small but interesting sale of 50 works, and it features paintings and sculpture by such artists as Robert Gober, Jean-Michel Basquiat and Cindy Sherman.
"The sale reflects the new spirit of the department," said Philippe Segalot, Christie's new head of contemporary art worldwide. "We're selling cutting-edge contemporary art that's more challenging and sexy. The sale starts with several works from the 90's by artists like Gober, Matthew Barney and Felix Gonzalez-Torres, who have been popular at auction before."
Sotheby's sale of contemporary art has a far different complexion, in part because the auction house defines contemporary art as works from 1945 to the present. Its sale, scheduled for Tuesday evening, casts an even broader net than that. Because of the number of pictures in its sale on Monday night, Sotheby's will begin Tuesday's sale with a collection that includes modern and contemporary works belonging to the Boston collectors Herbert and Mildred Lee.
In the 1960's, Mrs. Lee began buying what were then considered adventurous works. Now, they are viewed as downright desirable. Besides its contemporary offerings, the collection includes some older works, like a 1929 Calder and a 1952 Picasso. But all eyes will be on Jasper Johns's "White Numbers" (1958), an encaustic-on-linen painting of numbers in a progression from zero to nine repeated horizontally and vertically in thick, gestural strokes. It is expected to bring $7 million to $9 million.
"It's an extraordinarily important work," said Tobias Meyer, who runs Sotheby's' contemporary art worldwide. "In light of the recent purchase of Johns's 'White Flag' by the Metropolitan Museum, this is now one of the last white paintings by the artist available."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Portrait of the Artist Without His Beard," an 1889 painting by van Gogh for his mother. (Christie's New York)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%); SOTHEBY'S (92%); READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION INC (80%); READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AUCTIONS (92%); ART COLLECTING (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); PAINTING (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (60%); 

PERSON: VAN GOGH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



278 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE YEN FALLS. Japan's currency declined for a sixth day on speculation that the Government's plan to increase consumer spending and invigorate the economy would not work. The dollar settled at 122.52 yen, up from 121.57.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since May 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



279 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Florence L. Walsh, 37, Lucent Finance Executive

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL

 BODY:
Florence L. Walsh, a fast-rising executive at Lucent Technologies Inc. who helped engineer that company's split from the AT&T Corporation in 1996, died on Saturday at Morristown Memorial Hospital in New Jersey. Ms. Walsh, who lived in Bernardsville, N.J., was 37.
The cause was toxic shock syndrome resulting from an infection during pregnancy, a Lucent spokeswoman said. The infection also caused the death of Ms. Walsh's unborn son on Oct. 31. 
 Ms. Walsh, who was known as Meg, was vice president and treasurer of Lucent, one of the world's biggest makers of advanced communications equipment. While reporting to the company's chief financial officer, Ms. Walsh managed Lucent's $35 billion pension fund and the company's lending and borrowing.
She demonstrated acumen in her relationship with financial markets. Earlier this year, she raised about $300 million for Lucent by issuing 30-year bonds that paid the lowest effective interest rate on such bonds issued by a company with Lucent's credit rating in almost 30 years, according to Securities Data, which tracks bond offerings.
Ms. Walsh graduated from Johns Hopkins University in 1984 and from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 1988. After leaving Wharton, Ms. Walsh joined the General Motors Corporation in New York City, rising to director for corporate finance and capital markets.
She joined AT&T in 1994 as assistant treasurer. In that job, she helped establish the financial framework for Lucent's split from AT&T. She joined Lucent as treasurer a few months before the companies formally separated.
Ms. Walsh is survived by her husband, Mark; a son, Carter; her parents, Mollie Bucy of Baltimore and David Long of Crownsville, Md.; a brother, David Long Jr. of St. Petersburg, Fla., and her maternal grandparents, Robert and Florence Roy of Ruxton, Md. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: T (NYSE) (94%); ALU (PAR) (93%); ALU (NYSE) (93%); ALU (BIT) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (93%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (77%); MARYLAND, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (94%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (93%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (67%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (77%); MARYLAND, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND ISSUES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); GRANDPARENTS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: FLORENCE L WALSH (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



280 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Remember Global Warming?

 BODY:
Diplomats from more than 150 nations gathered in Buenos Aires this week to assess what they had done since the Kyoto agreement on global warming last December. The answer is, not much. They can be happy about one thing. Nobody has successfully challenged the urgency of their mission. Despite well-financed efforts by some industry groups to minimize the warming threat, the scientific consensus -- that the unchecked burning of fossil fuels could someday cause great damage to the environment -- remains intact. What is not intact is the spirit of common purpose that produced the Kyoto agreement.
The Kyoto Protocol committed the industrialized world to an average 5 percent reduction in greenhouse emissions below 1990 levels between 2008 and 2012 -- a remarkably ambitious target, given the world's rising dependence on fossil fuels. The American target is 7 percent. But many important details were left unsettled. Even worse, the giant developing countries like India and China have yet to be brought on board. Until that happens, Senate ratification is out of the question. Meanwhile, greenhouse gases in the atmosphere continue to rise. Buenos Aires is a good place to re-energize the process. Two issues are of central importance. 
 Early Action. Although Kyoto's targets would not become legally binding until 2008, a quick start on the problem is essential -- especially in the United States, which emits one-fourth of the world's greenhouse gases. Because America's emissions are projected to rise by 30 percent between now and 2008 under "business as usual" scenarios, it would be foolish to dawdle. Last-minute efforts to reverse the energy trajectory would be ruinously expensive.
A surprising number of American companies like the idea of early action. For the last year, two public-interest groups -- the Pew Center on Global Climate Change and the Environmental Defense Fund -- have been signing up companies like Boeing, United Technologies and British Petroleum that are prepared to reduce their own emissions even before a treaty is ratified. But the list would surely be longer if some way could be found to reward companies for taking action now, perhaps by giving them credits they could use to meet whatever obligations they incur when the agreement finally kicks in.
In the Senate, Joseph Lieberman, a Democrat, and John Chafee and Connie Mack, both Republicans, have introduced legislation establishing a mechanism to do just that. But they will have to persuade their colleagues in Congress, which grudgingly provided more money for clean-energy research in the new budget year but has otherwise been indifferent to the global warming issue.
Emissions Trading. The United States would have rejected the Kyoto Protocol if it had not included a provision that allows the sale or trade of emissions allowances among nations. In theory, industrialized nations that cannot quickly meet their targets without crippling energy taxes or costly investments would be able to "buy" pollution permits from poorer countries whose economies are so inefficient that even small adjustments can achieve big reductions in emissions. That transfer of capital, in turn, could help developing countries invest in cleaner technologies.
The British, among others, fear that the United States will exploit the trading plan to avoid making any real cuts in emissions, buying reductions from others instead. These fears are exaggerated. But the best way to put them to rest is to invite American companies to start cutting their emissions now. That would not only pacify the British but send a positive signal to the less-developed countries, which are unlikely to cut their energy use and prejudice their chances for further growth unless they are sure that America is serious.
The United States obviously cannot go it alone. Global warming demands a global response. But the rest of the world is not going to move without the leadership and example of the world's biggest producer of greenhouse gases.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); BP (NYSE) (53%); BP (LSE) (53%); UTX (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: KYOTO, JAPAN (90%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (78%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (53%); BP PLC (53%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); KYOTO, JAPAN (90%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ENERGY RESEARCH (71%); BUDGETS (65%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (63%); 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (51%); CONNIE MACK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



281 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Productivity Up in 3d Quarter

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 10

 BODY:
The productivity of United States workers accelerated in the third quarter, offsetting an increase in labor costs and giving Federal Reserve policy makers room to cut interest rates if they see a need to buoy financial markets.
Productivity rose at a 2.3 percent annual rate after increasing at a 0.3 percent rate in the second quarter, the Labor Department said. That compares with an average gain of 1.8 percent over the last year. 
 Unit labor costs, which take into account changes in worker compensation and productivity, rose at an annual rate of 1.7 percent in the third quarter, less than half the second quarter's 3.7 percent rate.
Those signs of rising efficiency bode well for corporate profits and the economic expansion now in its eighth year. And they mean the Fed "doesn't have to be worried about wage pressures or inflation pressures when considering cutting interest rates," said Greg Jones, chief economist at Briefing.com in Jackson, Wyo.
Gains in productivity are crucial if businesses want to absorb rising labor costs and hold down prices to stay competitive. And the latest data suggest "we can get another one percentage point of economic growth without inflation," Mr. Jones said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BRIEFING.COM (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PRODUCTIVITY (93%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); 

PERSON: GREG JONES (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



282 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Dow Drops 33.98 Points, but Technology Shares Surge

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Stocks slipped again yesterday, as sellers emerged late in the day to push prices down for a second straight session.
Traders and analysts cited a variety of reasons for the selloff. There is continuing concern about a slowdown in the growth of corporate earnings. Doubt persists that the Federal Reserve's policy-making committee will cut interest rates at a meeting next week. Renewed weakness in Asian markets, and heightened awareness that hostilities may break out again in Iraq, increased the jitters. And after soaring for eight straight sessions, the market apparently still needed a breather. 
 "This was a continuation of the consolidation that started on Monday," said Marshall Acuff, an equity strategist at Salomon Smith Barney. "Our market has come a long way -- it got some support early in the session but then faded at the end."
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 33.98 points to close at 8,863.98. More than 679.7 million shares were traded on the New York Stock Exchange, up from slightly fewer than 600 million Monday.
Among broader market measures, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 1.94 points, to 1,128.26. The Russell 2000 index of small-capitalization stocks fell 1.57 points, to 396.86. But the Nasdaq composite index, aided by gains in several Internet stocks and Intel, the big semiconductor manufacturer, rose by 4.57 points, to 1,865.62.
The Dow was hurt by continued weakness in oil and financial company stocks. Shares of J. P. Morgan & Company fell again yesterday, losing 2 1/2, to 97 5/8. American Express slid 1 13/16, to 93 1/16.
Chevron and Exxon, also Dow components, weakened as well. Chevron lost 1 15/16 a share, to 80 1/2. Exxon fell 1 7/8, to 70 1/8.
DuPont, the nation's biggest chemical company, was the Dow's biggest loser. It fell 2 1/4, to 59 1/4, after BASF A.G., Europe's biggest chemical maker, said its business in the third quarter fell short of expectations.
The declines in those stocks eclipsed strong performances from I.B.M. and McDonald's, other Dow components. Riding a wave of optimism about computer sales, I.B.M. shares hit an all-time high yesterday, rising 4 5/8, to 156. McDonald's rose 4 1/8, to 7 13/16, after the company told analysts that sales are improving here and abroad.
Technology shares were higher, helped by wild buying of Internet stocks. For the second straight day, stocks in companies like Yahoo and Ebay rallied on speculation that holiday shopping using the Internet will jump.
Yahoo shares rose 12 13/16, to 177 9/16. Amazon.com rose 4 7/8, to 131 3/4. And Ebay, an on-line auctioneer that went public in mid-September at $18, gained 27 7/8 a share, to 130 7/8, after analysts at Goldman Sachs, the firm that led its initial public offering, raised the target share price to $150.
"There is a lot of retail interest in the stocks, and some foreign money is going into them, because we have been active in them," said Ed Collins, a trader at Daiwa Securities. "It's almost like a feeding frenzy."
Optimism about the coming Christmas season also helped to push up Intel shares 1 9/16, to 97 9/16. After the market closed, the company said that fourth-quarter results would exceed expectations.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Demand for Sprint Bonds
By Bloomberg News
 The Sprint Capital Corporation sold $5 billion of bonds yesterday in the second-biggest corporate sale ever, as investors rushed to take advantage of some of the highest yields relative to benchmark Treasury securities in at least a decade.
The Sprint sale trails only the $6.1 billion issue by the rival MCI Worldcom Inc. in early August. Worldcom, now the nation's second-largest long-distance phone company, sold bonds to help pay for its purchase of the MCI Communications Corporation.
Sprint Capital, a unit of the Sprint Corporation, the nation's third-largest long-distance company, sold the bonds -- including a record $2.5 billion of 30-year debt -- as part of a plan to restructure the wireless venture Sprint PCS.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 1/32, to 991 5/32. The bond's yield was unchanged at 5.29 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since November 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); BFA (LSE) (81%); BASF (BIT) (81%); BAS (FRA) (81%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (81%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (81%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (81%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (77%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); BASF SE (81%); INTEL CORP (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); AMAZON.COM INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); ELECTRONICS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BOND MARKETS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CHEMICALS MFG (73%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (70%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (70%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (65%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



283 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Questions About Future Of Those Many Ph.D.'s

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
Graduate students working on Ph.D.'s know that getting a job after graduation will be difficult.
Faculty members who teach the graduate students say those with Ph.D.'s often wind up underemployed. 
 Now the Association of American Universities, a group that represents 62 leading universities, is acknowledging the problem and calling on its members to look at their graduates' job prospects more carefully and change their programs if necessary.
In a new report, a committee of the Association of American Universities defends the number of Ph.D.'s as useful to society but calls on its member institutions to improve tracking of employment of graduates and prepare students better for a range of careers.
The study represents an acknowledgment by elite institutions that they should take more responsibility for all of their graduates, not just the relative few who find jobs at research universities like their own.
The 62 elite research universities that belong to the association produce more than half of the approximately 40,000 Ph.D.'s awarded in the United States each year. The 15-member committee included presidents or chancellors from Yale, Duke, Washington University, Rutgers and the University of California at Santa Barbara.
Peter D. Syverson, vice president for research and information services at the Council of Graduate Schools, applauded the call for universities to collect better data.
"The problem comes down to a disconnect between expectations and reality," Mr. Syverson said. "Gathering more information is useful so your current graduates aren't taken by surprise."
But Mark R. Kelley, president-elect of the graduate student caucus of the Modern Language Association, called the recommendations "ludicrous." He said the problem was university reliance on part-time adjuncts, which if reduced would create more full-time teaching jobs for those with Ph.D.'s.
"I assume they're saying that after eight or nine years of running people's lives, we'd better look at what happens to them," Mr. Kelley said. "This is a grand gesture. I wonder why it's taken them so long to recognize this. They're always putting Band-Aids on problems."
Although graduates with Ph.D.'s earn more than those with bachelor's or master's degrees, financial support for graduate students has eroded and for many students, the time it takes to earn a Ph.D. has grown to 8 to 10 years or more.
Universities have never hired all of the Ph.D.'s they produced themselves, but for many years, supply and demand were more closely matched. Production of Ph.D.'s mushroomed in the late 1950's and the 1960's as the United States raced to catch up with the Soviet Union's space program and the cold war intensified. The number of Ph.D.'s awarded annually jumped to 41,610 in 1995 from only 8,773 in 1958, spurred in part by increased Federal financing, which paid for expansion in the number of universities offering doctorates and in the number of doctoral programs.
As that expansion ended, there were fewer new teaching jobs. Between 1975 and 1994, the report said, the number of recent Ph.D.'s hired by academe from the universities that are association members grew by only about 1,000.
But such figures do not even tell the whole story, since graduates in individual fields sometimes have particular problems, and some of the academic jobs are in part-time, nonpermanent positions.
"Our view is that there is a continuing crisis of underemployment in the humanities and the humanities-oriented social sciences," said Robert Weisbuch, president of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation in Princeton.
The new report by the Committee on Graduate Education at the American Association of Universities acknowledges that many new Ph.D.'s do not have full-time jobs by the time they graduate but argues that the Ph.D. is valuable preparation for a variety of jobs, not just college teaching positions. Furthermore, it says, people with doctorates have very low unemployment rates throughout their careers.
But the report does express concern over the increasing proportion of Ph.D.'s who spend one or more years in post-graduate study after they earn their degrees. This means that students who have already postponed taking full-time jobs, are postponing such employment still longer, and often not entering the job market until their mid to late 30's.
Some universities have begun to track their own graduates in the job market. One recent study by the English department at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York found that of 89 students who earned Ph.D.'s in English from 1992 to 1996, 60 were in academic jobs (39 in tenure track positions, 9 in nontenured but full-time positions and 12 in adjunct positions.) Except for 3 graduates not found by the researchers, the remaining 26 held a variety of jobs, including writing, editing and administration.
"That there is a real problem in the academy in the placement of Ph.D.'s is beyond question," said William Kelly, provost at the CUNY graduate center. "But the magnitude is not as severe as it is made out to be."
Although Mr. Kelly, for one, says that some of the non-academic jobs are valuable and exciting, there is a growing recognition in academic circles that those who do not find full-time tenured jobs are often left feeling that they have fallen short of some mark.
Maresi Nerad, director of graduate research at the University of California at Berkeley, who is conducting a national study of Ph.D.'s 10 years after graduation, said Berkeley was trying to address this with programs like a career-management workshop for English Ph.D. students this fall.
"We wanted to make our doctoral students aware that there is an array of possibilities," Ms. Nerad said, "and not be caught up in the feeling that either you're a professor or you're nothing."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: MODERN LANGUAGE ASSOCIATION (53%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



284 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Indonesia Parliament Meets, and Demonstrators Protest

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Nov. 10

 BODY:
As opposing groups of demonstrators threw rocks and wood spears at each other, the Parliament met today for the first time since the ouster of President Suharto to chart a course toward a more democratic government.
The demonstrations, along with widespread fears of riots and mistrust of the parliamentary process, are signs of the difficult road ahead as Indonesia seeks to recover from the 32-year autocratic rule of Mr. Suharto that ended when he was forced to resign in May. 
 The session is being held at a time of economic collapse, political infighting, almost daily demonstrations and rising crime and social tensions in the world's fourth most-populous nation.
The special session, called by President B. J. Habibie, is expected to schedule a general election for early next year. That would be followed by an electoral assembly next December to select a President who would take office in January 2000.
But a meeting of the leading opposition figures today demanded a faster timetable, and student demonstrators insisted that Mr. Habibie step down immediately.
The main complaint against him is that he was Mr. Suharto's chosen Vice President and that he does not represent a clean break from the past. But in view of the economic and political turmoil that Mr. Suharto left behind, one foreign analyst said, "even God would be hated."
In what might be a holdover from Mr. Suharto's secretive system or might be a sign of the Government disarray that is also his legacy, nobody outside the leadership seems to know exactly what the parliamentary session will seek to accomplish.
In addition to setting an electoral timetable, it was widely expected to address the dominant role of the military in politics and society and, perhaps, also how to account for the hidden wealth of Mr. Suharto, who lives quietly at his modest house here.
In a broader sense the Parliament faces a most unlikely task, how to legislate away its own power. The 1,000-member assembly is almost entirely made up of elected and appointed members who owe their positions to Mr. Suharto and his old order of Government.
The levers of power that were created to perpetuate his autocracy have now been called on to turn against themselves and institute a more open and democratic system.
"One way to look at it is as an old elite that is trying desperately to stay in power," said Daniel S. Lev, an expert on Indonesia at the University of Washington. "The likelihood that it will save itself by its own bootstraps is slim."
On the streets, beyond a heavy cordon of soldiers, the delegates could almost hear the shouts of demonstrators who were not prepared to accept anything less.
"The new groups that are coming up are filled with anger and resentment, and although they may not have political power, they have an awful lot of social support," Mr. Lev said. "That anger is one of the healthiest prospects in Indonesia. People will in effect contain the Government by hating it."
The movement that ousted Mr. Suharto has retained much of its momentum, fueled by discontent over the pressures of an imploding economy. Unemployment and inflation continue to rise, although the sliding currency has stabilized in value for the moment and food distribution and supplies have remained steady in this sprawling nation of more than 200 million people.
A crucial target of the reformers is the military, which was the backbone of Mr. Suharto's repressive system and remains the most highly organized social and political force throughout the country.
Critics are demanding that the 75 seats in the 500-member national assembly that are reserved for the military be reduced or eliminated. Military and parliamentary leaders suggested this week that the military role would shrink over time, but their statements were vague.
Along with their demands for quick elections, the opposition leaders insisted that the military role in the Government be phased out.
The opposition leaders, meeting at a house on the outskirts of the capital, were a roll-call of the democratic challengers that the old-line leaders are likely to face in the next elections. They include Megawati Sukarnoputri, the widely popular daughter of Mr. Suharto's predecessor, Mr. Sukarno; Amien Rais, energetic leader of an aggressive Muslim organization; Abdurrahim Wahid, the highly respected but ailing leader of a larger and more moderate Muslim organization, and the Sultan of Jogjakarta, a new young face on the scene who enjoys a small but devoted local following.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students and police officers facing off yesterday in Jakarta as Parliament met in its first session since President Suharto was ousted in May. (Agence France-Pressse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (94%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RIOTS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); ARMED FORCES (63%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



285 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Washington Skirmishes Over Treaty On Warming

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 10

 BODY:
As negotiators from around the world worked on details of an international agreement to fight global warming, the Clinton Administration faced an intense debate among lawmakers today over whether to sign the pact during talks this week in Argentina.
There is no doubt that the Administration will sign the agreement eventually, even though it faces an uphill struggle for approval by the Senate. 
 But Congressional adversaries argued today whether signing it now, a step the White House favors as a sign of its commitment to the controversial accord, would strengthen or weaken the bargaining hand of the United States.
Some Administration officials said today that no decision had been reached on signing the agreement, but others said that the Administration's envoy to the talks, Stuart E. Eizenstat, would announce in Buenos Aires that it would be signed.
The agreement would commit the United States to reducing its emissions of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping greenhouse gases, which scientists say threaten to warm the planet and disrupt its climate, by 7 percent below the 1990 levels over the next 10 to 15 years.
Opponents have said that this would require cuts in the use of fossil fuel that would devastate the economy. The Administration insists that new technologies would insure a painless transition to a cleaner economy.
For weeks, Administration officials have declined to say when the United States would sign the protocol, which was agreed to by more than 150 nations last year in Kyoto, Japan.
The current round of talks is aimed at establishing a system of international emissions trading and at defining what role developing countries should play in cutting emissions of the pollution that scientists say may cause major changes in the planet's climate.
As reports spread that the Administration would sign the agreement this week, Congressional opponents warned that this would be a political mistake, while those who favor the treaty said signing it now would increase the Administration's influence in the negotiations.
Sen. Robert Byrd, a Democrat from West Virginia, where cuts on emissions of carbon dioxide from burning coal would damage the state's mining industry, warned President Clinton to "resist making empty gestures that will only make the potential future approval of the protocol by the Senate more difficult."
Mr. Byrd is a leader of Congressional opponents of the treaty who contend that it must not be approved until developing nations, whose emissions of greenhouse gases are projected to surpass those of the United States in the next few decades, agree to join industrial nations in cutting emissions.
But Sen. Joseph Lieberman, a Democrat from Connecticut, urged the White House to sign the agreement.
"If we are not at the table, we cannot cajole or convince the developing nations to become part of the solution," he said.
Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., a treaty opponent in the House and a leader of the Congressional observers' delegation to the talks in Buenos Aires, called on the Administration not to sign the treaty.
"Any global warming treaty devoid of developing country participation and credible evidence that America will maintain its economic health and vitality will be dead on arrival," said Mr. Sensenbrenner, a Republican from Wisconsin.
But Mr. Lieberman, as he left Washington to join the observers from Capitol Hill, called Mr. Sensenbrenner's plea "a mistake, and a serious abdication of American responsibility to lead in this effort, and also an obstacle to our being able to shape the global response to the problem."
Fred Krupp, the head of the Environmental Defense Fund, an advocacy organization that favors the treaty, said that "the people who oppose signing are the same people who have opposed the treaty from the beginning, and in fact they are really opposing protecting the planet. We feel very strongly that the time to sign has come."
But other environmentalists were not so enthusiastic.
"In my mind, this Administration has made expectations so low, that when they finally sign this weak agreement that they negotiated, people will mistake it for leadership," said John Passacantando, executive director of Ozone Action, an environmental group that follows climate issues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ARGENTINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (54%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (58%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ARGENTINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (54%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CLIMATOLOGY (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (73%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); MINES & MINING (61%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); F JAMES SENSENBRENNER JR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



286 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: In Surprise, Russians Ask To Alter Orbit Of Outpost

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 10

 BODY:
NASA is considering a last-minute request from the Russian Space Agency to change the planned orbit of the international space station, officials said today.
With the flight of the first part of the space station less than two weeks away, the Russians have raised the possibility of putting the new complex in an orbit much closer to their old Mir station than originally planned. 
 While NASA says it is considering the change proposed by Russia at face value, some experts on the Russian space program question the motives behind the late request. Putting the new station near Mir could be part of a plan to delay the decommissioning and destruction of the older station, critics suspect.
"This move on the orbital changes would open up all sort of options for the Russians," said James E. Oberg of Houston, a former NASA engineer who is an expert on the Russian space program. "The actual game plan may take awhile to come clear."
The collapse of the Russian economy has resulted in little money for the Russian Space Agency, raising doubts as to whether the limited resources available could support both the new program and Mir. To ease these concerns, the Russians have promised NASA that they would discard Mir next summer, but Russian nationalists have campaigned recently to preserve the station, a symbol of the nation's achievements in space.
Dwayne Brown, a NASA spokesman, said today that the agency received the Russian request late last week and would make a decision on the proposed change by Friday.
"The Russians said they wanted to transfer some equipment off of Mir to the International Space Station and that this orbital change would make it easier," Mr. Brown said, "The request only concerned moving internal equipment from Mir, not transferring modules from Mir to the new station."
Mr. Brown said Russian and American space planners were discussing the ramifications of such an orbital change on building the new station, as well as how any equipment transfer would take place. Making such a change would require a lot of last-minute work, including making new orbital calculations and adjusting the time lines of future missions that have to be coordinated with the first flight, officials said.
The United States and 15 other nations plan to begin building the new space station in orbit on Nov. 20 when the Russians launch a module called Zarya that will supply power and propulsion during the early stages of construction. The Russians want to launch Zarya, built in Russia under American contract, 10 hours later than planned so that its orbit ends up close to Mir's.
The space shuttle Endeavour is scheduled to lift off in the predawn hours of Dec. 3 with the second station part, an American-built connecting passageway called Unity that will be attached to Zarya. If the Russians change their launching time, the shuttle takeoff would also have to change.
Mr. Oberg said today that when the Russians reached agreements, it was not uncommon for them to seek seemingly minor changes as a deadline approaches.
"The fact that the Russians waited two weeks before launch to pull this rabbit out of the hat suggests that there is some kind of trick here," he said in a telephone interview.
In 1995, Russia suggested that two of the newer laboratory modules on Mir, Spektr and Piroda, be moved to the new station to substitute for new research modules it promised the new project but could not afford to build. But the other station partners rejected the notion.
Having the two stations in close orbit makes it easier to send material back and forth between them, or to divert cargoes from one to another, Mr. Oberg said. For instance, if Russia becomes dissatisfied with the international project for any reason, he said, this gives it an option of taking its modules off the new station and attaching them to Mir.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: SPACE AGENCY INC (84%); RUSSIAN SPACE AGENCY (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUSSIAN SPACE AGENCY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (92%); SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); SPACE STATIONS (92%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SPACE SHUTTLE (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%); 

PERSON: JAMES E OBERG (67%); DWAYNE BROWN (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



287 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Brazilians Scale Back Pledges to Cut Budget

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Nov. 10

 BODY:
The Brazilian Government, which recently pledged to slash discretionary spending by $7 billion in an urgent attempt to bolster its economic credibility, has released new budget figures showing that the true reduction will run about half the promised amount.
Total spending would actually increase next year, according to the latest figures, which were announced on Monday. 
 The original spending cuts, announced two weeks ago, were part of an anxiously awaited program to raise Government revenues next year by $23.5 billion, and represented Brazil's commitment to fiscal house cleaning and to shrinking its dangerously high budget deficit.
The package was crucial for Brazil to qualify for a backup loan from the International Monetary Fund and other sources, including the United States Government, and to counter a $30 billion hemorrhage from Brazil's foreign reserves, which have fallen to about $42 billion.
The Clinton Administration is concerned that a default in Brazil -- the world's ninth-largest economy and home to more than half of South America's 300 million people -- could set off repercussions around Latin America, the destination of some 20 percent of United States exports.
With the I.M.F. aid package expected to be announced within days, the revised 1999 budget sent to Congress on Monday suggests that Brazil may have overstated the level of actual Government savings, and it raised questions about the true size of its effort.
Paulo Paiva, the Government's Planning Minister, and Martus Tavares, its executive secretary, could not be reached for comment.
David Fleischer, a professor at the Federal University of Brasilia and president of the Brazilian chapter of Transparency International, said the spending cuts were intended to restore confidence abroad with a show of discipline that is partly illusion. "Maybe about half the savings is real," Mr. Fleischer said. "The other half is pre-packed fat. They stuffed it all in the budget in late August."
The figure of $7 billion in budget cuts is not entirely without foundation. But it is based on savings from a generous 1999 budget that, from the moment it was released in August, was acknowledged to be unrealistically optimistic. The budget projected 4 percent economic expansion for 1999, just after Brazil had doubled the ceiling on interest rates to almost 50 percent, to counter a flight of $1 billion a day of dollar reserves from the country after the Russian collapse.
Soon after it was released, the Government conceded that the economy, instead of growing, would shrink by 1 percent next year, and some independent economists predict a more severe recession, noting that high interest rates are choking off the supply of capital for industry.
Compared with this year's spending, the Government's budget for next year shows some $3.8 billion in actual savings on discretionary expenses, with the budget dropping to $29.8 billion. The original budget for next year projected $36.4 billion on discretionary expenses, which include a range of programs, including land purchases for agrarian reform and to extend basic sanitation.
But the Brazilian Government's overall budget, because of court-ordered increases in salaries and benefits, will increase $1.9 billion next year, to $154.2 billion, despite its claims to austerity.
Though some economists, like Paulo Rabello de Castro, of the Rio-based Atlantic Institute, say they are confident that Brazil is on the road to righting itself, they appear discouraged by its current response to the crisis. Even before details appeared, economists criticized the Government for relying heavily on tax increases and pension dues to raise more than half the promised revenues.
The Government of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso is already fighting skepticism abroad, after he announced another austerity package a year ago, only to drop it as elections neared. "When you're in a situation like Brazil is in, you usually have to do more than enough to win back confidence," Mr. Castro said. "What came out of 1999 budget was slightly less than enough."
Alexandre Barros, a political scientist in Brasilia, said he believed the big question was not so much the size of the cuts made now, but the Government's ability to sustain lean spending practices over time.
"What I want to see is down the road," Mr. Barros said. "What happens after three or six months as the immediate pressures recede, and people say, 'Okay, Mr. President, why don't you revoke this or that austerity measure?' "

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (68%); INTEREST RATES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



288 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
It's Spend Big, Win Big, Except for Orioles

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

DATELINE: NAPLES, Fla., Nov. 10

 BODY:
The Baltimore Orioles increased their payroll by 14 percent to a baseball record $71.86 million this year but staggered to a losing record. The Yankees raised their payroll by 1 percent and won the World Series.
These and other economic and on-field developments were reflected in a payroll report the owners' Player Relations Committee presented today to the general managers at their annual meetings. The report did not paint a pretty picture for most of the teams. 
 The Orioles' position at the head of the salary standing was not enough to catapult them into the playoffs. What it did, however, was make them the biggest underachievers in major league history. No one has ever spent so much and received so little in return.
The Yankees, on the other hand, had the best year any team could hope to have with their 125 total victories, and they did it by increasing their payroll from $65 million to $65.6 million. They also paid $8.2 million for other players whom they traded, acquired or released, but that money is not included in the traditional method of payroll tabulation used by the owners and the players, who will release their report next month.
Besides the Orioles, the Florida Marlins and the Montreal Expos were the teams that showed the most remarkable figures.
The Marlins slashed their payroll from $53,515,000 last year, when they won the World Series, to $15,141,000 this year, a drop of 72 percent. The Expos plummeted 55 percent to a major league-low $8,317,500, a payroll unheard of in this day of escalating salaries.
The overall escalation was not steep. With some post-season award bonuses still to be added, the average major league salary was $1,377,196, a 4.78 percent increase from last year, when the $1,314,420 average represented a 19.33 percent increase.
The clubs spent more than $1.23 billion over all on their payrolls this year.
The salary standing did not differ greatly from the won-lost standing. Teams that spent the most generally had winning records; those that spent the least generally had losing records.
More specifically, of the 13 teams that had payrolls over $48 million, the Orioles were the only one with a losing record. Of the 17 teams with payrolls under $48 million, only St. Louis and Toronto had winning records.
It is this payroll disparity that Commissioner Bud Selig has acknowledged is the biggest problem facing baseball. It is a topic the general managers have been discussing at their meetings this week.
The Mets were one of the high-spending teams with a winning record. Their payroll soared by 49.6 percent, to $58.66 million. They have already committed $47.56 million for next year.
The Yankees have committed $42.95 million for 1999. The Indians' payroll for next season already stands at $62.67 million, more than this year's $59.54 million.
Looking ahead to salary arbitration, which always sends salaries soaring higher, the Player Relations Committee and the Players Association determined the players with two to three years of major league service who will be eligible for arbitration, which otherwise requires three years of service.
The player among the 13 fortunate players who will benefit the most is Rick Helling, the Texas pitcher, who was a 20-game winner this year. He earned $216,500 while winning those 20 games but can expect at least a $3 million salary next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); CANADA (69%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (87%); QUEBEC, CANADA (69%); 

CITY: NAPLES, FL, USA (55%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (55%); 

COMPANY: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); MONTREAL EXPOS (82%); MONTREAL EXPOS (82%); FLORIDA MARLINS (73%); FLORIDA MARLINS (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); MONTREAL EXPOS (82%); MONTREAL EXPOS (82%); FLORIDA MARLINS (73%); FLORIDA MARLINS (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); CANADA (69%); FLORIDA, USA (87%); QUEBEC, CANADA (69%); NAPLES, FL, USA (55%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SPORTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



289 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Hog Farmers Question Division of Pork Pie

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 11

 BODY:
With prices for hogs so low that farmers are being paid less than it costs to raise the livestock, Illinois agriculture groups today raised questions about why pork prices in stores are not also plummeting.
While hog prices fell 39 percent for the 12 months ending in September, according to the United States Department of Agriculture, retail pork prices declined only 1.5 percent. Since then, prices have dropped even more, down 49 percent for the first 10 months of 1998, with farm groups estimating that producers are losing $20 to $50 on every pig they raise. 
 "This is an issue on which farm and city people come together," said Ron Warfield, president of the Illinois Farm Bureau, contending that the gap between hog prices at the farm and pork prices at supermarkets was wider than ever before.
In announcing plans to monitor and publicize the gap each week, farm groups clearly hope to pressure retailers into promoting pork and cutting prices, moves that could help hog prices rebound by stoking consumer demand. But the farm advocates were careful to use wording to avoid antagonizing retailers or encourage scapegoating, the old prairie-style penchant for distrusting markets and powerful institutions.
"We are not accusing supermarkets of gouging consumers," Mr. Warfield said. "We are not calling retailers greedy middlemen. The days of farmers bashing 'the middleman' are long gone."
Groups that represent the interests of supermarkets, meanwhile, say the Agriculture Department's measurement overstates the gap between farm and retail prices. Tim Hammonds, president of the Food Marketing Institute, a Washington trade group for supermarkets and wholesalers, said the Agriculture Departure based its retail prices on average weekly prices in stores, which does not accurately measure purchases, since consumers buy a disproportionate share of pork, or anything else, during special sales.
Mr. Hammonds also said live hogs were only one part of the price equation, noting that costs related to slaughtering, processing and distribution had not gone down.
"With unemployment levels as low as they are," he said, "I think it's safe to say that a lot of labor costs have gone up."
Finally, Mr. Hammonds said retail prices were rarely affected by the valleys, or the peaks, experienced by farmers. He said that when hog prices for farmers jumped 26 percent in 1996, retail prices climbed only about 10 percent. But Mr. Hammonds said supermarkets would gladly join a campaign to highlight the value of what the pork industry called the other white meat.
The main cause of the falling hog prices, all sides agree, is an overproduction of swine. Hog production was extremely profitable in 1996 and 1997, and the big gains prompted many swine operations to expand.
Moreover, political resistance to large-scale, confinement hog operations in the Midwest and the South has led some of them to expand before states declare a moratorium on hog farms, as some have done. On the Federal level, the Environmental Protection Agency is preparing to work with the states to impose strict pollution-discharge permits on all large farms by 2005.
So far this year, 84.6 million hogs have been slaughtered, an increase of about 11 percent from last year. Consumption grew about 7 percent in the United States, and exports have continued to rise, although the Asian economic crisis has taken its toll. The typical American eats about 52.3 pounds of pork a year, according to the National Pork Producers.
The farm bureau here estimates that farmers lose $20 to $50 a hog at current prices, a situation that will surely drive many farmers out of business if the prices remain low.
The $6 billion in emergency farm aid passed recently by Congress does not directly affect livestock producers. Instead, it is directed at grain farmers. Iowa is the leading hog-producing state, followed by North Carolina, Minnesota and Illinois.
Steve Meyer, an economist for the pork producers group, said a drop in slaughterhouse capacity in recent years was problematic for hog producers. Slaughterhouses were once centered in big cities like Chicago, which the poet Carl Sandburg described as hog butcher for the world. But the slaughterhouse industry moved to rural regions long ago, and in recent years, the capacity has been shrinking.
"We've lost 35,000 per head per day of capacity in the last two years," said Mr. Meyer, who noted that some big hog and packing companies, like Smithfield, had bought slaughterhouses and closed them.
The growing dominance of factory-like hog companies makes it increasingly difficult for smaller, independent operations to compete.
Dan Steimel, 34, who farms with his father, Roger, 61, near De Kalb, Ill., was preparing to ship a load of hogs to market for a sale that will bring about half what it cost them to raise the livestock.
"We had some good years, and we paid down some debt," said Mr. Steimel, an economics graduate from the University of Illinois. "We knew the prices would go down again. But no one could ever have predicted they would have gone this low."
He added, "There are going to be some farmers asking themselves a lot of hard questions this winter."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: ILLINOIS FARM BUREAU (56%); FOOD MARKETING INSTITUTE INC (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (77%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (77%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AGRICULTURAL PRICES (95%); PORK (91%); HOG & PIG FARMING (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); WHOLESALERS (69%); 

PERSON: TIM HAMMONDS (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



290 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Newsweek Names Editor, And Promotes 2 Others

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI

 BODY:
Mark Whitaker, who began his career at Newsweek as a college intern in 1977 and went on to expand the magazine's technology and business coverage and then oversee the pyrotechnics of the Monica Lewinsky story as managing editor this year, was named editor of the magazine yesterday.
Mr. Whitaker, who is 41, had been supervising the day-to-day editorial operations of Newsweek since the magazine's previous editor, Maynard Parker, fell ill with leukemia a year ago; Mr. Parker, who had been editor for 16 years, died last month at the age of 58. 
 The appointment came as little surprise to Newsweek staff members, who have expected Mr. Whitaker to become editor. His new job is significant: it not only makes him the first black editor of a major news weekly, but comes at a time when the three major news weekly magazines -- Time and U.S. News & World Report along with Newsweek -- are undergoing a period of self-scrutiny, competing for an audience increasingly distracted by television, the Internet and other news outlets.
The changing of the guard represents a generational as well as a managerial shift. Replacing Mr. Whitaker as managing editor will be Ann McDaniel, 42, Newsweek's Washington bureau chief, and Jon Meacham, who has been national affairs editor since 1995. Mr. Meacham is 29, or in the words of one staff member, "about 5 years old during Nixon's impeachment proceedings."
The new guard takes over a magazine that trails Time magazine in circulation, 4.1 million to 3.2 million, even though it attracted enormous attention this year with its initially cautious then blanketlike coverage of the Lewinsky affair. U.S. News & World Report trails the group with a circulation of 2.2 million and has gone through 5 editors in 14 years, but its owner, Mortimer B. Zuckerman, hired Stephen G. Smith as editor from National Journal in late July, and Mr. Smith is considered by editors at Time and Newsweek as an adversary who is perhaps more formidable than his predecessors.
In a brief acceptance speech at the magazine's regularly scheduled Tuesday morning story meeting, Mr. Whitaker said he was very concerned about his competition and asked the assembled group: "What can we do to make Newsweek a must-read?"
Mr. Whitaker answered the question yesterday afternoon in his 16th-floor office in midtown Manhattan, as staff members began to pour celebratory Champagne and eat chocolate-chip cookies outside his door.
"Newsweek starts by having the strongest reporting and writing in the news magazine field," Mr. Whitaker said. "The first priority is to be out front on every major news story. That's our stock-in-trade and that's what our readers look for us to be. We will be as aggressive as we've ever been in covering the big stories, political and otherwise."
At a news weekly magazine -- where the job of editor includes signing off on every article, cover headline, chart, photograph and "pull quote" -- the influence of the editor is felt to the core of the publication. A self-described technophile, Mr. Whitaker said he wanted to devote more space to technology and science, the global economy, domestic markets, personal investing and family issues, and added that he was especially interested in making the magazine relevant to younger readers.
"I think we do an extremely good job covering the Baby Boom generation, and we will continue to do so as we get older," he said. "But I want this to be a must-read for younger readers as well."
Newsweek has just emerged from its most profitable year in 1997, said Richard M. Smith, who has held the title of editor in chief since 1984, president since 1991 and chairman since early this year.
The Publishers Information Bureau says that ad pages declined to 1,959 from January to Octoberthis year, from 2,043 for the same period in 1997. But Mr. Smith countered that, for a news organization hinged on a single publication, Newsweek, which is owned by The Washington Post Company, fares "extremely well."
"The thing that always amazes me about Newsweek is that despite Time Inc.'s multiple magazine advertising packages, despite Time-Warner's clout on the newsstand, despite the cross-promotion from CNN and other sectors of engulf and devour, we're in a good dogfight with Time and we win more than we lose," Mr. Smith said. "Everybody has always said that Newsweek's great handicap is that it's a single-magazine company in this universe of hydras, but we do very well."
Mr. Whitaker said that while he admired Time magazine and its marketing strategies, he said he was dismayed at recent decisions that he said blur the line between editorial and advertising priorities.
"I think it's pretty well-known that they're doing things now that seem tailored for specific advertisers," Mr. Whitaker said. He was referring to Time magazine's recent agreement with the Ford Motor Company, in which Ford will be the sole sponsor of new editorial sections that focus on the environment.
Time's managing editor, Walter Isaacson, defended Time's separation of powers. "We have a great system of church and state, and we do editorially what we feel passionate about editorially," he said.
Mr. Whitaker is regarded by his staff as a strong, even-keeled intellectual presence, less seismic in his deadline fervor than Mr. Parker.
Raised in Norton, Mass., Mr. Whitaker began his career at Newsweek as an intern in the San Francisco bureau in 1977; he graduated summa cum laude from Harvard in 1979. As assistant managing editor from 1991 to 1996, he expanded the magazine's technology coverage, and has written on the issue of race for the magazine -- including an essay titled "Whites v. Blacks," which Newsweek published after the O. J. Simpson trial -- but says his race is irrelevant.
"I'm proud and I'm honored to be in this position," Mr. Whitaker said, "but my goal is to be the very best editor of Newsweek that I can be, not just the best black editor."
Mr. Whitaker is married to Alexis Gelber, an assistant managing editor at Newsweek; she reports to Michael Elliott, editor of Newsweek's international editions. Mr. Elliott had been one of several names mentioned as a potential successor to Mr. Parker, aside from Mr. Whitaker. Ms. McDaniel was another; Evan Thomas, an assistant managing editor, an author and familiar face on the talk-show circuit, had also been mentioned. All say that there was no jockeying for the title of editor.
"We have an extremely healthy franchise, and we have to make sure we're better at it than everybody else," Mr. Whitaker said. "The key to that is to getting really smart, energetic and aggressive young reporters and writers, and give them a voice at the table. I've tried to be a real advocate in getting their views and interests into the magazine."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Newsweek's new management team, from left, Ann McDaniel, Mark Whitaker and Jon Meacham, yesterday in New York. The magazine announced the appointment of Mr. Whitaker, 41, as its new editor. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); LEUKEMIA (71%); IMPEACHMENT (50%); 

PERSON: MARK WHITAKER (95%); STEPHEN G SMITH (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



291 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: After Malaise, a New Mood in Nation's Capital

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 10

 BODY:
The District of Columbia is recycling trash again. Squadrons of work crews are busy fixing streets. New parking meters have replaced their vandalized ancestors. For the first time in years, residential real estate prices are going up.
In small ways and large, the nation's capital is on the mend. A near decade of financial chaos, rising crime rates and spiritual malaise has given way to balanced budgets, business expansion, safer streets and the possibility of true reform in the city government. 
 Many problems persist, of course. The District Police Department is still a work in progress, with a new chief working out inefficiencies of the past. Many of the city's public schools need better teachers and smaller classes. Budget projections suggest a need for $500 million a year in additional help from the Federal Government to keep the budget balanced.
And race in a city where blacks constitute a 57 percent majority remains near the surface. When two white candidates won seats on the City Council last week to give whites a majority for the first time, many blacks throughout the city, including the outgoing Mayor, Marion S. Barry Jr., raised concerns about a white majority not being sensitive to black issues, like maintaining a summer jobs program and preserving the city-owned hospital that serves a large portion of the poor community.
But even with those challenges, many local officials, including Mr. Barry's successor, 47-year-old Anthony A. Williams, are predicting that the city is well beyond the worst of times and that the sunset of Mr. Barry's career is ushering in a new era for the city, its politics and its residents.
"On a scale of zero to 10, with 10 the best, I'd say we're at 5 and climbing," said Mr. Williams, a Democrat, whose victory last Tuesday reflected much of the optimism now pervading the District of Columbia.
Even Congress is impressed.
"The city is moving in the right direction," said Representative Thomas M. Davis 3d, a Virginia Republican who has been involved in District matters in the House for the last four years.
Of Mr. Williams, he added: "Our job now is to give him the tools he needs to succeed."
Just as the new Mayor promises to be different in style and effectiveness from Mr. Barry, who is retiring after 16 years in office over the last two decades, the city itself has changed as well.
Four years ago, on that same scale of municipal viability, the District would barely have nudged a 1. The city was mired in debt and deficit spending. Service agencies were broken. Violent crime was rampant. Mr. Barry blamed his predecessor, Sharon Pratt Kelly, for all the problems, and she blamed him.
Congress stepped in to change much of that. With Republicans in control for the first time in 40 years, lawmakers created a financial control board in 1995 and stripped Mr. Barry of virtually any meaningful role in running the city. He and his supporters complained, but the positive results proved to be unambiguous.
Now the control board is ready to shift authority for running the city back to the new Mayor upon his inauguration on Jan. 2, and if the city can balance its budget for two more years the control board, by law, will shut down.
It was Mr. Williams's role in the revival that brought him to the attention of voters. Hired as the city's chief financial officer in October 1995, he effectively served as an intermediary between the control board and city leaders, vowing to resign within a year if he could not straighten out the mess.
In general, he recommended tough decisions to set the city's finances straight, and for the most part, the control board agreed with him despite Mr. Barry's frequent objections.
But as a lifelong number-crunching bureaucrat, Mr. Williams had never contemplated running for office and certainly not in a city where Mr. Barry held almost Svengali-like sway over much of the electorate since his first run for Mayor in 1978.
A series of events changed all that.
The problems of the District through the early years of the decade had quietly led to a shift in the electorate. An increasing number of middle-class families, most of them black and many of them Barry supporters, were leaving the city for the better schools and safer streets of the suburbs at a faster rate than white families.
While that continued, an overall population decline that began in the 1950's also narrowed the gap with whites, who have been a minority group in the District since the late 1950's. The exodus enabled whites -- and to a lesser extent, the growing number of Hispanic and Asian residents -- to gain growing influence in citywide elections.
Whites now account for about 32 percent of the city's population, an increase from 29 percent in 1990. Blacks make up about 57 percent, a decrease from 60 percent in 1990.
The white influence never seemed more pronounced once Mr. Barry announced in May that he would not seek re-election. Not long afterward, three leading members of the City Council -- Harold Brazil and Kevin P. Chavous, who are black, and Jack Evans, who is white -- declared themselves candidates to succeed him, but none of them could match Mr. Williams's appeal to whites, who perceived the other three as emblems of the city's past problems arising out of their shared history on the Council.
In District political circles, Mr. Williams, who is black, was widely viewed as the outsider because he is a native of Los Angeles who only moved to the District five years ago.
But he was also seen as someone who had answers, a perception that was especially widespread among middle-class and affluent whites -- voters who abandoned their earlier allegiance to Mr. Barry after his 1990 conviction on a drug possession charge. As a group, they were also more likely to vote than any other in the city.
As a result, Mr. Williams built a strong coalition of enough blacks and whites to win the Democratic primary in September with 50 percent of the vote in a race that also included several marginal candidates. In the general election, he won every precinct of the city to gain 66 percent of the vote, to 30 percent for his Republican challenger, Carol Schwartz, another member of the City Council.
The turnout in Ward 3, the most northwest area of the city with the highest concentration of whites and affluent voters, was 49.4 percent, highest in the city. Across the Anacostia River in Ward 8, the poorest in the city with the highest concentration of former Barry supporters, the turnout was 25.2 percent, lowest in the city.
To Mr. Williams, the election was a mandate to continue the tough choices and build on what he perceives as the District's assets -- strengths that were largely obscured by the financial crisis.
"We have a chance to be a great success story," Mr. Williams said in an interview this week, giving shape to his short-term priorities. "Every city wants to be all things to all people, but every city has to find its niche markets. We are still the Federal center. We have a stable employment base. Last year we attracted 24 million tourists. Every diplomat in the world has been here -- hello -- that has got to be good for international trade. We have a lot of competitive assets."
While Mr. Barry was always eager to sell the city's assets -- even now he is in Cameroon on what he describes as a trade mission -- his efforts in this final term have been marginal, largely because of his diminished powers.
Other local leaders, meanwhile, have embarked on a full-scale economic development program that they believe is vital to the city's future in the wake of the loss of 60,000 jobs in the city through the reorganization of the Federal and municipal governments in recent years.
The planning group, which includes Federal agencies, local agencies and private organizations like Fannie Mae, as well as the control board, has targeted six industries -- some of the niche markets Mr. Williams mentioned, like tourism, technology and health care services -- to exploit for job expansion and economic growth to enable the District to compete with faster-growing suburbs in Maryland and Virginia.
The Mayor-elect said he has already discussed other initiatives with Hillary Rodham Clinton.
"We have gone further and faster than any other city in the same situation," Mr. Williams said. But mindful of daunting challenges ahead, he conceded that he would have to convince both Congress and District residents that he was the right choice for the job.
"It still shocks me to think that I'll be Mayor of this city," Mr. Williams said of his rise and the moment at hand. "One minute, it's electrifying; the next, it's terrifying. There are a lot of expectations. But ultimately, they are all motivating. I know what I can do, but the whole thing is amazing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anthony A. Williams, the Mayor-elect of Washington, sees a new era. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Anthony A. Williams was hired as Washington's chief financial officer in 1995 and on Jan. 2 will become the city's Mayor. His victory in last Tuesday's election reflected a growing sense of optimism in the city. (Shana Raab for The New York Times); New parking meters near the Washington Monument are among the signs that the District of Columbia has begun to treat its urban ills. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)(pg. A24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MAYORS (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); BUDGET FORECASTS (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); VIOLENT CRIME (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); 

PERSON: TOM DAVIS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



292 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
U.S. Threatens Europe With 100% Tariffs

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 10

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration threatened today to place 100 percent tariffs on wine, cheese and other imports from Europe if the European Union did not lift its trade restrictions on bananas sold by American companies.
In Brussels, Sir Leon Brittan, the European trade commissioner, said at a news conference that European nations would challenge such duties in the World Trade Organization. "In resorting to unilateral action," he declared, "the United States is setting itself above the law and resorting to the principle of might is right." 
 Jay Ziegler, a spokesman for the office of the United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, disagreed, accusing the European Union of having failed to change its trade policies after being ordered to do so by the World Trade Organization.
"What we are doing is consistent with our rights," Mr. Ziegler said, "and represents a measure of frustration that the European Union continues to disavow its obligations."
This is the latest round in a long struggle between the United States and Europe over trade in bananas. The authorities here said it was highly unlikely that the stiff tariffs threatened today would ever be imposed. They said the Administration had made a bold move to get the European Union to pay attention.
In the past, the Clinton Administration made similar threats to place high tariffs on Japanese luxury cars and on Chinese textile products, but withdrew the threats after those countries made concessions.
For years, the United States has complained that the big American fruit distributors, Chiquita Brands International and the Dole Food Company, were restrained from selling Latin American-grown bananas in Europe.
The European Union has conceded that its regulations have favored bananas from African, Caribbean and Pacific countries that were once colonies of European nations. European officials contend that the economies of these former colonies would be devastated if they had to compete with lower-cost Latin American producers whose bananas are sold by the American companies.
Last year, the World Trade Organization, which administers trade accords and monitors national trade policies, ruled in favor of the United States and ordered the European Union to modify its regulations. The Europeans did so, but the Administration maintains that the modifications were, in Mr. Ziegler's words, "nothing but window dressing."
One of the main beneficiaries of increased banana sales in Europe would be Carl H. Lindner, a Cincinnati investor who controls Chiquita Brands and is one of the largest donors to political campaigns in the United States. During the 1996 Presidential race, Mr. Lindner was an overnight guest of President Clinton in the Lincoln Bedroom, and he allowed Bob Dole, the Republican candidate, to use his family's aircraft.
Leading up to this year's Congressional elections, Mr. Lindner, his family and his company, the American Financial Corporation, donated more than $850,000 to candidates and parties, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan watchdog organization that monitors campaign finance practices. More than three-quarters of the total went to Republicans.
In a notice published today in the Federal Register, the United States trade representative said it would announce on Dec. 15 exactly which products would be subject to the 100 percent tariffs. They would go into effect Feb. 1. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DOLE (NYSE) (82%); CQB (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (82%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (60%); NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (54%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); BELGIUM (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (77%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: DOLE FOOD CO INC (82%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL CORP (60%); CHIQUITA BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); BELGIUM (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); OHIO, USA (77%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EUROPEAN UNION (92%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FRESH FRUIT & VEGETABLE WHOLESALERS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (83%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); CHEESE (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (63%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%); TEXTILES (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



293 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Clinton Warns U.S. Will Fight Cheap Imports

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 10

 BODY:
President Clinton said for the first time today that the United States would not tolerate the "flooding of our markets" with low-cost goods from Asia and Russia, particularly steel, that are threatening the jobs of American workers.
The President's statement came days after a White House meeting of top executives of steel companies and the United Steelworkers of America, which helped get out the vote for Democrats last week, playing a pivotal role with other unions in the party's success in midterm elections. 
 After that meeting, which included Mr. Clinton, Vice President Al Gore and top Cabinet officials, aides said the White House would not grant the unions' demand to cut off imports of steel that they say are being dumped in the American markets. But today, the President warned that foreign nations must "play by the rules," appearing to signal that the United States would press other nations to restrict their exports to the United States.
The remarks, which came in an address to the President's Export Council, an advisory group, create an apparent conflict in United States policy, which until now has indirectly encouraged economically troubled countries to export their goods. But with the United States as the strongest and most open economy, Japan in deep recession and European markets still closed to many goods, most of those imports have come here, creating a political problem the White House must now deal with.
How to deal with the flood of imports, and the soaring trade deficit they are creating, has touched off a debate in the Administration. Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, who has led the effort to design rescue packages for Asian nations, Russia and Latin America, has urged Mr. Clinton to be cautious in limiting the ability of those nations to export goods to the United States, their main source of hard currency now.
Any effort to cut off the American market, Mr. Rubin noted today in a sharp exchange with George Becker, the steelworkers' union chief, could "have consequences that are adverse to workers in other industries and consumers" who have benefited from low-priced imports.
Mr. Rubin has also cautioned that any move by the United States to close its markets could be taken as a signal by other nations that they are free to do the same. "We don't want to encourage greater protectionism abroad," he told Mr. Becker during a meeting of the export council.
But Secretary of Commerce William M. Daley; the United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, and the President's political advisers have all urged more aggressive action, noting that layoffs have already begun in the steel industry and warning that they could spread elsewhere.
On Friday, Mr. Gore, who is increasingly attentive to the demands of both business and labor unions, warned a group of top European executives that "the United States cannot be the importer of only resort" for the world's ailing nations. The phrase has since been repeated by others in the Administration.
Mr. Daley has been blunter. Noting that imports of Japanese-made hot-rolled steel, used for construction products, had increased fivefold this year, he said on Friday that "we cannot sustain these rates."
"We alone cannot absorb all of Asia's imports," Secretary Daley added. "We will not be the dumping ground for troubled economies."
"Just look at Japan's trade surplus with nations outside Asia," he said. "It is almost three and a half times as large as it was a year ago. This is a major source of instability. And such instability -- caused by boatloads of cheap imports -- can lead to political unrest, as people fear for their jobs."
Today, Mr. Daley inched toward action: The Commerce Department issued a ruling that allows the complaints of the steel industry and unions to be heard on an expedited basis. The action would also allow for stiffer duties to be imposed on foreign steel if the Commerce Department determined that the products are, in fact, being dumped at unfairly low prices.
Mr. Clinton noted that decision in his speech today. The Commerce Department and the International Trade Commission share authority for ruling on whether dumping is taking place and for imposing compensatory tariffs. Setting limits on imports would almost certainly violate international trade agreements.
Until today, the President had not discussed the problem of rising imports from Asian or other troubled economies in public. On the contrary, agreements between the International Monetary Fund and Indonesia, Thailand and South Korea all assume significantly increased exports by those countries, because their devalued currencies make their goods less expensive abroad. The Treasury Department signed off on all those accords after detailed study of their economic assumptions.
But now, the political costs of those accords are becoming clear. The steel industry has been the first to scream, and loudest, but makers of auto parts, machine tools and semiconductors are also complaining that foreign goods are being sold here at prices below their production costs.
"There is certainly an effort now to try to take pressure off the U.S. market as the main buyers of Asian goods," C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics in Washington, said on Monday. Mr. Bergsten noted that the "flood" the Administration is now complaining about is only at its beginning stages: Only in recent months have the Asian countries hit hardest in the economic downturn begun to gear up their exports.
Mr. Becker, the steelworkers' union leader, has complained that the Administration's response is too slow and cautious. "The crisis is here and now," he said last week. "The industry is on the verge of a catastrophe that will almost certainly dwarf the steel disasters of the 80's."
Mr. Clinton spent much of his speech today insisting that the burden of reviving Asia falls on Japan, where he is scheduled to visit next week after attending a meeting of Asian leaders in Malaysia. The White House hinted today, however, that Mr. Clinton might have to curtail or even cancel the trip, depending on the showdown with Iraq over United Nations inspections.
In a separate appearance at the export council, Ms. Barshefsky expressed mounting frustration with China, which has made no new proposals for market liberalizations that would pave the way for its entry into the World Trade Organization.
During the summer, and particularly during his trip to China, Mr. Clinton and his aides have been upbeat about China. But Ms. Barshefsky said the Chinese had been retreating on market reforms and that bureaucrats there had "become somewhat more entrenched." To save their own jobs at a time of Government streamlining in Beijing, she said, "they think it is wiser to take a hard line, to say 'no' to the United States." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (57%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (57%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); PROTECTIONISM (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); EXPORT PRICES (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); CURRENCIES (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



294 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: City and State to Pay $49 Million To Settle Foster-Care Fraud Suit

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
New York City and New York State agreed yesterday to pay $49 million to settle a civil lawsuit brought by a city employee who charged that New York fraudulently collected hundreds of millions of dollars in Federal funds between 1990 and 1994 for required foster care services that were not provided.
The settlement, approved yesterday by Judge Denny Chin of United States District Court for the Southern District, includes no admission of wrongdoing, but requires the city and the state to give Federal officials access to foster care computer records over the next three years so they can determine whether the city is providing mandated services to children in foster care. 
 Nicholas Scoppetta, the Commissioner of the Administration for Children's Services, criticized the terms of the settlement. "By taking back $49 million, the United States is penalizing the city and state for what is essentially a record-keeping failure by overburdened foster care workers," he said in a statement released yesterday.
But Mary Jo White, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, issued a sharp retort. "It is unfortunate that the city seeks to minimize and blame others for the serious conduct and failure" that led one of its own child welfare officials to file the lawsuit, Ms. White said.
The city will pay $14 million and the state, which is responsible for overseeing the city's system and collected most of the Federal money, will pay $35 million.
The services at issue include caseworker visits to foster homes, interviews with foster children, the monitoring of birth parents and foster families, and long-term planning reviews every six months so that children in foster care do not drift through childhood without permanent homes.
"We would hope," Ms. White said, "that the city would expend its efforts in establishing a system, as mandated by Congress, that insures that children promptly receive the critical social services necessary for their welfare."
Besides requiring the city and state to provide these services to receive foster care reimbursement, the Federal government offers "incentive funds" to child welfare systems that can demonstrate that more than 90 percent of their foster care cases are in complete compliance with these legal requirements.
Federal prosecutors contended that New York misled Federal officials to collect these incentive funds during the administration of Mayor David N. Dinkins and the first year of the Giuliani administration. If prosecutors had prevailed in a trial, New York risked having to return $100 million in foster care money, Lorna Goodman, an assistant corporation counsel for the city, said yesterday. Ms. Goodman said that the charges of fraud were baseless.
Bracha Graber will receive $4.9 million under the settlement. Ms. Graber, an employee of the city's child welfare agency, said she would use a substantial portion of the award to establish a foundation, called the Mel Collins Memorial Children's Foundation, to provide scholarships for art, music and other extracurricular activities to New York City foster children.
"It's a joy to be able to directly help children in foster care," Ms. Graber said.
Carl H. Loewenson Jr., Ms. Graber's lawyer, said Ms. Graber had repeatedly refused to participate in the falsification of computer records and brought the activity to the attention of her superiors to no avail. She finally turned to Federal prosecutors, suing the city and state under the whistle-blower law known as the False Claims Act for triple the amount of actual damages, estimated in the complaint to be at least $37.4 million.
But in June, Judge Chin ruled that neither a state nor a municipality could be named as a defendant under the False Claims Act. That issue is pending in an unrelated case before the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. By settling the case, the city avoids the cost of litigation and appeals, and the risk of losing the case.
"Actions speak louder than words," Mr. Loewenson said. "I didn't grow up in New York, but back where I come from, you don't pay $49 million unless you did something wrong."
The complaint in the lawsuit painted a picture of a child welfare system in disarray during the early 1990's, facing city budget cuts in a recession and rising caseloads spurred by the crack cocaine epidemic and homelessness. It was in that environment, Federal prosecutors said when Ms. Graber filed her suit two years ago, that child welfare officials established a plan to hang on to as much Federal money as possible by filing false casework reports on hundreds, perhaps thousands, of foster children under the city's care.
City officials, including Robert L. Little, the former foster child who headed the city agency under Mr. Dinkins, denied that there was any such scheme. But the substance of the charges -- that children were left to languish in foster care, deprived of the reviews and planning intended to move them into permanent homes and the monitoring needed to protect them from abuse -- has been echoed by class action lawsuits still pending.
The city is currently negotiating to settle Marisol v. Giuliani, a class-action lawsuit brought late in 1995 by Children's Rights Inc., a national nonprofit children's advocacy organization. The city's position has been that since Mr. Scoppetta's appointment in 1996, his overhaul of the agency has made this and other pending litigation obsolete.
But the complaint in Marisol contends that the system has been so chronically ridden with illegal practices, mismanagement and indifference to children that it cannot be fixed from the inside. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LITIGATION (91%); FOSTER CARE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); LAWYERS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); PARENTS (74%); FAMILY (74%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); 

PERSON: MARY JO WHITE (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



295 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Shares of Intel Hit New High On Strong Profit Estimates
Shares of Intel rose $1.5625, to $97.5625, andclimbed to $100.25 in after-hours trading after the semiconductor maker said that fourth-quarter results would be above analysts' expectations.
Intel said stronger-than-expected demand for personal computers across all market segments and geographies would increase revenue and profit for the quarter. Page C23. 

Compaq to Sell Computers Directly
Compaq, the largest manufacturer of personal computers, will start selling its machines directly by telephone and over the Internet at prices lower than those now charged by local dealers, people close to the company's strategic planning said. The company is taking the step to fend off Dell, a potent competitor that always marketed its machines directly and now threatens Compaq's market lead. C23.
 
Stocks Decline for a Second Day
Stocks slipped as sellers emerged late in the day to push prices down for a second consecutive session. Traders and analysts cited a variety of reasons for the selloff, including concern about a slowdown in the growth of corporate earnings and doubts that the Federal Reserve's policy-making committee will cut interest rates on Tuesday. C10.

Sprint Capital sold $5 billion of bonds in the second-biggest corporate sale ever. C10.
 
The News Corporation raised $2.8 billion with the sale of 124.8 million shares of Fox Entertainment Group. It was the third-largest initial public offering ever. C4.

Old E-Mail Has Become a Liability
Companies are learning from the antitrust lawsuit against Microsoft that old E-mail can be a mine field of legal liability, not to mention a source of public embarrassment. So now companies are imposing new restrictions on E-mail. A1.
 
Pete Higgins, vice president of the Interactive Media Group at Microsoft since late 1996, is taking a leave from the company and is expected to return to a different job next year. He had recently headed Microsoft's effort to make the company a dominant player in new media, but that move has had disappointing financial results. C23.
 
Newsweek Names Whitaker Editor
As expected, Mark Whitaker was named editor of Newsweek. He succeeds Maynard Parker, who died last month. Mr. Whitaker, left, joined the news magazine in 1977 as an intern and oversaw its technology and business coverage before becoming managing editor. Newsweek attracted attention this year for its coverage of the Monica Lewinsky matter. A14.
 
Long-Term Capital Earned a Profit
Helped by a sharp rebound in bond markets worldwide, Long-Term Capital earned a small paper profit for the banks and brokerage firms that saved it from bankruptcy in six weeks ago. C10.
 
Productivity of Workers Rises
The productivity of American workers rose at a 2.3 percent annual rate in the third quarter, offsetting higher labor costs and giving Federal Reserve policy makers room to cut interest rates if necessary. C4.
 
Bananas at Issue in Trade Rift
The Clinton Administration threatened to impose 100 percent tariffs on wine, cheese and other European imports if the European Union did not lift its trade curbs on bananas sold by American companies. C4.
 
Bristol-Myers Names New Officials
Bristol-Myers Squibb, long known for its well-mannered culture, announced a series of executive assignments that analysts say may soon set off a battle royal for the company's top office. Market Place. C9.
 
Bond Market Closed; Others Open
Government offices, most banks and the Treasury bond market will be closed today in observance of Veterans Day. But stock and commodity markets will be open.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,863.98, down 33.98
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.29%, Unchanged
The Dollar -- 122.52 yen, up 0.95
 
Graph tracks Intel share price, since last Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (91%); NWS (NASDAQ) (67%); NWS (ASX) (67%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (67%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (67%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (91%); NEWS CORP (67%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (66%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); INTERACTIVE MEDIA GROUP INC (53%); NEWSWEEK NAMES WHITAKER (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEWSWEEK NAMES WHITAKER (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BONDS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (83%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (79%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); SALES & SELLING (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); LITIGATION (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



296 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
C.I.A. Director Threatened Resignation Over Spy
The Central Intelligence Agency director, George Tenet, told President Clinton during Middle East peace talks last month that he would resign if Mr. Clinton agreed to an Israeli demand for the release of a convicted spy, Jonathan Jay Pollard, as part of an agreement, several Administration officials said. A1
 
The Israeli Cabinet will meet today to approve the new Israeli-Palestinian accord, renewing deliberations suspended after a suicide bombing in Jerusalem last Friday, the Government announced. The Cabinet meeting was announced under intense American pressure to resume the process of ratifying the agreement after a two-week delay. A12 

New Initiative on Blindness
The leading cause of preventable blindness worldwide can be effectively treated by a single dose of an antibiotic once a year, health workers said, and they announced a major push to distribute the drug in five countries. A1
 
Guerrillas Making Comeback
The separatist Kosovo guerrillas, who sprang out of nowhere in the spring and then were pummeled by the Serbs in a summer offensive, are bouncing back, more resilient and better organized than expected, and raising concerns in Washington. A3
 
Dalai Lama Meets With Clinton
The Dalai Lama, the spiritual leader of Tibet, met with President Clinton at the White House and said he was maneuvering to open talks with the Chinese Government aimed at gaining some autonomy for his people. A6
 
U.S. Intensifies Threats on Iraq
The Clinton Administration stepped up its threats against Iraq, ruling out a negotiated end to President Saddam Hussein's defiance of international arms inspectors while threatening to cut his ability to make chemical and biological weapons if he does not back down. A12
 
Unrest Continues in Indonesia
Opposing groups of demonstrators threw rocks and wood spears at each other as the Indonesian Parliament met for the first time since the ouster of President Suharto, to chart a course toward a more democratic government. A meeting of the leading opposition figures led to a demand for a faster timetable to elections, and student demonstrators insisted that President B. J. Habibie step down immediately. A4
 
Schroder Addresses Parliament
The German Chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, in his inaugural speech to Parliament, laid out a program of sweeping ambitions but scant detail that seemed unlikely to end questioning about what his "New Middle" in German politics really means. Mr. Schroder proclaimed that Germany has "come of age" and that the return of the capital to Berlin next year represented "a new beginning" for a country still divided and afflicted by high unemployment. A4
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A14-25
 
G.O.P. Still in Disarray On Handling Impeachment
House Republicans, reeling from the election debacle and well aware of public fatigue over the inquiry against President Clinton, are still feuding about their impeachment strategy. Republicans are divided over everything from which witnesses to call, and how many, to how long to conduct the inquiry and whether it should even be brought to a vote on the House floor. A1
 
John Huang, a Democratic fund-raiser at the center of the 1996 campaign finance controversy, was granted immunity this spring in exchange for cooperation in Kenneth W. Starr's investigation of Webster L. Hubbell, law-enforcement officials said. A24
 
Armey Hangs On, for Now
Representative Dick Armey appeared to be ahead in his struggle to keep his job as House majority leader, but rumors that a fourth candidate may enter the race put even more uncertainty into the battle. A25
 
Schism Among Texas Baptists
A group of strict theological conservatives voted to break away from Baptist General Convention of Texas, the second time in two years that a state organization in the 16 million-member Southern Baptist Convention has ruptured. A21
 
New Pain Reliever Developed
Two companies say they have developed a class of drugs that can relieve pain and inflammation without the gastrointestinal side effects of current drugs. A18
 
Space Station Change Sought
NASA is considering a last-minute request from the Russian Space Agency to change the planned orbit of the international space station, putting it much closer to their old Mir station. Putting the new station near Mir, critics suspect, could be part of a plan to delay the destruction of the older station. A22
 
Custody Ruling Overturned
An appeals court overturned a ruling giving O. J. Simpson custody of his two younger children, saying more consideration should have been given to the possibility that Mr. Simpson killed his former wife and a friend of hers. The court ordered a new hearing on a petition by the parents of Mr. Simpson's former wife. A22
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Man Found Guilty In Teacher's Killing
Corey Arthur was found guilty of second-degree murder in the death of Jonathan M. Levin, his former high school English teacher. The verdict came after about 11 hours of deliberations over two days. Mr. Arthur, who was also found guilty of two counts of first-degree robbery, faces a maximum sentence of 25 years to life in prison when he is sentenced on Dec. 10. A1
 
Suit Over Foster Care Settled
New York City and New York State agreed to pay $49 million to settle a civil lawsuit brought by a woman who charged that New York fraudulently collected hundreds of millions of dollars in Federal funds between 1990 and 1994 for required foster care services that were not provided. No wrongdoing was admitted. B1
 
Bomb Suspects Complain
A Federal district judge agreed to review complaints by lawyers for three men arrested in the bombings of two United States embassies in Africa that their jail conditions in Manhattan are unconstitutional and inhumane. The lawyers said that among other things their clients were held in almost total isolation and did not get adequate time and space for exercise. B3
 
EDUCATION B14
 
ARTS E1-10
 
Met Names New Leaders
James R. Houghton, the former chairman of Corning Inc., was named chairman of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, succeeding Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, who announced his retirement in September. The museum also announced the appointment of David E. McKinney as its next president. Mr. McKinney will succeed William H. Luers, who is stepping down after 12 years. E1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Braves and Reds Trade
In baseball's first major post-season trade, the Atlanta Braves sent Denny Neagle, a member of their vaunted starting pitching rotation, to the Cincinnati Reds in a five-player trade that brought them Bret Boone, the second baseman they coveted. D5
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-24
 
Clinton Issues Import Warning
President Clinton said for the first time that the United States would not tolerate the "flooding of our markets" with low-cost goods, particularly steel, that are threatening American jobs. The warning came just days after a White House meeting of executives of steel manufacturers and the United Steelworkers of America, which helped get out the Democratic vote last week. C1
 
Gates Shrugged Off Inquiry
William H. Gates told a group of industry executives in 1995 that the Government's antitrust investigation of Microsoft would "blow over," one of the executives testified. C1
 
U.S. Threatens 100% Tariffs
The Clinton Administration threatened to place 100 percent tariffs on wine, cheese and other imports from Europe if the European Union did not lift its trade restrictions on bananas sold by American companies. C4
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES B9
 
Leonard de Paur
The director of community relations for Lincoln Center for 17 years, he was 83. B9
 
DINING F1-18
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: Remember global warming?; constitutional room for censure; vouchers for parochial schools.
Columns: Maureen Dowd, Frank Rich.
 
Crossword E8
 
Weather D5
 
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); IRAQ (92%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); GERMANY (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); TIBET (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: XIZANG, CHINA (57%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (96%); IRAQ (92%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); GERMANY (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); TIBET (79%); CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (57%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TALKS & MEETINGS (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); POLITICS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); BOMBINGS (70%); BLINDNESS (69%); ANTIBIOTICS (68%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (64%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (64%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (56%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); DALAI LAMA (64%); GERHARD SCHRODER (62%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



297 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2197 words

HEADLINE: BUDDHA VS. BEIJING: A special report.;
Booming China Threatens Spirit of Tibet

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

DATELINE: LHASA, Tibet

 BODY:
At daybreak, thousands of Tibetan worshipers march a path that circles this holy city, twirling prayer wheels and murmuring tributes of faith. Clad in dark Tibetan robes or silk tunics, they wind their way around a gold-roofed temple where the scent of smoldering juniper branches, a traditional offering, rises from a blackened shrine.
Past a dilapidated Chinese factory, down an ill-paved city street, their daily parade then takes the faithful right by a row of gambling houses and massage parlors that represent the gaudiest element of a growing Chinese presence here. Yet few Tibetans even glance into these places of imported debauchery as they walk by, keeping their focus on the sacred trail. 
 Tibet, a mountainous desert whose people have preserved a remarkably intense form of religious devotion despite decades of persecution by the Chinese, is now in the next stage of a grindingly long battle between Tibetan tradition and Chinese modernity. Today it is the onslaught of China's free-wheeling economic boom that most threatens Tibet's resilient Buddhist culture.
"They try to beat us, to silence us, to overwhelm us," said an elderly, dough-faced monk, whispering in a dark corner at Sera Monastery, a sprawling complex at the edge of town. "You can see they are not succeeding; just look at all the people who come to worship every day."
Tibet's exiled leader, the Dalai Lama, is in Washington seeking support for his efforts to persuade Chinese leaders to allow more self-rule for Tibet, even under Chinese sovereignty. Apart from international pressure, however, Beijing has little incentive to negotiate.
China exercises firm military and political control over Tibet, as it has since 1959, when the Dalai Lama fled to India. In the last four years the authorities have sharply tightened restraints on Buddhist monasteries, seen as centers of dissent, and limited the number of monks allowed to worship.
No sign of protest or potential violence is evident in Lhasa today, and for a city that is ethnically divided -- there is a distinctly Tibetan half and a Chinese half -- there is little palpable tension. In open-air markets selling fruit, clothing and distinctive Tibetan jewelry, crowds of both groups mix easily.
The authorities still limit access to Tibet, but are cautiously allowing more Western journalists to enter, including the first reporter from The New York Times since 1990.
Yet after decades of trying, Beijing's political and now economic efforts to fully transform Tibet into another province of China still founder on Tibetans' extraordinary religious fervor. Religion and culture create such a deep gulf between Chinese and Tibetan ways of life that it is hard to foresee any easy resolution.
The most striking aspect of daily life in Lhasa today is the passionate worship by Tibetans of every station. One must rise at dawn to see the daily, two-hour march around central Lhasa that draws thousands of worshipers each day, but thousands more pilgrims who come from elsewhere in Tibet to pray at the region's holiest sites are evident everywhere in town.
All day long at the gate of the Jokhang Temple, the most revered structure in Tibet, dozens of worshipers carry out an act of prostration by lying face down on cold stone, only to stand up again, hands together, and repeat the motion hundreds of times. Dirt-poor pilgrims, filthy from weeks or even months of travel, pray next to well-dressed businessmen and women from Lhasa.
"The Chinese don't understand our religion," said Chuni, 25, a health administrator who came to the Jokhang to pray one recent evening, and who like many Tibetans uses only one name. "They think we are uneducated and inferior. They will never understand."
 
The Resentment Wears a Mask
 A layer of good-natured Tibetan fatalism, Ms. Chuni said, often shields the animosity that ordinary Tibetans feel toward Chinese. Underneath, she said, most Tibetans deeply resent the Chinese presence here.
Tibetans are unlikely to forget the relentless efforts to destroy their culture that came in the years after Chinese forces consolidated control in 1959. Calling it liberation, the Communist authorities banned religious worship, demolished monasteries and killed untold thousands of Tibetans who resisted.
Times change, as do methods. But China's aim in Tibet remains the same, to integrate it more closely with the rest of "the motherland." In the 1960's that meant tearing down almost anything old and parroting fanatical political slogans; today it means building almost anything new in the name of economic development.
Officials in the Chinese Government point to the undeniable benefits built with Beijing money in recent years: roads and telephones that allow communication in previously impassable areas, hospitals and schools that offer care and general education in a land that had almost none during the centuries it was run by a theocracy.
Chinese authorities make much of the stubbornly medieval nature of Tibet's old society, where slaves of various grades were taught that they suffered for misdeeds in a past life.
But material gains have come on Chinese terms. All Tibetans are required to be literate in Chinese for the best jobs, in government or state industry; few Chinese ever learn Tibetan, even officials who have lived here for decades. Schools are theoretically bilingual, but in practice Chinese dominates.
 
The Economy: For Whose Benefit?
 Many Tibetans, accepting the fact of Chinese dominance, push their children to study Chinese, because it broadens their chances for decent employment. Some send their children to study at schools in China proper. "I am sad that so many children cannot read or speak Tibetan well," said a 35-year-old employee at a state-run department store, and mother of a 9-year-old girl. "But I want what is best for my daughter."
Like many other Tibetans, this woman complained that economic gains in Tibet have overwhelmingly benefited Chinese here, not Tibetans. It is hard to measure, since economic status is not measured by ethnic group, but Tibetans uniformly say that unemployment among Tibetans is many times that of unemployment among Chinese.
A senior Chinese leader, Hu Yaobang, deplored the colonial attitude that prevailed among Chinese officials here when he visited in 1980. Much has changed in Tibet since then, but perhaps not the mindset of the average Chinese official. In a small but telling example, Chinese officials still insist that Beijing time be observed throughout Tibet -- as it is elsewhere throughout Chinese-controlled territory -- even though this means sunrise in November here comes after 8, and sunset after 7.
Although Beijing clearly hopes a rising economic tide will draw Tibetans closer to the Chinese way, local officials assigned here often seem more interested in taking advantage of loose restrictions to make money in any way possible. As in most of China, a local official has wide latitude in economic matters, as long as his or her political patron is secure.
An attractive park called Sun Island, where the path of holy worship takes thousands of Tibetans each morning, was converted two years ago into a resort area of gambling halls that operate openly, even though they are technically illegal. Across the street is a long row of massage parlors with come-hither names, equally open and, because they are clearly fronts for prostitution, equally illegal.
"Gambling? How could we allow gambling?" asked Nima Tsering, a Deputy Governor of Tibet, in an interview. "No gambling is allowed in China."
Asked if he was truly unaware of what happened on Sun Island, Mr. Tsering quickly backtracked.
"Maybe our supervision is not perfect," said Mr. Tsering, one of many ethnic Tibetans in the Chinese Government here. "Maybe this phenomenon does exist in some cases. We know about it. We're keeping an eye on it, and we'll decide what to do when the time comes."
Many Tibetans are as disgusted by the crass presence of the Chinese here as they are by the fact that Chinese businessmen and workers keep arriving each day. Exactly how many Chinese live in Lhasa has become a matter of constant interest.
Official Lhasa statistics record that out of 198,000 current residents, including Chinese workers who have obtained a temporary residence permit, 55 percent are Tibetan and 45 percent are Han, China's dominant ethnic group. Yet Mr. Tsering conceded that this figure does not include the innumerable Chinese itinerants who fail to register.
Many Chinese and Tibetan businessmen estimate that at least 60 percent of the people in Lhasa at any given time are Chinese. Yet it is hard to know with accuracy because Chinese workers typically stay anywhere from five days to five years.
In addition, Chinese statistics do not include Chinese military personnel. International military experts say there are probably about 50,000 Chinese military personnel stationed in Tibet, as well as an unknown number of paramilitary police officers. After protests erupted here in 1987 and 1989, however, Chinese soldiers have been ordered to keep out of view as much as possible.
Although outside critics of China's Tibet policy denounce what they see as a monolithic Chinese plan to overwhelm Tibet, the day-to-day reality of Chinese expansion here appears to be relatively limited and haphazard.
Tibet's economy, though growing by 10 percent, reached only $927 million last year, a tiny amount considering that more than half of it came in the form of direct grants from Beijing. Yet Chinese businessmen here say there is a larger, unrecorded economy of trading in consumer goods and commodities that draws thousands of businessmen and workers from neighboring Sichuan Province, overflowing with 110 million people, compared with Tibet's 2.4 million.
In fact, several Chinese businessmen here complained that their biggest obstacles here lie not in Tibetan culture, but in the corruption among local officials, who often make money in the form of "fees" that are unlikely ever to appear in provincial balance sheets.
For all the attention and problems that the Chinese presence in Lhasa produces, it represents a small part of the larger picture in what is still a desperately poor region. More than 80 percent of the population in China's Tibetan Autonomous Region lives outside cities and towns as herdsmen and farmers with an average income of $10 a month.
The official population of the Tibetan Autonomous Region is only 2.4 million. Yet the larger Tibetan plateau, each corner carved into another Chinese province, includes a total population of roughly 7 million Tibetans.
One of the traditions that ordinary Tibetans very much keep alive is to save their meager earnings for years in order to make a pilgrimage to Lhasa. Virtually every Tibetan who can comes here to worship.
 
Herdsman's Family Who Came to Pray
 One recent morning, Thondrup, 57, a herdsman from northern Tibet, described how he had prepared for years to bring his family to Lhasa.
For a total of 11 people, including his wife, 2 daughters and sons-in-law and 5 grandchildren, Mr. Thondrup rented a truck to make the journey. It took eight days and nights of terrible roads and volatile weather to reach the capital.
"We came to pray," said Mr. Thondrup as he sat outside the Potala Palace, the former residence of the Dalai Lama. "It is the most important thing we do in our lives."
Offering a simple interpretation of the Tibetan belief that an act of worship brings good will that will pay off in a future life, Mr. Thondrup said his family members could improve their karma by visiting each of the main religious sites in Lhasa.
The only other time Mr. Thondrup came to Lhasa, 15 years ago, he came on a combination of horseback, truck and bus. It took three weeks each way.
New roads, Mr. Thondrup said, have greatly improved livestock trading in his area and fattened his wallet. Yet it has hardly made him more partial to Chinese officials, whom he regards as patronizing and bribe-hungry.
"All they think about is money," he said.
For all the material improvement in Mr. Thondrup's life, like most Tibetans he seems to care far more about prayer and devotion to the Dalai Lama.
"All Tibetans want the Dalai Lama to come home, more than anything else," he said.
In the end, here lies the unsolvable dilemma for the Chinese authorities in Tibet. Regardless of the physical improvements that have been made, the health care and the education, and the fast-growing economy, most Tibetans do not hesitate to talk about their religious attachment to the Dalai Lama.
Almost without exception, ordinary Tibetans here eagerly say that they would happily sacrifice all their own material goods, as well as all the modern advances in Tibet, if only the Dalai Lama would come home for a single day.
Asked to consider this quandary, Mr. Tsering, Tibet's Deputy Governor, took a deep breath and exhaled.
"Some people do have this ideal," he said. "But Tibet needs to be more modern. We need science and technology. That was the old society. We need a new society."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tibetan pilgrims light candles of yak butter at the Jokhang Temple in Lhasa. (Seth Faison/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Tibetan pilgrims visit Ganden Monastery, outside Lhasa, where private donations have rebuilt several chapels that were demolished by the Chinese. (Seth Faison/The New York Times)(pg. A6)
 
Map showing the location of Lhasa: Lhasa is divided into a distinctly Tibetan half and a Chinese half. (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: TIBET (99%); CHINA (97%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (97%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TIBET (99%); CHINA (97%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (97%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIGION (90%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (89%); MASSAGE SERVICES (70%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



298 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
HEINZ TO COMBINE UNITS AND LAY OFF NEARLY 400

 BODY:
In a move that had been expected by Wall Street, the H. J. Heinz Company said yesterday that it was laying off nearly 400 people and combining two of its frozen-foods businesses into one unit. The company also said it would take a $150 million charge in its third quarter, which ends on Jan. 27, to cover the costs of the reorganization. The units affected are Ore-Ida and Weight Watchers, which will be run by Neil Harrison. The move allows Heinz to consolidate expenses. About 200 jobs will be lost when the company closes a frozen-pasta factory in West Chester, Pa. Another 190 jobs will be eliminated by closing the headquarters of Ore-Ida in Boise, Idaho, and moving it to Pittsburgh, where Heinz is based.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (95%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (95%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (95%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOISE, ID, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: H J HEINZ CO (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BOISE, ID, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LAYOFFS (91%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FROZEN FOODS MFG (90%); FROZEN FOODS (87%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); DIETING (54%); 

PERSON: NEIL HARRISON (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



299 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: BASKETBALL: PRO ROUNDUP -- N.B.A. LOCKOUT;
Players Gather Today For a Strategy Session

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE

 BODY:
Thirty-five players are scheduled to attend a stategy meeting today in New York to decide whether to present a new proposal to the owners.
 Among several economic issues, the league and union are deciding how to divide the $2 billion in annual revenues. The players, who received 57 percent last season in salaries, want 60 percent. The league is offering a 50-50 split. Both figures are said to be negotiable, though neither the players nor the owners have moved off those figures in two weeks. 
 If a labor agreement were signed this week (highly unlikely), the earliest the season could start would be Dec. 15. If the more than four-month-old lockout has taken its toll on teams and fans, it has also cost the players.
 More than 200 of the league's players under contract are scheduled to lose their first paychecks on Sunday. For the union president, Patrick Ewing, whose $18.5 million annual salary is the highest in the National Basketball Association, the first two weeks will cost him nearly $1.5 million.
 The union issued some relief last Friday, releasing $20,000 group-licensing checks to many of its members.
 Meanwhile, the league has released some conference and meeting rooms reserved in Philadelphia for the All-Star game on Feb. 14, The Associated Press reported. Speculation about canceling the game has abounded, but organizers said the action was merely a precaution rather than a prelude to a cancellation. MIKE WISE
 
Charges Against O'Neal Are Dropped
 Investigators in Orlando, Fla., have dropped a battery complaint against Shaquille O'Neal because his accuser has not returned their phone calls, sheriff's deputies said yesterday.
 Kim Grant, a 23-year-old Walt Disney World worker, filed the complaint against the Los Angeles Lakers star last month. Investigators tried at least six times to get in touch with Grant by telephone and by mail, said Cmdr. Steve Jones, a spokesman for the Orange County sheriff's office. Her telephone service apparently was shut off.
 The case can be reopened if Grant contacts investigators. For now, the case is closed, Jones said. (AP)
 
A.B.L.
Columbus Star May Miss Season
 The two-time American Basketball League all-star Katie Smith, who has started every regular-season game in the team's history, may be lost to the Columbus Quest for the rest of the season. Tests yesterday showed that Smith suffered a complete tear of the anterior cruciate ligament in her right knee in practice Monday night.
 Smith, a former Ohio State star, will be re-evaluated next week. In two games this season, Smith averaged 18 points and 3 rebounds. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (53%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (85%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (85%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (53%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (85%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (85%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASKETBALL (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); SPORTS FANS (73%); SHERIFFS (68%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%); 

PERSON: SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



300 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: Costly Iraq Sanctions

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Once again United States officials are using the specter of Saddam Hussein and suspected weapons of terror to frame the debate on Iraq ("Another Confrontation With Iraq," editorial, Nov. 10). Meanwhile, the real crisis goes unreported.
Denis J. Halliday, the United Nations official who administered the oil-for-food program, resigned his post in protest of economic sanctions against Iraq. Mr. Halliday estimates that 6,000 Iraqi infants are dying each month because of malnutrition and disease related to the sanctions. United States military strikes would only add to the toll. 
 In May of last year, six years after serving in the Persian Gulf war, I traveled to Iraq with other human rights workers in violation of the United States travel ban. What I saw were hospital wards filled with dying children, Baghdad streets flooded with raw sewage, and doctors fighting diseases without adequate medicine. If the news media would only broadcast the intolerable suffering I witnessed, I am convinced a genuine debate would begin.
 
ERIK GUSTAFSON
Washington, Nov. 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (77%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (77%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); DESERT STORM (88%); MALNUTRITION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); FOOD CHARITIES (70%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (69%); HOSPITALS (66%); RESIGNATIONS (56%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



301 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: No Need to Act Yet on Changing Social Security

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Changing Social Security" (editorial, Nov. 9): Contrary to the perceived wisdom, Social Security is not in trouble financially. Critics have managed to convince the public that the program needs to be fixed quickly, but the bases for their concerns are financial projections prepared by Social Security actuaries whose figures show that the Social Security trust fund will be depleted by 2032.
These projections merit little credence, since they virtually disregard substantial prior economic history. For example, actuaries for the Social Security Administration have assumed that the gross domestic product would increase an average of 1.5 percent annually over the next 75 years. In fact, since 1960, the G.D.P. has consistently increased by more than 3 percent. If the Social Security Administration's actuaries had given more weight to this historical experience, they would not have concluded that the trust fund will be depleted by 2032. 
 Thus, there is no need to cut Social Security benefits, raise Social Security taxes, raise the retirement age or cut cost-of-living increases. As you note, Medicare is where the real problems are.
 
DAVID LANGER
New York, Nov. 10, 1998
 
The writer is chairman, employee benefits committee, Actuarial Society of Greater New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (83%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (83%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); COST OF LIVING (71%); RETIREMENT AGE (66%); MEDICARE (66%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



302 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B;Page 1;Column 2;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1649 words

HEADLINE: Working Out as Acting Out;
From Firefights to Ballet, Gyms Offer Fitness Fantasies

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

 BODY:
By day, Chad Klopotek, an investment consultant, lives a mild-mannered existence. But at least one night a week, he gets to play Firefighter Rookie No. 1, scaling a burning skyscraper, saving a life and keeping off that little roll around his waist that once came between him and his favorite pair of jeans.
Nancy Swiezy, a marketing associate, escapes the monotony of conducting telephone surveys (and hopes to whittle down to her old size 8 figure) by pretending she is a principal dancer of the New York City Ballet. Dr. Louis Wolf, an oral surgeon, has enlisted in "boot camp," doing pushups and situps on barked orders from a former marine. 
 In a craze that health experts describe as the fusion between fitness and fantasy, these kinds of elaborate workouts are being staged every day in gyms throughout New York and in big cities across the country, driven not merely by whimsy but by economic imperative.
Dismissed as passe and utterly mind-numbing are standard routines like aerobics, step aerobics and body sculpting. The new trend in workouts is hourlong sessions of sweaty, high-energy theater -- complete with props, live music and instructors who actually live what they teach -- that club owners hope will drive up the growth of health club membership, which began a surge 10 years ago that has leveled off in recent years. Since the clubs are not expanding as rapidly as analysts believe they could, owners are hoping that a little playacting in the workout room will help ignite and sustain interest.
One of the most popular new workouts in Minneapolis is Funjah, a class that teaches Afro-Cuban dance moves. Music for some Los Angeles workouts is performed by live gospel choirs.
But no place matches the number -- some have said nuttiness -- of the gimmicky workouts available in New York. New York Sports Clubs hold workouts led by former N.F.L. football players in which people learn to pass and dodge tackles like the pros. At the World Gym in the Village, there are swing dance workouts modeled after the latest Gap commercials. Several New York gyms offer "Abs, Thighs and Gossip," a muscle-toning workout led by a man in drag. And Reebok's City Jam class looks as if it came straight out of a Janet Jackson music video, with one glaring exception: many of the hip-hop dancers are gray-haired businessmen.
For Manhattanites -- a tough crowd that is known to get bored in a New York minute -- these workouts are adding new challenge and drama to the endless fight to stay fit.
"I was starting to get bored with running and lifting weights," said Mr. Klopotek, 24, after a recent firefighter workout at Crunch on the East Side of Manhattan. "This workout gives me something new."
Angela Guevara, 25, who just joined Prescriptive Fitness in midtown, said she actually preferred classes "with a little less of the New York glam." Still, there she was after a boot-camp workout at her gym, thick black glasses slipping off her sweaty nose.
"I don't think all the props and costumes gives you a better workout," she said. "I just want a class that's friendly and safe."
The boom in these new classes is fueled by fierce competition for new members, and by the struggle to keep current members enthused, managers at health clubs across the city said. In a city like New York -- where club membership can cost anywhere from $500 to $2,000 a year -- clubs are not only competing against one another, these managers said, but they are also competing against hundreds of other types of entertainment that, frankly, are much more fun than exercise.
"The bottom line is, exercise is boring and the majority of people who go to gyms tell us it's boring," said Lisa Mortman, a spokeswoman for Crunch, which has five clubs in Manhattan that cater to a 20-something crowd. "We have to find ways to keep them coming back, or they won't."
Surveys by the International Health, Racquet & Sportsclub Association, a trade organization, indicate that over the last few years health club memberships have grown by only the slimmest of margins. Less than 10 percent of Americans are gym members, according to the association. New York has a slightly higher percent, 11.2, but that figure represents an increase of only 2 percentage points over the last six years.
"There are people who are comfortable in the health club environment, and who will exercise whether it's fun or not," said Annbeth Eschbach, a vice president at Club Sports International, which operates 50 of the nation's most expensive health clubs, with about 200,000 members. "But what we are trying to figure out is how do we reach those people who are not comfortable at health clubs? How can we make it fun so that it doesn't feel like swallowing a pill?"
Health club managers have come to realize that they can't keep members just with the latest exercise equipment because people often buy their own machines these days. What people cannot buy for their homes, however, are experiences.
Crunch is the only gym in New York to offer the firefighter workout. It is led by Eric Torres, a beefy New York City firefighter assigned to Washington Heights Ladder Company 34. The class is offered at different Crunch locations three times a week, and between 20 and 30 students attend each session.
The scene is set with the sound of a radio dispatcher's call for help. There's a 10-75, the voice pleads through static, firefighter code for a burning building. Then come the sirens, and the red and white flashes of light. Mr. Torres, often decked out in full gear, pretends the fire has grown to three alarms.
He orders his battalion of rookies -- the participants in his class -- to pick up their hoses, bundles of the real thing that weigh 15 to 25 pounds. Then he shouts: "The elevator's broken. We'll have to climb the stairs! Let's go rookies, 80 flights."
The class groans. But they step as fast as they can -- up and down and up and down -- on a step bench. After they have climbed and climbed, their leader shouts for them to pick up weighted bars and act as though they are battering down a wall.
"Come on rookies, pull down that wall -- one, two, three," he shouts. "We've added air to the fire! Backdraft! Get down! Crawl. One, two, three . . ."
A collective groan comes from the class. They fall and drag themselves on their knees and elbows across the floor. Dozens of backdrafts and flights of stairs later, they find a victim -- a 125-pound crash-test dummy -- lying on the floor.
The rookies grimace as they take turns dragging the dummy to safety. When Mr. Klopotek steps up, Mr. Torres decides to increase the load. The firefighter, a solid 200 pounds, falls to the ground.
"I need help, rookie!" he shouts at Mr. Klopotek, a class veteran. "Come and get me."
At the end of the one-hour workout, Mr. Klopotek is drenched with sweat and gasping so hard for air that it is hard to tell that he feels good until he catches his breath and heaves out a few words.
"I love it," he says.
Another workout at Crunch, "Abs, Thighs and Gossip," gets more mixed reviews. Offered several times a week, it is a lot like a body-sculpting routine with weight training and low-impact aerobics. But the antics of its instructor, Anthony Truly, have made the class one of the most talked-about gym stories in New York.
Mr. Truly, who describes his class as a mix of weight training, pop culture, diva worship and a little male bashing, teaches in drag.
"I have a new outfit I've been dying to premiere," he gushed on a recent Wednesday night.
The transformation took only a few minutes. He pulled off his baggy blue jeans, revealing tight spandex shorts and black fishnet stockings. Then he slipped into a pair of white platform Converse sneakers and a black tulle jacket with tails. He finished off the outfit with his signature auburn wig, glittery peach lipstick and eyeliner that gave him the gaze of Cleopatra.
Puckering adoringly at himself in the mirror, Mr. Truly said: "I don't consider myself a drag queen. I consider myself more of a character actor like Elvira or Pee-wee Herman. I am an entertainer."
After an unsuccessful flirtation with professional acting, Mr. Truly now performs only in front of sweating students. During the hourlong classes, he jokes about his relationship with his lover, rates on a scale of 1 to 10 the physique of the men who walk by the window, and explores the latest tabloid gossip, all the while lifting hand weights and leading his disciples in squats and stomach crunches.
Donna Lennard, who manages a restaurant near the West Village club, was not amused.
"For me the humor was a little over the top," Ms. Lennard, 37, said. "I'd probably like it better with a little less joking around."
A little laughter is just what Joy Gazzoli, 45, and Al DiRaffaele, 52, felt was missing from their workout regimen. So a few weeks ago, they started to swing, by taking swing dance classes on Saturday afternoons at the World Gym on Mercer Street in the Village. The class is an hour of big band jazz and high-speed twirls.
Half the class dressed in street clothes -- one man wore work slacks and a beeper -- rather than gym attire. Ms. Gazzoli came ready to dance, wearing a leotard and flouncy black skirt. Mr. DiRaffaele, tall and bald, wore jeans and boots that made him look more like a biker than Fred Astaire.
The couple does not hit every dance step just right, but they have a lot of fun and figure that they each burn off about 300 calories each class. And now, they are swing dancing inside the gym and out.
"We were walking down near Battery Park last week and we heard swing dance music on a loudspeaker," Mr. DiRaffaele said. "So we stopped right there on the sidewalk and started dancing."
"This gives us something fun to do together," Ms. Gazzoli said, "and you find yourself laughing, which you don't do a lot of times in a gym."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 14, 1998, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article and a picture caption on Wednesday about elaborate new workouts that are being staged by health clubs misidentified one in New York City where the "boot camp" workout is led by a former marine. It is the Reebok Sports Club, not Prescriptive Fitness.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Prescriptive Fitness in Manhattan, a health enthusiast participates in a "boot camp" workout led by a former marine. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times); At a Manhattan health club, Eric Torres, a firefighter, leads a workout with fantasy firefighting and the "rescue" of a dummy from a make-believe blaze. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B1); At a Crunch health club in the West Village, Anthony Truly, in drag, leads fitness training with a pinch of pop culture and diva worship. The class, "Abs, Thighs and Gossip," has generated a lot of talk. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. B8)
 
Chart: "Workouts With a Twist"
A sampling of the new, more entertaining fitness classes available at health clubs in Manhattan.
 
FIREFIGHTING
Gym: Crunch
Gear: Hose, crash-test dummy
Level of difficulty: Don't try this at home
 
BALLET
Gym: New York Sports Club
Gear: Tights, slippers (grace optional)
Level of difficulty: Easier without two left feet
 
DRAG
Gym: Crunch
Gear: Attitude (cross-dressing not required)
Level of Difficulty: Mascara will run
 
BOOT CAMP
Gym: Prescriptives
Gear: Sneakers, sweats, thick skin
Level of difficulty: Buy Ben-Gay (pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK-NEW YORK HOTEL & CASINO LLC (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. EXERCISE & FITNESS (91%); BALLET (90%); DANCE (90%); DANCERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); FITNESS CENTERS (88%); THEATER (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); TRENDS (76%); DANCE EDUCATION (75%); DANCE COMPANIES (75%); WEIGHTLIFTING (74%); HIP HOP CULTURE (70%); RAP MUSIC (66%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



303 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1939 words

HEADLINE: The Broadway Theater Still Awaits a Windfall Built on Thin Air

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

 BODY:
Nearly five years after a crucial deal lured the Walt Disney Company to 42d Street and jump-started the revival of Times Square, a coalition of Broadway interests is struggling to carry the economic gains to the heart of the theater district.
The group, the Broadway Initiative, seeks to mobilize commercial and nonprofit theaters, producers, unions and the city behind efforts to stimulate the Broadway theater with adventuresome new productions from Off Broadway and elsewhere and other audience-building measures. But one vital feature of the program, the generation of revenue through the transfer of development rights, has yet to materialize, forcing the Initiative to scale back its goals and raising doubts over its ultimate impact. 
 "You plan a wedding, and the bride gets sick," said Stephen Sondheim, president of the Initiative, attributing the uncertainties to delays in approval of the transfer of rights. While discussions about financing the Initiative are at a delicate stage, he said, "I'm more than optimistic."
The transfer of the development rights, also called air rights, was part of a disputed rezoning plan approved by the City Council in August. Air rights represent unused development potential, the difference between the size of a building and the maximum allowed on its site. Since theaters are mostly small buildings, they tend to have ample air rights.
Under the plan, owners of 25 of the 37 Broadway theaters (not including those on 42d Street and some others) can sell and transfer 2.4 million square feet above their buildings so that developers within a 45-block swath of midtown could build taller structures than otherwise allowed. The measure supersedes the city's zoning code, which ordinarily permits transfers only between sites that are adjacent, across the street or cater-cornered, or those linked by common ownership.
The expanded sales of rights could generate as much as $100 million for the theater owners, by some estimates. In return, $10 a square foot from the sales, or perhaps as much as $20 million, would go to the city and the Broadway Initiative for a fund to help incubate new plays and small musicals that would not then have to be smash hits to survive on Broadway. The fund would also be used to help build new audiences and to monitor compliance with the accord. Theater owners who sold air rights would forgo conversion of their theaters to other uses.
But for all the stir about the potential of air rights sales, particularly in a strong real estate market, no deals have yet emerged, although one may be pending. This has left the Initiative scrambling for revenue to replace a one-time $250,000 grant, out of a payment in lieu of taxes from the development of the Marriott Marquis hotel, due to run out by the end of the year.
"We'll get another grant someplace," said Arthur Laurents, the playwright and director. He acknowledged that members of the Initiative were cautious. "They all want to know how much someone else put in," he said. But he added, "It's moving."
The Initiative has yet to announce specific plans to help bring any innovative fare to Broadway, its most prominent goal, although supporters say they are making progress.
The uncertainty has also led critics of the air rights transfer to argue, as they have in the past, that the plan was never likely to generate much money for the theater and was rather a real estate scheme to undermine zoning protections in the Clinton neighborhood west of the theater district. Supporters say the rights transfers were never held out as a panacea for the theater and were to be one piece of a plan that needed contributions from all members of the Broadway industry.
In any event, the Initiative's interim goals have been scaled back, and it is not clear how the group can cover a once-envisioned annual budget of $10 million, or even the $4 million or less suggested in current estimates.
When the City Council passed the rezoning plan, it was warmly greeted within the theater but generated a storm of opposition from community boards throughout the city. Organizations like the Municipal Art Society and the local chapter of the American Institute of Architects also opposed the plan, saying it would undermine zoning protections. Other critics produced figures suggesting that far from ailing, Broadway was enjoying some of its best times in years. In a compromise, the west side of Eighth Avenue between 45th and 56th Streets was removed as a site for air rights development.
While some theatrical unions seem ready to pitch in with cash contributions to keep the Initiative solvent, two, representing musicians and press agents, have rebuffed approaches for money, contending that the air rights transfer had always been held out as the mainstay of the effort.
One Broadway executive privy to the discussions recently described the state of the Initiative's finances as "a mess." But Joey Parnes, the group's coordinator, disputed the characterization.
"We're proceeding in a deliberate fashion," said Mr. Parnes, a former executive producer of the Public Theater. "We're working on a formula or a plan or a series of components of a financing plan, which we're not ready to share." While "we're not there yet," he said, he expects that "we will be there in the next few weeks."
Gerald Schoenfeld, chairman of the Shubert Organization, Broadway's largest theater owner, said this week that while no air rights transfers were at hand, Bertelsmann, the music and publishing giant, had made an inquiry about a possible purchase of air rights to build above the Criterion Center on Broadway at 45th Street.
Robert Nederlander, president of his family-owned theater chain, said he, too, had received some air rights inquiries but nothing firm enough to discuss. The absence of air rights revenues "is a problem, no question about it," he said. The Nederlander Organization would be willing to pitch in with money for the Initiative, he said, "but I have to see what others would do."
Jack Goldstein, the Initiative's first coordinator and a top organizer of the group with Actors Equity Association, acknowledged that the Initiative was going through a challenging period. "It's a totally new thing being tried," he said. "It's tough. If there's no transfer of air rights, we'll have to look at other sources."
But Mr. Goldstein, now executive director of the Theater Development Fund, the theater-service organization that, among other things, operates the TKTS discount ticket booths, said, "I'm confident there will be a source of money to carry the development process forward, and that it will come out of the industry."
The issue's tangled beginnings go back to January 1994, when the city and state offered low-interest loans of almost $30 million to the Walt Disney Company to renovate and take over the decrepit New Amsterdam Theater on 42d Street. Mr. Schoenfeld and Rocco Landesman of the Jujamcym chain complained that no similar incentives were provided to existing theater owners.
In response, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo pledged to create a state loan fund to repair and maintain existing Broadway theaters. Mr. Cuomo left office before a fund was set up, but the state commitment grew into the Broadway Initiatives Working Group under the chief auspices of Actors Equity, and support for the theater was tied to the air rights measure.
Under the rezoning initiative announced by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani last December, the 25 theaters -- 12 owned by Shubert, 5 by the Nederlander Organization, 3 by Jujamcyn and 5 by others -- could sell the unused rights to build over their landmark theaters to developers anywhere within an area bounded by 40th and 57th Streets, Avenue of the Americas and Eighth Avenue, about 45 blocks in all.
The developers could use the extra 2.4 million square feet to increase the allowable size of their buildings. Starting with the optimistic assumption that every eligible square foot would sell at $50 a square foot, the plan's supporters calculated that the transfers could generate $120 million. In return, theater owners would pay $10 a square foot from any sale into a theater fund, which could then total $24 million.
If all the money were to come in at once -- which is clearly unlikely -- and invested as an endowment, it might yield $1 million a year in interest income, far below the $10 million sum the Initiative once sought as a goal, although funds are also to be raised from contributions, including those from people who work in the theater.
The Initiative could operate on less, Mr. Parnes said, if its assistance to theater projects was cut back. He said the group was now aiming for a $4 million budget to be divided among five "micro-loans" of up to $500,000 each to help finance five plays and musicals in small or mid-size Broadway houses; grants to theater groups and individuals to help attract new audiences, especially young people, members of minorities and people from outside Manhattan, and a kitty to monitorthe preservation of the theaters and cover overhead for the Initiative.
But he said those figures could shrink substantially, depending on the resources available.
The Initiative's efforts in recent months to seek unspecified contributions from theatrical unions met with varied responses. The 1,200-member Society of Stage Directors and Choreographers said it was willing to participate.
The most negative reply was from the Association of Theatrical Press Agents and Managers, with 680 members across the United States and Canada. "Union members are workers, not investors," Gordon G. Forbes, secretary-treasurer of the union, wrote to Mr. Parnes in August. "Their investment in this industry is love of theater, hard work and a commitment to be available to employers as part of a stable and trained work force. They should not also be required to pay per-capita taxes to employers or make speculative financial investments as a precondition of employment."
On Sept. 23, after what he portrayed as a summer cooling-off period, Mr. Parnes wrote back to say that the Initiative had no plans "to require union dues contributions." He said contributions would be "completely voluntary and self-imposed."
A second union, Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians, with 10,000 members, has also raised objections to the Initiative's requests for contributions. "In the beginning all we talked about was air rights," said Bill Moriarty, the local's president. "My recollection is that the air rights were the financial cornerstone of this project."
Mr. Goldstein said that there was always an understanding that all parties, including unions, would contribute to the Initiative. Concern over who might get stuck with the bills when there were no air rights sales was a major concern at City Planning Commission hearings last May.
Still some opponents of the air rights plan maintain that the uncertainties were played down. "They sold this and continued to sell this as the way to save the industry," said John Fisher, a member of Community Board 4 in Manhattan and spokesman for the Clinton Special District Coalition.
One of the most potent of the theatrical unions, Local 1 of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, with 2,200 members, has not raised objections to union contributions, although it still expects air rights to provide a major source of financial support, said the union's president, Edward McConway.
"There was a philosophical agreement that we'd all chip in to keep it going," he said. "But exactly what we agreed to, I don't know."

GRAPHIC: Map of Manhattan highlighting theaters with available air rights and theaters with air rights that can be transferred. (pg. E6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. THEATER (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); ZONING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); APPROVALS (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); CITIES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (62%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN JOSHUA SONDHEIM (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



304 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE YEN GAINS. Japan's currency rose for the first time in six days on speculation that an income-tax cut and spending plan to be announced today will help overcome recession. The dollar fell to 121.72 yen from 122.52.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since May 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); INCOME TAX (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



305 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Argentina Takes a Lead in Setting Goals on Greenhouse Gases

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS

 BODY:
In an important breakthrough, Argentina signaled yesterday that it would become the first developing country to adopt binding targets for controlling emissions of industrial waste gases that are believed to cause global warming.
Until now, developing countries have presented a united front in resisting specific limits on their emissions of such gases, which are produced by the burning of coal, oil, wood and natural gas. 
 Rich countries agreed last December in Kyoto, Japan, to reduce emissions by an average of about 5 percent below 1990 levels in the period 2008 to 2012, but poorer nations have refused to follow suit until industrial countries actually show results.
Yesterday, at a follow-up conference in Buenos Aires, President Carlos Saul Menem said Argentina would establish goals for carbon-dioxide emissions and in about a year would announce its commitment to those goals for 2008-10.
But Maria Julia Alsogaray, an Argentinian who is presiding over the Buenos Aires meeting, later described the goals as limitations on the growth of emissions, not as reductions.
While Mr. Menem's speech was somewhat general, Stuart Eizenstat, the head of the United States delegation, said he had been told by Mr. Menem that Argentina would spend the next year analyzing its emissions to produce a binding target. "This is a major, major move," Mr. Eizenstat said, "truly historic."
There were indications that other developing countries might follow now that Argentina has led the way, some participants in the Buenos Aires talks said. "No one wants to be the first one out of the box," said Connie Holmes, the chairwoman of the Global Climate Coalition, which represents fossil-fuel producers and users. She called Argentina's action "great," if it can follow through.
But she pointed out that it may be difficult for Argentina to be brought into the international process under the Kyoto Protocol because no developing countries are covered by it.
Argentina wants to pursue its emissions program by taking advantage of some of the protocol's cost-cutting mechanisms like trading of emissions rights, Mr. Eizenstat said he was told. This, President Menem said, implies the creation of a "new way" under the 1992 treaty to involve his country and others like it. How that will happen remains to be worked out over months or even years.
Moreover, said Ms. Holmes, Argentina's shift will not in itself satisfy the United States Senate, which has made participation by key developing countries a condition for ratifying the Kyoto Protocol.
Environmentalists hailed the development. "It is a major breakthrough," said Michael Oppenheimer of the Environmental Defense Fund. "I don't think there's any doubt about it." He called the Argentine move "a significant first step" in satisfying the Senate's requirements.
The move also represented "a clear break" from the developing countries' past insistence that binding limitations would put a cap on their economic growth, said Alden Meyer, a spokesman for the Climate Action Network, an environmental coalition.
President Menem said Argentina's economy had grown 6 percent a year in the last decade while greenhouse gases per capita had grown by only 1 percent, and he said his country's purpose was to erase "the false option between economic growth and environmental protection."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (91%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (96%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (72%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (91%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (96%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KINKI, JAPAN (72%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMISSIONS (94%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); 

PERSON: CARLOS SAUL MENEM (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



306 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Response to Baghdad: Military Muscle May Not Suffice

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 11

 BODY:
As President Clinton ponders a military strategy against Iraq, and the Pentagon once more picks its targets and programs its cruise missiles for an attack, the debate at the White House is whether to simply punish President Saddam Hussein, or to try to change his political course by force, American officials say.
The United States prepared today to send enough military firepower to the Persian Gulf to batter Iraq for weeks. No battle plans have been selected yet, but nothing short of a sustained assault involving hundreds, perhaps thousands of bombs and missiles can break the Iraqi leader's will and stop Baghdad's defiance of the United Nations and the rebuilding of its arsenals, the officials say. 
 "What would be required is very substantial bombing, lasting for weeks," said Zalmay Khalizad, a former senior Pentagon and State Department official. "But you cannot be certain that even that will do the job."
"You may have to go get Saddam Hussein to force him to change his mind," he said. "It will either require a lot of bombing or a lot more than bombing to coerce him. Without that, we may simply acquiesce to his possession of these weapons and to his presence for a long time."
If President Clinton wants to punish President Hussein for defying the United Nations' weapons inspectors, that is easy: He can bomb Iraq for days, pounding the leader's palaces and weapons depots into dust.
But this may not end the threat posed by a ruler who knows how to build biological and chemical weapons, and has hidden away the wherewithal to make them.
"The problem of Iraq is a very difficult one and it will not be solved magically by an air campaign," John M. Deutch, the former Director of Central Intelligence, said recently. Bombs alone, he said, cannot "destroy all the stock of biological or chemical agents or missiles that Saddam Hussein has," or alter the Iraqi leadership.
No one in Washington believes that friendly persuasion will force Iraq to resume cooperating with the United Nations weapons inspectors, who for nearly seven years have sought to discover and destroy Iraq's capacity to make war.
Defense Secretary William S. Cohen says the United States may try "degrading his capability of manufacturing the weapons of mass destruction" with cruise missiles and smart bombs. But without intensive inspections, these capabilities can be rebuilt over time. And the inspections regime has collapsed.
Nine months ago, American commanders publicly identified likely targets of a new attack in response to Iraq's rejection of inspections. They include the Special Republican Guard, a 26,000-strong military unit that protects the Iraqi leader and his weaponry, and the suspected weapons sites themselves.
Forewarned, Iraq has taken measures to safeguard those targets. So it now appears that nothing short of an attack greater than any the United States has launched since the Persian Gulf war in 1991 could permanently damage the institutions that shore up Mr. Hussein and shield his secret arsenals.
Iraq says the crisis will end only if the United Nations ends the harsh economic sanctions imposed after the gulf war. Those sanctions contribute to the deaths of up to 7,000 children a month and are embittering the Iraqi people, according to Denis Halliday, the United Nations humanitarian coordinator in Iraq for 13 months until he resigned in September.
"Bombing will strengthen the hand of Saddam Hussein by obliging the Iraqi people, despite the deep reservations they have about him, to rally around him," Mr. Halliday said. "By bombing Iraq again, the U.S. loses its reputation as a benign superpower."
Previous American attacks have done little to change Mr. Hussein's behavior or alter the Government.
Twice since the gulf war, the United States has launched cruise missiles at Iraq. These were "flaccid responses," said President Clinton's first Director of Central Intelligence, R. James Woolsey Jr., which did not strike at the heart or the head of the Iraqi Government.
As a result, "Saddam has doubtless concluded that, almost no matter what he does, he will only have to endure air strikes for a limited period of time," Mr. Woolsey told Congress recently.
In 1993 the United States hit Iraqi intelligence headquarters with cruise missiles after accusing Baghdad plotting to kill the former President George Bush. Some missiles went astray, killing eight civilians, including a baby and an internationally known artist. The damage to the Iraqi intelligence complex had little permanent effect on repression that keeps Mr. Hussein in power.
In 1996 the United States again hit Iraq with cruise missiles, attacking targets in the south to punish the Iraqi military for invading opposition strongholds in the north. The missiles achieved little of lasting military or political consequence. In fact, in the judgment of American intelligence officials, the Iraqi leader emerged stronger politically.
But without a likely successor who might lead Iraq, an American effort to undermine Mr. Hussein could could reap a whirlwind. Gen. Anthony C. Zinni of the Marines, commander of United States forces in the Persian Gulf, warned Congress last month, "A weakened, fragmented, chaotic Iraq -- which could happen if this isn't done carefully -- is more dangerous in the long run than a contained Saddam is now."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (88%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (72%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (88%); INDIAN OCEAN (72%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



307 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
From Senatorial Politics, a Passage to India

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

 BODY:
IF her husband had not decided to announce his retirement from the United States Senate last Friday, Elizabeth B. Moynihan would have been in the Bronx that very day, indulging one of her greatest passions. She has been overseeing a major archeological project near the Taj Mahal in India, and one of her colleagues, a paleobotanist at the New York Botanical Garden, had just returned from there with some new slides of the project site.
But as she has so many times over the decades, she deferred her own plans for just a bit, making room for the inevitable intrusion of politics. 
 "It's the story of my life," she said.
Of course, this was a rather special announcement, one that guaranteed that future intrusions would be minimal. Beginning in 2001, her husband, Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, would no longer reign as the leading intellectual of the Senate, a guiding light on any discussion of welfare reform, tax policy or immigration. And she would no longer have to serve as his campaign manager, setting aside her monographs on architectural history to preside over some of the most Spartan and wily campaigns for a Senate seat in modern history.
But the time had come, she said on Tuesday, sitting in the couple's grand apartment in Washington, halfway between the Capitol and the White House. Shaking her head of luminous white hair in disgust at the malevolence and expense that now define Senate campaigns, she said she told her husband four years ago that she was leaving politics, and his decision to do the same followed inexorably.
"I was not going to run another campaign," she said. "I'm running out of time. I'm 69, and there's a limited amount of time I can go turning over rocks in the desert, you know, especially with arthritis. And there are things I have to write, and I'm crazy about my grandchildren. As it is, we're lucky to have survived this long with our style of politics."
That style, utterly anachronistic in its straightforward, high-minded, nonviolent way, is as much a reflection of Liz Moynihan's personality as of her husband's. The idea of broadcasting an attack ad against an opponent, or hiring a focus group to guide the Senator's policy positions, was simply unthinkable to her. The campaigns never raised much money, and her ads simply talked about what Mr. Moynihan had done.
Of course, it helped that he almost never had a serious opponent, Democrat or Republican. But that was part of her strategy, too -- psyching out potential opponents with early television ads that convinced them Mr. Moynihan was unbeatable. That left more time for architecture.
"The plan to every campaign was always the same: how not to have a campaign," said Mandy Grunwald, the political consultant who advised the Moynihans during three campaigns and is an old friend of the family. "In 1988, she told me they couldn't have a campaign because Pat needed to work on welfare reform. And after Rudy Giuliani backed out, we didn't have one."
THESE minimalist, martial-arts campaigns didn't mean she disliked politics; quite the opposite, in fact. "Every six years, she would drop what she was doing, get through this little business, and do it quite happily and quite well," Mr. Moynihan said. "And then she would get back to India."
In her range of interests, in the steel of her intellect, Elizabeth Moynihan is just as remarkable and singular a character as her husband. It's rare enough for a spouse to run four successful campaigns in a state the size of New York while disdaining the cocktail parties and superficiality of the Washington social scene. It is rarer still for that spouse's abiding interest to be half a world away, in the Mogul gardens of India, the graceful, ruined landscapes of the 16th-century Muslim conquerors on which she has become an acknowledged, self-trained expert. In 1978, following her husband's three-year posting as Ambassador to India, she deduced the location of one of the most elaborate gardens by studying the memoirs of the Emperor Babur, and proceeded to dig it up, to the astonishment of Indian archeologists. She has since written extensively on the subject, and is now overseeing another major project.
Her interest began in 1966 after she heard an architectural historian lecture at Harvard, where her husband was teaching. She herself had dropped out of Boston University years before after running out of money, having been raised by her divorced mother in Cohasset, Mass. Her earlier interest had been in politics, particularly in the work of Adlai E. Stevenson, and after meeting a not-dissimilar political intellectual during W. Averell Harriman's 1954 campaign for governor of New York, she married Pat Moynihan a year later.
The couple, who have three grown children, are deeply entwined but hardly inseparable. She stays away from most legislative issues, often flying off to India on her own or with colleagues. (She did, however, play a crucial role in helping to pass President Clinton's economic plan in 1993, urging the wavering Senator Bob Kerrey to support the plan in a 50-50 vote.) But they revel in each other's successes.
"I think I've helped him, and that makes me feel great," she said. "But we are not a twofer. The people of New York never elected the two of us. After an election, I disappear, and spend a lot of time with Babur." Soon, she says, the two men in her life will each get a great deal more attention.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elizabeth Moynihan will be freer when her husband leaves the Senate. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (57%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (57%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); BOTANY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); HISTORY (67%); FOCUS GROUPS (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); TAX REFORM (54%); IMMIGRATION (53%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



308 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 82 words

HEADLINE: Medical Concern Job Cuts

BYLINE: Dow Jones

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Nov. 11

 BODY:
Molecular Biosystems Inc., a developer of ultrasound contrast agents for diagnostic imaging, will cut 40 jobs, or more than 28 percent of its work force, in an effort to save $5 million a year. Molecular Biosystems, based in San Diego, said it expected to make further cuts as it hires outside companies for various manufacturing operations. The company said it did not plan to eliminate positions critical to the introduction of its flagship cardiac ultrasound imaging agent, Optison.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MB (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MOLECULAR BIOSYSTEMS INC (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LAYOFFS (90%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (90%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (90%); LABOR FORCE (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



309 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Germany and U.S. Nurture Bond At a Mansion With a Few Ghosts

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: BERLIN, Nov. 11

 BODY:
Private pain and public hopes came together in a Berlin mansion last week when the new American Academy was opened on a site marked by Nazi terror and now dedicated to the trans-Atlantic partnership that raised Germany from the ruins of war.
Speaking at what was once the lakeside house of a prominent Jewish banking family, former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger described Hitler's rule as "an aberration, but not an organic aspect of German society" and said the academy's existence showed how the wounds of "the 12-year interregnum" could be overcome. 
Much of the founding grant for the academy was provided by the descendants of Hans Arnhold, a Jewish banker who fled the mansion before it became the wartime home of Hitler's chief economic adviser, Walther Funk, and later a recreation center for Americans stationed on the cold war's eastern frontier.
Richard von Weizsacker, the former German President, called the Arnhold family's endowment of the academy an act of "unbelievable magnanimity," dedicated to overcoming "the evil of the past" through "a generous gift for the future."
Behind Mr. von Weizsacker, sailboats passed on the waters of the Wannsee lake, on whose banks stands another villa where the destruction of European Jewry was decided by Nazi bureaucrats on Jan. 20, 1942, a decision later described by Adolph Eichmann as "the final solution of the Jewish question."
The Arnhold family escaped, but as she recalled the lost places of her childhood, Anna-Maria Kellen, Mr. Arnhold's daughter and now a New York philanthropist, battled her emotions. The staircase where she once played was gone, she said, but not her hope that the mansion would now be a "staircase leading to higher levels of understanding and closer degree of cooperation."
The academy was conceived four years ago as a symbol of enduring American commitment to Germany after the end of the cold war, a demonstration that even in the absence of a common enemy a relationship at the heart of the NATO alliance would not be allowed to erode.
But Mr. Kissinger, an honorary chairman of the academy, and Michael Naumann, the chief cultural official in Germany's new Social Democratic Government, both expressed concerns about the state of German-American relations.
"A new generation of German and American leaders must redefine the creative purpose of this period," Mr. Kissinger said. "America and Europe no longer have clearly defined common paths."
Mr. Naumann, a former chief executive of the publisher Henry Holt in New York, lamented a loss of "Germany's political importance in the United States" and said he detected the "quiet emergence of a cultural anti-Americanism" in Europe driven by negative reaction to ubiquitous American television and the effects on incredulous Europeans of the Clinton sex scandal.
By holding seminars and by awarding fellowships to American, German and central European scholars in the fields of the arts and humanities, the academy aims to promote understanding between Germany and the United States.
While Richard C. Holbrooke, chairman of the academy, talked of Mr. Funk and the Nazis, who built a bunker in the basement of the house, a sudden gust blew in from the Wannsee. It forced open the glass door behind Mr. Holbrooke and sent a sudden rush of cold air through the house. "The ghost of our former occupants," Mr. Holbrooke said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COLD WAR (89%); LAKES (77%); PHILANTHROPY (74%); CHARITIES (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



310 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Orders Inspectors and Relief Staff Out of Iraq

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 11

 BODY:
After a warning from the United States that a military strike on Baghdad may be imminent, the United Nations abruptly evacuated more than 230 foreign staff members from Iraq today, including all weapons inspectors. Another 41 people from various agencies will depart on Thursday, leaving only essential staff members behind.
Russia, angry that there had been no consultation with all Security Council members before a decision was made to withdraw the arms inspectors, called a meeting of the Council today to demand an explanation from the chief inspector, Richard Butler. 
 But Mr. Butler was not questioned as expected, diplomats said after the closed meeting, which instead focussed on more general concerns about safety of United Nations workers. The Council also discussed how it might persuade Iraq to rescind its ban on inspections.
Secretary General Kofi Annan -- who went to Baghdad in February and persuaded Iraq to back down in the face of an American threat -- said in Morocco today that he was cutting short a North African trip to return to New York on Thursday.
But Mr. Annan has no plans to go to Baghdad or meet Iraqi officials here, his spokesman, Fred Eckhard, said. In Marrakesh, the Secretary General said that he was "saddened and burdened by Iraq's decisions not to cooperate with U.N. weapons inspectors."
Mr. Eckhard said that for now Mr. Annan's role would be "to monitor the Security Council's deliberations, to confer with members of the Council and basically to stay on top of what is developing as a crisis situation."
Mr. Annan discussed the Iraqi crisis with a high-level Clinton Administration official within the last 24 hours, his spokesman said. But the Secretary General has not been in direct contact with President Hussein, who agreed after meeting with Mr. Annan in February to give full access to inspectors, an agreement that he has since broken.
Mr. Annan's special envoy to Iraq, Prakash Shah, is staying in Baghdad. He was told again today by Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz that the Iraqis would cooperate only when the Security Council acts to lift sanctions. The Council is now unified in responding that this cannot happen until unfettered inspections resume.
Mr. Butler, who leaves behind a skeletal Iraqi staff, said he was confident that the equipment and documents the inspectors left behind were safe. The monitoring center, on the edge of Baghdad, is lightly guarded.
Inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency were also withdrawn, leaving the Baghdad monitoring center "dead," an official said here today. The inspectors -- 92 from Unscom and 11 from the I.A.E.A. -- flew to Bahrain today.
The United Nations withdrew 130 staff members from agencies like Unicef, the World Health Organization, the United Nations Development Program and the World Food Program, as well as the staff of the "oil for food" office.
Benon V. Sevan, the New York-based director of the Iraq oil for food program, said that in the Kurdish areas of northern Iraq, the 231 foreign staff, who actually distribute goods, would remain in place.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A United Nations staff member leaving Iraq yesterday took along the organization's flag. (Agence France-Presse)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); MOROCCO (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (69%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); MOROCCO (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (61%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%); FOOD CHARITIES (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



311 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: A Dogged Mexican Agent Gets His Man, a Fugitive Banker, and Credits the U.S. for Its Help

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 11

 BODY:
It began as one Mexican detective's dogged but lonely search for an elusive banker who was wanted on 21 charges of financial fraud amounting to at least $170 million.
But the four-year international manhunt for the banker, Carlos Cabal Peniche, finally succeeded, Mexican officials said, after top American authorities recently decided to pitch in. 
 Mr. Cabal, who was on the short list of men most wanted by Mexican justice, was arrested on Tuesday afternoon at his tree-shaded beach-front mansion in Melbourne, Australia, where he had been living with his family for about a year posing as a merchant from the Dominican Republic.
Mexican officials moved today to seek his extradition.
Mr. Cabal's capture gives a boost to cross-border cooperation against crime, which faltered earlier this year after the United States Customs disclosed that it had conducted an undercover money-laundering investigation of Mexican banks without informing Mexico.
Mexican officials said that Attorney General Janet Reno gave new support to the pursuit of Mr. Cabal after Mexican investigations turned up signs that he was running a secret financial empire that reached to the Caribbean, South America and Asia with a major base of operations in southern Florida.
The arrest of Mr. Cabal, 41, was a political success in the short term for the Mexican Government's financial officials, who have been accused by the opposition of protecting corrupt bankers. But if he is brought back to Mexico for trial, Mr. Cabal could add explosive new fuel to several scandals.
Bank documents recently unearthed by opposition leaders in Congress show that he contributed at least $14 million during the 1994 election campaign to the political party that brought President Ernesto Zedillo to power. And Raul Salinas de Gortari, who is a brother of the former President and is under investigation on suspicion of narcotics money-laundering, used accounts in Mr. Cabal's banks to make secret transfers of at least $67 million, according to an investigation by the police in Switzerland.
Mr. Cabal had a meteoric rise from a small-time shrimp exporter to one of Mexico's wealthiest and most prominent financiers during the presidency of Carlos Salinas de Gortari. The Salinas Government sold him two banks, Banca Cremi and Banca Union, and Mr. Salinas once singled him out as a model Mexican business executive.
Through his banks Mr. Cabal started agricultural businesses across the Yucatan peninsula. In 1992 he organized a group of Mexican agribusiness families to help him buy the Florida-based Fresh Del Monte Produce Company, one of the world's largest fresh food companies, for $535 million. Mr. Cabal also tried to close a $1 billion deal to buy another branch of Del Monte in 1994, but it fell through when he was indicted for fraud in Mexico and fled.
In his heyday, Mr. Cabal moved to the center of power in Mexico, hobnobbing with President Salinas and top leaders of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, whose dominion over Mexico was then unchallenged.
A federal investigation revealed that Mr. Cabal had set up a fund in 1994 to channel $4.5 million in illegal funds to the gubernatorial campaign of a PRI candidate, Roberto Madrazo, a friend of his.
The federal inquiry showed that Mr. Madrazo had spent more than 30 times the legal limit to win that race, although the case was dismissed two years later on a technicality.
Mexican regulators charged in 1994 that Mr. Cabal lent hundreds of millions to himself from his banks through a network of phantom companies he set up.
Standing eye-to-eye with Mr. Cabal as Australian police officers took him prisoner was Juan Miguel Ponce Edmonson, head of the Mexican branch of Interpol, the agency that links federal police forces around the world. Mr. Ponce had made it a personal mission to track down Mr. Cabal, but for years he felt he was getting a cold shoulder from the American authorities.
In a telephone interview from Melbourne today, Mr. Ponce said he could not help but smile when Mr. Cabal, his hair now gray and his face slightly disguised with a close-trimmed goatee, opened his door to the police.
"It was joyful, joyful," Mr. Ponce said.
Mr. Ponce was able to crack the case after the American authorities started to help monitor Mr. Cabal's movements in earnest about four months ago. That produced a pattern of information that always seemed to lead back to Australia, he said.
Soon after Mr. Ponce contacted the Australian police three weeks ago, they turned up the immigration documents of a Dominican man who nominally ran a business importing Italian wines but seemed to be an intermediary for Mr. Cabal. Mr. Ponce noticed that the Dominican had given the same birth date as the fugitive financier.
"That's when I said, I have to see this guy's face," Mr. Ponce said.
Mr. Ponce said he had noted "a radical change of attitude in the American bureaucracy" after the Mexican Attorney General, Jorge Madrazo, provided his American counterpart with details of "the enormous network Cabal had in the United States."
Mr. Cabal was able to elude capture for so long because he had enough cash to buy false documents for himself, his wife and four children from several countries, and to set himself up in regal style wherever he settled. In 1995 Mr. Ponce just missed nabbing Mr. Cabal at a 12-bedroom mansion in a Madrid suburb.
Mr. Cabal continued to travel regularly to the United States throughout his years as a fugitive, Mexican officials said. His most recent trip ended when he left Los Angeles on Aug. 24.
Agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation discovered that Mr. Cabal owns a mansion in the ski resort of Aspen, Colo., which he put up for sale for $12 million. Mexican officials said they were working with the F.B.I. to obtain a search and seizure warrant for the home.
In his absence from Mexico, Mr. Cabal became a central figure in the scandal surrounding the privatization of the Mexican banks in the early 1990's and their $65 billion bail-out by the Government in 1995.
His downfall and flight caused many Mexicans to wonder why the Government sold him two banks in the first place. The sales were handled by a committee headed by Guillermo Ortiz, a widely respected economist who was President Zedillo's first Finance Minister and is now head of Banco de Mexico, the central bank. In recent weeks opposition lawmakers have mounted a campaign to force Mr. Ortiz to resign.
Mr. Ortiz has said that his committee was forced to make decisions about the sales of state-owned banks based on limited information that was available at the time under Mexican law about potential investors.
Opposition lawmakers in the Mexican Congress have also charged that the Government spent vast sums of taxpayer money to pay for the corrupt loans in Mr. Cabal's banks. Government regulators seized Mr. Cabal's banks in 1994. They sold the healthy part of Banca Cremi in 1996 to Banco Bilbao-Vizcaya, a Spanish bank.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carlos Cabal Peniche after his arrest in Australia on Tuesday. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FDP (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (51%); NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (51%); NAICS111219 OTHER VEGETABLE (EXCEPT POTATO) & MELON FARMING (51%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (51%); SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (51%); SIC0161 VEGETABLES & MELONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (78%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (72%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (77%); 

COMPANY: FRESH DEL MONTE PRODUCE INC (51%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (56%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (56%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (78%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (72%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CORRUPTION (78%); MONEY LAUNDERING (78%); ARRESTS (78%); EXTRADITION (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SCANDALS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (66%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); AGRICULTURE (64%); FOOD INDUSTRY (60%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (55%); 

PERSON: JANET RENO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



312 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Intel Outlook Bodes Well For the Sector

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER

 BODY:
The Intel Corporation's announcement that its fourth-quarter results would exceed Wall Street estimates not only bolstered its stock to a new high yesterday, but analysts said it boded well for a broad range of technology stocks, particularly those whose fortunes are tied to the personal computer.
Intel said on Tuesday that stronger-than-expected demand for personal computer products across all market segments and geographical regions would raise fourth-quarter revenue by 8 percent to 10 percent, compared with third-quarter revenue of $6.7 billion. The company also said that profit margins would be up a couple of points from 53 percent in the third quarter. 
 Shares of Intel shot up yesterday on the report, gaining $6.125 each, to $103.6875.
And Intel's news was buttressed yesterday by a bullish forecast from the Semiconductor Industry Association, which predicted that the global chip market would rebound next year. The association said strong demand for microprocessors, memory and digital signal processors would increase sales by 9.1 percent, to $133.4 billion, and that sales would rise an additional 15.2 percent in 2000 and 18.2 percent in 2001.
Analysts scrambled to raise estimates yesterday, taking the consensus to $1.05 a share for the fourth quarter from 95 cents a share, and to $3.41 a share for the full year from $3.31 a share, according to the First Call Corporation, which tracks company earnings. Analysts raised their estimate for Intel's 1999 earnings to $4.16 a share from $3.92 a share.
But Intel predicted strong earnings in the third quarter only to exceed even the revised estimates, and many analysts expect the company to do the same this time.
"Intel historically has not preannounced very often, and when they do they are very careful," said Mark Edelstone, an analyst with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "The company had a break-out quarter in Q3, and and I expect more of the same in Q4." Mr. Edelstone continues to rate Intel a strong buy.
Intel has long been a leadership company: It invented the microprocessor and the dynamic random access memory chip, or D-RAM, without either of which the personal computer would not exist. Analysts say it is now also a leadership stock, one whose performance serves as a bellwether for the whole technology group, much the way I.B.M. once did. If demand for Intel microprocessors is growing, so too should demand for memory, disk drives and other personal computer components.
Michael Murphy, editor of the California Technology Stock Letter, has been predicting for some time that Intel's stock price could reach $120 by the end of the year. He said stronger-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings for Intel pointed to a broad-based technology rally. "It's the right sign for the technology sector because what it's saying is there is still genuine double-digit growth in PC's," he said. That growth was hidden by the inventory glut that hung over the sector for the first two quarters, he said.
Despite Intel's good news, Tom Kurlak of Merrill Lynch retained his neutral rating on the stock, as did eight of the 32 analysts polled by First Call. One raised a neutral to a strong buy, one a neutral to a buy. That left the stock rated a buy by 9 analysts and a strong buy by 14.
Those not recommending Intel point to concerns about increased competition at the low end of the market, where Advanced Micro Devices Inc. has been coming on strong, and less need for ever-greater processing power at the high end, which in the age of the Internet is more driven by band width than by microprocessor power. Some analysts say the surge in demand now is mostly inventory replenishing, a temporary phenomenon created by efforts to clear the previous glut.
"It's something that was almost set up to happen and now it is occurring," said John T. Rossi, an analyst with BancBoston Robertson Stephens. "We should enjoy things as they are now, but realize it will also go through the usual seasonal cooling off in mid- to late winter.
Longer term, however, Mr. Rossi said he expected traditional blue-chip companies to suffer more from the Asian economic crisis and to spend more on technology to improve productivity and cope with the Year 2000 problem.
"I look at it as a great place to put money for 1999," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Helping Move the Market"
The graph shows the percentage change in the value of Intel's stock and of the Nasdaq composite index since the Nasdaq's low of the year on Oct. 8. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%); MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (98%); FIRST CALL CORP (66%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (88%); ELECTRONICS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (76%); MEMORY CHIPS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



313 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
The N.B.A.'s Senior Owner Speaks Out, and Bluntly

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Abe Pollin bought the Washington Wizards 34 years ago, when they were called the Baltimore Bullets, the National Basketball Association consisted of nine teams and the league was more than a decade from becoming a global marketing phenomenon.
Now, it is a 29-team league and Pollin not only owns the Wizards and the Washington Capitals hockey team, but also the $200 million MCI Center in downtown Washington. 
 At 74, he is the senior owner in the N.B.A., one of three left who have worked with Walter Kennedy and Lawrence O'Brien, David Stern's predecessors as commissioner.
"Larry and I hired David Stern," he said in a telephone interview Tuesday.
Now, Stern's leadership in the lockout, which has prevented the start of the season, has kept Pollin's Wizards idle, while Pollin's Capitals continue playing on his MCI Center ice.
During the lockout, now more than four months old, owners have hardly been heard from as Stern has forged a management unit by cautioning them not to talk about the negotiations.
In discussing the lockout, Pollin did not provide sensitive details and did not break with Stern. But he provided an unusually candid view of the lockout.
Although he is generally optimistic about a deal being reached, Pollin said the owners must get a fair deal. Or, he said: "We're prepared to gut the season. We went into this knowing that if we can't make a fair deal, the season would be gone."
Surprisingly, Pollin doubted that the N.B.A. would require a long period of recovery if it shutters the entire season. Major League Baseball needed until this past season to heal the wounds from the 1994-95 players strike that scotched a World Series.
"I think the N.B.A. will recover quicker," he said. "There's no question the league will survive. It's not something you look forward to, but I'm sure we have some good ideas."
Pollin praised Stern's leadership, but said he is not an omnipotent commissioner towing the owners behind him. "He doesn't do this by himself," Pollin said. "But we agree completely. There is 100 percent unity. There is no split."
Pollin said the economic model that helped the N.B.A. flourish financially for the past 15 years is no longer fair -- to owners. "It doesn't work," he said. "We need one that works. When you have a system where most of the teams aren't getting any type of return on the value of their investments, and for many it's negative, the system doesn't work."
Regarding the Wizards' finances, he said, "I'm not getting anywhere near a fair return."
But he said the lack of revenues from Wizards games will not hurt his ability to pay the debt service on the arena. "I've never missed a payment and I never will," he said.
NBC and Turner Sports will make their full $16 million-a-team payments this season, cushioning teams' loss of revenue from ticket sales and concessions. Pollin's bottom line is also comforted by revenues from Capitals games and other events.
Nonetheless, Pollin is peeved by the suggestion that if the return on his Wizards investment is so small, well, maybe he should sell the team -- a recommendation made by Michael Jordan during a negotiating session last month.
"I'm not going to let Michael Jordan or anybody else tell me to sell my team," he said, anger cutting his genial tone. "Nobody is going to tell me I have to sell my team."
Pollin has maintained his affection for his basketball team despite years of disappointment since Washington's 1978 championship. He was prompted to propose changing the team's name in 1995, from the Bullets to the Wizards, after his friend Yitzhak Rabin, the Israeli Prime Minister, was assassinated.
"I love this sport and I love this team," said Pollin, a widely respected owner who is deeply involved in Washington-area charities. "This team and this league have been a big part of my life. I love the players individually. I get to know the players' wives. They come to my home. I've taken them to China and Israel. This team is a very important part of my life."
Pollin has been involved in nearly every major issue in the N.B.A., and served on nearly every major committee. "You enjoy having someone like Abe, with his experience, with his league mentality, who's also very charitable and has a great sense of humor," Stern said.
Pollin is still yearning for a second N.B.A. championship to add to the team's 1978 title. "I just hope we get better," he said. "I think we will."
But first he wants to change the system. The owners want to limit players' salaries to 50 percent of league revenue, not the 60 percent players have proposed, and below the 57.1 percent players made last season. Owners also want to limit rookie salaries and alter the so-called Larry Bird exception that lets teams exceed the salary cap when they re-sign their own free agents.
The system, he said, has resulted in ticket prices rising far beyond the capability of families to attend games without financial hardship. "That disturbs me," he said. "My greatest pleasure is to see families and children come to my building to see an N.B.A. game in a clean environment. So the escalating salaries have to be addressed."
The lockout, a product of the owners' frustrations with the system's flaws, has created a public image of avarice.
"I don't consider myself greedy, so I resent that," he said. "I've spent my life helping others. I resent being called greedy."
Pollin retains an optimism that an agreement can be reached, "but I can't say when -- it's up to the players." Unfortunately, he said, players don't seem to trust the owners' proposals or claims about team finances, among them that 15 teams are losing money.
"I'm not putting blame on owners or the players for the way things are," he said. "We signed a deal in 1995 that doesn't work, so we have to change it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Abe Pollin, owner of the Washington Wizards, at his MCI Center. "We're prepared to gut the season," he said of the N.B.A. owners. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); WASHINGTON WIZARDS (92%); WASHINGTON WIZARDS (92%); WASHINGTON BULLETS (84%); WASHINGTON BULLETS (84%); WASHINGTON CAPITALS (58%); WASHINGTON CAPITALS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); WASHINGTON WIZARDS (92%); WASHINGTON WIZARDS (92%); WASHINGTON BULLETS (84%); WASHINGTON BULLETS (84%); WASHINGTON CAPITALS (58%); WASHINGTON CAPITALS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASKETBALL (93%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); ICE HOCKEY (78%); BASEBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



314 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Dow Sinks 40.16 Amid Fading Hopes for a Cut in Rates

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
Stock prices fell broadly yesterday, reversing an early advance, as investors pondered what now seems little better than an even chance that the Federal Reserve will cut short-term interest rates again next week.
The third consecutive session of declines was brightened by Intel's projection of stronger-than-expected revenue for this quarter, which lifted some technology stocks, and by enthusiastic receptions for three initial public offerings. 
 But mostly this was a day in which the tone seemed to be set by investors cashing profits following a month of large gains amid uncertainty not only about the Fed's meeting next Tuesday but about the possibility of military action against Iraq.
"We've had a very powerful rally in a very short amount of time," said Philip J. Orlando, chief investment officer at Value Line Asset Management. At a time when many believe that foreign instability seems at least to be getting no worse, he called the Fed's decision whether to make a third round of rate reductions "a very close call."
The Dow Jones industrial average closed with a loss of 40.16 points at 8,823.82. It was up as much as 72 points in early trading.
The much broader Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks shed 7.29 points to close at 1,120.97. Even the Nasdaq market, which is dominated by technology stocks and had posted five consecutive advances, closed 3.51 points lower, at 1,862.11, and the Russell 2000 index of smaller issues fell 3.39 points, to 393.47.
"It was a little surprising that the Intel rally didn't take the Nasdaq higher," said Warren Epstein, head trader at Richard A. Rosenblatt & Company.
Intel surged 6 1/8, to 103 11/16, while Texas Instruments rose 5 9/16, to 69 7/16, and Micron Technology was up 3 3/8, to 47 5/8, after hitting a 52-week high.
But most Internet stocks slumped, with Yahoo dropping 12 9/16, America Online 7 3/8 and Ebay 14 15/16, part of what Mr. Epstein called "pretty good profit taking" after sharp run-ups.
Some speculative money might have been redeployed into the new issues, especially Earthweb, which sold 2.1 million shares at 14 and saw them soar as high as 59 before closing at 48 11/16, a 247 percent increase and the second-biggest first-day rise ever, according to Securities Data. The record was Broadcast.com's offering in July, which went from 18 to 74 before settling at 62 3/4, a 250 percent gain.
And in what was the third-largest initial offering on record, News Corporation sold a 20 percent stake in Fox Entertainment Group, a 124.8-million-share deal that was priced late Tuesday at 22 1/2. The shares traded as high as 25 5/8 yesterday before closing at 24 1/2, an unusually big premium for a multibillion-dollar offering.
The other issue to trade for the first time was MONY Group, the insurance company formerly known as Mutual of New York, now owned by shareholders instead of policyholders. The shares, priced at 23 1/2, finished at 28 1/8.
The bond market, from which stocks sometimes take their cue, was closed in observance of Veterans Day.
Stocks were mixed overseas, closing up 4.28 percent in Hong Kong, 2.27 percent in Tokyo and less than 1 percent in London and Frankfurt. The main declines were 2.97 percent in Rio de Janeiro and 1.13 percent in Paris.
Despite the latest skittishness over Iraq, the usual demand for oil shares was missing, with most fractionally mixed. ARCO fell 1 15/16, to 66 5/8, and Phillips fell 1 1/4, to 43 1/4.
Drug stocks were among the prominent losers yesterday, with Merck, Pfizer and Schering-Plough more than 2 points lower and Lilly and Abbott down more than 1.
In a soft financial sector, BankAmerica was down 2 5/16, to 57, the main loser, but J. P. Morgan jumped 1 3/16, to 98 13/16, amid continuing takeover rumors and word that it won Phelps Dodge's 401(k) business.
American Express lost 1/2, to 92 9/16, despite news that Warren E. Buffett bought 1.08 million shares in early October, the first time the multibillionaire investor had raised his Amex stake since 1995.
Chrysler edged up 1/8, to 47 1/16, in its last week of trading before the company's shares disappear because of its merger with Germany's Daimler-Benz. Analysts said index funds may already have disposed of their Chrysler shares. Safeway, taking Chrysler's place in the S.& P. 500, climbed 1 3/16, to 49 3/16.
On the New York Stock Exchange, volume was 715.8 million shares, up from 679.7 million Tuesday. There were 33 new highs against 19 new lows, but 1,797 issues declined while only 1,215 rose.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since November 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (85%); NWS (NASDAQ) (60%); NWS (ASX) (60%); MU (NASDAQ) (53%); TXN (NASDAQ) (53%); AOL (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (53%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (53%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (56%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (85%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (60%); NEWS CORP (60%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (53%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (53%); AOL INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK INDEXES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (79%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



315 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1792 words

HEADLINE: America's Turn to Colonize;
CreditCard Issuers Invade Britain, With U.S. Firepower

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 11

 BODY:
What, precisely, is Billy Connolly, the Scottish comedian, doing in biblical robes and beard in a commercial with floating goldfish that fill the television screen?
Improbably, the answer lies in a remarkable American invasion of the credit card industry in Britain that has left big British credit card issuers smarting. For the goldfish represent the Goldfish card, which has gained 800,000 customers since it was first issued in 1996 by a British subsidiary of Household International Inc. of Prospect Heights, Ill., in conjunction with a British gas utility. 
 Indeed, in just a few years, Household and other American companies -- including MBNA of Wilmington, Del.; People's Bank of Bridgeport, Conn.; American Express, and Capital One Financial of Falls Church, Va. -- have captured 10.2 percent of the cards issued in a $136.7 billion market that was once controlled exclusively by four big British banks led by Barclays P.L.C. with its Barclaycard. The Americans have shaken up the industry with innovative marketing and by offering interest rates that are lower than the average rates of 22 and 23 percent charged by British issuers.
"It's a battleground," acknowledged John Eaton, the managing director of Barclaycard. The company is still the dominant issuer of cards in Britain, but its share of the market here has fallen to 31 percent last year from 37.1 percent in 1995, and the number of different cards available in Britain has grown to 1,200, from 40 in 1990.
"It's a tough, competitive market," Mr. Eaton said.
Some American companies see further gains ahead. The credit card business in Britain is similar to the way the United States market was in the 1980's, said Patrick Nelson, corporate communications manager for Capital One.
"If you look back at the U.S. market in 1986, and look at it now, you will find only three or four of the big players in '86 are still there," he said. "And there is that same potential here in the United Kingdom. U.K. High Street banks have been charging far too much for far too long."
The American beachhead in Britain could serve as a springboard into a much bigger and largely untapped market: Continental Europe. The Continent has outstanding Visa and Mastercard debt estimated at $49 billion -- much less than the $397 billion in Visa and Mastercard debt in the United States. Credit cards have failed to win mass acceptance in much of Europe, where big banks dominate with debit cards and personal checking accounts.
The trick for any new competitors in Europe, then, is essentially to create a bigger market, bankers say. And that has happened in large part in Britain, where a boom in the overall use of credit cards has cushioned big banks from the effects of their eroding market share.
"The credit card cake has been growing all the time," said David Joy, an economist with the Credit Card Research Group, an industry organization. "So while people like Barclaycard have been losing market share, they have not been losing money."
The total amount of debt outstanding on credit cards in Britain, mostly Visa and Mastercard, now stands at 21.8 billion, or $36.2 billion, up 23 percent from 17.7 billion ($29.4 billion) a year ago.
And Mr. Eaton of Barclaycard says figures showing simple market share are misleading. Over the last 18 months, he said, four million new credit cards have flooded onto the British market, but many of them have been issued to people who already held a card.
"Three years ago, about 20 percent of card holders had more than one card," he said. "Now it's 40 percent." Moreover, although credit card use has nearly doubled as a proportion of British retail sales to 20 percent -- of which Barclaycard claims 50 percent -- from 12 percent in 1990, the numbers show that many people still rely on cash, debit cards or checks.
"The marketplace is now very much about share of wallet: how do you sustain your share of wallet?" Mr. Eaton said. "The most powerful indicator is the share of turnover in the total market. How much of customers' spending am I getting on a monthly, weekly basis?"
Beginning in the mid-1990's, some American financial companies reached for the British wallet by taking aim where they thought British issuers were most vulnerable: interest rates.
"The single largest comment is: give me a low rate and no annual fee," said Carlos Mello, managing director of People's Bank, which introduced its card in Britain in 1996. The bank, with a modest British operation of 55 full-time workers, has so far issued 120,000 cards, with an introductory rate of 6.9 percent that later rises to 17.9 percent, according to the Nilson Report, a credit card industry newsletter in Oxnard, Calif.
American companies are also introducing unfamiliar marketing strategies to Britain. Capital One, for example, offered an introductory 6.9 percent interest rate on a Mastercard coupled with an offer for tickets to last summer's World Cup soccer tournament. Other special themes include a card offering discounts at specific London stores and a personalized Mastercard sporting the card holder's photograph.
It also offers a set interest rate of 12.9 percent for customers who are confused by the idea of cards that offer an introductory rate that later rises. Capital One issued 630,000 cards by the end of 1997, a year after its introduction, according to the Nilson Report.
A Household International subsidiary, HFC Bank P.L.C., which has been in Britain since 1973, introduced a credit card linked to reduced prices on General Motors' Vauxhall cars. The program was a British version of the G.M. card in the United States. Then Household hit on the idea of using a goldfish as its emblem, and charging 19.8 percent interest but offering a 1 percent reduction on a gas utility's bills. "Everyone has a gas bill to pay," said Mark Rutland, director of corporate communications for HFC Bank.
With a growing share of the market, American companies are expanding. Capital One, for example, is planning to invest $50 million in a new processing plant in Nottingham, in the Midlands.
Plans like this show just how much the American presence has mushroomed. Starting from scratch in 1994, Household, through its British subsidiaries, last year ranked as the biggest American credit card issuer -- and the fifth over all -- in Britain, with 2.1 million cards issued. That represents just 4.2 percent of the market but is nearly a threefold increase from 1995, according to the Nilson Report. A close second, MBNA had 1.9 million cards issued by the end of 1997 -- more than double the number in 1995. Counted by cards issued, American issuers over all hold 10.2 percent of the British market.
Barclaycard has responded swiftly to the American challenge to its dominance. The company, which has some 6.5 million customers holding 15.3 million cards, announced last summer that it would shed 1,100 jobs -- a quarter of its work force -- over the next three years. It also plans to invest around $50 million in new systems over the next three years.
And it has sought to counter the low-interest-rate invaders, Mr. Eaton said, by offering to cut its own rate to 18.9 percent from 22.9 percent for people charging more than $825 a month -- considerably higher than the British average. It has also instituted loyalty programs offering discounts on Ford cars and Cellnet mobile phones.
Still, the American insurgents are not the only challenge. Supermarket chains like Tesco and J. Sainsbury have also issued their own credit cards, along with the many building societies -- the British equivalent of savings and loans -- that have converted into banks. There is also an array of affinity cards linking credit to particular interests and brands.
The contest may soon get even sharper. An anticipated slowdown in the British economy next year has already doubled the number of credit card accounts in arrears compared with last year, according to figures from the Equifax financial information group, suggesting that both the newcomers and the veterans of the credit card industry will be scrambling to maintain growth.
"It'll be a tougher assignment next year," Mr. Rutland of HFC Bank said. His concerns reflect broader worries in Britain about a possible consumer credit crunch if the economy slows -- or even slides into recession as it did in the early 1990's, exacerbated by a sharp increase in consumer debt. "It will be interesting to see if other American competitors are here for the long haul," he said.
While Barclaycard is being challenged at home, it is among the pioneers in Continental Europe. Along with Citigroup's Citibank unit, which has an estimated 1.34 million cards in European countries, Barclaycard has sought to penetrate the new European markets, with 600,000 cards, for instance, issued in Germany alone.
Here, too, competition is beginning. Though some American banks active in Britain say they have no immediate plan to test the broader European market, American Express has introduced in Italy and Germany, as well as in Britain, a new blue card that like its better-known green, gold and platinum cards charges an annual fee, but unlike the others also offers revolving credit.
The blue card, said Peter Godfrey, American Express regional president for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, is aiming at customers in their early 20's to mid-30's in nine countries from Australia to Canada, but not in the United States. The card has plunged into the market with a lower introductory rate, 1 percent standard discounts on purchases and -- for November -- a 5 percent cash-back discount.
While Mr. Godfrey declined to give figures, he said the number of initial customers was "substantially above our internal forecast."
With 11 European countries set to introduce a common currency, the euro, in January, the European market clearly offers new opportunities for credit card holders. Initially, the euro will be limited to electronic trading of all kinds from intergov ernment transfers to stock markets. Cash and notes will become mandatory only in January 2002. But exchange rates between member countries will be fixed from the beginning of next year, meaning that credit cards could offer travelers a way of eliminating currency exchange costs if they, say, pay a hotel bill in Milan in euro-linked lire, and pay their credit card bill in euro-linked marks. The problem is that relatively few Continental Europeans use credit cards.
"You are dealing with a debit card, overdraft mentality in Continental Europe, and it's difficult to break these markets," Mr Godfrey said. "The key thing for us is to create that market. It is worth the effort to create a credit card environment in Europe."

GRAPHIC: Photos/Chart: "Plastic, Plastic Everywhere"
It's a battleground, said John Eaton, left, managing director of Barclaycard, the dominant issuer of cards in Britain. U.S. combatants include Household International, with its Goldfish card, and American Express. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)(pg C1); Carlos Mello, managing director of People's Bank, at the bank's offices in Northampton, England. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)(pg. C8)
 
Table: "The U.S. Onslaught"
Today, 10 percent of the credit cards in British wallets are issued by American banks, twice as much as just two years ago. American banks are listed in bold.
 

		1997 CARD	 	 			PURCHASES	 	 	RANK	ISSUER	(MILLIONS)	%CHG (1995)	CARDS ISSUED		 	 	 	 	1	Barclays Bank	$57,971.0	+ 36.3%	15,251,678	2	National Westminster	15,000.0	- 4.6	4,584,772	3	Lloyd's	10,863.9	+ 6.6	5,802,000	4	Midland Bank	10,624.5	+ 40.3	4,500,000	5	HFC/Beneficial	6,845.9	+127.9	2,060,000	6	Abbey National	5,540.9	+ 40.2	1,555,858	7	MBNA International	5,455.3	+226.7	1,866,000	8	Royal Bank of Scotland	5,362.9	+133.0	2,017,613	9	Cooperative Bank	4,645.9	+ 26.0	2,446,438	10	Bank of Scotland	4,258.8	+ 26.8	1,491,504	15	 *Capital One	950.0	n.a.	630,000	16	Associates Capital	896.3	+827.8	330,000	20	People's Bank	163.2	n.a.	120,130	21	GE Capital Bank	106.7	n.a.	27,476	22	Citibank International	56.0	+700.0	9,000	
TOTALS FOR TOP 25 ISSUERS
 

BRITISH	$122,242.5	+ 28.5%	41,162,837	AMERICAN	4,777.6	+202.9%	5,042,606	
 
*After top 10, only American banks are listed
(Source: The Nilson Report)
 
Graph: "A Second Front"
By building a beachead in Britain, American banks hope to attack the largely untapped European market. The graph shows the outstanding debt per person in 1997 for VISA and MASTERCARD.
 
United States: $1,470
Europe: $244
(Source: The Nilson Report)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (91%); BARC (LSE) (91%); AXP (NYSE) (90%); V (NYSE) (85%); COF (NYSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (94%); SCOTLAND (92%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (57%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (91%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (90%); VISA INC (85%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (85%); HSBC FINANCE CORP (72%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF ELKTON INC (57%); PEOPLE'S BANK & TRUST CO (57%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF ZANZIBAR (57%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF VIRGINIA BEACH (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (94%); SCOTLAND (92%); ENGLAND (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (57%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (93%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); RELIGION (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); DEBIT CARDS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN EATON (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



316 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Front-runner for Gingrich Seat Emerges

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

DATELINE: MARIETTA, Ga., Nov. 11

 BODY:
The campaign to succeed Speaker Newt Gingrich as the Congressman from Georgia's Sixth District began taking shape today as Johnny Isakson, the chairman of the state school board and a fixture in state Republican politics, announced his candidacy and instantly became the presumptive front-runner.
Among other political assets, Mr. Isakson, 53, has the blessing of Mr. Gingrich, who issued a statement on Tuesday encouraging him to run. 
 "He is a very close personal friend," Mr. Gingrich said, "and I believe he would do a great job of representing Georgia's Sixth District."
Mr. Gingrich announced last Friday that he would step down from the Speakership and resign his House seat because of Republican losses in last week's elections. The party lost five seats in the House, and, counting Mr. Gingrich, now holds 223 seats to the Democrats' 211 and 1 independent. The Republican majority is six.
Mr. Isakson's announcement is likely to keep some prospective Republican candidates out of the race. The state Republican chairman, Russell K. Paul, said today that he would no longer consider running and joined other party leaders in the district in handicapping Mr. Isakson as a heavy favorite.
The Sixth District, which spans an arc of affluent suburbs north of Atlanta, is considered one of the most Republican Congressional districts in the country. Politics here are driven primarily by economic conservatism, but social issues also play a role and that could cause problems for Mr. Isakson. He is a social moderate who took the unusual step of highlighting his support for abortion rights during a Republican primary campaign for the United States Senate two years ago, alienating many religious conservatives.
Mr. Paul said Mr. Isakson had already started to repair that damage by contacting Christian conservative leaders.
"He won't make them all happy," Mr. Paul said, "but he's working to shore up his right flank."
In his announcement in the town square here, Mr. Isakson emphasized his Republican credentials, saying he and Mr. Gingrich "were Republicans when Republican wasn't very cool."
A real estate executive, Mr. Isakson has served in the General Assembly and run two unsuccessful statewide races, for governor in 1990 and for the Senate in 1996.
Mr. Isakson focused his remarks today on economic issues; he did not mention social ones.
"I believe in the principles of economic conservatism," he said. "I believe in the principles of local control. And I believe in a manageable government that takes less out of the pockets of the taxpayers and enlightens the life of all of us."
One social conservative, State Representative Mitchell Adam Kaye Sr., a Republican who gained national attention this year for proposing that teachers be allowed to carry guns in schools, has said he will challenge Mr. Isakson, and several others are still considering their options. On the Democratic side, Michael Coles, an entrepreneur and former state party chairman who lost a campaign for the United States Senate last week, is considering entering the race.
Because Mr. Gingrich has yet to formally notify Gov. Zell Miller of his resignation, no date has been set for a special election to fill his seat. It also remains unclear whether the election would be nonpartisan, with Democrats and Republicans running together, or whether a general election would be preceded by party primaries.
Some Democratic officials said today that they would like to see partisan primaries because Mr. Isakson might be challenged from the right. Although the district is considered strong Republican turf, the Democrats believe they have a chance to win in a race against an extreme social conservative.
"The district can be won with the right combination of Republican candidates," said David Worley, the state Democratic chairman. "There's a real possibility that the Republicans will choose as their leading candidate a radical nut, for lack of a better term."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Johnny Isakson said yesterday in Marietta, Ga., that he would run for Speaker Newt Gingrich's House seat. With him was his daughter, Julie. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); RELIGION (76%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (93%); JOHNNY ISAKSON (91%); HARRY E MITCHELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



317 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: A $5 Billion Revamping At Monsanto

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 11

 BODY:
The Monsanto Company, which for the last few years has aggressively pushed into biotechnology and pharmaceuticals, said today that it planned to raise about $5 billion by restructuring its operations, reducing its work force as much as 9 percent, or 2,500 jobs, and selling additional shares to the public.
The company said that the plan, which comes just a month after its failed merger with American Home Products, a giant pharmaceutical producer with large reserves of cash, is expected to help finance Monsanto's recent acquisitions of a number of large seed businesses and prepare the company to develop a number of promising new products. 
 Monsanto announced the plan after the close of trading on the New York Stock Exchange today, where its shares closed at $38.6875, down 50 cents. But Wall Street analysts say that without the American Home Products deal, which some think broke down because of a dispute over who would run the new company, Monsanto found itself in desperate need of cash.
"They paid big bucks for their seed businesses, and they also have a lot of drug products in the pipeline," said Richard O'Reilly, an analyst with the Standard & Poor's Equity Group. "Right now, they have a lot on their plate, and so they have to pay some of the bill until the drug pipeline comes to fruition."
Executives at Monsanto evidently agree.
"What it really means for the company is that we will get the financing issues behind us and we can focus our energies on bringing the pharmaceutical pipeline and the agricultural and biotechnology products to the market," said Gary Crittenden, chief financial officer at Monsanto, which is based in St. Louis. "We are on the brink of launching one of the largest pharmaceutical products of all time."
That product, Celebra, has been described by Monsanto as a promising new arthritis drug, which is under review by the Food and Drug Administration. It is also a symbol of the new path that Monsanto has taken in recent years, shifting its focus from the chemicals business, which tended to be cyclical, to the high-growth pharmaceutical and futuristic biotechnology businesses.
That shift has sent shares of Monsanto soaring in recent years, more than tripling in worth. And the deal with American Home Products, which analysts expected to benefit both companies, seemed to have offered a solution to backing Monsanto's huge bet on what it calls the "life sciences" business -- an approach to integrating the businesses of agriculture, health care and nutrition.
The life sciences business, the company says, is creating more efficient crop yields, cotton that can be protected against insects and healthier foods. But Wall Street analysts say that without American Home Products, Monsanto found itself lacking the cash it needed, particularly after it made huge investments in the seed and biotechnology business. In the last year, it has spent more than $8 billion on the seed business, including the acquisition in June of the Cargill Company's international seed business.
Some deals are still pending. The company recently announced plans to acquire the 60 percent of the DeKalb Genetics Corporation that it does not already own for $2.3 billion. DeKalb is one of the nation's largest seed-corn companies.
Monsanto's other big seed deal, valued at $1.9 billion, is a proposal to buy the Delta and Pine Land Company, the largest domestic cotton-seed producer.
"They have a lot of opportunities, but they need cash," said Timothy R. Meyer, an analyst with Equity Advisers in Chicago. "So their first choice was American Home Products, which is a cash cow. But if they're not going to get it, they're going to have to go to the public markets. But it's good; it relieves a lot of uncertainty."
According to the plan announced today, Monsanto would issue about $1 billion in new common stock, about $500 million in debt that is convertible into stock, $2.5 billion in long-term debt, and about $1 billion from the sale or divestiture of some of its assets. The company said it would take a pretax restructuring charge of $400 million to $600 million in the fourth quarter of 1998.
Monsanto also plans to revamp its operations in ways that will eliminate as many as 1,000 of its more than 28,000 jobs, and cut as many as 1,500 more through the sale of assets. By 1999, Monsanto expects administrative costs to be reduced by 20 percent.
But marketing and technology spending will rise as it brings products to market, and hopes to move aggressively into new biotechnology ventures.
"The actions today continue a long-term process," Monsanto's chairman and chief executive, Robert B. Shapiro, said in a statement. "From 1992 to 1995, we developed our strategy to transform Monsanto into a leading life sciences company. From 1995 to the present, we've been putting together the resources and capabilities -- business portfolio, people, technologies and infrastructure -- to carry out that strategy."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (98%); PFZ (LSE) (85%); PFE (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (98%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (98%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (85%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (98%); PFIZER INC (85%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); MERGERS (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (64%); US FDA REVIEW (50%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH C PAPA (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



318 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 21; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Milton Handler, 95, Is Dead; Antitrust Expert Wrote Laws

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
Milton Handler, a leading antitrust expert and drafter of some of the nation's best-known laws, died on Tuesday. He was 95.
Professor Handler suffered a stroke on Thursday, said his daughter, Carol E. Handler. 
 Professor Handler, who taught at Columbia University Law School for nearly half a century, ranged far beyond the classroom. He was President Franklin D. Roosevelt's chief adviser on antitrust matters, served as the first general counsel to the National Labor Relations Board and helped to draft such landmark statutes as the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938, the National Labor Relations Act and the G.I. Bill of Rights. In the 1950's and 1960's, he became one of the top antitrust litigators in the country.
An ardent Zionist, he was close to the founders of the Israeli state and participated in the legal brief submitted to the United Nations in support of the 1947 partition plan. His proudest legal achievement, he often said, was securing Albert Einstein's papers for Hebrew University.
"In the realm of trade regulation he was a colossus and in all respects he lived grandly in the law," said Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg of the United States Supreme Court, who is among the many prominent jurists who studied under Mr. Handler and later became friends.
The youngest of seven children, he was born in the Bronx in 1903. His father died when he was 2, and the family moved to Brooklyn. He graduated from Columbia College in 1923 and briefly dreamed of teaching literature before he became captivated by the law. He graduated from Columbia Law School in 1926 with top honors. For one year he was a clerk for Justice Harlan Fiske Stone of the Supreme Court, for whom he developed a lifelong admiration, and then was invited by the dean of the Columbia Law School to teach trade regulation in the summer session. That marked the beginning of a 45-year teaching career.
One of his first assignments at the Supreme Court had been to help Justice Stone draft his landmark opinion in United States v. Trenton Potteries Company et al, a ruling that held that price-fixing agreements always violated the Sherman Act, whether or not the prices charged were reasonable. From then on, Professor Handler focused his intellectual energies on antitrust issues, a scholarly endeavor that became, as he later put it, "the essence of my life."
As a teacher who taught by the Socratic method, he was diligent, even daunting. "By working day and night I was able to amass enough knowledge for each class session, generally being one day ahead of the class," he later wrote.
In 1932, while still in his 20's, Mr. Handler was drafted by the Roosevelt campaign to work on the Democrats' antitrust message and stayed on as the Administration's chief antitrust adviser. In 1937, he helped create the Temporary National Economic Committee. The summary of antitrust law that he wrote for the committee has since become part of the legal canon.
During World War II, Professor Handler served on the Lend-Lease Administration. He was also a key organizer of a Government emergency board to rescue Jews from the Holocaust. In January 1944, Professor Handler drafted the executive order creating the War Refugee Board, but only after an uphill battle for support. "One cannot but wonder how many lives might have been saved if the board had been set up in the early war years," he later said.
After the war, Professor Handler prepared amendments to the Social Security Act that later became the foundation for Medicare. He was especially proud of his role in creating the G.I. Bill of Rights. "Nothing is more important than providing people with the skills that they get from an education," he later wrote.
By the 1950's, Professor Handler was developing one of the most successful private antitrust practices in the country. He became a partner in a leading New York law firm, Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler. As counsel and litigator, he represented some of the nation's biggest corporations, including Xerox, Pepsico, the American Tobacco Company and Texaco, and he argued many cases before the Supreme Court.
By then, Professor Handler's reputation as a scholar was so stellar that judges, many of whom had been his students or were devotees of his published lectures, frequently consulted him.
"He had an extraordinary presence in the courtroom," recalled David Klingsberg, chairman of Kaye, Scholer, who worked closely with Professor Handler starting in the early 1960's. "Judges listened to what he had to say."
Prolific well into his 90's, Professor Handler published numerous articles, casebooks and texts, including classics on trade regulation, labor law and antitrust. His annual series of antitrust lectures, published in three separate collections, have long been considered required reading for anyone interested in the field.
On antitrust matters, Professor Handler's philosophy was distinctively centrist. "He stood for balance," said his daughter, who is also an antitrust lawyer. His philosophy was that the principle of economic competition was as fundamental to American democracy as the freedom to express competing ideas. In the "big is bad" 50's and 60's, Professor Handler criticized the Government control of business issues preferred by Justices William O. Douglas and Hugo L. Black. But in the 80's, he also said the Reagan and Bush Administrations brought too few antitrust cases. Human nature had not changed, he liked to point out.
Professor Handler was granted numerous prizes and honorary degrees. Last May, he received the prestigious John Sherman Award from the antitrust division of the Justice Department.
Elegant and urbane, Professor Handler lived on Park Avenue and had a second home in Palm Beach and closets so full of suits and elegant shoes that house guests were hard pressed to find an empty hanger or shelf. A lover of music, interesting people and dinner parties, he could talk intelligently on subjects ranging from the law and politics to philosophy and biography.
Professor Handler enjoyed excellent health until almost the end. Indeed, he had just been host at a dinner for some of New York's leading legal lights at the Four Seasons a few nights before he suffered a stroke, dominating the conversation with witty anecdotes.
Professor Handler's first wife, Marion Winter Kahn, whom he married in 1931, died in 1953. His second wife, Miriam Adler, whom he married in 1955, died in 1997. In addition to his daughter, he is survived by two granddaughters, Alisa Marion Schoenbach and Ilana Abigail Schoenbach.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Milton Handler (Blackstone-Shelburne, 1976)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GEMEY MAYBELLINE GARNIER SNC (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (57%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (57%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); SUPREME COURTS (87%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); PRICE FIXING (78%); CARTELS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LITIGATION (76%); STROKES (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); 

PERSON: CAROL E HANDLER (95%); MILTON HANDLER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



319 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Nissan, Losing Money, Seeks Public Loan

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 11

 BODY:
The Japanese Government is poised to come to the aid of the Nissan Motor Company, the nation's ailing No. 2 auto maker, by making loans from the Japan Development Bank available to it.
The auto maker said that it was negotiating with the Government-backed bank for a loan but that the amount and timing had not yet been determined. 
 The development bank typically lends to companies needing money to finance capital expenditures. The laws governing the bank's lending state that at least half of any loan must be used for financing projects like building new factories or installing major technology.
Nissan's needs are of a more immediate nature, according to some analysts, who think that the company is having trouble raising money in the capital markets to finance its operations.
But they think that the latest economic-stimulus package the Government is preparing will include plans to ease the development bank's restrictions and otherwise find ways of helping corporations survive the worst credit squeeze in recent memory.
Analysts said the loan's importance would depend on the specifics, particularly its size, but they disagreed over what the loan meant in terms of Nissan's financial health, which has been shaky for the last several years.
Some regarded the company's turn to the development bank as a sign of dire financial straits.
"It's an undeniable fact that the company is short of cash and wants to do anything to accumulate it," said Koji Endo of Schroders Securities.
Nissan is shouldering debt of 4.3 trillion yen, or about $35 billion, and is trying to reorganize amid the worst economic downturn since World War II.
Car sales in Japan fell 14 percent last year and a further 8 percent in the first half of this year, and Nissan announced yesterday that it expected to post yet another loss for the full fiscal year, which ends on March 31.
It has also suffered from bloated inventories in the United States, some of that caused by supplies of used vehicles turned onto the market as leases ended. Nissan had provided heavy incentives for Americans to lease, leading to this year's glut.
It has lost money in six of the last seven years, and Mr. Endo thinks that company debt ratings will fall to junk-bond status by the end of the year because of the expected loss.
"If that happens, there will be almost no way they can raise cash," he said.
But Steve Usher, an analyst with Jardine Fleming Securities, cautioned against interpreting the negotiations as a sign of desperation.
"The situation Nissan is facing at this point would not necessarily imply a cash squeeze," he said. "There is a deterioration in its profitability, but virtually all companies here are having that deterioration."
He noted that the bulk of the losses announced on Tuesday -- $266 million for the six-month period ending on Sept. 30 -- were related to securities Nissan holds and were thus largely paper losses.
"They're in a position at this point, given their cash flow, to meet their requirements," he said.
Mr. Endo said Nissan's borrowing costs had sharply risen since August, when Moody's Investors Service lowered its credit ratings, which now hover one notch above junk-bond status.
Its usual lenders, the Industrial Bank of Japan and Fuji Bank, have problems of their own and can ill afford to extend further loans to the company -- although they can afford its demise even less.
The company does have access to a credit line of 500 billion yen it obtained last month from 10 banks to protect it, should it have difficulties raising money.
But Nissan's parts suppliers and affiliates are also experiencing credit constraints and need its help. Mr. Usher said the company had increased its borrowing last year and in the first half of this year to support its group companies rather than finance its own operations.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (94%); DEVELOPMENT BANK OF JAPAN INC (91%); JARDINE FLEMING SECURITIES (51%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (94%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (94%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEVELOPMENT BANKS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (55%); WORLD WAR II (50%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); 

PERSON: KOJI ENDO (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



320 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: POLITICAL MEMO;
So Just Whose Party Is It? A G.O.P. House Divided

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 11

 BODY:
As they battle for slots in the House Republican leadership, candidates talk passionately about their party's need for new faces. Or a new generation of leaders. Or better communication.
But what is it they want to communicate? 
It is difficult to find a single answer. The majority that Newt Gingrich built is so deeply splintered that it seemed at times during the last Congressional session to dissolve into its 228 component parts, each Republican member of the House with a different idea of what the party should be.
Is it the Eisenhower-era road-building party that Representative Bud Shuster of Pennsylvania might have envisioned when he pushed through the House the largest public works bill ever before Congress? Or is it the party of frugality and small government that Representative Joe Scarborough of Florida calls for when he criticizes that bill as a pork-laden abomination?
Is it the Teddy Roosevelt-style reformist party that Representative Christopher Shays of Connecticut fights for when he calls on Republicans to overhaul campaign finance law? Or is it a party so in step with its corporate donors that Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority whip, feels free to pressure trade associations to hire Republicans as their lobbyists?
How can the idea of conservation voiced by Representative Sherwood Boehlert of upstate New York ever square with Representative Helen Chenoweth's support for the Idaho timber industry?
For all his flaws, Mr. Gingrich was widely acknowledged to be his party's most skilled conceptualizer and theoretician.
But across the past year, with a Republican majority five seats larger than the party will have in the 106th Congress, he could make no coherent synthesis out of this swirl of interests, no matter how painstakingly he sounded out ideas on issues like tax reform, tax cuts, individualized private Social Security accounts or a strong global role for America.
Representative Robert L. Livingston of Louisiana, who will take over the Speaker's post from Mr. Gingrich, has already made clear that he intends not to be a theoretician but rather to use his management skills to make sure legislation is moving through the House. He has also said that because of his narrow majority, of only six seats, he will be looking to strike compromises with conservative and moderate Democrats.
But watchful Democrats, who now think they could win back the House in 2000, suspect that such management skills will not be enough to provide the Republicans a compelling new message for the electorate.
"When the history of the Republican revolution is written, Bob Livingston will play Brezhnev to Newt Gingrich's Lenin," said Mark Mellman, a pollster for the House Democratic leadership. "Members of Congress care deeply how the bows in the legislative packages are tied. The public doesn't care a whit about that. They care about agenda and message."
Part of the Republicans' problem is that the political ground has shifted as a result of their own policy successes.
Ever since Ronald Reagan, Republicans have believed in an inevitable triumph of their philosophy of tax cutting, a strong military and a scaled-back Federal Government. In fact, until the arrival of Bill Clinton, both parties had come to believe that the Republicans had a natural advantage -- some called it an "electoral lock" -- in the race for the Presidency.
The Republican takeover of Congress in 1994 left the self-proclaimed Republican revolutionaries with an even greater sense of omnipotence, at least until Mr. Clinton won re-election two years ago. Even last week, on the Election Day that brought his party a loss of seats and led to his own resignation, Mr. Gingrich called the Clinton Presidency "an ongoing, slow-motion collapse of the Democratic majority that Franklin Roosevelt created."
But Congressional Republicans, while holding their majority, have been floundering ever since Mr. Clinton flummoxed them by agreeing to a balanced budget with tax cuts, signing their welfare overhaul into law and proclaiming that the "era of big government" had ended. Further, the end of the cold war has caused military and foreign policy to weigh less on the public mind, crippling a perennial Republican election issue.
Democrats came out of the elections last week believing that they now had the edge on policies of public concern -- on education, regulation of health maintenance organizations, the economy and Social Security.
"It's the first time in my life that the Democrats are in the mainstream of the country on issues that people care about," said Douglas B. Sosnik, a 42-year-old senior adviser to Mr. Clinton. The White House is working to unveil new proposals in these areas and to make another run at proposals that died this year.
Wondering where to go, Republicans are uncertain whether to fight back on this Democratic ground or to put renewed emphasis on traditional Republican issues.
Representative Shays says the Christian right must stop having a disproportionate influence on his party.
"As soon as my leaders started to jump when the Christian Coalition and Gary Bauer and others said jump, we lost a lot of voters," he said.
But Representative David M. McIntosh of Indiana says moving toward the center would be a "recipe for disaster."
"I think the message in this election," Mr. McIntosh said, "was that Reagan Democrats in particular and Perot independents felt there was not a big difference between Congressional Republicans and President Clinton. So they went back to their traditional habits of voting."
Many Republicans believe that their best course is to show the kind of "compassionate conservatism" practiced by the party's successful governors, making their party more diverse to reflect the nation's changing demographics and focusing on the issues that unite all their factions.
"I think the party has the best cohesion when it talks about fiscal issues," said Representative Rick A. Lazio of Long Island. "The public needs to know the Republican Party, as it lowers taxes and lives within its means, is also watching out for those less fortunate."
So Representative Jennifer Dunn of Washington State, who is vying for majority leader, and Representative J. C. Watts of Oklahoma, the only black Republican in Congress, who is competing for conference chairman, may be picking up some currency, as leadership candidates who would appeal to women and minorities.
But Republicans have had their troubles finding unity these days, even on fiscal policy. All year long, the members battled over whether to have a tax cut focused on married couples or a tax cut focused on capital gains. In the end, they got neither. At one point, some House Republicans sought a $700 billion tax reduction over five years, but that idea was quickly squelched by Senate Republicans. A sweeping tax overhaul, another potential Republican issue, has brought no greater consensus, with House members splintered over whether to replace the progressive income tax with a flat tax or a national sales tax.
Perhaps the best the House Republicans can do is create few waves and let the party's Presidential candidates move to center stage to fight out in primaries the issues that have divided the Congressional majority.
Said Mr. Sosnik, the Clinton adviser, who remembers the Democrats' own plight during the Reagan and Bush Presidencies: "I do believe at the end of the day God invented Presidential primaries so that parties out of power can have a leader and have a message."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Newt Gingrich's days as Speaker are dwindling, but whether House Republicans are any closer to unity is anybody's guess. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (53%); HOUSE REPUBLICAN (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE REPUBLICAN (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); TAX LAW (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX REFORM (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (55%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (50%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (89%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



321 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Internet Stocks Fall Sharply As Investors Take Profits
Shares of Yahoo fell $11.5625, to $165, and America Online declined $7.375, to $137.125, as most Internet stocks slumped on profit taking after recent increases. Although shares of the chip maker Intel rose $6.125, to $103.6875, after the company projected stronger-than-expected revenue for the quarter, it was not enough to rally the Nasdaq, which decreased 3.51 points, to 1,862.11.
Market gauges fell as investors pondered what seems little better than an even chance that the Federal Reserve will cut short-term interest rates again next week. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 40.16 points, to 8,823.82, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 7.29 points, to 1,120.97. Page C7. 

Shares of Fox Entertainment rose $2, to $24.50, in their first day of trading. The News Corporation, headed by Rupert Murdoch, raised $2.8 billion selling 18 percent of its film, television and sports empire to the public. C6.
 
Gates Blames Rivals for Charges
William H. Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, told shareholders that the Government's antitrust case against the software giant was driven chiefly by the company's rivals. C6.
 
Ailing Nissan Motor in Loan Talks
The Japanese Government is poised to assist Nissan Motor, Japan's No. 2 auto maker, by making loans from the Japan Development Bank available to it. C4.
 
The Sherlock Holmes of Trademarks
As the intellectual property counsel for Compagnie Financiere Richemont, the owner of such elite brands as Alfred Dunhill luxury gifts, Cartier jewelry and Montblanc pens, Frederick Mostert helps make sure no one steals or imitates the names, shapes or slogans of the Swiss-based company's products. He is also the president of the International Trademark Association, so he keeps his eye on other companies' products as well. C2.
 
The Last Days of Chrysler
After a history of close calls with bankruptcy, a Federal Government bailout and a recent flood of profits from minivan and Jeep sales, the Chrysler Corporation will disappear as an independent company today, merging with Daimler-Benz of Germany. C4
 
Medpartners Exiting a Business
Medpartners is leaving the business of physician practice management. It plans to concentrate on more profitable units that provide managed care drug benefits and coordinate medical treatments. C20.
 
Federated Profit Climbs 4.8%
Federated Department Stores said fiscal third-quarter profit rose 4.8 percent as cost controls offset lower sales at its Bloomingdale's, Macy's and other chains. Profit before a charge rose to $110 million, or 50 cents a diluted share, a penny above estimates. C20.
 
No Deal for Barings Bondholders
Investors holding the bonds of Barings P.L.C., the failed British bank, rejected a proposed settlement seeking to recover their losses, saying the amount was a fraction of the $1.3 billion lost in 1995 during a wild trading spree by one of the bank's Singapore traders. C2.
 
Biotech Company in Cell Discovery
A small biotechnology company, Advanced Cell Technology of Worcester, Mass., said that its scientists had for the first time made human cells revert to the primordial, embryonic state from which all other cells develop, by fusing them with cow eggs and creating a hybrid cell. The method could eventually be used to create replacement body tissue. A1.
 
Pacific Lumber License Suspended
California forestry regulators, citing what they called continuing egregious violations, have suspended the conditional old-growth redwood logging license of Pacific Lumber Company. The suspension could complicate a $380 million state and Federal deal to buy one of the world's oldest groves of virgin redwoods from the company. A18.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,823.82 down 40.16
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.29% closed
The Dollar -- 121.72 yen down 0.80
 
Graph shows the share price for Yahoo for the week, ending yesterday at $165 per share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); NWS (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (ASX) (83%); AOL (NYSE) (58%); 7201 (TSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); CFR (SWX) (54%); CFR (JSE) (54%); M (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS339940 OFFICE SUPPLIES (EXCEPT PAPER) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS316998 ALL OTHER LEATHER GOOD & ALLIED PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC5094 JEWELRY, WATCHES, PRECIOUS STONES, & PRECIOUS METALS (54%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (54%); SIC3873 WATCHES, CLOCKS, CLOCKWORK OPERATED DEVICES, & PARTS (54%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (51%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (75%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); NEWS CORP (83%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (82%); DEVELOPMENT BANK OF JAPAN INC (66%); BARINGS PLC (60%); AOL INC (58%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); CIE FINANCIERE RICHEMONT SA (54%); MACY'S INC (51%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BONDS (89%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (89%); TRADEMARKS (87%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%); BAILOUTS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); BANK FAILURES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); TRADEMARK LAW (69%); RETAILERS (67%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (66%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (65%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); SPORTS & RECREATION (52%); SPORTS (52%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (51%); 

PERSON: BILL GATES (65%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



322 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: After Storm, Immigrants Fear Returning May Strand Them

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

 BODY:
If she could fly, Reina Palacios says, she would flap her wings and soar above her apartment in Newark, fly across the country and south to El Salvador, where she would search for the three teen-age daughters she has been unable to reach since Hurricane Mitch devastated Central America two weeks ago.
But Ms. Palacios can fly only in her imagination. An applicant for political asylum, she is unable to go back without putting her quest for asylum at risk. 
 Hundreds of thousands of other Central American immigrants are in the same situation. Many came here illegally, often for economic reasons, and if they leave they fear they may not be able to return. Immigrants seeking to legalize their immigration status, like Ms. Palacios, can apply for a permit that allows them to leave in an emergency, but immigration officials warn that if they travel to their countries they will lose their chance to become permanent residents of the United States.
Central Americans say their plighthas never been more anguishing than it is now, when every night they watch the wreckage caused by a storm that swept up villages and flooded cities, killing more than 11,000 people.
Ms. Palacios, like many others, faces heartbreaking choices. She can go to her family and remain in a devastated country where few jobs are available and salaries are low, or she can stay and continue working to support them while pursuing her goal of becoming a permanent resident so that she can bring the rest of her family to the United States.
"There are days I can function," Ms. Palacios, 34, said softly. "But then there are other days when I think my head is going to explode. I have terrible nightmares. Big waves come crashing down on me as I look for my girls."
For two weeks now, Ms. Palacios has been dialing the number of the only family with a telephone in the village where her daughters, 13, 14 and 16, live with their grandmother. She gets only a busy signal. The storm cut almost all communication between the countries it affected the most, Nicaragua, Honduras and El Salvador, and the rest of the world. Bridges have fallen and roads are flooded, making it nearly impossible for people to communicate with one another.
"This is agony for us," said Guillermo Chacon, a community organizer from El Salvador who is an advocate for Central Americans on Long Island. "I cannot describe how deeply painful and sad it is to know that your family is lost and you cannot go to their rescue."
For days, Maria Cristina Guevara, a Honduran who has lived in South Florida for 10 years, did not know whether her family had survived the hurricane. Five days ago, one of her brothers was finally able to call her from a borrowed telephone. He told her they nearly lost their home; the roof and a wall are gone and all the furniture was ruined. He also told her they have nothing to eat.
"I'm desperate to go," said Ms. Guevara, 52, who every month sends her family part of the salary she earns as a housekeeper. "But if I go, they'll lose their only chance for recovering from this disaster."
If Ms. Guevara, who is here illegally, were to leave, she could not return to the United States legally because she lacks an immigration status or a visa, a requirement before a foreigner can board a plane to come to the United States. And if she went to an immigration office seeking help, the law dictates that she be deported.
But immigrants like Ms. Palacios -- part of a group of thousands of Guatemalan and Salvadoran victims of the Central American wars of the 1980's who have been allowed to remain in the country legally while the Government processes their political asylum applications -- can travel to their countries by asking the Immigration and Naturalization Service for a special permit. The permits, difficult to get, are granted at the discretion of directors of local I.N.S. offices.
Even if the permits were easily obtained, officials discourage Central Americans who are here legally but not yet permanent residents from traveling abroad, said Elaine Komis, an I.N.S. spokeswoman in Washington. If they leave and come back, she said, they may not be able to become residents because they will enter into another category of immigrants for whom there are no legal protections.
"I would never tell them what to do," said an I.N.S. official in Washington, who was reluctant to attach her name to a warning for immigrants. "But if we were having a secret conversation, I would tell everyone to stay firm and try to communicate through telephone, letters, Internet, any other means possible until they adjust their status."
Immigration lawyers and advocates for immigrants agree.
"The bottom line is that the whole thing is a mess and there is no easy way for them to go," said Ann Pilsbury, the director of Central American Legal Assistance, a center in Brooklyn that helps Central Americans with immigration issues. "The fact of the matter is that nobody can guarantee people that it won't have a fatal effect on their case."
Despite the advice of lawyers, consular officials fear that some people are leaving the country anyway, either because they do not understand the laws of the United States or because they are so desperate that they no longer care about returning.
Juan Antonio Villalobo, a vice consul of El Salvador in New York, said about 28 Salvadorans came to his office last week seeking a special passport to travel home. He expected the number to grow this week.
"They have been told that their families are lost, and they want to look for them," Mr. Villalobo said. "They must have a strong motivation to make a decision to leave like that, without a guaranteed return."
Santos Mateo Hernandez, a Honduran who is applying for political asylum, may be reaching the point of desperation Mr. Villalobo worries about. After almost two weeks without news from his wife and five children, he was able to speak to his family Sunday. He learned that they had lost the crops they depend on and have nothing to eat. His daughters, 6 and 8, are ill with stomach problems. Because they are unreachable in a town called Lloro, he cannot send them medicine or money.
"My problem is I can't be with them when they need me the most," said Mr. Hernandez, 35, who lives in Far Rockaways, Queens. "And that is killing me inside."
Many Central Americans now unable to travel to their countries applied for political asylum years ago and have been living in the United States for a dozen years or more. They have learned English, found jobs, opened bank accounts, paid taxes and started families, while still lacking a legal status in this country.
According to 1997 population figures prepared by the Census Bureau, there are 1.3 million Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Hondurans in the United States. That number may include people who are here legally as well as illegally, because the census does not categorize individuals by immigration status.
About a quarter of a million Salvadorans and Guatemalans, though, are protected from deportation because the law allows them to remain in the country while a determination in their political asylum claims is made. There is a huge backlog of asylum applications, and the majority of cases have not been heard.
A new law in December halted the asylum process. The new law granted Nicaraguans permanent residency, but it offered Salvadorans and Guatemalans the possibility to apply to avoid deportation only. It did not address those who are here illegally.
"This is just another story of the injustice visited upon these people," said Philippe Weisz, a lawyer who works with Central American immigrants in New Jersey. "Had the Salvadorans and Guatemalans had the opportunity to have their asylum cases heard when they fled to the United States, many would be lawful permanent residents, if not citizens of this country."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reina Palacios and her husband, Edwin Valle, with pictures of their three daughters and a niece at First Communion. They have not spoken with their daughters since Hurricane Mitch struck El Salvador. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); EL SALVADOR (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONDURAS (92%); NICARAGUA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: I N S (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: I N S (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); EL SALVADOR (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONDURAS (92%); NICARAGUA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. IMMIGRATION (92%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); HURRICANES (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); 

PERSON: REINA PALACIOS (92%); MARIA CRISTINA GUEVARA (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



323 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15
 
Israeli Cabinet Ratifies Accord, With Conditions
The Israeli Cabinet, after a two-week delay, conditionally ratified the land-for-security peace accord with the Palestinians, attaching a series of stipulations and threats that the Palestinians interpreted as overtures to conflict, not resolution. For example, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that the entire Palestinian National Council must meet and vote by a majority to strike clauses from the Palestinian covenant calling for Israel's destruction, although the accord makes no mention of a vote or a majority decision. A1 

Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright welcomed the Israeli Cabinet's approval of the Middle East accord "as an important step forward in the peace process," the State Department spokesman, James P. Rubin, said. But he made no reference to the conditions set by the Israeli Cabinet. A12
 
U.S. Military Buildup in Gulf
President Clinton said in a Veteran's Day speech that the United States would be compelled to act unless Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein immediately permits the resumption of United Nations inspections of its weapons facilities. Mr. Clinton ordered substantial new forces to the region, including B-1 and B-52 bombers and 3,000 ground troops. A1
 
The Pentagon approved the largest single buildup of American forces in the Persian Gulf since 1994, broadening the number and types of targets the United States can strike in Iraq. Defense Secretary William S. Cohen signed orders dispatching 129 aircraft, 84 of them combat jets. The new forces are expected to arrive in the region by the weekend or early next week. They will join about 170 warplanes already based in the region. A14
 
Amid warnings from the United States that a military strike on Baghdad may be imminent, the United Nations abruptly evacuated more than 230 foreign staff members from Iraq, including all weapons inspectors. Another 41 people from various agencies were to leave today, leaving only essential officials behind. A14
 
Contradictions in Brazil
Last summer, Brazil announced billions of dollars in spending cuts and tax increases, and started discussing a bailout with the International Monetary Fund. However, the gap between the Government's calls for sacrifice and austerity and its own lavish spending is striking. A3
 
Mexican Fugitive Apprehended
A four-year international manhunt for a fugitive banker, Carlos Cabal Peniche, has succeeded, Mexican officials said, after top American authorities decided to pitch in. Mr. Cabal, who was on the short list of men most wanted by Mexican justice, was arrested at his beachfront mansion in Australia, where he had been living for about a year. Mexican officials began moves to seek his extradition. A6
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A16-27
 
Scientists Create New Cell, Part Human and Part Cow
Scientists for a small biotechnology company have for the first time made human body cells revert to the primordial, embryonic state from which all other cells develop, by fusing them with cow eggs and creating a hybrid cell. A1
 
Logging License Is Suspended
Citing egregious violations, California regulators suspended the logging license of the Pacific Lumber Company, the largest private logger of old-growth redwoods, even as the state and Federal Governments held a final hearing on a $380 million taxpayer-financed deal to buy the Headwaters forest from the company. A18
 
Vote on Starr Report Is Urged
Seeking to capitalize on the public's distaste with the inquiry against President Clinton, Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee called on the panel to vote early next week on whether the allegations in the independent counsel's report are grounds for impeachment. A22
 
Race for Gingrich Seat Heats Up
The campaign to succeed Newt Gingrich in Georgia's Sixth Congressional District began taking shape as Johnny Isakson, the chairman of the state school board and a fixture in Georgia Republican politics, announced his candidacy and became the immediate front-runner. A24
 
Jim Wright, a Democrat who resigned as House Speaker in 1989 after an ethics investigation kicked off by Newt Gingrich, said of Mr. Gingrich's impending departure as Speaker, "It would ill become me to gloat or to say, "I'm glad you're gone, you rascal.' " A24
 
A New Boss for Public Radio
National Public Radio's governing board has announced that Kevin Klose, a former Washington Post reporter and editor and the current head of the Federal Government's overseas radio broadcasts, will be the new president and chief executive of the public radio network. A21
 
Internet Hate Filters Offered
A prominent human rights organization has developed and will offer for sale to the public an Internet filter that blocks access to several hundred Web sites that the organization says advocate bigotry. A21
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-12
 
After 2 Weeks in a Coma, Man Hurt in Chase Dies
A 36-year-old man who spent nearly two weeks in a coma after a pursuing police officer knocked him off his bicycle has died. Law-enforcement officials said the man, Kenneth Banks, suffered a fractured skull after Officer Craig Yokemick hurled his police radio at him. B1
 
Jurors Discuss a Tough Call
A day after convicting Corey Arthur of second-degree murder in the killing of his former teacher, Jonathan M. Levin, shaken members of the jury yesterday described two days of agonizing deliberations that culminated in the realization that they could not declare him guilty of the crime that many believe he committed -- first degree murder. B3
 
Masur to be Maestro in London
Kurt Masur, music director of the New York Philharmonic since 1991, will become principal conductor of the London Philharmonic Orchestra as well, starting in the 2000. Mr. Masur said the five-year appointment to conduct a limited number of concerts will not affect his commitment to New York. B4
 
Vacco Faces Campaign Inquiry
Federal prosecutors are investigating contributions that Attorney General Dennis C. Vacco's campaign received from donors linked to a Long Island car-leasing company. B5
 
CIRCUITS G1-14
 
ARTS E1-14
 
Trying to Revitalize Broadway
Nearly five years after a crucial deal lured the Walt Disney Company to 42d Street and jump-started the revival of Times Square, a coalition of Broadway interests is struggling to carry the economic gains to the heart of the theater district. E1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES C21
 
Stephen Pierce Duggan
The founding chairman of the Natural Resources Defense Council and a leader in the fight to preserve Storm King Mountain, he was 89. C21
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
Monsanto Will Restructure And Cut its Work Force 10%
Monsanto, which has been pushing aggressively into biotechnology and pharmaceuticals, said that it planned to raise about $5 billion by restructuring its operations, reducing its work force by up to 10 percent and selling additional shares. C1
 
Intel Shares at Record High
Intel's announcement that its fourth-quarter results would exceed Wall Street estimates pushed its stock to a new high. C1
 
Now, It's DaimlerChrysler
After decades of close calls with bankruptcy, a Federal bailout and a recent flood of profits from mini-van and Jeep sales, Chrysler will disappear as an independent company today, merging with Daimler-Benz. With $140 billion in annual sales, the new company, DaimlerChrysler, will be the fourth-largest automaker. C4
 
Medpartners Seeks New Focus
Medpartners said it was getting out of the business of managing medical practices. C20
 
Business Digest C1
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-16
 
EDITORIAL A28-29
 
Editorials: Israel's conditional yes; the food stamp fracas in New York; time to rethink Buckley v. Valeo; looking at Pollock.
 
Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E12
 
Public Lives B2
 
Crossword E12
 
Weather D5

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%); IRAQ (93%); BRAZIL (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (71%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (71%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%); IRAQ (93%); BRAZIL (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (71%); INDIAN OCEAN (71%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (88%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (88%); INSPECTIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); EXTRADITION (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (68%); BAILOUTS (66%); BIOLOGY (61%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (60%); ARRESTS (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (66%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



324 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Critic of City's Foster Care System Leaves a Costly Mark

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
For 28 years, Bracha Graber has toiled in the back rooms and back alleys of New York City foster care, mastering the bureaucratic intricacies of the system but never forgetting the children at stake behind the rules. Yesterday, Ms. Graber, a 49-year-old city social worker, suddenly stepped into the public glare after her whistle-blower lawsuit against the keepers of the system brought her $4.9 million.
The money is her share of the $49 million that New York City and New York State have agreed to pay the Federal Government to settle the suit, which charged that New York fraudulently collected hundreds of millions of dollars between 1990 and 1994 for foster care services that were not provided. Much of the windfall will go to her lawyers, the Internal Revenue Service, and to college costs for her two sons. 
 But Ms. Graber, whose wheezy laugh, rapid-fire command of detail and stubborn streak have become uncomfortably familiar to a long succession of child welfare officials, is spending $360,000 immediately the way she always said she would if she got the chance: on a new foundation that will bring music, art and dance into the lives of foster children.
"It still doesn't seem real," she said, after hastily changing from denim into a navy blue suit to face the television cameras in the offices of her lawyers, Carl D. Bernstein and Carl H. Loewenson Jr.
It was her day off. The night before, as city officials deplored the terms of the settlement they had signed in Federal court, she was working past midnight in lower Manhattan, training caseworkers at the city's emergency placement office to cope with wrinkles in the new statewide foster care computer system.
"Nobody else knows this stuff," she said with a smoker's laugh, explaining how she, a $54,000-a-year city employee who hasn't had a real raise in a decade, not only managed to win as a whistle-blower, but keep her job.
It does not bother her too much, she said, that some of her supervisors have not said hello to her in two years, ever since her suit, originally filed under seal, became public. Some have supported her, she added, and people she did not know inside the system called to thank her.
Ms. Graber has had years of practice in being the odd one out. Born in Israel, she spoke no English when she came to New York at the age of 11. After receiving a B.A. in psychology from Stern, Yeshiva University's college for women, she became the only Jewish caseworker at Catholic Guardian, a private foster care agency run by the Brooklyn Diocese, which sent her to Fordham University for her master's in social work.
She still remembers the first child she placed in foster care, a baby boy named Eladio who had been living in an institution. The foster mother she had recruited for him "took him in her arms with such love," she said, "I thought that's the kind of thing that should happen to every foster child."
Nor has she forgotten the case that pitted her against the New York Civil Liberties Union, which challenged Ms. Graber's decision to remove two foster children from an elderly foster mother whom Ms. Graber considered unfit. The city eventually let the foster mother keep the children and adopt them, but the lawsuit on the constitutional issues Ms. Graber had stumbled on went all the way to the United States Supreme Court.
Those were days -- the 1970's -- when even children long forgotten by their parents had little hope of being freed for adoption under the law, and longtime foster parents often abruptly turned the children out when they reached a troublesome adolescence. The state's 1979 Child Welfare Reform Act and the omnibus Adoption Assistance and Child Welfare Reform Act passed by Congress in 1980 sought to change all that, in part by mandating a system of case record reports that were to reflect required visits, reviews and long-term planning every six months.
In the early 1980's, Ms. Graber worked for the city in the Program Assessment System unit, a hard-won measure of foster care reform that rated private agencies according to performance on such services, and tried to steer children to those that scored best.
She returned to the world of voluntary child care agencies in 1983, as director of adoption and foster care services for Graham-Windham, and soon found herself opposing her own staff and a Family Court judge who wanted to return 6-year-old twins to their father, an ex-convict. Her stubbornness won a crucial six-month delay, she said, and before it was up the father was arrested for murder. The twins were later adopted.
Ms. Graber's indifference to being a team player was not shaken in the late 1980's and early 1990's, when she returned to a city child welfare agency in crisis. The number of children placed in foster care with relatives ballooned, and as the city slipped into recession, the number of caseworkers looking out for them was greatly reduced. Yet month after month, the city began reporting almost perfect compliance with the Federal requirements for foster care services.
"In effect they were billing the Federal Government for services they weren't providing," Ms. Graber said. In papers submitted by Federal prosecutors, she chronicled how she resisted pressure to join what she said was a scheme to maximize Federal foster care reimbursement by falsifying computer records to show that children were being visited, when she knew they were not. The city has denied that there was any such scheme.
The lawsuit also documented her fruitless efforts to get government officials to investigate. At various times beginning in April 1991, Ms. Graber, who was then acting director of the Office of Case Management, contacted the head of the city's Human Resources Administration, the Comptroller's offices of the city and state, and officials in the city's Office of Management and Budget and told them what she had seen, all to no avail.
Finally in 1993, discouraged and fearful of being fired, she heard from a friend about the Federal whistle-blower statute. With the law's potential for a reward, Ms. Graber said she was able to get a lawyer who later joined forces with Federal prosecutors.
City officials say they are unhappy about the payment of public money to Ms. Graber, but her lawyers point out that Congress authorized paying whistle-blowers up to 25 percent of the money recovered to encourage citizens to report fraud against the Federal Government.
"Realistically, if anybody had listened to me I wouldn't have gotten any of this money," Ms. Graber noted. There were times, she added, when she almost lost heart. Doctors diagnosed breast cancer early in 1997, and she was still undergoing chemotherapy when she was deposed in the lawsuit.
The real payoff, she said, is her new foundation for arts scholarships for foster children. She has named it for Mel Collins, her former boss at the city agency, who died in 1990. Mr. Collins was a child welfare administrator and Fulbright scholar whose principles and compassion for children Ms. Graber said she greatly admired.
"I honestly believe if Mel was alive this would never have happened," she said. "He was a phenomenal human being who really cared about children. He had no children of his own, so I feel this should be his legacy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bracha Graber will receive $4.9 million as part of a settlement related to complaints she made against New York City's and State's foster care. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: AB A M WICKMANS EFTR (61%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (79%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FOSTER CARE (92%); LITIGATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (84%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); CHILD WELFARE (77%); LAWYERS (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); CITIES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: BRACHA GRABER (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



325 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
Vaughn Likely To Leave Red Sox

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

DATELINE: NAPLES, Fla., Nov. 11

 BODY:
The eight-year relationship between Mo Vaughn and the Boston Red Sox apparently ended tonight. Vaughn, a free agent, rejected the Red Sox's offer, and General Manager Dan Duquette said the club would pursue another free agent to replace the production that Vaughn provided.
Albert Belle, who is a free agent until Dec. 2, became the player the Red Sox would most likely pursue. 
 The Red Sox offered their first baseman $60 million for five years Monday and made some modest changes in the offer today that did not raise it to the level of the offer the Anaheim Angels made last week for $72 million for six years. Bill Bavasi, the Angels' general manager, declined to discuss his negotiations with Vaughn after he learned of the first baseman's rejection of the Boston offer.
Earlier in the day, Duquette had said he was leaving here Thursday with the hope of having Vaughn signed. He was being overly optimistic.
"We're making some progress in our talks that we hope will lead to a deal," Duquette had said. "We're making progress on some issues that are important to Mo Vaughn."
But the progress wasn't as significant as the issues because Vaughn did not sign on the dotted line.
Duquette said he was interested in Belle and Bernie Williams as possible replacements for Vaughn.
 
Jordan Attracting Attention
Suddenly, Brian Jordan is in an economically advantageous position that would be the envy of all free agents except for the elite members of this year's market. The outfielder is sought after by both New York teams as well as Atlanta and Baltimore, among others.
"You've got the dominant team in the National League, where he lives," Jordan's agent, Jim Turner, said today. "You have the most dominant team in baseball managed by someone he greatly respects. You have the team in the city where he grew up and where his parents live. You have the team that said they're going to do everything they can do to be a contender and have added three players."
In order, those teams are the Braves, the Yankees, the Orioles and the Mets. Jordan, who batted .316, hit 25 home runs and drove in 91 runs for St. Louis, is scheduled to meet Monday with the Braves, who have joined the pursuit aggressively since trading Michael Tucker to Cincinnati Tuesday.
"I'd like to sign him as soon as we can," John Schuerholz, the Atlanta general manager, said today.
The Yankees called Turner today and invited Jordan and him to visit New York next Wednesday. Turner immediately accepted. They presumably could visit with the Mets while they are in New York.
Turner said he has received one four-year offer with the possibility of a fifth year and ideally would like five years guaranteed.
"I want teams to know that we clearly would like to speed up the timetable," Turner said by telephone from St. Louis. "We think that can be accomplished. We'd like to make it no more than two weeks. I'd love to think it can be done much quicker than that."
 
Tigers Sign Royals' Palmer
The Detroit Tigers made an uncharacteristic but promised move today, signing a free agent to a lucrative contract. They gave Dean Palmer, Kansas City's third baseman, a five-year contract for $36 million. Earlier in the off season, the Tigers had considered making Bernie Williams the target of their new spending policy.
"We anticipated early that there wouldn't be a whole lot of clubs in play," General Manager Randy Smith said. "Then a bunch of clubs expressed interest. We figured that hurt our chances. We wanted to strike very quickly. We wanted to do something in a hurry so it sets up anything else we're able to do."
The Tigers also had made an offer to Ken Caminiti, but Smith said, "Caminiti wasn't ready to make an affirmative answer and Palmer was. Caminiti's preference, we've known all along, was to stay in San Diego or go back to Houston."
Palmer, who in 1996 hit 38 home runs for Texas, hit 34 home runs and drove in 119 runs for the Royals this year.
The Arizona Diamondbacks signed two other free agents, giving pitcher Greg Swindell $5.7 million for three years and first baseman Greg Colbrunn $1.8 million for two years. The Diamondbacks also traded pitcher Bob Wolcott to Boston for a player to be named.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (86%); GEORGIA, USA (68%); FLORIDA, USA (59%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (68%); NAPLES, FL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT TIGERS INC (71%); BOSTON RED SOX (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (94%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (83%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (94%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (83%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (86%); GEORGIA, USA (68%); FLORIDA, USA (59%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (68%); NAPLES, FL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (91%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



326 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 104 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
CALLAWAY GOLF TO CUT 700 JOBS AND TAKE NEW CHARGES

BYLINE: Reuters

 BODY:
The Callaway Golf Company, a maker of premium golf clubs, said yesterday that it would slash 700 jobs, or 24 percent of its work force, and take new charges of $70 million to $85 million as it battles bruising competition in the market for golf equipment. As a result of the revamping, it sees a full-year 1998 loss of 25 cents to 40 cents a share. Financial analysts had expected Callaway, based in Carlsbad, Calif., to post a year-end profit of 47 cents a share, according to the First Call Corporation. Callaway, which makes the popular Big Bertha oversized drivers, will also transfer or suspend noncore activities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ELY (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS, NEC (98%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: CALLAWAY GOLF CO (98%); FIRST CALL CORP (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (52%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GOLF (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); SPORTS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); LABOR FORCE (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (83%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



327 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: A New Law, and Many Questions, for Believers

 BODY:

To the Editor: 
 Your Nov. 9 front-page article raises the question whether the persecution of Christians is of religious origin or whether it is also tied into pre-existing conflicts of "racial, economic, political, tribal and religious rivalries." Such divisions do exist, but persecution solely because of a Christian belief system is a reality in places like Africa and China. When the issue of Tibetan religious persecution is raised, issues of racial, economic and tribal rivalries could be raised as well, but obviously the motivating factor behind such persecution is an effort to defeat a belief system.
 
JONATHAN CARR
Cambridge, Mass., Nov. 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: TIBET (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (68%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TIBET (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (68%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (68%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIGION (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



328 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 6;Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON IS SENDING BOMBERS AND G.I.'S TO PERSIAN GULF

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 11

 BODY:
President Clinton today ordered substantial new forces to the Persian Gulf, including B-1 and B-52 bombers, and warned President Saddam Hussein that the United States is prepared to strike Iraq without further warning.
In a Veterans Day speech, Mr. Clinton said the United States would be compelled to act unless Iraq immediately permitted the resumption of United Nations inspections of weapons facilities. 
 "A failure to respond could embolden Saddam to act recklessly, signaling to him that he can with impunity develop these weapons of mass destruction or threaten his neighbors," Mr. Clinton told several hundred military officers and veterans at Arlington National Cemetery.
The President said inaction in the face of continuing provocation from Mr. Hussein would permanently damage the credibility of the United Nations, which today withdrew virtually all of its inspection officers from Iraq in anticipation of a major American attack.
The President delivered his most extensive remarks on the impasse as part of a concerted Administration effort to portray the United States as resolute and prepared to punish Mr. Hussein.
William S. Cohen, the Secretary of Defense, announced a major buildup of air and ground forces in the region. Some 4,000 troops are to be sent, mainly to defend Kuwait in case of an Iraqi attack.
The Secretary of State and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs both delivered public warnings that military action was imminent if Mr. Hussein did not back down.
Mr. Clinton said that if Iraq were permitted to resume work on chemical, biological and nuclear weapons, it could quickly restore its capacity to imperil its citizens and its neighbors.
"If the inspectors are not permitted to visit suspect sites or monitor compliance at known production facilities, they may as well be in Baltimore, not Baghdad," Mr. Clinton said.
"That would open a window of opportunity for Iraq to rebuild its arsenal of weapons and delivery system in months -- and I say again -- in months, not years."
More than 230 United Nations inspection agents left Baghdad today; an additional 41 officials from other agencies are to leave on Thursday. The State Department withdrew nonessential personnel from Israel and Kuwait to protect them from possible Iraqi retaliation for an American military strike.
The Secretary of State, Madeleine K. Albright, delayed for a day, until Friday, her departure for an Asian-Pacific economic summit in Malaysia.
She also switched from her usual airplane to a special Department of Defense flying command center known as the Doomsday Plane, which is capable of secure communications with United States forces anywhere. She used the same plane in August when she traveled to Africa when the Administration was in the final stages of planning missile strikes in retaliation for embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania.
Earlier this week Mr. Clinton pushed back his own departure for the economic conference, giving him more time for deliberations on Iraq. White House officials said the President could cancel his trip if he decided to use force against Baghdad.
Ms. Albright said the United States is ready to take military action at any time. In addition to the attack planes and ground forces ordered to the gulf today, the aircraft carrier Enterprise and its battle group are en route to the region and are expected to arrive on Nov. 23.
"We see no need for further warnings," Ms. Albright said in an interview today with reporters and editors of The New York Times.
Mr. Clinton said that although he is willing to mount a punishing military attack, he would prefer a peaceful solution. He said comprehensive inspections of suspected Iraqi weapons sites would be more effective than bombs to corral Mr. Hussein's military ambitions.
"We continue to hope -- indeed, pray -- that Saddam will comply," Mr. Clinton said. "But we must be prepared to act if he does not."
The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Henry H. Shelton, said President Hussein had been sufficiently warned of the consequences of continuing to defy the United Nations.
"He understands that all options remain on the table today," General Shelton said on the NBC "Today" program, "that we have tried over the years to get him to comply with United Nations resolutions and to honor these commitments, that he does in fact pose a threat to an area that is a vital national interest to the United States and that he poses a threat not only to his neighbors but to the 20,000 men and women of the United States that serve in that region."
American officials said the aim of any military strike would be to destroy Iraq's weapons plants and depots, weaken its offensive capability and persuade Mr. Hussein to submit once more to inspections.
Officials have said Mr. Hussein would not be a specific target because assassination of foreign leaders is prohibited by Presidential order. But Ms. Albright said pointedly today, as she has in the past, that the United States "would look forward to working with a successor regime" in Baghdad.
Despite the threats and the growing American military force in the region, there is no assurance that military action will accomplish the Administration's goals.
The six-week war in 1991 did not curtail Mr. Hussein's weapons programs, even though more than 500,000 American troops and 2,000 aircraft were employed in a campaign that inflicted extensive damage on Iraq and its army.
Nor did two American strikes in 1993 and 1996 significantly erode Mr. Hussein's military capability. In fact, American intelligence analysts said those attacks had strengthened Mr. Hussein's political position in Iraq.
General Shelton said the attacks contemplated this time would be more effective than past efforts because the United States has better weapons, better technology and better intelligence than it had then.
The United States and its allies do not want to let Mr. Hussein go unpunished for long for halting weapons inspections on Oct. 31, a senior Administration official. The United Nations, including countries France and Russia that might normally balk at American policy on Iraq, is refusing to negotiate some way out for President Hussein this time.
But many countries are increasingly sensitive to the human suffering caused by the sanctions imposed on Iraq after the gulf war and are seeking some honorable way to ease or end the limits on trade with Baghdad.
Mr. Clinton today repeated the longstanding Administration policy: the United States will support the end of sanctions when Iraq is certified to be free of weapons of mass destruction and the missiles to deliver them.
"Now if Saddam Hussein is really serious about wanting sanctions lifted, there is an easy way to demonstrate that," Mr. Clinton said at Arlington, with a reference to the United Nations special commission responsible for the inspections. "Let Unscom do its job without interference. The international community is united that Saddam must not have it both ways, by keeping his weapons of mass destruction capability and still getting rid of sanctions."
 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 13, 1998, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about the United States' preparations for a possible attack on Iraq misstated the number of United Nations arms inspectors who left Baghdad on Wednesday. They totaled 103. The figure of more than 230 was for United Nations workers who left, including those from relief agencies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); KUWAIT (92%); GULF STATES (90%); ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); KENYA (79%); AFRICA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); KUWAIT (92%); GULF STATES (90%); ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); KENYA (79%); AFRICA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); INSPECTIONS (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998



329 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 14; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: AT THE MOVIES;
A Goofball Guy's Guy

BYLINE: By Bernard Weinraub

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Nov. 12

 BODY:
Move over, Jim Carrey.
The hottest comedian in Hollywood is Adam Sandler, whose newest film, "The Waterboy," opened last weekend to an extraordinary $39 million box office and has held up through the week. Although most of Mr. Sandler's films -- like "The Wedding Singer," "Happy Gilmore" and "Billy Madison" -- have been hits, with that figure, the 31-year-old comedian ascended into the top tier of sought-after, big-money movie stars. 
 Mr. Sandler (above) is hardly a favorite among critics; his films often receive a drubbing, and reviews are relegated to the back pages (though Janet Maslin of The New York Times said "The Waterboy" was "cheerfully outlandish" and "genuinely endearing"). But his goofball and vulnerable persona have struck a chord among boys, his largest audience.
"Because he's not understood by intellectuals, some critics put his appeal down, which is a silly thing to do," said Phil Barlow, who runs distribution for Walt Disney Studios, which made the movie. "He has a link to the psyche of an awful lot of people. It has something to do with his vulnerability. People identify with him."
In "The Waterboy," Mr. Sandler plays a socially inept youth from the Louisiana swamps who, as a water boy for the college football team, is turned into a devastating tackler. Disney executives said the movie's largest audience was males from 8 to 35, with teen-agers as the biggest group. The film has also brought in a heavy contingent of teen-age girls.
Robert Simonds, Mr. Sandler's longtime producer, said the comedian knows exactly what he wants to accomplish in each movie.
"There's a certain purity there," Mr. Simonds said. "He's got a very clear point of view on how he wants to be presented and what he wants to say. Somehow that strikes into the heart of a very loyal and growing following."
Mr. Sandler has a reputation as a grown-up fraternity boy, spending most of his free time with friends from his student days at New York University, watching basketball and football games on a huge television set. The writer, director and one of the producers of "The Waterboy" were his roommates at N.Y.U. "I like working with people I've seen in just a towel," Mr. Sandler once said.
Mike De Luca, president of production at New Line Cinema, which made Mr. Sandler's last film, "The Wedding Singer," said the key to the actor's success was his talent but also an almost innocent persona.
"He's really a sentimental guy, and he makes sure that's part of his comedy," Mr. De Luca said. "He takes pains to make sure his stories have a degree of heart. He doesn't alienate people and covers every demographic, not just kids but older men and women, too."
In the end, though, no one seems fully sure about why Mr. Sandler, or anyone else, is such a big star.
"If I knew why, I'd bottle it," Mr. Barlow said.
 
Watching Will Smith
Will Smith is a bit tired of what he calls bells and whistles, although the movie star has little to complain about. Very little.
"I had 'Independence Day' and 'Men in Black' back to back," Mr. Smith (left) said. "There were all the explosions and aliens and all the bells and whistles you could possibly squeeze into a big summer holiday movie. The simplicity of 'Enemy of the State' was its initial attraction. It was just a movie about a guy. No superhero stunts."
"Enemy of the State," set to open next Friday, has had strong advance word and seems likely to enhance the film career of Mr. Smith, a rap star turned television comedian on "The Fresh Prince of Bel Air."
The movie, which was directed by Tony Scott and also stars Gene Hackman and Jon Voight, is about a successful Washington lawyer (Mr. Smith) who gets caught in a web of intrigue in which his every move is tracked and recorded by rogue Government agents. The film has overtones of Francis Ford Coppola's "Conversation" (1974) and Sydney Pollack's "Three Days of the Condor" (1975).
On one level, Mr. Smith said, he hoped making the film would be a shrewd career move.
"It's the first time I've been out in front of a movie, and essentially I'm telling my audience, 'Come and see me act,' " he said. "It's a mature film. It closes out my 20's and takes me into my 30's. It's a well-written, intelligent political drama."
On another level, though, he said, he was simply interested in the subject. The film's eerie depiction of Government surveillance and the lack of any semblance of privacy appealed to him; it also appealed to the producer, Jerry Bruckheimer, usually noted for unrestrained action movies like "Armageddon."
"You can be followed, watched, listened to wherever you go; there's nothing the Government can't do," Mr. Bruckheimer said. "And the technology we use in the movie is actually 10 years old."
Mr. Smith said: "I am the ultimate conspiracy theorist. I spend 8 to 10 hours a week on-line finding new conspiracy theories. For this film, we went to the C.I.A. We saw a recorder that you can implant in one of your tooth fillings. We saw satellite surveillance of poppy fields. All the technology that we show in the film exists for real. The concept of privacy is obsolete."
Mr. Smith said he might take on another serious subject in his next film, playing Muhammad Ali. ("I'm tailor-made for that role.") Meanwhile, he's working on "The Wild, Wild West," based on the 1960's television show. Mr. Smith plays a special agent, James West, who with his buddy, played by Kevin Kline, saves the world in 1869 from a madman, played by Kenneth Branagh.
Mr. Smith laughed. "Lots of bells and whistles in that one," he said.
 
Out of India
"I am the world's last person to be directing 'Elizabeth,' " said the film's director, Shekhar Kapur. "When I was asked to direct it, I thought, 'This is an outrageous offer.' I was shocked."
The 44-year-old Bombay-born Mr. Kapur (above) spoke with a laugh. After all, though he is a top director in India, he had never directed a movie outside that country, and all his films have been in Hindi. Yet there he was, directing a $24 million historical extravaganza in Britain about the iron-willed 16th-century monarch who overcame betrayal and conspiracy to transform herself into the Virgin Queen, untouchable and married to the throne.
The film, which opened last week in New York and Los Angeles to strong reviews, expands nationwide next week. Its stars include Cate Blanchett as Elizabeth I; Geoffrey Rush as Sir Francis Walsingham, the Queen's enigmatic spy master, and Joseph Fiennes (brother of Ralph) as Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester, the Queen's childhood sweetheart.
Mr. Kapur is best known abroad for his 1994 drama, "Bandit Queen," about the notorious female outlaw Phoolan Devi, who became a Robin Hood figure in India.
Why did the producers of "Elizabeth" seek him out?
"They wanted something irreverent; they wanted someone to make it alive and human and contemporary," he said. "They wanted someone who would question the very basis of all the assumptions that people make about Elizabeth. So I did."
The problem with too many historical films, Mr. Kapur said, was that "they look at history and consign those people to the formality of history."
He added, "But these historical figures were human beings, contemporary to their times as much as we are to ours."
The Elizabeth in Mr. Kapur's film is not merely an all-powerful woman who dominates England.
"I saw it as a tragedy of a woman who had to drop life and love and joyousness in favor of being a queen," Mr. Kapur said. "I was at a cinema in London where the film was playing, and I saw young girls come out with tears in their eyes. One of them said this was Princess Diana. After all, Diana's greatest fear was if she continued to live in the Palace, she'd become a shell of a human being. And this is what happened to Elizabeth."
Mr. Kapur is married to Suchitra Krishnamurti, who is one of the biggest pop music stars in India. He studied economics in New Delhi in the 1970's, then moved to Britain to find work as an accountant.
"All Asian kids have to be doctors or lawyers or accountants," he said. "When I came back and told my family I wanted to be in the movie business, there was an uproar. I was 23. They thought it was a passing phase."
To prepare for "Elizabeth," Mr. Kapur said he spent weeks reading biographies and histories, and found himself especially attracted to the young, spirited and relatively unknown Elizabeth.
"I came to the film with a lot of admiration for her," he said. "I especially fell in love with the young girl."
Mr. Kapur said he found Elizabeth remarkably modern, not only as a woman but as a politician. He said that with Walsingham's help, she held a tight grip on public opinion. At one point, the two destroyed all the paintings of Elizabeth except those she wanted to endure.
"We see her only in the image that she created," Mr. Kapur said. "It was a classic case of spin-doctoring."

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%); NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); ADOLESCENTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (69%); BASKETBALL (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (64%); 

PERSON: ADAM SANDLER (90%); JIM CARREY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



330 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 4; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 2028 words

HEADLINE: A German Singer's Triumph Over Misfortune

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
Nothing happens without a reason.
Depending upon your spiritual outlook, this statement is either a profound truth or sentimental pap. 
 But when the German bass-baritone Thomas Quasthoff says it, you believe it. If he can feel this way, given his life story, who can say otherwise?
Though Mr. Quasthoff is 39 (his birthday was this week), he has been singing prominently for only 10 years, essentially since 1988, when he captured first prize in the ARD International Music Competition in Munich, the same competition that inaugurated the career of Jessye Norman. He is now one of the most critically hailed and sought-after singers in Europe. He has won some illustrious champions, including the conductors Claudio Abbado, Simon Rattle, Daniel Barenboim and Helmuth Rilling.
To date, Mr. Quasthoff's career in the United States has been less extensive. His American debut came in 1995 at the Oregon Bach Festival with Mr. Rilling conducting. But vocal enthusiasts here already know of him from his recordings of Schumann lieder and Mozart arias on the RCA Red Seal label. Last week he made his debut with the Boston Symphony, performing in Mahler's "Lied von der Erde," conducted by another Quasthoff admirer, Seiji Ozawa.
Last night he made his New York debut, performing in another Mahler work, "Das Knaben Wunderhorn" with the New York Philharmonic under Sir Colin Davis, a performance that will be repeated tonight and tomorrow at Avery Fisher Hall. And in January he will make his New York recital debut singing Schubert's "Winterreise," with the pianist Charles Spencer, on the Great Performers at Lincoln Center series.
Yet, that Mr. Quasthoff has had a career at all is a tribute to indisputable talent, almost inexplicable optimism, and sheer tenacity.
 
Deformed by Thalidomide
 Mr. Quasthoff was born in 1959, a period when doctors in Germany as well as Britain were espousing the use of a new drug for women experiencing discomfort during pregnancy. Generically called thalidomide, the drug resulted in some 5,000 babies' being born with physical deformities. Mr. Quasthoff was one. He stands at just four feet, and has vestigial arms, with malformed hands and wrists that appear to come almost directly from his shoulders.
But, he was also born with a voice, and early on acquired the determination to develop it. "Singing comes form the head, the vocal cords and the diaphragm," Mr. Quasthoff said, "and mine are completely normal." Indeed, his broad face, thick neck, and ruggedly handsome features suggest the kind of body nature had intended his to be.
Yet Mr. Quasthoff seems to have embraced life without regret, or so it seemed recently, when he presided jovially over breakfast in an Upper West Side hotel. At the table were his older brother, Michael, a freelance journalist in Germany; Michael's girlfriend, Renata Baumgart, and a friend, Anthony Shalit, an American-born, European-based lawyer. Everyone was looking forward to a trip to Ellis Island later that morning.
Though in performance Mr. Quasthoff keeps his arms discreetly at his sides, in conversation he underscores his talk with effusive hand gestures. He loves the outdoors and is an enthusiastic swimmer, he said.
 
A Life of Independence
 When Mr. Quasthoff was born in Hildesheim, a town of some 100,000, the German Government, overwhelmed with the demands of the thalidomide tragedy, did a poor job of placing the children afflicted in appropriate schools. Mr. Quasthoff was sent to a special boarding school where many of the children were suffering from cerebral palsy, which had to have had an effect on a child with the quick wit and intelligence of Mr. Quasthoff.
"This was the only possibility my parents had at the time," he said. And, actually, he added, there were advantages.
"At home, my mother was all around me, constantly saying, 'Let me do that for you,' " he said. "At school, I was forced to live independently, an ability I still have." Today, Mr. Quasthoff lives alone, self-sufficient, in an apartment in Hannover, other than for "a nice woman who comes every other week to clean my dirty place," he said.
After a few years at the special school, the authorities realized that Mr. Quasthoff should be enrolled in a regular school. Once transferred, he made big advances in his education, until he encountered one demoralizing obstacle. He applied for admission to a prestigious music school in Hannover and impressed the voice faculty greatly. But because of a mandatory requirement that all voice students study the piano, he was refused admission.
"From the legal point of view, they were right," Mr. Quasthoff said. "From the moral point of view, well, that is another question." Today, of course, at least in the United States, such an action would violate laws to protect the disabled. Paradoxically that same conservatory hired Mr. Quasthoff years later as a voice instructor.
 
A Solid Music Education
 At the time there was nothing to be done. Yet, even this setback, Mr. Quasthoff believes, had a positive consequence. Instead, he studied with a private voice teacher, Charlotte Lehman, with whom he worked, starting at 13, for 17 years, sometimes every day. He also studied music theory with his teacher's husband, Dr. Ernst Huber-Contwig. In a conservatory his training would not have been so personal and extensive, and Mr. Quasthoff attributes his solid technique to this thorough grounding.
He also credits his parents with unflinching support, despite the distress, and, no doubt, guilt, they suffered, his mother, Brigitte, in particular. "Who can know what a mother feels?" he said. "You want to have a second baby, the baby is disabled, and afterwards you know it is because you took this medication."
"There was not a second in my life when I asked, 'Mommy, why did you take this tablet?' " he said. "Never. People wonder how I can feel this way; but, excuse me, I love my mother. My parents gave me the best support imaginable. My father, who had a full-time job with the Government, drove me every week 30 kilometers to my voice lesson and 30 kilometers back. But this is simply what he felt he had to do."
Mr. Quasthoff made progress as a singer. But, believing that he could have no future as a performing artist, he went to law school, and hated it. So he became a popular radio announcer in Hannover, and in his spare time sang with a jazz combo. But he kept studying voice.
 In the mid-1980's he started entering competitions, and never failed to win a prize. Then, in 1988, came the much-publicized Munich victory.
"The next year, I could have had 250 concerts," he said. "One day, there were over 80 calls. My parents went crazy; they wanted to cancel the phone." But Mr. Quasthoff sensibly learned to say no. He has never performed more than 100 concerts in one season, and, today, prefers to keep his schedule closer to 60 or 70.
"I would be dead without music, I am absolutely sure," he said. "But I am not a slave to music, or to my profession. I don't want to be on the stage, still singing at 70, one of those singers with a vibrato so wide you can throw a medicine ball through it."
Significantly, for almost six years after the Munich competition, Mr. Quasthoff kept his radio job out of concern that the music world's interest in him would be short-lived. He need not have worried. Today, Mr. Quasthoff derives economic security and personal fulfillment from teaching. He holds a professorship for life at the music conservatory in Detmold, a 90-minute train ride from his home in Hannover.
Mr. Quasthoff has an elegant, earthen voice with an extensive range and especially solid low notes. His diction, both in German and Italian, is impeccable, and, judging by his latest BMG recording, Schubert's "Winterreise," he has strong interpretive ideas: there are some spacious tempos in this performance that enable him to spin out lyrical lines with bold expressivity.
 
'Pure Feeling'
 Reporting on Mr. Quasthoff's performance last week in Mahler's "Lied von der Erde," Richard Dyer, the critic of The Boston Globe, wrote: "There is no room in his experience of life and his insight into art for self-pity, dramatization or exaggeration of interpretation; this is characterful storytelling, precise picture painting, and pure feeling, distilled."
There have been milestones along the way, chances to perform in places and with musicians that had been fantasies when he was miserable in law school. Last season alone, he sang in Haydn's "Creation" with the Berlin Philharmonic, conducted by Mr. Rattle, gave a recital at the Salzburg Festival, performed in Bach's "St. Matthew Passion" with Mr. Ozawa at the Saito-Kinen Festival in Japan, and was a soloist in Britten's "War Requiem," also in Japan, conducted by Mstislav Rostropovich.
"When I was young it was impossible for my mother to imagine that she would ever see me onstage," he said.
Sometimes she still cannot believe it. "I've sat next to Thomas's mother at his important debuts in Cologne, Berlin and other cities," Mr. Shalit said. "And she would say: 'Pinch me. Am I alive? Is this happening?' "
 
'Wonderful Reactions'
 Mr. Quasthoff exudes a quiet confidence about the effect of his art on listeners. "Perhaps it has something to do with my disability," he said, "something in the voice which comes through that is special. But I do get wonderful reactions from audiences."
When he sang "Winterreise" in Rome last year, his Italian agent cautioned him before the concert not to expect the kind of responses he had gotten in Germany. But when the last chord sounded, at the end of the haunting organ grinder's song, Mr. Shalit recalled, there was an eerie silence for a full minute. Then, the audience erupted with a seven-minute standing ovation.
While touched by such reactions, Mr. Quasthoff is quick to poke fun at himself. Mr. Shalit, after hearing Mr. Quasthoff sing "Das Lied" in Boston, with the tenor Ben Heppner as the other soloist, said he felt that the singers would make a vocally ideal team as Iago and Otello. "Oh sure," Mr. Quasthoff responded, amused at the idea that his Iago could intimidate the husky American tenor's Otello. "I would be the smallest Iago ever!"
When his career started in earnest, Mr. Quasthoff assumed that performing opera onstage was out of the question. Two years ago, Mr. Barenboim offered him Rigoletto for a production in Hamburg, which Mr. Quasthoff turned down. Offering someone with such a disability the role of the hunchbacked jester might strike some as insensitive. Mr. Quasthoff did not take it that way at all. But for him to perform onstage in opera would require the right role, a sympathetic director and a sensitive production.
"I wouldn't want my disability too much in the foreground," he said. "My voice and my interpretation must be in front. The production would have to be carefully done. But I would not say it is impossible."
Indeed, it is easy to imagine, say, a stately production of Mozart's "Zauberflote" in which Mr. Quasthoff might be a moving Sarastro. He sings Sarastro's arias beautifully on his BMG recording.
But if it comes, it comes; he is in no hurry. The delay he contended with before his career took off may have actually benefited him, Mr. Quasthoff feels: he kept working with his teacher, did not prematurely force himself, like too many young singers, into inappropriate roles, and allowed his voice time to settle.
"Nothing happens without a reason," he said again.
 
The Bass-Baritone's Concert Schedule
The New York Philharmonic will perform Berlioz's "Roi Lear Overture," Martin's "Petite" Symphonie Concertante and Mahler's "Des Knaben Wunderhorn" tonight and tomorrow at 8 P.M. at Avery Fisher Hall. The bass-baritone is Thomas Quasthoff, and the soprano is Inger Dam-Jensen. Sir Colin Davis conducts. Tickets: $17 to $73. Information: (212) 721-6500.
Mr. Quasthoff will appear in Lincoln Center's "Great Performers" series on Jan. 31 at 2 P.M. at Alice Tully Hall. He will perform Schubert's "Winterreise." The pianist will be Charles Spencer. Tickets: $32. Information: (212) 721-6500.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas Quasthoff, right, with Yuri Bashmet, a Russian musician, while in Moscow to sing two years ago. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EUROPE (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); BOSTON, MA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EUROPE (71%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); BOSTON, MA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (85%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); MUSIC (76%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (75%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); WRITERS (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); FESTIVALS (70%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (68%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (67%); 

PERSON: SIMON RATTLE (56%); CLAUDIO ABBADO (56%); DANIEL BARENBOIM (56%); COLIN REX DAVIS (54%); AVERY FISHER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



331 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

YEN ENDS LOWER. Japan's currency fell after the governing party introduced the latest economic-stimulus plan, which contained few surprises. The dollar rose as high as 124.10 yen before settling at 121.98, up from 121.72.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since April, 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



332 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: It's Time To Repay America

BYLINE: By Tony Blair; Tony Blair is Prime Minister of Britain.

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
Once again, America and Britain stand shoulder to shoulder against Iraq. Resolute in our determination to stop a dangerous dictatorship from developing weapons of mass destruction. Committed to upholding international law.
America is once again responding to the call of duty, shouldering many of the responsibilities of the international community and deploying its formidable military might to the Persian Gulf in the cause of diplomacy. Whether it is Saddam Hussein or Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia, the dictators of the post-cold-war world respond only to a simple logic: the credible threat of force. We want Saddam Hussein to comply with the United Nations resolutions. But if he does not willingly halt his attempts to give himself the ability to commit mass murder, we are prepared to force him to. 
 America's trans-Atlantic commitment has rescued Europe from two world wars this century. For the last 50 years, this relationship has been enshrined in the most powerful military alliance the world has ever known. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization has preserved Europe from the threat of all-out nuclear war and helped reunite a divided continent. With the end of the cold war, NATO is still the foundation of our collective security. We want it to stay that way. America's trans-Atlantic commitment has made Europe a safer place. But Europe needs to do more to repay that debt.
Together, the United States and a reunited Europe can provide stability in an increasingly uncertain world.
In the 1970's, Henry Kissinger asked whom he should call in Europe should a foreign-policy crisis arise. More than 20 years later, we still do not have an answer for him. I hope this is about to change. The European Union will soon appoint a High Representative for foreign and security policy. This must be a figure of real weight and authority. He or she needs to become the focus of a coordinated European foreign and security policy. With time, the new arrangements should transform the way Europe speaks to the world, while leaving decisions of war and peace in the hands of national political leaders.
But the United States needs more than a Europe that speaks coherently. It needs a Europe that can also act with authority. Europe's new foreign policy arrangements on their own will not be enough. We thought we could deal with the Bosnian crisis alone. The guns over Sarajevo destroyed that illusion along with much else. Washington in the end had to get involved to provide the military muscle for our diplomacy.
The imperatives that drove defense spending in America during the superpower standoff are gone. If Europe wants the United States to maintain its commitment to Europe, Europe must share more of the burden of defending the West's security interests.
It is not just a question of money. The European Union already spends nearly two-thirds of what the United States does on defense.
Europe needs to get organized. Our citizens expect us to have a clear view and the will and ability to act. This will not happen until European foreign policy and European defense are better integrated. The European Union needs to strengthen its common foreign policy institutions. Britain backs that.
To speak with authority, the European Union also needs to be able to act militarily on its own when the United States is not engaged. Britain backs that, too.
The military challenges we face are increasingly about crisis prevention, peacemaking and peacekeeping -- about humanitarian operations rather than the collective defense of territory.
At the European summit meeting in Austria last month I set out some principles to guide the debate. NATO should of course remain the foundation of our territorial defense. Any autonomous European capability should be complementary to NATO. There is no point duplicating structures that work well already. And we should do nothing to lessen American engagement in Europe, which is something that benefits all 15 countries of the European Union. Any new arrangement would also need to take account of neutral members of the European Union.
I have an open mind about what this might mean institutionally. But we are not talking about a European army. Political responsibility must be unambiguously defined. No country can accept the use of its armed forces without its full consent. The decision to deploy troops can be taken only by national politicians, acting collectively and accountably. And whatever the institutional structure, the chain of command must be clear. This means there must be a minimum of bureaucracy between Europe's political decision makers and its military commanders.
 Institutions are also only part of the equation. Europe needs to have the right equipment to act quickly in military crises -- for example, communications satellites and transport planes. We need to identify the gaps in our capability and plug them. We need to do more to plan our defense together at a European rather than a national level. We need to reform our armed services so that they fit together better and are tailored to the next conflict, not the last war. We need to reconstruct our forces together and make sure that spending on defense in all nations matches the need.
An effective European defense capability also requires an effective Europe-wide defense industry. We are some way from that. The European defense industry needs to consolidate and build bridges with American partners if it is going to meet the demands of tomorrow's technologies. This is very much a matter for the companies concerned.
But governments should not hinder the logic of the market. They can also promote this process of restructuring through joint procurement programs. This means planning together and planning for the long term.
This process is only just beginning. I want it to continue and to accelerate. We need an open debate between America and Europe, free from preconceptions and bureaucratic wrangling about institutions. Our discussions should focus on results, not theology. We also need to get the right mix between continuity and change. But if we want to continue to benefit from America's commitment to defending Europe and its interests around the world, we owe it to the United States to pull our full weight.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (MK Mabry)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SERBIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); IRAQ (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (72%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SERBIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); IRAQ (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); GULF STATES (73%); INDIAN OCEAN (72%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



333 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: Primark-Dow Jones Pact

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
The Primark Corporation agreed today to buy Dow Jones & Company's Edgar Direct unit, which electronically publishes Securities and Exchange Commission filings, for an undisclosed price. Primark, based in Waltham, Mass., a provider of financial and economic data, is buying Edgar Direct through its Disclosure Inc. unit, according to a Dow Jones statement. Edgar is the S.E.C.'s electronic system for company filings. Dow, the New York-based publisher of The Wall Street Journal, said it was cutting 30 jobs by selling Edgar Direct and restructuring its Federal Filings unit, which reports on filings to the S.E.C. and other Government agencies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (93%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (93%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (95%); PRIMARK CORP (93%); DISCLOSURE INC (72%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING (88%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



334 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Stake in Nigerian Bank for Saudi Prince

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: LAGOS, Nigeria, Nov. 12

 BODY:
Prince Walid bin Talal of Saudi Arabia has bought a 13.7 percent stake, worth about $12 million, in the United Bank for Africa P.L.C. of Nigeria.
The Prince thus became the largest shareholder in the bank, Nigeria's third largest by market value, after buying a noncontrolling stake from Banque Nationale de Paris, according to Phillip Ihenacho, a director of Afrinvest Securities in London, who helped arrange the sale. 
 Bankers said that Saudi billionaire's interest in a bank, typically his first move in investing in a country, could lead other foreign investors to turn their attention to Nigeria, now that a new military leader is promising to open the economy.
Although the West African nation is a big oil producer, it has attracted little nonoil investment because of a history of coups and corruption.
United Bank, with 209 retail branches in Nigeria and an office in New York, is the largest lender to international oil companies in Nigeria. Its market value has grown five-fold in the last five years after a change in management.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (94%); NIGERIA (94%); AFRICA (90%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (57%); 

COMPANY: UNITED BANK FOR AFRICA PLC (92%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%); TALAL OF SAUDI ARABIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TALAL OF SAUDI ARABIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (94%); NIGERIA (94%); AFRICA (90%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (67%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FOREIGN INVESTMENT (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); SHAREHOLDERS (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); 

PERSON: PRINCE ALWALEED BIN TALAL (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



335 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Now Ruined Economies Afflict Central America

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua, Nov. 7

 BODY:
The highway network that is the backbone of the entire Central American economy has been severed in more than a hundred places. Bumper crops of bananas, coffee, rice, sugar and tobacco have been destroyed, power and telephone lines are down everywhere, and water, sewer and irrigation systems have been ruptured.
With more than 10,000 people believed drowned in floods or buried in landslides, the hurricane called Mitch ranks as the most deadly natural disaster to strike Central America this century. But the storm also inflicted an economic catastrophe on an area already sadly familiar with calamity and privation, a crisis whose full extent will become evident only when survivors finish giving thanks just for being alive and try to resume their normal lives. 
 "The lives of hundreds of thousands of people have been saved, but their houses and their jobs, their tools and their animals have been lost," Peter Bell, president of the relief organization CARE USA, said after returning from a trip to hard-hit rural areas. "After the mud and the muck finally recede, what will again be revealed is the bedrock social problem of the region, and that is extreme poverty."
The economic losses are hard to calculate, even two weeks after the hurricane dumped more than 25 inches of rain on farmland and factories up and down the seven-nation isthmus. But preliminary estimates compiled by international lending agencies meeting in Washington suggest that Honduras and Nicaragua, the countries most affected, sufferedlosses equivalent to nearly half their gross national products.
That would amount to about $5 billion, an enormous sum for the two countries, which after Haiti are the poorest in the Western Hemisphere. "But then in addition," noted Mark Schneider, regional director for Latin America and the Caribbean of the United States Agency for International Development, "you have an additional $4.5 to $5 billion in lost future production."
The economies of Central America are predominantly agricultural, and it is in the fields that the storm damage has been most devastating. Nicaragua, which had been growing at a strong 7 percent annually in recent years, has reported losses both to traditional activities such as cattle ranching, and new ones like shrimp farming. Honduran officials estimate that the country suffered $900 million in losses from damage to crops such as bananas and coffee.
"This is Honduras's worst disaster in more than 100 years," said Billy Handal, a Honduran Vice President. "Ninety percent of banana production was affected." In 1997 bananas accounted for about $250 million of $1.1 billion in total exports from Honduras, a country of six million people about the size of Pennsylvania.
Because of widespread flooding of their plantations, foreign banana producers that have dominated the Honduran economy for a century, like Dole and Chiquita, have suspended operations. As a result, about 17,000 field hands will be without work -- perhaps for "several years," in a glum estimate by Carlos Flores Facusse, the President of Honduras.
"In 72 hours we lost what we had built, little by little, in 50 years," he said to reporters there, adding, "In Honduras everything will be measured before and after" Mitch.
Indeed, the damage is so widespread that there is no guarantee that big banana producers will return.
"We're planning on assessing the damage as soon as possible," Steven G. Warshaw, president of Chiquita Brands International, said in a telephone interview from corporate headquarters in Cincinnati when asked about his company's intentions. "Then we will make our plans accordingly."
The destruction extends beyond the countries that suffered the most severe loss of life. The Guatemalan coffee growers' association estimates that up to 25 percent of this year's crop has been destroyed, and officials in El Salvador calculate that $200 million in exports, mostly agricultural, may have been lost.
In recent years Honduras has also developed a flourishing export processing zone, mostly of textiles, in the area around San Pedro Sula. But that region suffered heavy flooding not just to factories and the homes of some 80,000 workers, but also to warehouses where supplies and finished products were stored and to the nearby ports that shipped goods to the United States.
The factory owners' association in San Pedro Sula estimates that the 200 or so plants there have been losing a combined $1 million a day because of the hurricane.
Small peasant producers, who make up the bulk of the population in most of Central America, are perhaps even more seriously affected. They live hand to mouth and have no insurance and most have all of their meager investment tied up in houses, crops and animals, which for the most part have been washed away.
"I lost everything I had," said Norberto Miranda, 26, a farm worker from Posoltega, a town in northwest Nicaragua where a mudslide killed as many as 2,000 people. "We need money and assistance to get back on our feet again, but so far there have been no signs of help from our Government."
The social burden on governments whose limited budgets are already strained can also be expected to grow. The storm left behind a high toll of orphans, amputees and the infirm at the same time that it destroyed clinics.
In many rural areas, those schools not destroyed by the storm are being used as refuges for the impoverished survivors. When, if ever, children will be able to return to classes remains uncertain, and this in the long term could mean even more of a labor force based on subsistence.

GRAPHIC: Photos: What was called "Honduras's worst disaster in more than 100 years" disrupted countless roads, including one at Santa Lucia, near Tegucigalpa. On the Nacaome River flood plain in Honduras, above, Maria Martha Rivera Rebdeido is rebuilding her wrecked home. In Tegucigalpa, right, floods destroyed soap and soda factories on the Choluteca River. (Photographs by SUZANNE DeCHILLO/The New York Times)
 
Map of Nicaragua showing location of Posoltega: A mudslide in Posoltega, Nicaragua, killed up to 2,000 people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CENTRAL AMERICA (95%); HONDURAS (95%); NICARAGUA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); HAITI (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

CITY: TEGUCIGALPA, HONDURAS (63%); 

COMPANY: CARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CENTRAL AMERICA (95%); HONDURAS (95%); NICARAGUA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); HAITI (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); TEGUCIGALPA, HONDURAS (63%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); WEATHER (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); BANANA & PLANTAIN PRODUCTION (89%); FARM LABOR (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); LANDSLIDES (76%); MAMMALS (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); FOREIGN LENDING (65%); SHELLFISH FARMING (60%); AQUACULTURE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



336 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
The Dow Ekes Out a Small Gain While Other Gauges Fall

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed yesterday after failing to sustain a morning advance.
Only a surge by two oil components in the Dow Jones industrial average -- reflecting possible military action against Iraq -- kept the average in the plus column. Investors are also waiting for the results of Tuesday's meeting by the Federal Reserve concerning possible interest rate cuts. 
 The Dow's gain, which reached nearly 84 points just before noon, was 5.92 points, to 8,829.74. All other major averages declined. The Nasdaq composite index fell 11.05 points, to 1,851.06, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 3.28 points, to 1,117.69.
"The market is buffeted by uncertainty and stocks aren't as cheap as they were," said Byron R. Wien, chief domestic strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Treasury bonds and the dollar strengthened as jittery investors around the world sought safer ha vens. Stock buyers, too, have seemed to migrate toward larger, higher-quality stocks of late after a month in which the Nasdaq market climbed twice as much as the Dow.
Once again, "investors seem to be discriminating among companies," said Daniel Knight, portfolio manager at Columbine Capital Services in Colorado Springs. "Lower P-E stocks are outperforming high P-E stocks," he added, referring to the relationship of prices to earnings.
One prominent speculative casualty was Entremed, which dropped 7 3/4 a share, to 24 7/8, after The Wall Street Journal reported on problems that scientists have had in replicating one of the company's experimental anti-cancer compounds. The stock traded as high as 85 in May.
By contrast, Earthweb built on its spectacular Wednesday debut by surging another 20 9/16 , to 69 1/4, nearly quintupling in two trading sessions from its initial price of 14 a share.
Oil shares jumped on the assumption that an attack against Iraq would jeopardize at least some Mideast oil supplies. Chevron, up 3 1/8 a share, to 83, and Exxon, up 2 9/16 , to 72 13/16 , were the Dow's most important performers; without them, the Dow -- with only 10 gainers out of 30 -- would have declined.
Airline shares were mixed. Delta Air Lines gained 1 5/16 , to 101 1/4, and AMR, the parent of American Airlines, rose 1 3/16 , to 61 1/4, while other lines slipped.
Most analysts still expect the Fed to make another cut in short-term interest rates -- and the case for it might have been bolstered a bit with the Labor Department's report that first-time claims for jobless benefits climbed last week to the highest level in four months. But conviction was missing in the market yesterday.
In fact, said James Pizzo, market strategist at CIBC Oppenheimer, "you have more people concerned that it will not happen, compared to a few weeks ago."
Computer, software and Internet stocks were mostly lower, though Ebay, up 10 1/16 a share, to 126, and Amazon.com, up 4 3/8, to 131, were prominent exceptions.
Safeway, the grocery retailer that is replacing Chrysler in the S.& P. 500, gained 1 5/16 , to 50 1/2, after trading as high as 55 late in the session. Index funds, which try to match the market as a whole, were said to be adding the stock in their portfolios at closing levels. In its last day of trading, Chrysler shares edged up 1/16 , to 47 1/8, and were the day's most actively traded; the company begins trading as part of DaimlerChrysler on Tuesday.
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Demand Up for Treasuries
By Bloomberg News
The price of United States bonds rose yesterday as investors turned to the safety of Treasuries amid signs of renewed tensions with Iraq, and on expectations of another cut in interest rates next week.
"Our bond markets have been the beneficiary" of the refuge demand, said Ken Anderson, who helps manage $14.5 billion in bonds at Evergreen Asset Management in Purchase, N.Y.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 19/32 , to 100 2/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.25 percent, from 5.29 percent on Tuesday. The bond market was closed Wednesday in observance of Veterans Day.
Bonds were bolstered as investors rushed to the safety of dollar-denominated assets on concern that the United States would make military strikes against Iraq for refusing to cooperate with United Nations weapons inspectors.
Demand for the dollar was also helped by doubts that Japan's latest plan to increase spending and cut taxes will succeed in lifting its economy out of its worst recession in half a century. A stronger dollar increases the returns international investors receive on United States assets like bonds, once the proceeds switch to their home currencies.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since November 1997 . (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); DAL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (69%); 

CITY: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (51%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); COLORADO, USA (69%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK INDEXES (95%); BONDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); AIRLINES (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); CANCER DRUGS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



337 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

State Farm Insurance Wins Savings Charter Approval
Federal savings regulators have permitted State Farm Insurance, the automobile and homeowners' insurer, to use its network of agents to sell banking products like car loans, mortgages and certificates of deposit. 
 While other insurance companies have received charters in the last year, officials said that none had as wide a base of agents who could offer as broad a line of full-service consumer banking as State Farm. Page C2.
 
California Federal Bank cannot recover potential profits it lost as a result of an accounting rule change that prompted a multibillion-dollar lawsuit against the United States. C18.
 
A $42 Billion Package for Brazil
After months of negotiations, the International Monetary Fund and more than a dozen nations are expected to announce a package of loans to Brazil totaling at least $42 billion to stabilize the country's economy, officials said. A1.
 
A New Stimulus Plan for Japan
In Japan, the governing Liberal Democratic Party of Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi released a plan to bolster the economy, but the markets greeted it skeptically and analysts described it as a hodgepodge of measures that would have little effect. This new package could end up being worth about $165 billion, but the size and implementation will depend on political developments. A3.
 
Cable and Wireless Seeks U.S. Lines
Cable and Wireless of Britain is seeking to acquire more than $300 million worth of fiber optic communications lines from Qwest, executives close to the talks said. C3.
 
Dow Rises; Nasdaq and S.& P. Fall
A surge in shares of two oil companies pushed the Dow Jones industrial average up 5.92 points, to 8,829.74. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 3.28 points, to 1,117.69, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 11.05 points, to 1,851.06. C6.
 
German Phone Concern Cuts Prices
Deutsche Telekom of Germany plans to slash its long-distance prices by as much as 63 percent. The move comes as Germany's onetime telephone monopoly is rapidly losing market share to new rivals. C3.
 
Dell Computer Earnings Jump 55%
Crediting the strength of its direct sales program, Dell reported record third-quarter revenue and earnings. The company, which bypasses distributors and dealers and builds each computer to order, continued to grow at several times the rate of the personal computer industry as a whole. The earnings announcement came after the market closed. Earlier, shares of Dell fell $2.75, to $69.1875. C2.
 
Meditrust to Divide and Sell Assets
Meditrust said it would split into two real estate investment trusts, one owning health care properties and one owning its La Quinta Inns hotels. The company will also sell up to $1 billion of assets, including its golf course businesses and the Santa Anita thoroughbred race track in California. C5.
 
Bank of America Agrees to Settle
Bank of America agreed to pay $187.5 million to settle charges it mishandled bond payments between 1978 and 1995. C5.
 
Daily News Names a Sunday Editor
Edward Kosner, a former editor of Newsweek and Esquire, was named Sunday editor of The Daily News. The Sunday edition will have a new title, The Sunday Daily News. B6.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,829.74 up 5.92
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.25% down 0.04
The Dollar -- 121.98 yen up 0.26
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows retail sales and producer prices since April.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); DTE (FRA) (54%); DTE (BIT) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CALIFORNIA FEDERAL BANK FSB (57%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (86%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (74%); ACCOUNTING (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); RETAIL BANKING (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); SALES & SELLING (72%); COMPANY REVENUES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (70%); MARKET SHARE (70%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); TELEPHONE RATES (67%); PRICE CUTTING (62%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (60%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (55%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (50%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); FIBER OPTICS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



338 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1596 words

HEADLINE: An Open Call for the Open Skies;
Airlines Seek Diversity in Hiring Flight Attendants

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON

 BODY:
For all the talk of New York's new civility, its inhabitants have not exactly made "Service With a Smile" their motto. So the city seems an unlikely place to find candidates for a job that turns on cheerful customer assistance.
But there was Kathleen Arnold, perky and self-possessed in her navy blue uniform and low-heeled pumps, standing in a basement room in a hotel near La Guardia Airport last week, gamely auditioning applicants for flight attendant positions with United Airlines. 
 "This is my job -- does anyone want it?" she asked.
The crowd she faced was a real slice of the city: male and female, ages 19 to 49 or more, heights from under five feet to almost seven, clothes from snappy suits to faded jeans, and accents redolent of Brazil, China, the Dominican Republic, France, India, Italy, Lebanon, Poland and West Africa (as well as the Bronx, Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan).
Indeed, the group looked less like the smiling stewardesses featured in airline ads, and more like the slightly surly passengers whose plane has circled Newark one time too many.
And that was the point.
More Americans, from all economic and cultural backgrounds, are flying than ever before. Airline passenger traffic keeps setting new records: Anyone who needs proof can visit the New York region's three major airports around Thanksgiving, when more than a million people will be getting on or off planes, according to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
Air travel is no longer the elegant, elitist activity it was back in the 1950's and 1960's -- and being a flight attendant is no longer the next best thing to being a movie star, as it was back then. So in these days of low air fares and low unemployment, airlines are frantically trying to find enough flight attendants to serve travelers peanuts -- and, more seriously, to help them in emergencies.
"I think everyone, all the major carriers, are hiring flight attendants right now," said Karen Watson, a spokeswoman for Dallas-based American Airlines, which stopped actively recruiting in 1993 but is now hiring again, in New York and around the country.
Because the airlines are looking for a more diverse group of flight attendants to match their more diverse passenger base, they are seeking employees who speak more than one language. That skill is more common in New York than in, say, Boise, Idaho, or Burlington, Vt., which is one reason the major airlines are recruiting in the city. (Another reason is that they want to find more flight attendants who are willing to live in New York which many find too expensive or otherwise uncomfortable, Ms. Watson said.)
Continental Airlines has been doing a lot of interviewing at its hub in Newark, where it is starting to fly larger planes that take 15 flight attendants, rather than a maximum of 10, said Jan Bednar, manager of in-flight recruiting for the airline.
But finding people who meet the airlines' exacting standards -- and who really want the job -- is not easy. Last year, United Airlines interviewed 54,000 people to fill 2,000 jobs, and Ms. Arnold's experience in Queens showed why. Of the roughly 300 people who came after seeing newspaper advertisements, fewer than a third will go on to a second interview in Chicago.
"The average for last week was 33 percent, but in New York it was much less," said Cathy Kress, manager of flight attendant employment for United. One reason for the high rejection rate, she said, was poor dependability records at previous jobs.
The first hurdle for aspiring flight attendants was the audition. Ms. Arnold had each of the six groups she interviewed line up and speak for half a minute on a topic she chose. The reason, she explained, is that flight attendants must demonstrate safety equipment to passengers before every flight. "I personally like to see that you can stand up in front of a group of strangers and not pass out," she said.
Quite a few of the applicants had trouble following Ms. Arnold's directions, especially in the group she asked to describe the last time they had received "really good customer service." Several had prepared statements about why they wanted to become flight attendants and had trouble switching gears, Ms. Arnold noted later.
Then there were the folks -- quite a big group -- who had trouble coming up with any example of good customer service. Several mentioned bus drivers who unbent enough to give them directions, or waiters who actually brought them the food they had ordered. A couple fell back on random acts of kindness, like the doorman who said one of the tenants in his building brought him a roast chicken one night when he worked a double shift.
The biggest applause went to Nicole Taylor, a 20-year-old student from Queens, who praised the waiter who first served her a whole lobster -- and sat down at the table to show her how to eat it.
The job applicants also had to take a reading comprehension test, which required them to read a paragraph related to the airline business and then answer some multiple-choice questions. Many of the New Yorkers performed poorly, Ms. Arnold said later, after grading the tests.
"I was really surprised, but in certain cities that happens more often than in others," she said.
Some of the candidates were put off by Ms. Arnold's explanation of what the job entails. Recruits must spend nine weeks -- unpaid -- at a training school in Chicago, where they must pass weekly tests. Then they are assigned to one of the 13 bases the company runs across the country, from Boston to Seattle, and they have no hope of transferring for at least six months.
New flight attendants then work "on reserve," which means that on the days they work, they are on call from midnight to midnight, with no notion of where they are to travel. Depending on where they are based, flight attendants can stay on reserve for years.
Karen De Riso, an office manager from Queens, said she found the idea of relocating "a little disconcerting," adding that "it's the not knowing -- but I haven't changed my mind" about the job, not yet.
For all of this, flight attendants in their first year at United make about $22,000 -- which is probably the most generous salary in the industry, according to the Association of Flight Attendants, which reports that at some airlines, the starting pay is as low as $12,000 a year.
But a surprising number of job seekers said they would be willing to take a big pay cut to become a flight attendant. One was Richard Appleman, 41, of Manhattan, who works in the computer business and loves to travel. "I'm sick of sitting in a cubicle," Mr. Appleman said. "I'd make less money, but be more happy."
Rachel Spearman, a recent college graduate from Long Island who is working as an accountant, would also have to take a pay cut, she said. But she was excited enough by the prospect of becoming a flight attendant that she had even persuaded her mother, Alexandria Spearman, to come try out with her.
"My grandmother, who paid for my college, would have a heart attack," she said, "but I always wanted to be a flight attendant, from when I was 7 years old."
The "lifelong dream" theme was common among older applicants, who make up a growing number of new flight attendants, according to Ms. Kress from United. Mary Gil, 49, has raised four daughters in Queens while working several jobs, including as a ticket agent. "I got married and postponed my dream," she said, "but now that my kids are grown up, I can pursue it."
For others, the decision to try out for the job was born more of a sudden restlessness. Jean Jason of Manhattan was flying back from a vacation in Australia and got to chatting with the flight attendants. "On a 22-hour flight, they have a lot of time to spend with you," she said. They convinced her that, after 16 years in office jobs, she had found the career for her.
A love of travel lay behind many people's decisions to try for the job. Flight attendants fly almost free; Ms. Arnold told her groups of paying $30 to fly from Newark to San Francisco -- in first class. Attendants also get scads of time off; they can work only 90 hours a month at United.
In a sign of how strong the economy is, few of the applicants said they really needed a job. One who did was Mellisa Sheppard, a 21-year-old from Brooklyn who has two young children. "I want to get my life on track and off public assistance," she said. Her mother had agreed to take care of the children if she made it to training school, and their father will help out "until I get on my feet," she said. "I have it all worked out -- a job makes everything much better."
Only the successful candidates will hear from United, which will contact them within six weeks to arrange their visits to Chicago. That interview will weed out more candidates. Some will prove to be too tall (those over 6 feet 2 inches tend to bump their heads); others will be too small to reach the safety equipment that is stored in overhead bins.
Some of the would-be flight attendants will be rejected because they do not look "professional," which boils down to just a few rules, like "no visible tattoos," Ms. Kress said. A surprising number, she added, will fail the criminal background check.
In the end, United hopes to hire 2,500 flight attendants this year, which keeps recruiters like Ms. Arnold hopping. Her next stop was Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and after that, Los Angeles. But she, or one of her colleagues, will be back in New York in January -- they have 2,300 more flight attendants to hire next year.

GRAPHIC: Photos: TIME WARP -- In the 1950's, when air travel was still relatively exotic, flight attendants -- who were called stewardesses -- were viewed as the next best thing to movie stars. Airlines say they now see the benefits of hiring a flight staff that reflects the diverse economic and cultural backgrounds of their customers. As a result, recruiters like Kathleen Arnold, left, who held an audition near La Guardia Airport for United Airlines, look to New York to provide new flight attendants. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Jean Jason, who is ready to leave office work for a career in the skies, stretches on tiptoe to see whether she meets the height requirement for flight attendants. At left is Kathleen Arnold, a recruiter for United Airlines. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B12)
 
Chart/Graph: "AT A GLANCE: Help Wanted"
With more Americans flying than ever before, more flight attendants are needed. The graph looks at the breakdown of flight attendants as regarded to age, length of service, pay, hours worked, and vacation. (pg. B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); LEBANON (79%); FRANCE (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); IDAHO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); BOISE, ID, USA (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%); NEW YORK (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); LEBANON (79%); FRANCE (71%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); IDAHO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); BOISE, ID, USA (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AIRLINES (92%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); AIR FARES (76%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (75%); PORT AUTHORITIES (71%); 

PERSON: KATHLEEN ARNOLD (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



339 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Slump Aside, Profit Is Up at Honda and Mazda

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 12

 BODY:
Despite recent trouble in the Japanese auto industry, the Honda Motor Company and the Mazda Motor Corporation reported impressive profit gains today for the first half of the fiscal year.
Japan's car makers have faced slumping sales in the domestic market, a credit squeeze and a recent unfavorable swing in dollar-yen exchange rates. Earlier this week, the Nissan Motor Company, the nation's troubled No. 2 car maker, posted a loss and revised its outlook for the fiscal year from flat to negative. And last Friday, Mitsubishi Motors announced a major reorganization and continued losses in the first half. 
 But Honda said today that net profit in the first half, which ended on Sept. 30, jumped 25 percent, to 158.3 billion yen, or $1.28 billion, compared with 126.5 billion yen in the period a year earlier, thanks largely to robust sales in the United States.
Mazda, which is controlled by the Ford Motor Company and trades separately, was helped by strong sales in Europe and the benefits of a cost-cutting program. It posted a net profit of 8.5 billion yen, or $69.1 million, compared with a 9.7 billion yen loss in the period a year earlier.
The Toyota Motor Corporation, the largest Japanese car company, will report its earnings next week and is expected to announce a profit.
Both Honda, which is Japan's third-largest auto maker, and Mazda may already be confronting a tougher environment. For one thing, the yen rose sharply against the dollar last month, which makes their exports to the United States more expensive.
About 75 percent of the 541,714 cars Honda sold in the United States in the first six months of the fiscal year were also made in America; the remainder of its sales came from shipments of sport utility vehicles and some Acura models from Japan.
Although Mazda's gains came in Europe, where sales rose 31 percent, to 132,000 vehicles, the yen has also gained against European currencies in the last six weeks, which could make such gains in the future more difficult.
And both companies said they would be affected by a worldwide economic slowdown.
Nonetheless, Mazda and Honda raised their earnings predictions for the full fiscal year ending on March 31. Mazda said it now expected profit to rise 6.7 percent, to 32 billion yen, or $260 million, which would be its largest since 1985.
Honda is expecting a 7.4 percent jump in profit, to 280 billion yen, or $2.3 billion, for the year. "We don't see any slowdown in the U.S.," said Koichi Amemiya, president of Honda's American operations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7261 (TSE) (94%); HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%); TYT (LSE) (91%); TM (NYSE) (91%); 7203 (TSE) (91%); FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); 7201 (TSE) (72%); 7211 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (94%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: MAZDA MOTOR CORP (94%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (72%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); JAPANESE YEN (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



340 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: U.S. SIGNS A PACT TO REDUCE GASES TIED TO WARMING

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
The Administration today signed the international agreement to fight global warming, affirming a crucial American role in a long environmental crusade but not raising any hope of Senate approval in the near future.
The signing, which the Administration has long promised, reinforces its commitment to the treaty, which calls for sharp cuts in emissions of industrial gases from burning coal, oil, wood and natural gas. But the accord is not legally binding unless the Senate approves it. 
 Vice President Al Gore said, "Our signing of the protocol underscores our determination to achieve a truly global solution to this global challenge." But he emphasized that much more bargaining lies ahead.
Treaty opponents in the United States immediately raised an outcry, but the step was widely applauded in Buenos Aires, where 150 nations are debating how the treaty can be put into effect.
Stuart E. Eizenstat, the chief American delegate to the talks there, announced this morning that the United States would sign the pact, which was negotiated last year in Kyoto, Japan. A. Peter Burleigh, the acting American representative to the United Nations, signed it in New York this afternoon.
But the Administration, as expected, will not yet submit the Kyoto Protocol for approval by the Senate, where it faces substantial opposition from critics who say the costs to industry would damage the economy.
The White House has said all along that the United States would sign it before the deadline next March, but would not ratify it unless key American provisos are accepted. Given the pace of the continuing talks, that probably means not before the elections in 2000.
The protocol strengthens a global treaty negotiated in Rio de Janiero in 1992 and ratified during the Bush Administration. Many scientists say rising concentrations of greenhouse gases, warming the earth's surface like an invisible quilt, are threatening grave environmental harm.
Without the participation of the United States, the leading source of waste industrial gases, the agreement would collapse. The United States was the 60th nation to sign.
"Kyoto is a landmark achievement but it is a work in progress and key issues remain outstanding," said Mr. Eizenstat, who is the Undersecretary of State for Economic Affairs.
In a telephone interview, he said the signing was intended to strengthen Washington's negotiating hand. But critics in Congress, echoing the views of their constituents in industries like coal and automobiles, said it would reduce American leverage.
Mr. Eizenstat called the announcement a high point in negotiations that otherwise have focused on small advances toward putting the complex agreement into force.
"I am not gilding the lily when I say there was near euphoria among delegates here," he said. "They just felt this was a real sign of U.S. leadership. I think there was really a doubt that we were really going to pursue this, with all the opposition in the Senate and in other quarters. The feeling was that perhaps the domestic opposition was so stiff that we were going to back off."
To fulfill the accord, the United States would have to cut its emissions by about 7 percent from the 1990 level over the next 10 to 15 years. Emissions have been steadily increasing since 1990, making that target very ambitious.
The conditions that the United States is demanding are meant to hold down the costs of compliance and to increase the chance that the Senate will eventually approve.
One condition is a system of trading "emissions credits," effectively allowing the United States to reduce its own emissions less by paying other countries to reduce theirs more. Another is persuading developing nations to take a larger role in cutting emissions, encouraging them with financial assistance from developed nations, which would get emissions credits in exchange.
Both ideas face strong resistance from some countries that say the first steps must be taken by industrial nations like the United States, which emits about a quarter of all greenhouse gases.
Opponents of the treaty are marshalling opposition in Congress, arguing that the targets cannot be met without damaging the economy.
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, a Connecticut Democrat and a leading treaty proponent, said in Buenos Aires that signing the protocol "gives us the credibility to be at the table" in the continuing talks. "That means we can not only make sure it happens, but that it happens in the way that we prefer," he said.
But a Democrat who opposes the protocol, Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, said, "The timing of this signing only encourages countries who refuse to be part of any effort to limit emissions."
On Wednesday Argentina pledged to curb its emissions, and today Kazakhstan also did so, but populous countries like China and India, whose emissions are growing fast, resist formal limits.
"The President has chosen a risky path both domestically and internationally," said Connie Holms, the chairwoman of the Global Climate Coalition, which represents major industry groups opposed to the treaty. "Clinton has sent the U.S. careening down an endless highway which appears on no maps, has no speed limits, no police patrols, and no exit or entrance ramps."
Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, who sponsored a Senate resolution last year that opposed signing the treaty unless certain conditions were met, said the signing "blatantly contradicts the will of the United States Senate" and dared President Clinton to submit it to the Senate, where a two-thirds vote is required for approval.
"If this treaty is good enough to sign, it's good enough to be submitted to the Senate for an open, honest debate," he said.
Environmental groups praised the signing, but some complained that the United States is not doing enough yet to reduce greenhouse gas.
"Without a more vigorous commitment to domestic action, U.S. demands for more action by developing countries are like a chain-smoking parent telling his children that smoking is bad for them," said John Adams, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council. He urged the Administration to take unilateral steps to cut emissions of carbon dioxide from automobiles, power plants and other sources.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A. Peter Burleigh, a United States representative at the United Nations, signed the international accord yesterday on reducing gas emissions, which many scientists believe cause global warming. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. A14)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: EARTH (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (55%); 

CITY: KYOTO, JAPAN (66%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (79%); EARTH (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (55%); KYOTO, JAPAN (66%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; TREATIES; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; CARBON DIOXIDE; COAL; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL); WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; AIR POLLUTION CLIMATOLOGY (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); NATURAL GAS (76%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); INDUSTRIAL GASES (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (63%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (63%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (56%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); EIZENSTAT, STUART E (UNDER SEC); BURLEIGH, A PETER (AMB); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR AL GORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



341 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
Middle-Income Tenants In Park Slope Addition

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
The first sizable rental building to be constructed in the Park Slope area of Brooklyn in more than a decade opened last week, as people began moving into the 52-unit building.
The eight-story brick building at 287 Prospect Avenue, between Fifth and Sixth Avenues in the South Slope, was built for middle-income people. It contains one- and two-bedroom units, each with 600 to 900 square feet of space. The apartments are available to people earning $48,000 to $124,500 a year, depending on family size. 
 The project is part of the city's year-old New Housing Opportunities Program, which makes financing available at below-market interest rates to developers of middle-income rentals, as well as what are known as limited-equity co-op projects. Developers are also eligible for a 25-year abatement on property taxes from the city.
Monthly rents range from $900 to $1,400 for the units at the Prospect Avenue building, named St. John's Apartments for the adjacent 100-year-old St. John's Church. Since leasing began last month, 45 percent of the apartments have been rented.
The developer of the $7 million project, across the street from the Prospect Expressway, is 287 Associates, a partnership between John Scarpinito, who owns J.E.S. Contracting Inc. in Park Slope, and Albert E. Juliano, a local realtor.
The partners assembled the site, once occupied by a two-story warehouse and a vacant lot, over the last three years, with the intention first to use the building for another business, then to convert it, using public subsidies, into 17 apartments for low-income tenants. But when New York City's Housing Development Corporation announced its New Housing Opportunities Program in October 1997, the partners sought financing to build the current project.
"This area is being gentrified," said Joseph Scarpinito, the project manager for St. John's Apartments, who is the son of one of the partners. "Prior to this program we were locked into doing renovations," because new construction was not economically feasible, he said.
Under the program, the city's housing corporation issues taxable bonds to provide 30-year first mortgages with interest rates that are below market rate as well as construction loans or both. In addition, the corporation, using its own reserves, offers a subsidy of up to $20,000 a unit in the form of an interest-only second mortgage at an interest rate of 1 to 3 percent.
In exchange, developers agree to maintain the rental projects as middle-income housing, subject to the city's rent stabilization laws, for 25 years. With co-ops, which are also restricted to income-eligible buyers, there are also limits to the profit buyers can make when they sell their units. Part of the profit on each must be used to pay back the city for its subsidies.
As a result of the program's $100 million first round, the housing corporation financed nine projects, totaling 615 units, and approved four others with a total of 337 units, said Russell A. Harding, its president. Most of the projects are under construction.
In addition to St. John's Apartments, two other projects, both in Queens, are complete. One is a 26-unit rental building on 208th Street in Bayside; the other is a 60-unit apartment structure on 37th Avenue in Flushing.
Mr. Harding said there were plans for a second round of the program that would increase the amount of financing offered by $180 million. Approval from the corporation's board of directors is expected by early next year, he said.
The additional money will go to increase the current $20,000-per-unit subsidy to help developers acquire sites, Mr. Harding said. That has been "the only hindrance to the program," he said, noting that while many of the projects financed in the first round were on land developers already owned, such situations were limited.
"We also hope to get into areas that are beginning to change and need the introduction of middle-income housing to help the renaissance continue," Mr. Harding said. He estimated that 1,500 to 1,600 units could be produced under the second round.
Saint John's Apartments received $4.74 million in bond financing at an interest rate of 7.5 percent and a second mortgage of $886,000, or $17,000 for each unit, at an interest rate of 1.7 percent. Construction financing came from the nonprofit Community Preservation Corporation, and the partners invested $1.2 million of their own equity.
With the blended rate of the two mortgages, the project made economic sense, Mr. Scarpinito said, adding that in turn, rents for the units were about 30 percent lower than on comparative apartments in Park Slope.
The limited production of rental housing in the neighborhood and its environs has pushed up rents, which have risen an average of 10 percent over the last year, said Christopher D. Thomas, vice president at the Brooklyn office of William B. May, the Manhattan brokerage. Depending on location, he said, rents for existing 1,000 square foot two-bedroom units are $1,700 to $2,200 a month; for one bedrooms with 600 to 700 square feet, they are $1,400 to $1,700 a month.
The new apartments at the Prospect Avenue project "fill a niche" for which "there certainly is ample demand," Mr. Thomas added.
Gail Holder, 32, a lawyer who moved into her one-bedroom unitlast weekend, said, "I count myself lucky."

GRAPHIC: Photo: St. John's Apartments at 287 Prospect Avenue in Park Slope, which were built for middle-income tenants, opened last week. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (75%); MORTGAGE RATES (74%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); SECOND MORTGAGES (71%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BONDS (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%); 

PERSON: RUSSELL A HARDING (71%); PARK SLOPE (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



342 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: Supersizing the Supermarkets in a Shift of Power;
Discounters and Mergers Alter Balance of Power

BYLINE: By DANA CANEDY

 BODY:
When the natural order of a food chain is upset, the battle for survival intensifies. Such is the case in the nation's grocery business.
This Darwinian struggle has its roots in two evolutionary shifts. First, discount giants like Wal-Mart have leapfrogged into a powerful position by becoming big sellers of groceries as well as garden hoses. And second, regional supermarket chains like the Kroger Company are in a frenzy of consolidation, merging to create national chains able to compete head to head with the discounters. 
 As these giants battle it out, manufacturers, wholesalers, distributors and independent grocers risk being trampled if they cannot learn the new rules and adjust to the new order quickly enough. The biggest change? While retailers used to take many of their marching orders from food suppliers, the balance has tilted, with some retailers now so big that they often call the shots.
All these forces converge in the story of James McCoy.
Mr. McCoy is president of the John C. Groub Company, which runs a 30-store grocery chain in southern Indiana that was sold to Kroger earlier this year. In his 33 years at Groub, Mr. McCoy never expected his company to lose its independence.
Then Wal-Mart's Supercenters, which sell food and general merchandise under one roof, moved in.
"They had been coming for five years, and we had been very successful in competing with them in the beginning," recalled Mr. McCoy, whose stores go by the names Jay C Food Stores and Food Plus. "But as time went on, we began to feel the effect because they were going into smaller and smaller towns." And this, he went on, was "the profit lifeblood of our company."
Making matters worse, manufacturers of everything from paper towels to soup began requiring ever-larger orders in return for the best prices. "It was all brought about," Mr. McCoy said, "because of the pressure Wal-Mart brought to bear on P.& G., Campbell's etc. to become more efficient."
So when he was approached by Kroger, the nation's largest food retailer, it was as if a big brother had arrived to stare down a bully.
Kroger, he said, is committed to retaining the stores' small-town flavor. "If you accept the fact that it would only be a matter of time and we would either have closed some stores or laid people off," Mr. McCoy said, "the community is going to benefit."
In Indiana as elsewhere, this power shift is taking place far from shoppers' view, but the impact will be felt from stockroom to checkout counter. Supermarket operators and suppliers insist that customers will be the biggest beneficiaries, and at least in the short term that seems likely, as competitors clamor for consumer loyalty.
Steven A. Burd, chief executive of Safeway Inc., said, "If done well, it lowers the operating expenses for those companies, which allows them to be in a better position to compete with some of the emerging formats out there that typically have lower costs."
If the recent mergers fail to produce cost savings, of course, the long-term benefit will be minimal. The chains, though, are betting big on the power of size.
In addition to buying Groub, Kroger announced plans last month to acquire Fred Meyer in a $13 billion deal that will create the largest supermarket chain in the country, with 2,200 stores in 31 states and combined annual revenue of about $43 billion.
In other recent deals, Albertson's plans to acquire American Stores; Royal Ahold bought Giant Food, Stop and Shop and Bi-Lo chains, and Safeway absorbed Vons and Dominick's.
All of which is not necessarily good news to distributors.
"The retailers are going to be a little stronger and have a little more muscle in the marketplace," said John R. Block, a former Agriculture Secretary who is president of Food Distributors International, a trade group. Already the changes are exacting a toll.
"Twelve years ago we had more than 300 full-line wholesalers," Mr. Block said. "Today we're down to 97, and 12 of them do 80 percent of the business." Though he sees advantages for the most efficient suppliers, "I don't see any end in sight to the consolidation."
What is more, competition from discounters is likely to hit food retailers even harder. Kmart, for example, has said that it is converting nearly 2,000 stores to formats that include grocery sections and is considering a merger with a major supermarket chain or wholesaler. And Wal-Mart, which has almost 500 giant Supercenters -- where food accounts for about half the sales -- is rapidly expanding their number and geographic reach.
As the market becomes more crowded, small independent grocers will have an even tougher time holding on. Many lack the resources to compete with megastores that sell 20 kinds of olives and practically give away orange juice to lure shoppers.
"The mom and pops, the independent, the life of those people is really very short," Mr. McCoy said.
There was a time when family-owned, one-store grocers were the driving force in the business. Grocers date back to the days of the tea merchants of the late 1800's and came into their own in the 1930's. Over several decades, independents and mostly regional chains filled in the growing suburban landscape. The 1970's and 1980's brought new formats, like convenience stores and warehouse stores. A wave of consolidation hit in the 1980's, when chains became more aggressive about expansion. Now, many of them control entire regions and are seeking to become national in scope.
While some food suppliers are folding under the pressure, others are finding new ways to squeeze profits from, of all things, sardines and cream of asparagus soup.
A wholesale company called One Source, for instance, buys and stocks slow-selling items for chains. The arrangement frees retailers' warehouse space for better-selling products like Tide and Coke and enables One Source to receive volume discounts.
In most stores, "chicken noodle soup and tomato soup fly off the shelf, but cream of asparagus probably doesn't move a case a month," said Jack Haedicke, chief operating officer for One Source, a division of C&S Wholesale Grocers in Brattleboro, Vt. "If you've got a warehouse full of slow movers and grab from enough retailers and put them in one centralized location, they are not slow movers any more."
In fighting back against discounters like Wal-Mart and Costco, supermarket operators have been forced to reduce costs sharply, invest in money-saving technology and remodel or close outdated stores. Then, as leaner, more efficient operators, they have begun to focus on growth, snapping up rivals to expand beyond saturated markets and to benefit from economies of scale.
Now the larger chains have the size to steamroll over weaker competitors and to demand that manufacturers and distributors bend on everything from promotions and product packaging to shipment schedules and fees for shelf space in order to shave costs further.
"There is an entire supply chain out there that talks about all the costs embedded in moving product from the manufacturer's truck to the trunk of the customer's car," said Mr. Burd of Safeway. "We've gotten very good at our element of the food supply chain, and we're looking forward to working with vendors on their side of it."
Of course, the largest manufacturers and wholesalers are the least affected by the new industry demands. After all, even Kroger and Safeway must sell Campbell Soup and Crest. And the makers of these and other top-selling brands were the pioneers of many changes now driving the retail business.
Companies like Procter & Gamble and Colgate-Palmolive were among the first, for instance, to invest in the technology that retailers now use to track product sales by store, manage inventory and billing, and control distribution.
When retailers demanded Colgate's new Total toothpaste as soon as it rolled off production lines last year, the company used technology-driven distribution to get it on store shelves nationwide in less than a month -- half the time it would have taken a decade ago.
Backed by a $100 million marketing budget, the largest in the company's history for a new product, "Total was in your face from a consumer point of view, but it was also in your face from a retail point of view," said Ian Cook, president of Colgate U.S.
In four years, the company has cut its shipment time in half -- to 6 days from 12 -- and increased its on-time delivery rate to 97 percent from about 92. This enables it to meet the greater demands from retailers. In the case of Total, it helped catapult the product into a top-selling brand within months.
Manufacturers and retailers that lack the size of a Colgate or Wal-Mart are seeking strength in numbers. The membership of the Independent Grocers Alliance, or I.G.A., has declined to 2,000 from 2,700 over the last decade as more independents have folded into chains or closed altogether. But those grocers that remain are increasing their sales volume, thus swelling the consortium's marketing and purchasing power. The average revenue of an I.G.A. store increased to $5.2 million last year from $3.3 million a decade ago.
Smaller grocers like these are also trying other ways to fight back. They say they are putting renewed emphasis on details that big chains tend to overlook. One scrappy independent, David Skogen, who owns six stores in La Crosse, Wis., says he is going ahead with plans to expand by two stores a year even though Wal-Mart recently said it would build a superstore in his backyard.
Mr. Skogen, who owns two Skogen's supermarkets and four Festival Foods discount grocery stores, said he would beat Wal-Mart and other large chains by continuing to provide "the things they don't mess with."
His stores hold knife-sharpening promotions, for instance, load their parking lots with pumpkins each fall and even provide shoppers locked out of their cars with free locksmith services and a spare set of keys. "People don't forget those things," Mr. Skogen said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Squeezed by Wal-Mart on territory and manufacturers on prices, James McCoy said, his chain was sold to Kroger. (Mary Ann Carter for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Food Fight"
Traditional supermarket chains are consolidating to compete with the upstarts -- large warehouse stores and discounters that offer food under the same roof as general merchandise. General merchandise/food stores in bold.
 
1997 COMBINED SALES
Kroger/Fred Meyer* -- $43 billion
Albertson's/American Stores* -- $34 billion
Safeway/Dominick's*+ -- $27 billion
Wal-Mart Supercenters -- $25 billion
Costco Companies -- $21 billion
Sam's Warehouse Club -- $21 billion
Ahold USA/Giant Food* -- $19 billion
Winn-Dixie -- $13 billion
Publix -- $11 billion
Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea -- $10 billion
 
*Acquisition Pending
+Also incudes Carr Gottstein
(Sources: Supermarket News; Food Marketing Institute)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KR (NYSE) (85%); WMT (NYSE) (75%); SWY (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (85%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (85%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (75%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (75%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: KROGER CO (85%); WAL-MART STORES INC (75%); JOHN C GROUB CO INC (69%); SAFEWAY INC (60%); JAY C FOOD STORES (54%); FOOD MARKETING INSTITUTE (59%); FOOD MARKETING INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD MARKETING INSTITUTE (59%); FOOD MARKETING INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); INDIANA, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (95%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (89%); MERGERS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: STEVEN A BURD (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



343 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14
 
U.S. Buildup Continues As Isolation of Iraq Grows
The United States continued to build up its forces for a possible attack on Iraq, which gave no indication that it was willing to back down and resume United Nations arms inspections. And unlike previous confrontations with Saddam Hussein, this one saw no last-minute efforts to mediate with the Iraqis. A1 

Israel Seeks Housing Bids
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu opened bidding for a major state-run housing development in the predominantly Arab east side of Jerusalem, one day after the Cabinet approved the agreement with the Palestinians on the next Israeli withdrawal from the West Bank. A1
 
Global Warming Pact Signed
The Clinton Administration signed the international agreement to fight global warming, affirming an American role in a long environmental crusade, though not raising hope of Senate approval in the near future. A1
 
Loan Package for Brazil
The International Monetary Fund and more than a dozen nations are expected to announce a package of loans to Brazil totaling at least $42 billion to stabilize that country's economy. A1
 
Disturbances in Indonesia
Riot police in Jakarta, the capital, fired tear gas, water cannons and rubber bullets to keep student demonstrators from invading the grounds of Parliament. Dozens were injured and a policeman was reported to have been beaten to death. A3
 
Japan Drafts Economic Plan
The governing Liberal Democratic Party issued a draft plan to bolster the economy, but the financial markets greeted it skeptically and analysts described it as a hodgepodge that would have little effect. A3
 
China Gangster Given Death
Chinese courts sentenced a Hong Kong crime boss, Cheung Tze-keung, to death, ending to one of the most sensational criminal trials in recent Chinese history, a trial that has spurred heated discussion over whether China is encroaching on Hong Kong's judicial authority. A8
 
British Paper's Turnabout
The daily Sun said it would no longer reveal the identity of any gay man or woman, except in cases of "overwhelming public interest." The statement follows years of relentlessly anti-gay reporting and editorial writing, including a front-page editorial on Monday that warned that Britain was ruled by a cabal of gay men. A7
 
Denial in Reporter's Death
A Dublin drug dealer accused of helping to murder a prominent investigative journalist, Veronica Guerin, left, denied at his trial that he had anything to do with the 1996 slaying. The trial, in its third week, has refocused national attention on the case and provided a unusual look into Dublin drug-dealing. A13
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A18-28
 
Doubts Begin to Grow About a Cancer Treatment
Officials at the National Cancer Institute have begun to express frustration over their inability to reproduce the striking discoveries described a year ago by Dr. Judah Folkman, a Harvard researcher who reported that he and his colleagues had wiped out malignant tumors in mice by using the compounds angiostatin and endostatin. A1
 
Gun Industry Is Target of Suit
The City of Chicago and Cook County filed a $433 million lawsuit against the gun industry, asserting that the police had found that firearms dealers in Chicago's suburbs were flooding the city with illegal guns with the knowledge of makers and distributors. A18
 
Findings on Vinyl Toy Ingredient
A chemical ingredient of vinyl, used by the toy industry since the early 1980's because an earlier compound caused liver damage in laboratory rats, caused essentially the same problems in rats in later tests, a manufacturer acknowledged. A20
 
Gephardt's Complaint
The House Democratic leader, Richard A. Gephardt, offered a scathing criticism of the Congressional investigation of President Clinton, accusing Republicans of wasting time. A24
 
Official Wants Record Cleared
Lawyers for Ira C. Magaziner, the chief architect of President Clinton's ill-fated health care plan, urged a Federal appeals court to clear him of a judge's accusation that he had lied under oath. A20
 
Secret Service Chief Retiring
Lewis C. Merletti, 50, the Director of the Secret Service, who tried to a establish a right of confidentiality for Presidential bodyguards, will become security director for the new Cleveland Browns football team. A22
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-13
 
Ballot Counting Goes On In Attorney General Race
The Democratic candidate for attorney general, Eliot L. Spitzer, left, increased his lead to about 22,000 votes over the incumbent, Dennis C. Vacco, in the day's counting of paper ballots and rechecking of machine voting. Mr. Spitzer now has 2,006,834 votes to Mr. Vacco's 1,984,459, with 100,000 or so to be counted. B1
 
Crackdown on Youth Smoking
Officials said that a New York City undercover effort to reduce the sale of cigarettes to minors had led to a 66 percent decline in such sales in the stores being tested, apparently as word of the operation spread and fines and tobacco license suspensions were imposed. Thirty-one teen-agers sought to buy cigarettes in nearly 8,200 retail shops. B1
 
Confusion in Officer's Shooting
An undercover detective wounded on Wednesday was not attacked by a drug dealer but by two men who picked a seemingly random argument with him, the police said, while also not discounting the possibility that the officer was shot by a fellow officer coming to his aid. B3
 
WEEKEND E1-34; E35-48
 
OBITUARIES B14-15
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Chalk Up One More for Torre
Joe Torre, who led the Yankees to 114 regular-season victories and their second World Series championship in three years, was named the A.L. manager of the year. D4
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-18
 
Texaco Cuts Costs and Jobs
Texaco will eliminate 1,000 oil-exploration jobs worldwide, or about 5 percent of its work force, as part of an effort to save $200 million a year. It previously reported a 58 percent decline in third-quarter earnings. C1
 
Microsoft Assails Intel Witness
Microsoft lawyers sought to discredit a senior Intel executive who has emerged as an important Government witness, portraying him as a resentful employee and introducing a supervisor's testimony that differed from the executive's. C1
 
A New Line for State Farm
Federal thrift regulators will let State Farm Insurance begin using its vast network of agents to sell such banking products as car loans, mortgages and certificates of deposit. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A30-31
 
Editorials: Yardsticks for action against Iraq; speeding and civil liberties; a first step against sweatshops; Floyd Norris on Salomon Brothers.
 
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Russell Baker.
 
Crossword E44
 
Weather D5
 
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF A LEVY (56%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INSPECTIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); APPROVALS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); RIOTS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); POLICE FORCES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); MURDER (70%); JOURNALISM (70%); HOMICIDE (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); ORGANIZED CRIME (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (66%); WRITERS (65%); SENTENCING (64%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (64%); CANCER (64%); ONCOLOGY (61%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



344 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Kmart's Earnings More Than Double

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: TROY, Mich., Nov. 12

 BODY:
The Kmart Corporation, the nation's No. 2 discount retailer behind Wal-Mart Stores Inc., said today that fiscal third-quarter earnings more than doubled as demand for Martha Stewart linens and towels and other household goods offset sluggish clothing sales.
Net income rose to $38 million, or 8 cents a diluted share, from $18 million, or 4 cents, in the period a year earlier. The earnings matched the average estimate of analysts polled by the First Call Corporation for the quarter ended Oct. 28. Kmart is adding store brands such as Sesame Street children's clothes and Martha Stewart and converting its stores to a format that sells groceries, increasing revenue 4.5 percent, to $7.64 billion. Low prices on brand-name goods such as toys and electronics are expected to help Kmart and other discount chains such as Wal-Mart Stores dominate sales this holiday season. 
 "The growth story is just starting to happen" at Kmart, said a portfolio manager, Greg Tuorto of Tocqueville Asset Management. "If the economy does slow, a discount retailer is one that we'd like to own, and Wal-Mart is just too expensive."
Shares of Kmart fell 62.5 cents today, to $15.625 in New York Stock Exchange trading.
Kmart, which is based in Troy and operates 2,154 stores, is revamping as many as 1,800 locations by the end of this year to its Big Kmart format, which features wider aisles and a grocery section.
Kmart plans to add patio furniture, seeds, bulbs and garden tools to its line of household products designed by Martha Stewart. First-year sales of the brand's sheets, towels, curtains and other goods totaled over $500 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (93%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (93%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); MICHIGAN, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%); KMART CORP (93%); FIRST CALL CORP (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); MICHIGAN, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (93%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BRANDING (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); CHILDREN (72%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); 

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



345 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: You Really Can't Get a Cab When Rome Proposes Reforms

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

DATELINE: ROME, Nov. 12

 BODY:
Ask cabdrivers in Rome if they like their jobs, and the uniform reply is an operatic screed about the petty bureaucratic rules, clogged traffic, high cost of gasoline and dearth of clients.
But when the Mayor of Rome proposed allowing drivers to set their own prices and hours, the answer was a series of strikes that culminated in a four-day citywide taxi blackout. Today hundreds of striking cabdrivers parked in Piazza Venezia in the heart of the city and next to the Mayor's office, blocking all traffic. 
 "This is dictatorship, dictatorship, dictatorship," Carlo Bologna, head of the strike committee, said.
Mr. Bologna, who has taken to using the nom de guerre Spartacus, complained that the effort to liberalize tariffs and shifts would never work and would impoverish drivers. He wore a sling on his right hand, injured during a speech on Wednesday when he pounded a desk that turned out to be marble, not wood.
The taxi revolt is not new in Italy, which is also plagued by wildcat and union-sanctioned strikes throughout the transportation industry, from air controllers in Milan to telegraph operators at sea.
But the taxi strike highlights how even independent service operators cling to a statist status quo. Italy, still burdened by crippling bureaucracy and inflexibility in the work force, is slowly seeking to liberalize its economy. But like the shop owners who went on strike last year to protest a law setting their store hours and raising the number of licenses, cabdrivers fear change.
"Healthy competition can only help consumers and drivers," said Walter Tocci, the Deputy Mayor of Rome, who is also the city's Traffic Commissioner. "I'm an ex-Communist, and even I cannot believe that the rules of Adam Smith apply to every economic sector except taxis." He noted that the city had acted only after Italy's antitrust commission determined that Roman cabdrivers operated as a kind of cartel.
Italian taxis are costly even by the standards of other European capitals and New York. The drop rate on the meter starts at $2.80 in Rome, compared with $2 in New York and $2.40 in Paris. Roman taxis, which do not cruise, can almost never be hailed. Customers line up at taxi stands or summon a cab by telephone through a dispatcher. The meter starts running when the driver accepts the call, not when they pick up the fare.
Mr. Bologna complained that 8 out of 10 of his clients were tourists, because, he said, "Romans think taxis are too expensive."
But he added that the city government was to blame for not taming Rome's notoriously clogged traffic.
Mayor Francesco Rutelli proposed that cabs continue to use a meter to set maximum limits, but that drivers be allowed to decide whether they want to waive or lower a drop charge, as well as other extras like a $3 night charge (it is 50 cents in New York), or baggage fees.
Roman cabdrivers are limited to seven-and-half-hour shifts, but the Mayor infuriated cabbies by saying they should set their own schedules, driving as little or as much as they like, with a six-hour minimum. He also suggested that family members be allowed to put in extra hours driving.
Under the threat of liberalization, however, cabdrivers known for grousing about their beastly conditions are now talking wistfully about a paradise lost.
"It's the greatest job in the world," Mr. Bologna said. "You have freedom, you learn a lot, and you get to flirt with lots of pretty foreign tourists."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (74%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ROME, ITALY (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MAYORS (90%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GASOLINE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); CARTELS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); STRIKES (73%); 

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



346 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Armey Defends Post On the Left and Right

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
Representative Dick Armey seemed to have a premonition of the House leadership meltdown two years ago when, eyeing the majority Republicans slipping a bit from their halcyon days of 1994, he advised, "Let's just dare to be not sensational."
This advice has become the Republican mantra with the removal of Newt Gingrich as Speaker, and no one is more aware of this than Mr. Armey. For he now must fight being purged as majority leader, the second to the Speaker in power. 
 A politician who once openly yearned to succeed Mr. Gingrich, Mr. Armey is beset from two sides in the leadership race: Representative Jennifer Dunn of Washington is coming at him from the Republicans' uneasy center, while Steve Largent of Oklahoma is challenging as an unabashed purist even further right than Mr. Armey, the born-again Christian and former economics professor who seeks to scrap the graduated income tax.
House Republicans are due to meet next Wednesday and settle the competition among the three:
 
Mr. Armey
Beyond his reputation as a doctrinaire conservative, the seven-term Texan has a taste for flamboyance, from his cowboy boots customized with the House seal to his raspy-edged denunciations personalized for Democrats.
Of Hillary Rodham Clinton, he has said, "All her friends are Marxists." When President Clinton angrily confronted him over this at the White House, Mr. Armey responded, "Perhaps it's my Western upbringing, but I don't listen very well when someone's pointing a finger at me."
After he referred to Representative Barney Frank, a leading Democrat from Massachusetts who is gay, as "Barney Fag," Mr. Armey had to apologize, but few critics believed his plea that the mispronunciation was an innocent mistake.
Conservatives appreciate Mr. Armey's Agnewish combativeness, as when he criticized the International Monetary Fund's efforts to prop up tottering nations and declared, "I've been to Europe once; I don't have to go again." But conservatives have been wary of Mr. Armey, too, ever since their failed coup against Speaker Gingrich in 1997 when they accused Mr. Armey of double-dealing in listening encouragingly to the insurgents, then finally alerting Mr. Gingrich.
"In my private moments I probably walk around the office pretending I'm Gary Cooper," Mr. Armey, a 6-foot-2, 58-year-old country music buff, declared half-apologetically last year as he tried an image makeover. "In this position, I need to have a demeanor and presentation of ideas that's attractive across the country."
His policy ideas often whet the White House's political appetite, particularly Mr. Armey's call to cut aid to education as a way to afford ending the Federal gasoline tax. As majority leader, his line-in-the-sand effort to block any vote to raise the minimum wage left Republican moderates apoplectic.
But Mr. Armey's toughness among the troops has been well demonstrated across the past four years and is rated a considerable strength in the leadership scrap. Representative Robert L. Livingston of Louisiana, who unseated Mr. Gingrich and is expected to replace him as Speaker, had run-ins with Mr. Armey over fiscal matters in the past. But Mr. Livingston promised neutrality in the majority leader fight after Mr. Armey made a pilgrimage to pledge fealty.
"We're going to have a great many successes in this next Congress," Mr. Armey vowed on election night, insisting then that there was no reason for Republicans to panic.
 
Mr. Largent
 As a 44-year-old standout from the Contract With America class of '94, Mr. Largent brought to Congress his fervor as both an evangelical Christian and a professional football Hall of Famer from his days with the Seattle Seahawks. Some colleagues privately wince at some of his pep-rally political advice ("Perfect Preparation Prevents Poor Performance!").
But his conservative peers look to him for the ethical edge in politics. "You know, people say -- and I believe it's totally false -- that you can't legislate morality," he has said. "The truth is every piece of legislation legislates morality, whether it's a library fine or anything else."
He, too, is an ardent advocate of ending the graduated income tax and replacing it with a single, flat rate. Speaking of the unfairness of Social Security to his generation, he has said he wants to overhaul it and eventually end it.
On hot-button social issues, Mr. Largent opposes abortion and insists there can be no middle ground for lawmakers. In sponsoring the Defense of Marriage Act, he draws a distinction between condemning the "sin" of homosexuality while expressing Christian charity toward the "sinner." As a child of a broken family, he says his foremost goal in politics is to rebuild the family. Still gridiron trim, the 5-foot-11 lawmaker holds weekly "accountability sessions" with like-minded conservatives for political soul-searching and prayer against "all the temptations" of Washington.
For all his spirituality and caucus lectures on team solidarity, Mr. Largent showed a keenness for the power play known in football as the crack-back block when he moved quickly on national television to cut down Mr. Armey as majority leader.
Two years ago, he called on Mr. Gingrich to step aside while the Speaker's ethics case was before the House. When Mr. Gingrich finally exited last week, he bitterly cautioned his successor about ever hoping to satisfy the "perfectionist caucus" that is Mr. Largent's power base. "Brief But Brilliant" is the political epitaph Mr. Largent once suggested for himself, and one way or another his current sprint for the leadership seems planned with that in mind.
Ms. Dunn When it comes to sports metaphors, Ms. Dunn once estimated that the House seemed closer to hockey than football, considering the free-form brawling and verbal stick checking that goes on. But she warned the men of her party that they had better drop all allusions to sports and war in their political talk if they ever hope to end the gender gap in which women voters give an edge to Democrats.
"We are developing speech modules that are women friendly," she said earlier this year at a Republican women's conference. "We need to stress what I call the soft edge of the conservative message."
Mr. Armey, who made a show of relying on Ms. Dunn as visible front-office proof of his gender sensitivity, now finds himself challenged by this resilient four-term lawmaker respected more as a vote-savvy political technician than a policy purist.
"I'm someone who has broken a lot of glass ceilings," she said of her current campaign to move up.
"I was the first president -- first woman president of our student body -- in the sixth grade, and was the first woman Republican state party chairman," she added, having served 12 years as the party leader in Washington state.
With two money-dispensing political action committees to help bind her to her fellow Republicans, Ms. Dunn regularly attends House strategy sessions of both conservatives and moderates. Conservatives complain that she receives a favorable rating of 80 percent, not 100 percent, from the anti-abortion lobby. She hopes this imperfection leaves her well placed for the new, possibly more compromising, Livingston team. Some moderates privately rate her as an earnest politician painstakingly devoted to party message, but hardly a policy innovator.
"The message we got was that there was no message," Ms. Dunn complained of shortcomings that she said voters found in the last agenda of the Gingrich era.
The 57-year-old lawmaker built her initial reputation as a hawk on the deficit and crime. But her basic message now to reeling House Republicans is that if they are wise, they will replace the cowboy-styled Mr. Armey not with Mr. Largent, a partisan rooted in football-speak, but with her, a sensitized mother of two.
"If we are seen as being partisan, it's going to be hurtful to us," she warned Republicans before their election losses. "It's going to push women away."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Steve Largent of Oklahoma at work in his Washington office yesterday, with his professional football past on display.Representative Jennifer Dunn of Washington, center, had some salmon wrapped for Representative Steve Largent, who had sent her pizza. Struggling to keep his job as House majority leader, second to the Speaker in power, Representative Dick Armey of Texas pressed his lobbying efforts yesterday in his office at the Capitol. (Photographs by Justin S. Lane for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "AT A GLANCE: The Race for Leadership Posts"
 
SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE -- The Speaker holds a job created but not defined by the Constitution. The Constitution makes the Speaker the presiding officer of the House; custom has made him the leader and chief spokesman of the majority party. His parliamentary duties include presiding over House sessions, although that is usually delegated to other members. Though the practices have changed over time and party, the Speaker has considerable influence over the committee assignments of the representatives in the majority party. The political power of the Speaker depends on his personality, his capability and his influence on his colleagues. The Speaker is next in line to the Presidency after the Vice President.
 
Candidate: Robert L. Livingston (La.)
 
MAJORITY LEADER -- The majority leader is second in command to the Speaker and is reponsible for legislative strategy and the day-to-day schedule for the House. The post was not formally created until 1899.
 
 Candidates: Dick Armey (Tex.)*, Steve Largent (Okla.) and Jennifer Dunn (Wash.)
 
MAJORITY WHIP -- The whip, the third-ranking member of the leadership, is responsible for lining up and counting votes in advance and making sure there are enough to pass or defeat legislation.
 
Candidate: Tom DeLay (Tex.)*
 
REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE CHAIRMAN -- The conference, which meets weekly when the House is in session, is the caucus to which all House Republicans belong. It rarely serves as a policy-setting body but provides a forum for leaders to rally the troops and for backbenchers to complain. It also produces legislative status reports and research. Republicans have put the conference's chairman in charge of promoting the party's agenda.
 
Candidates: John A. Boehner (Ohio)* and J. C. Watts (Okla.)
 
NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN -- The committee is the campaign and fund-raising arm for House Republican candidates. The chairman helps set campaign strategy, helps decide how to allocate money and travels the country helping raise money for candidates.
 
Candidates: John Linder (Ga.)* and Thomas M. Davis 3d (Va.)
 
* Currently holds the position.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); COUPS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); FUEL TAX (68%); COUNTRY MUSIC (66%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (60%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN LINDER (74%); JOHN BOEHNER (74%); BILL CLINTON (73%); BARNEY FRANK (59%); TOM DAVIS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



347 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Indonesia's Students: An Unrelenting Force for Change

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Friday, Nov. 13

 BODY:
In a last line of defense, riot police officers fired tear gas, water cannon and rubber bullets Thursday night to keep student demonstrators from invading the grounds of Parliament as they did six months ago when they helped force the ouster of President Suharto.
One police officer was killed and scores of people were reported injured in confrontations around the city as columns of students dodged or bulled their way through police lines. 
 The demonstrations have built in number and intensity this week as Parliament meets to lay the groundwork for a new election that would replace the transitional Government of Mr. Suharto's chosen successor, President B. J. Habibie.
The parliamentary session is to conclude today with a series of strenuously debated decrees that will help shape the future of Indonesia's fledgling attempt at democracy. The students say they will be on the streets in force, ready to demonstrate their opposition.
Although the electoral process has been generally endorsed by the country's leading opposition figures, it is not enough for most of the students, who are demanding an immediate break with the past. Riding the momentum of their victory over Mr. Suharto in May, the students have taken over major streets in the capital this week by the tens of thousands, marching and chanting, proud to make their mark on history as the revolutionary "Class of 1998."
"We have proved to the people that we are not just ignorant boys and girls," said Benny Yuliawan, 23, a philosophy student. "I have an obsession that this week will be as great an event as May, only without the riots."
With their jeans, sandals, long hair and guitars, this is a student movement to take its place alongside those of the French and the Americans in 1968. Their continuing campus demonstrations kept alive the country's timid opposition to Mr. Suharto after he was anointed for a seventh five-year term in March. And it was the killing by security forces of four students at Trisakti University in mid-May that set off three days of devastating riots that shook Mr. Suharto's hold on power.
Finally, the students' ebullient and fearless weeklong occupation of the Parliament building was the most visible part of the end game that forced Mr. Suharto to step down.
Many people here see the students as an essential moral force, assuring that Parliament will not back away from its outline of democratic reforms. As the four-day parliamentary session continued on Thursday, delegates inside the building repeatedly asked reporters, "What's happening outside?"
In a nation where all Government institutions and almost all public figures are holdovers from the 32-year Suharto era, the students are the most insistent voice for a genuine change. And in a country that does not yet have a true democracy, their voice must be heard from beyond the spiked fence that surrounds the Parliament building.
But they are not a unified movement with clear leaders, and a foreign diplomat said that in recent weeks they have increasingly fragmented. "Now they are kind of leaderless and some have abandoned their positions of nonviolence," the diplomat said. "The movement is fracturing all the time."
Their various agendas seem to converge on a demand that the military withdraw from its dominant role in politics and that the Government investigate Mr. Suharto's wealth.
Many students are demanding the immediate resignation of Mr. Habibie, although a split in the movement has emerged over that issue.
In effect, the students are still demonstrating against Mr. Suharto and his legacy, demanding the completion of Indonesia's revolution. Among the many cheers and slogans chanted on the streets this week, the most popular by far is "Hang Suharto."
"We will watch the conclusion of the session, and if Suharto is not punished, we will be back again," said Raja Maures, 19, a student of management at Trisakti University.
At the same time, the student movement is itself a legacy of Mr. Suharto, the product of the rapid economic development he achieved and the emerging middle class that was one of its results.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dozens of student anti-Government protesters were reported wounded in Jakarta in confrontations with the police across the city. A group of students implored the riot police not to hurt them during protests yesterday. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (90%); RIOTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTION LAW (77%); 

PERSON: HANG SUHARTO (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



348 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: AS TENSION GROWS, FEW VOICES AT U.N. SPEAK UP FOR IRAQ

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 12

 BODY:
As the United States continued to build up its forces for a possible attack on Iraq, an eerie silence on the diplomatic front has made this crisis different from previous confrontations with Saddam Hussein.
This time, there were no last-minute efforts to mediate with the Iraqis, no high-level Russian or French envoys rushing to Baghdad and no plans for Secretary General Kofi Annan to intervene, as he did in February when the United States last threatened to attack. Mr. Annan, who returned this afternoon from an aborted trip to North Africa, will not meet the Security Council until Friday. 
 Even Arab countries, which in the past have condemned threats of American military action, told the Iraqi President today that he could not count on their support in a confrontation. Eight Arab nations -- Egypt, Syria and six Persian Gulf countries -- warned that Iraq alone would take the blame for the consequences of defying the United Nations.
Failure to allow arms inspections to resume, the Arab countries said, "will expose the Iraqi people to more misery."
In Washington, the Clinton Administration welcomed the warning.
"What Saddam is hearing now are the sounds of silence," James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman, said in an interview. "No one is standing up to defend him, to argue on his behalf or to help him out of the hole he's dug himself."
Preparations for American military action continued today, as dozens more jet fighters and heavy bombers headed toward the gulf, and Administration officials began rallying support in Congress for an attack.
Neither Mr. Annan nor Iraq's backers on the Security Council, which include Russia and France, are trying diplomacy now because Mr. Hussein has broken past agreements with them.
Diplomats here, as well as officials in Russia and France, have been angered and frustrated by Iraq's latest moves to end all cooperation with weapons inspectors and its repeated demands that economic sanctions be lifted before Baghdad meets all Security Council requirements.
The Iraqis clearly want Mr. Annan to intervene again, and they have been pressing behind the scenes for talks with him. But the Secretary General has seen the February agreement he concluded with Iraq, at some political risk to himself, defied almost since its signing and broadly violated in decisions on Aug. 5 and Oct. 31 that curtailed and then ended cooperation with arms inspections. Diplomats say that Mr. Annan seems very reluctant to get involved again.
In the weeks before the February agreement, France and Russia exerted themselves to avert any military action. For instance, President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia sent his Deputy Foreign Minister, Viktor Posuvalyuk, to Baghdad to try to solve the crisis. And President Jacques Chirac was outspoken about the French commitment to diplomacy, saying, "There is no limit to France's humanitarian patience." He later added, "We have to make a final push."
France and Russia have repeatedly argued that the sanctions imposed after Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990 were causing too much suffering, and that Iraq needed to be offered incentives so that it would cooperate. French and Russian diplomats pushed the United Nations successfully to offer a full review of the sanctions. But Iraq made pre-emptive demands about how that review should be conducted and what it should conclude. When the Security Council agreed to the review on Oct. 30, but did not promise a lifting of the oil embargo or other sanctions on Iraq, Mr. Hussein shut down the inspections the next day.
Under Security Council resolutions, sanctions on Iraq cannot be lifted until the United Nations Special Commission, known as Unscom, can certify that Iraq no longer has the ability to make biological or chemical weapons and prohibited, nondefensive missiles. The International Atomic Energy Agency must produce the same findings on nuclear weapons. The I.A.E.A. has already reported that it finds no evidence of nuclear programs.
Several Security Council members and many Arab nations still oppose military action, but there are none willing to defend Iraq's defiance of the United Nations, which appears self-destructive to most diplomats.
Moreover, the United States has not forced a divisive debate on military action at the Security Council because Washington has not sought new Security Council authority to wage war on Iraq, and Iraq's former backers have not demanded it.
In Moscow today, officials appeared resigned to American attacks on Iraq and too preoccupied with Russia's economic problems to focus much attention on the crisis. Russian officials tell reporters that time and again over the last decade, Yevgeny M. Primakov, now Prime Minister, has gone the extra mile for Mr. Hussein, only to have his advice rejected.
They say that they know they can't sell Iraq's current obstructionist position to anyone. Russia is expected to condemn American use of force if and when strikes occur, but like Russian statements here in the Security Council opposing the use of force, condemnations will amount to registering dissent on principle.
At a news conference in Baghdad today, Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister, Tariq Aziz, delivered a defensive but defiant 11th-hour message on behalf of President Hussein. Mr. Aziz repeated Iraq's assertion that it had no more prohibited weapons and was entitled to a lifting of sanctions. He called the United Nations Special Commission, whose inspectors have now left Iraq, "a subsidiary of the C.I.A. and Mossad," the Israeli intelligence agency.
"There will be no peaceful solution to this situation unless the United States agreed to the principle of lifting sanctions," Mr. Aziz said.
He dismissed the Arab warning as misdirected.
"If they are sincere in dealing with this situation, if they are sincere in dealing with the truth, they should criticize the United States," he said.
Mr. Aziz brushed aside questions about Iraq's notable lack of support in this crisis from its erstwhile friends, particularly Russia and France, by charging that while they still supported Iraq they were unwilling to buck the power of the United States. It was as close as Mr. Aziz came to admitting that Iraq was friendless this time around.
When he returned to New York today, Mr. Annan said that while the Iraqis are always willing to talk with him, he had "no plans to go to Baghdad at the moment." He said he had to talk with the Security Council before making any moves.
Mr. Aziz may have made Mr. Annan's task more difficult today by saying that while the Secretary General had the moral responsibility to get involved, he should come with "guarantees" for the Iraqis that sanctions would be lifted. "Then we would cooperate with him," he said.
Until Iraq resumes cooperation with inspectors, sanctions will remain in place. The Security Council is united on that issue, although there are differences over when to conclude that there is nothing more to be learned.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz delivered a defiant 11th-hour message from Saddam Hussein. (Associated Press); A battery of American-made Patriot missiles was deployed in Kuwait City yesterday. United States troops in the Persian Gulf emirate were at a high state of alert as the standoff over arms inspections continued. (Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); FRANCE (94%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (91%); EGYPT (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (87%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; RUSSIA; FRANCE; UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); FRANCE (94%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (91%); EGYPT (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (87%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); CROSSETTE, BARBARA; AZIZ, TARIQ (DEPUTY PRIME MIN) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); JACQUES CHIRAC (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



349 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Is to Get I.M.F. Package For $42 Billion

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
After months of negotiations, the International Monetary Fund and more than a dozen countries are expected to announce a package of loans to Brazil totaling at least $42 billion to stabilize the country's economy, officials familiar with the plan said today.
The total is to include more than $5 billion from the United States, they said, which would amount to the biggest commitment of taxpayers' money to alleviate a foreign economic crisis since Mexico's bailout in 1995. 
 The package for Brazil, expected to be announced Friday morning, comes four months after a similar program for Russia turned into a financial debacle, wasting $4.8 billion in I.M.F. money and touching off a panic among investors who then pulled their money from other emerging markets, including Brazil.
As a result, the package for Brazil carries considerable risks for both the I.M.F. and the Clinton Administration, which have increased the planned total by nearly 50 percent in recent weeks.
Like most such aid, the money will be made available in stages as the Brazilian Congress enacts the conditions required, like politically painful spending cuts.
While the global economic crisis has abated, American officials have said many times that if Brazil is pushed to the brink, the effects in the United States, one of its largest trading partners, would be substantial.
Final details of the deal were worked out in the last few days in Washington. The loans are meant to see Brazil over the next two to three years.
The Treasury Department, which has been pressing American allies to contribute more, refused to comment on the details. But officials from several countries say the I.M.F. will offer $18 billion in loans, much of which will be made available almost immediately.
Another $4.5 billion will be made available by the World Bank and a nearly equal amount from the Inter-American Development Bank. It will be provided if Brazil needs the money and if it continues to comply with lending conditions. Those conditions, in a letter of intent that is about to be signed, will presumably entail austerity steps like constraints on government spending and privatization of industry.
The World Bank is primarily responsible for anti-poverty and development programs, but it has taken a growing role in containing the financial crises around the world. The Inter-American Development Bank plays a parallel role in Latin America.
At least $15 billion more will come from the United States, Britain, France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Canada, Japan and several other countries. It is unclear when that money would be available, but it is expected to carry a relatively high interest rate -- as did the $12 billion in American loans to Mexico -- to encourage Brazil to repay it quickly.
American private banks and other major lenders to Brazil, who will be among the biggest beneficiaries of any plan that stabilizes the economy, will not contribute directly. Under pressure from the United States, however, they are expected to maintain or expand credit they had been extending to Brazil until Russia defaulted in August.
Unlike past bailouts of Thailand, Korea and Indonesia, this one has taken months to arrange, so long that the total amount has been increased, in part so markets are not disappointed.
"There is a sense that we are finally coming out of the financial crisis, but that the package had to exceed market expectations," said Nicolas Checa, the head of the emerging markets division of Medley Global Investors, which advises large investors.
"Everyone wanted to exceed market expectations so they are not back in the October nightmare," he said, referring to the huge sell-off that occurred after it became clear that the Russian parliament was not about to impose any of the fiscal discipline required to get the I.M.F. to resume its aid.
All official loans to Russia have been suspended since August, and private lending there has dried up, forcing Russia to print more money to pay pensioners and even the military.
Brazil is viewed by most experts as being fundamentally in good shape. It had relatively low interest rates and healthy economic growth, and a good import-export balance until the Russian crisis, when investors took flight.
But at the United States Treasury, there is concern that President Fernando Henrique Cardoso may not have the political muscle to push through the spending cuts that are requirements of the loan.
Brazil has enacted changes in its social security system to save money. How much more it will need to do will depend on the conditions agreed to in the letter of intent.
The American money will probably not be disbursed until Brazil has met many of those conditions, according to officials familiar with the plans. Administration officials say members of Congress are sufficiently scared of the potential effects here of an economic collapse in Brazil that they will offer few objections. The loans are not dependent on congressional approval. The chief critic of the Mexican bailout, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, was defeated in last week's election.
"The politics of this have changed," one Administration official said this week. The distraction of the showdown with Iraq, other officials say, may also lessen the attention on the American contribution.
It is still unclear what Brazil will offer for collateral for the loans, which would be repayable over several years.
In Brazil, nervousness about the delay in hammering out the final details of the agreement has been growing daily. In Sao Paulo, the country's industrial and financial engine, the Bovespa stock market index dropped 3.76 percent today in heavy trading.
Brazil's foreign reserves, which have fallen by more than $30 billion since August, also continued their decline, with another $280 million leaving the country today.
And though the Government announced a reduction in interest rates on Wednesday, the central bank's basic rate remains a hefty 42.25 percent, to the disappointment of business leaders who are clamoring for any relaxation of recessionary pressures. Recent economic indicators have shown that Brazil's industrial production is falling sharply, as companies feel the impact of the financial crisis.
The Clinton Administration is calling the aid to Brazil a preventive program intended to help the country before it is forced to devalue its currency or watch the remainder of its currency reserves disappear.
But many economists believe that even such a large aid package will not be enough.
Rudiger Dornbush, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with close ties to top officials of the I.M.F., warned last week that Brazil's huge debt and the unwillingness of its Congress to impose fiscal discipline over the past year leave "no reasons to be confident."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); BRAZIL (94%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); BRAZIL (94%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); BAILOUTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); WILLS (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



350 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 104 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
IMS HEALTH PLANS TO SPIN OFF ITS STAKE IN GARTNER GROUP

BYLINE: Dow Jones

 BODY:
The health care information company IMS Health Inc. said yesterday that it would spin off its 47 percent interest in the consulting company Gartner Group Inc. to IMS shareholders. Gartner Group specializes in information-technology consulting. Separately, Gartner Group said it would pay a special one-time cash dividend of $300 million, or $2.75 a share, to its shareholders, immediately before the spinoff. After the spinoff, Gartner Group, based in Stamford, Conn., plans to buy back up to $300 million of its stock. Shares of Gartner's class A stock fell $2.9375, to $18.8125. Shares of IMS rose 25 cents, to $65.50.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IT (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: GARTNER INC (94%); IMS HEALTH INC (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%); CONNECTICUT, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (92%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); DIVIDENDS (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998



351 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 36; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE ART

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel

 BODY:

Duke Gets Gift For Art Museum
Raymond D. Nasher, a 76-year-old developer, collector and philanthropist from Dallas, is giving $7.5 million to Duke University, in Durham, N.C., to support the construction of a new art museum on campus. To be called the Nasher Museum of Art, it will replace the current museum, which opened in 1969 and is housed in a renovated science building. 
 "I went to Duke and was on the board," said Mr. Nasher, who is creating a sculpture garden on a two-acre site adjacent to the Dallas Museum of Art that is to open next year. "I always thought the one thing lacking at Duke was a cultural center."
Mr. Nasher and a small committee of the current museum's officials and his family members are selecting an architect to design a $15 million building. The firms being considered include Herzog & De Meuron, based in Basel, Switzerland; Cesar Pelli, from New Haven, and Pei Cobb Freed and Partners and Rafael Vinoly, both of Manhattan.
Construction of the new museum is planned for the summer of 2000. The university has begun a three-year capital campaign to raise the additional $7.5 million needed.
So far plans for the new building include permanent collection galleries, a sculpture garden, galleries for special exhibitions, and storage. It will also have an auditorium, classrooms, offices, a cafe and a gift shop.
"We've found an incredible site that is finally available," Mr. Nasher said. "Nine acres that used to be used by the botany department and that is right between the university's two campuses."
Michael Mezzatesta, director of the Duke University Museum of Art, will be the director of the new museum. Once the project is under way, Mr. Nasher said, Mr. Mezzatesta will cull through the institution's roughly 12,000 works, which range from ancient to contemporary art, in an effort to improve the holdings.
"Hopefully, over time we will be able to build an important collection," Mr. Nasher said. "But the museum will start out almost like a Kunsthalle," a museum without its own collection.
Meanwhile, Mr. Nasher said, he expects the sculpture garden in Dallas to lend works to the museum.
"We do have a large collection," Mr. Nasher said. "So it makes sense to lend works to the museum from time to time."
 
2 Missing Constables
The Victoria and Albert Museum in London has turned to the public for help in finding two oil sketches by John Constable that mysteriously disappeared from the institution earlier this week.
"Dedham Lock and Mill," circa 1820, and "Sketch for Valley Farm," circa 1835, together valued at nearly $1.3 million, were discovered missing when an expert went to find another work in the storage vaults, a museum spokeswoman said. While the police have been notified, the museum hopes that making the suspected thefts public will help lead to recovery of the works.
This is the first major incident of suspected theft at the museum since 1992, when a Medici casket was discovered missing. It was ultimately found.
 
Art for Wine's Sake
Exhibiting at some of the world's leading art and antiques shows can have unexpected results. For one of the painters exhibiting at the booth of Michael Goedhuis, the London-based dealer who specializes in Oriental art and has been at the International Art and Antique Dealers Show every October in New York, the result is an appearance on the label for Chateau Mouton-Rothschild's 1996 vintage.
Mr. Goedhuis's booth at the fair last year had an abstract painting by Gu Gan, a 56-year-old Beijing-based artist who is one of the new generation of calligraphy painters. The work caught the eye of Baroness Philippine de Rothschild, owner of Mouton-Rothschild, in Bordeaux, when she visited the booth. "The Baroness did a lot of research," Mr. Goedhuis said. "She went to China to visit him and then brought Gu Gan to Bordeaux."
The idea of decorating the labels of Mouton-Rothschild bottles with art is hardly new. The practice was began in the 1920's by the baroness's father, the late Baron Philippe de Rothschild. Other artists whose work adorns the wine include Picasso, Dali, Braque, Chagall, Kandinsky, Klee, Balthus, Hockney and Warhol.
 
Busy in Bilbao
The Guggenheim Museum Bilbao has a lot to celebrate as it turns one year old this month.
About 1.4 million people came to visit the Frank Gehry building, almost three times as many as the Guggenheim had projected. And the museum has brought in $219 million of revenue to Bilbao, Spain, and $35 million in new tax revenue, an economic impact that also exceeds expectations by three times.
What induced so many people to come, the architecture or the collection?
"Certainly the building played a big role," said Thomas Krens, the Guggenheim's director. "But over the long run, it will be the programs and the collection that will keep people coming back."
 
Children's Catalogue
Martin E. Segal, the former chairman of Lincoln Center, wants New York City public schoolteachers to have easy access to cultural programs around the city.
So Mr. Segal, who now runs the New York International Festival of the Arts, a nonprofit institution to promote the city's strengths as a center for the arts, has given the schools 1,100 copies -- one for each public school in the city -- of the "Kids Culture Catalog," a comprehensive guide to cultural sites and activities, including arts groups, museums and gardens in and around New York.
The Board of Education has matched the gift, so that now each school will have two copies for its libraries. The book was published by Harry N. Abrams in association with the Alliance for the Arts, an advocacy organization in Manhattan. It costs $12.95 and is available in bookstores and museum gift shops.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mouton-Rothschild's label for the 1996 vintage, with a Gu Gan painting. (Michael Goedhuis Gallery, London)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DURHAM, NC, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: DUKE UNIVERSITY INC (91%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); DURHAM, NC, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); SCULPTURE (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); BOTANY (76%); POLICE FORCES (73%); 

PERSON: CESAR PELLI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



352 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 37; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1777 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW;
From a Rigid Culture To a Floating World

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
At the end of the 20th century, the art world is paying close attention to the 19th century, as if probing to see what reflections and cautionary predictions it might reveal.
Victorian painting is enjoying a vogue. Retrospectives of worthy footnote-ish figures like Gustave Moreau and John Singer Sargent will be arriving in New York. Among young contemporary artists, academic figuration is being stylishly retooled. 
 The interest extends to non-Western cultures as well. Late Persian art, which practically no one has seriously looked at for years, is making a splash at the Brooklyn Museum of Art. And this Sunday, an ambitious exhibition devoted to the art of the Edo period in Japan (1615-1868) will open at the National Gallery in Washington.
The Edo era (Edo is the original name for Tokyo) and the 20th century weren't chronologically contiguous. But modern Japan -- the nation of megacities and entrepreneurial acumen, of a brash popular culture and tenaciously held traditions -- was basically an Edo creation.
The Washington show, organized by Robert T. Singer, curator of Japanese art at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, is drawn almost exclusively from Japanese collections. It is a big show, though it doesn't feel that way. The 300 objects, ranging from painted screens to samurai swords, ceramics to theater costumes, Buddhist sculptures to woodblock prints, are inventive, virtuosic and often just plain beautiful enough to keep the eye enthralled from start to finish.
That said, anyone hoping for sheer razzle-dazzle -- a major hit of gilded surfaces, say, or the kind of tumultuous ornamentation found at the funerary complex of Nikko, an over-the-top Japanese chinoiserie -- may be disappointed. Ostentation has been played down. Only a few flamboyant rimpa screens are included. And because the show has been organized by theme rather than by types of objects, the sort of impact that a roomful of painted silk Noh robes can deliver has been forfeited.
But the compensations are considerable. Mr. Singer's quieter, textured approach gives a sense of the variety and ingenuity of an art. And it tells the story of a culture that changed shape dramatically over two centuries as it kept one foot in the feudal past, the other edging toward the modern future.
The period began when the warlord Tokugawa Ieyasu took control of Japan, established his shogunate capital and started shaping the country to his will. He left absolutely nothing to chance. He shut the door to the outside world and kept his daimyo underlords on a tight leash, requiring them to reside in Edo every other year, where he held their wives and children as hostages.
The rigid structure of Edo society was based on imported neo-Confucian values, with the military elite and salt-of-the-earth farmers at the top and middleman merchants below. A code of nit-picking sumptuary laws dictated who could own and wear what. Among the upper classes, competitive extravagance was as much a social responsibility as a privilege, and it produced an extraordinary art, as the first section of the show, "Edo style," suggests.
It is instantly apparent how eclectic that style was. And two early 19th-century works seen side by side tell the tale: an ink scroll by Uragami Gyokudo, "Frozen Clouds, Sifted Snow," and a splendid set of screens by Sakai Hoitsu, "Flowers and Grasses of Summer and Autumn." (Because of its fragility, the scroll will be on view only for the first two weeks of the show's run; other light-sensitive pieces will be rotated in January.)
The paintings couldn't be more different. One is an impressionistic vertical landscape in a classical Chinese tradition, an omniscient vision of an atomized world in a state of perpetual flux. The other is a close-up of natural shapes picked out against a depthless silver-leaf ground. Mutability is the theme here, too -- summer lilies give way to autumn leaves -- but expressed as pinpoint-fine decorative forms frozen in time.
This ornamental naturalism, with its optically stimulating patterns and hyper-real colors, was an Edo hallmark, and it is everywhere here: in the eyelash-thin birds painted on a man's lacquer purse, in the stenciled flowers exploding across a silk robe, in a porcelain dish the size of a saucer covered with magnified snowflakes.
Seen together these objects confirm that, in Japan, art and craft were never separate categories. Motifs migrated effortlessly from one form to another. (Gyokudo's great snowstorm scroll and the little snowflake bowl, stylistically so different, are spiritually related). And artists moved with awesome ease between mediums, as in the case of the outstanding polymath, Ogata Korin, who painted with equal skill on folding screens, ceramic pots and ladies outerwear.
The military class for whom much of the finest early work was produced saw little active duty during the peaceful Edo era. But as their professional function turned largely ceremonial, their armor grew increasingly fantastic. And one of the show's most startling sights comes with a display of such gear on the museum's second floor.
One full-length suit of armor, with a muscular breastplate and a Darth Vader mask sprouting a boar's-hair mustache is truly outlandish. (The intention may have been to simulate the appearance of a barbarous foreigner.) But in other martial paraphernalia, one finds a fanciful delicacy. One helmet is topped by a giant butterfly; another by a stylized hollyhock, while a man's saddle is covered with a pattern of cosmetic brushes painted in gold lacquer dust.
Why cosmetic brushes? No one seems to know for sure. But there's no question that the symbols of masculine prowess and feminine esthetic sensitivity compressed into this equestrian artifact distill the peculiar, macho-poetic essence of a samurai mystique.
Warriors may have commanded top status in the Edo period, but farmers and laborers insured economic stability, and they were routinely depicted in art. An early example of such images is included here: Kusumi Morikage's 17th-century painting "Enjoying the Evening Cool Under an Arbor," a sympathetic portrait of a lower-echelon farming couple at ease outside their hut on a humid, moonlit summer night.
It's a wonderful piece, and such pastoral images continued to appear throughout the period. But the social complexion of the country was beginning to change. Middle-class merchants were gaining economic clout, and it is the art they sponsored that dominates the second half of the show.
The giddy, cornucopian atmosphere of a dawning commodity culture comes vividly to life in a mid-18th-century hand scroll, "Occupations and Activities of Each Month." Here a town market is shown as a kind of bustling mini-mall of speciality stores -- bonsai shops, boutiques, art galleries -- with hawkers, prostitutes and religious processions dashing to and fro as if on a suddenly accelerated time schedule.
Religious art reflects this jumpy, manic energy. Ancient icons are given freshly expressive forms in Buddhist figures hacked and gouged from wood by the monk-sculptor Enku. Humor and parody come into play. A hanging scroll by Ito Jakuchu turns the iconic scene of the death of the Buddha into a fruit-and-vegetable still life, with the Buddha himself as a giant white radish reclining at the center. The Daoist immortals in a screen painted by Soga Shohaku have a hypnotically detailed, Zap Comix-style weirdness.
Such images, animated by a self-conscious, secularized irreverence, made sense for an era that was, on the whole, far more concerned with the clamorous here-and-now than with the hereafter. The late Edo period was an urban moment; Tokyo in the 18th century was the largest city in the world. Class barriers were fluid; money was new, loose, plentiful. Downtime became a preoccupation, leisure an industry.
One of the results was a theater boom. Kabuki, with its raucous, topical humor and weepy melodrama was all the rage. Its larger-than-life, grandstanding character comes across full blast in Toshusai Sharaku's prints of preening and grimacing in-character superstars, and in spectacularly witty costumes like the grass-green silk coat in the show's last room that has a huge please-hit-me bull's-eye emblazoned in black and gold on its back.
The tourist trade also flourished, with sightseeing trips to this scenic spot or that, and a mass production of souvenirs. They ranged from kimonos covered with scenes of Kyoto hot spots (many of which are still hot spots today), to snapshotlike prints of Mount Fuji, to pictures that caught the erotic buzz of urban pleasure quarters.
These "floating world" images found an enthusiastic audience in the West. In part this was because of their subject matter; Miyagawa Chosun's swoony scroll painting of a young courtesan, fresh from the bath, letting incense smoke waft up through her robes makes most European soft-porn of the day look cloddishly overstated.
But it was the formal daring of Japanese art that fascinated vanguard European painters of the late 19th century, and its influence is spelled out in the meeting of two works at the National Gallery just now. The museum's crowd-pulling "Van Gogh's Van Goghs" show includes a Japanese-inspired painting by the Dutch artist titled "The Courtesan" (1887), and a rare copy of the 1820's woodblock print by Keisai Eisen on which it is based is on view in the Edo show.
The final picture of the Edo period is itself complex: it embraces a secular bourgeois society with immense wealth and a widening gap between rich and poor; a dynamic popular culture shaping art from the bottom up, a growing internationalism (the pushy Admiral Perry landed in Tokyo Bay in 1853) accompanied by worries about national identity.
Sound familiar? The Edo era in Japan, particularly in its final phase, has many points of comparison with our own end-of-century world. The National Gallery exhibition, in a nuanced exploration of its subject, throws these similarities into relief. In the process, it also reveals an art of subtle and inimitable splendors, perched on the cusp of a very particular "then" and "now," and gazing avidly and uneasily in both directions.
 "Edo: Art in Japan 1615-1868" opens on Sunday and will remain at the National Gallery of Art, Fourth Street at Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, through Feb. 15. The exhibition is organized by the National Gallery of Art in collaboration with the Agency for Cultural Affairs, the Government of Japan and the Japan Foundation. It is supported by NTT (Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation) and will not travel.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A detail from "Daoist Immortals" (1764) by Soga Shohaku, from the show "Edo: Art in Japan 1615-1868," at the National Gallery.; Wit and grandstanding: A 19th-century Kabuki costume. (Photographs from the National Gallery of Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (59%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (59%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); RELIGION (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



353 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Architects To Compete With Ideas For Cities

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
New York City has been chosen as the first site of a new international competition to help cities develop innovative visions in architecture and planning. Architects are to be invited to come up with plans for pivotal sites in major cities around the world. The program, called the International Foundation for the Canadian Center for Architecture Prize Competition, offers a $100,000 prize and will take place every three years in a different city.
Phyllis Lambert, the founding director of the Canadian Center for Architecture in Montreal, said the architects selected in this initial cycle of the competition would be asked to focus on a 12-block area on the west side of midtown Manhattan between 30th and 34th Streets. The architects will be free to imagine how the site should be used, but the goal is to generate new urban concepts that look toward the 21st century. 
 The prize comes at a time of lively public debate over recent proposals for major civic projects in New York, like Yankee Stadium, Governors Island, Columbus Circle and the expansion of Pennsylvania Station into the old post office building. For the most part, discussion of these projects has focused on issues of economic development, or in the case of Penn Station, historic preservation. The prize competition provides an opportunity to lift public discussion of civic architecture in New York into the realm of architectural excellence or cultural significance.
The proposals will center on the area bounded by the Hudson River and Eighth Avenue, between 30th and 34th Streets, a district now dominated by a tangle of roadways, rail lines, tunnels, ramps and other pieces of transportation infrastructure. The site is owned by a myriad of private interests as well as by public entities. The district includes a Metropolitan Transportation Authority rail yard at 33d Street and 11th Avenue, which has been mentioned as a possible site for a new Yankee Stadium.
Ms. Lambert said the architects would be challenged to propose innovative solutions for linking large-scale infrastructure with smaller urban spaces, not for vast swaths of urban renewal. She imagined something far more lively than a purely residential zone or a district of new office towers.
"Many developers are horrified by this site, because of all the roadways and tunnels," she said, "but they're what's so good about it. Because of the existing infrastructure, and the riverside location, the site is connected to the rest the city and beyond. We want to see how architects might turn it into a place for people."
While there is no assurance that the winning design will be realized, the inclusion in the competition jury of Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, and Joseph B. Rose, chairman of the New York City Planning Commission, increases the likelihood that the competition will be more than an academic exercise.
Five architects, to be chosen by a distinguished international jury, will be invited to compete. They are to be be chosen in February from a list of nominations submitted by major architectural institutions in the United States and abroad. To qualify for consideration, nominees must have achieved a significant and original body of work in architecture or urban design.
In addition to Ms. Lambert, the jurors are Frank O. Gehry, architect of the Guggenheim Museum, Bilbao, and the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles; Arata Isozaki, architect of the Sant Jordi Palace Gymnasium for the Olympic Games, Barcelona, Team Disney Headquarters in Buena Vista, Fla. and the master plan for the Brooklyn Museum of Art; Rafael Moneo, architect of the Atocha Railway Station, Madrid, the Museums of Art and Architecture, Stockholm, and the Potsdammer Platz Hotel and Office Building, Berlin; Elizabeth Diller, associate professor of architecture, Princeton University, and co-founder of Diller & Scofidio, an interdisciplinary studio in architecture, print and performance; Mr. Gargano; Mr. Rose, and Gary Hack, a city planner and dean of the Graduate School of Fine Arts at the University of Pennsylvania.
Ralph Lerner, dean of the School of Architecture at Princeton University, is director of the competition, which is intended to support the Canadian center's mission of making architecture a public concern.
(The Pritzker Prize, established 20 years ago and widely regarded as the highest honor in the field, also carries a $100,000 grant.)
The center will publish all the projects and will mount an exhibition in New York City in autumn 1999. A winner is to be announced early in 2000.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Architects are to focus on plans for the New York City site border-ed by the Hudson River on the west and Eighth Avenue on the east, between 30th and 34th Streets. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: CANADIAN CENTER FOR ARCHITECTURE EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (60%); NEW YORK CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (67%); CANADIAN CENTER (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CANADIAN CENTER FOR ARCHITECTURE NEW YORK CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (67%); CANADIAN CENTER (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (88%); INFRASTRUCTURE (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SWEEPSTAKES (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); HISTORY (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (69%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



354 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Bailout: 2 Gambles for U.S.

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
With the announcement today of nearly $42 billion in aid to stabilize Brazil, the United States is taking two gambles: that its own part of the aid -- $5 billion in taxpayer money -- is a safe investment in a country in need of rapid reform, and a separate wager that its new strategy to calm the global financial jitters will succeed where others failed.
Neither one is a sure bet. 
 When the United States committed $12 billion to Mexico in 1995, it compelled the Mexican Government to offer up collateral. Virtually all Mexico's oil revenues were deposited through the New York Federal Reserve Bank, until the loan was paid back. Brazil is offering nothing but its word, and the assurance, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said at the White House today, that it "still has $40 billion in reserves."
The bigger risk, though, is a strategic one. Until now, the International Monetary Fund and the United States Treasury have stepped in to help countries only after they were in full economic arrest, out of money and on the brink of default.
Together, the I.M.F. and the Treasury slowly doled out money, one payment at a time, as the South Koreans, the Thais, the Indonesians and finally the Russians imposed austerity measures and met a tough regime of economic goals.
Now South Korea and Thailand are stable, but trapped in deep recessions. Indonesia and Russia are still falling like stones, their political chaos worsened by economic collapse, which in turn, provokes deeper political troubles.
Brazil is a totally different case, the Administration says, deserving of the new approach first outlined by President Clinton last month to head off financial crises early, before they overwhelm countries and spread elsewhere.
Brazil's problems are only partly of its own making. Investors fled after Russia's troubles caused convulsions in emerging markets around the world. The solution offered today was a "precautionary" aid program, and the Brazilians will have access to more than half of the $42 billion in the next few months, as long as they are moving toward the reforms they have promised.
The strategy is to convince private investors around the world that the Brazilian Government has both the will to reform and the cash to fight off speculators and nervous bankers.
"This is a totally noncomparable situation to what happened in Russia," Mr. Rubin insisted today, referring to a country that embraced I.M.F. reforms for all of three weeks in August, until the currency was devalued, Parliament refused to pass an austerity plan, and President Boris N. Yeltsin dismissed the reformers who had negotiated the bailout deal.
"While there are no certainties," Mr. Rubin said, "we believe that this is the right program both for the people of Brazil and for the economic well-being of the American people."
If there is a lesson from the last four bailout efforts, though, it is that the best-negotiated plans can run afoul of domestic politics and unpredictable economic winds. And the plan for Brazil is fraught with similar risks.
The first and smallest risk is that the Brazilians will not be able to pay back its lenders -- the I.M.F., the World Bank, and the 20 countries that have contributed to the bailout, led by the United States.
The $40 billion in currency reserves still sitting in Brazil's central bank reduce that risk in just the way a bank is more comfortable lending to someone with money in the bank than someone without. But in the last few months Brazil saw $30 billion in reserves washed away, as it tried to defend its currency. If its reserves were a real solution, it would not need to borrow money in the first place.
But Mr. Rubin knows that his best protection is political. The United States is Brazil's biggest trading partner and the architect of the bailout plan. And one of the unspoken rules of the financial markets is that powerful creditors get paid back first -- because the borrower may need them again.
The second risk is that the plan Brazil agreed to today could stabilize its currency, but worsen its recession. "The biggest reason why this is a huge gamble is that we are knowingly sending Brazil into recession," said Jeffrey Sachs, the Harvard economist who has emerged as one of the I.M.F.'s harshest critics.
The cutbacks in government spending, the high interest rates to defend the currency and Brazil's refusal to devalue that currency -- which would make its exports less expensive -- "show that the policy has not responded to a year in which we've discovered the downside of I.M.F. bailouts," Mr. Sachs insists.
The fund said today that it had learned plenty. Its plans for Brazil, it insists, include the preservation of crucial programs to help the poor. And it is already pressing private banks to keep open their lines of credit to Brazil, rather than to use the bailout to get their money out of the country.
"Every effort has been made to spare basic social programs from the expenditure cuts that fiscal discipline requires," Michel Camdessus, the managing director of the I.M.F., said today.
Perhaps the biggest risk is that the plan will take the pressure off the Brazilian Congress to act. For while the United States and the I.M.F. could threaten to hold up their aid money, the fact is that any such move would signal to the markets that Washington had lost confidence in Brazil's commitment to reform. And that, in turn, could easily fuel the panic that Mr. Rubin, Mr. Camdessus and leaders around the world have been trying to quell.
In short, with the commitment to help Brazil, there is no easy exit if things go bad.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (93%); INDONESIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); THAILAND (69%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (93%); INDONESIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); THAILAND (69%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); DEVALUATION (72%); TRENDS (70%); POLITICS (69%); RECESSION (69%); CURRENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



355 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Stocks Mixed OnUncertainty About the Fed

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The stock market finished mixed yesterday as investors awaited the meeting of the Federal Reserve policy makers Tuesday to see whether the central bank would cut its target for short-term interest rates for the third time since September.
Many analysts still expect a cut but the subsiding of the financial crisis since the last reduction in October, the continued buoyancy of the American economy and the deal reached Thursday for international assistance for Brazil may make Fed officials decide to wait until their next meeting in December. 
 "We think the stock market has priced in a Fed rate cut," said Christine A. Callies, the chief investment strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston. "If it cuts, then the market might bounce up for a few days. But if it doesn't, we think the market will have an erratic consolidation" that will see it trend lower.
Yesterday, technology and smaller-company stocks faltered while the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks moved higher.
Even with the rallies, the major indexes finished the week lower after a four-week surge in which they all jumped 13 percent or more.
The Dow rose 89.85 points, to 8,919.59, while the S.& P. climbed 8.03 points, to 1,125.72. But the technology-heavy Nasdaq fell 3.07 points, to 1,847.99, and the Russell index of smaller-company stocks dropped 2.84 points, to 389.36.
In the bond market, the price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 2/32 , to 100 4/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.24 percent, from 5.25 percent on Thursday.
But while inaction by the Fed might unsettle the market, Ms. Callies said that the central bank was no longer the main driver of investors. "The market is rallying because it is celebrating the absence of disaster," she said. "It had thought the world was going to end."
This week's mania for Internet stocks continued, with another company soaring after its initial public offering. Yesterday it was Theglobe.com, which offers free home pages on the World Wide Web. It went public Thursday at 9 a share and then soared 54 1/2 yesterday, to close at 63 1/2, in the best first-day trading performance of any stock.
Earlier this week, Earthweb also made a debut to a rousing demand from investors, rising 55 1/4, to 69 1/4, in two days of trading. Yesterday it fell 2 1/4, to 67. Ebay is another Internet offering that has recently soared.
"I think, given what has happened in Ebay and Earthweb, that the after-market demand from retail investors is extraordinary," said Henry Blodget, an Internet analyst with CIBC Oppenheimer. The stocks "are being played, not invested in."
The retail sales data released yesterday would not support another Fed easing, analysts said, because the figures showed that the economy was healthy and, especially, that consumer spending was strong. October retail sales rose 1 percent after an increase of three-tenths of 1 percent in September.
The Producer Price Index rose two-tenths of 1 percent in October. But for the year, the index is down five-tenths of 1 percent, at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. That performance does make it possible for the Fed to cut rates without worrying much about inflationary consequences.
Several analysts acknowledged that the outlook for the world economy and financial markets was far better than it was on Oct. 15, when the Fed surprised investors with a rate cut in between its regular policy-making meetings.
But Richard Berner, the chief economist at Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh, said he still expected the Fed to cut its target for short-term rates by a quarter of a percentage point. "The capital crunch has substantially abated, but it is not over," he said. And, he added, the future risks for the economy "are still tilted downward" and he expected that most Fed policy makers will want to buy some more insurance by cutting rates again.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Nov. 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); THEGLOBE.COM INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; RUSSELL 2000 STOCK INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (86%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



356 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Decision On Pipeline In Caspian Is Delayed

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: BAKU, Azerbaijan, Nov. 13

 BODY:
Buffeted by political and economic pressures, oil companies drilling in the Caspian Sea are postponing their much-awaited decision on where to lay their main export pipeline.
The oil consortium canceled a meeting scheduled for Thursday at which members were to discuss pipeline routes. No date for another meeting was announced. 
 The Clinton Administration is lobbying intensely for a route across Turkey that would favor United States interests. Russia and Iran have proposed routes of their own. This heavy political crossfire, coupled with low oil prices and uncertainty about how much oil lies beneath the Caspian, has made the companies reluctant to choose.
Under a 1994 contract between Azerbaijan and 11 foreign companies, including 4 from the United States, the companies were to have chosen an export route by last month. When that deadline passed, executives said they would probably decide in November, but now that seems unlikely.
"We don't have a deadline for a decision," said Pamela Mounter, spokeswoman for the consortium. "There are a lot of meetings going on with governments and organizations. This is a pipeline for the long term, and it's much too important to be rushed into."
Diplomats and oil executives said the postponement would give Turkey time to improve its offer to the companies. American officials are urging Turkey to offer subsidies big enough to close what oil executives call the "billion-dollar gap" between the cost of this route and others.
The postponement also reflects oil executives' hopes that American policy toward Iran could change, making a pipeline through Iran possible.
"The companies never say it publicly, but they are very much hoping that if they wait long enough, they will be able to build their pipeline through Iran, which is the route most of them favor," a European ambassador said. "So the decision that is supposed to be coming soon may well be no decision at all."
Senator Richard C. Shelby, an Alabama Republican who is chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, visited Azerbaijan this week and said that he fervently hopes for an improvement in Iranian-American relations that would make a pipeline there possible.
"That would be the cheapest and the shortest route," Mr. Shelby said in an interview. "I'd like to see it happen. Lots of us in Congress would like to see relations with Iran improve tremendously.
"I hope there will be a thaw, a real one. We'd go the first mile and probably the last mile. But the other side has to meet us. Iran has to show that it can be relied on as far as controlling terrorism and other things that would help strengthen the family of nations."
The outcome of the pipeline contest, which is being closely followed in many capitals, could hinge in part on whether a second oil consortium strikes it rich in a promising Caspian field called Shah Deniz. The Shah Deniz consortium does not include any American companies, so it would be free to support a pipeline through Iran.
Geological data suggest that Shah Deniz could be a very rich field, but results of the first test drilling will not be known until early next year. If they confirm high estimates, the pipeline picture could change suddenly.
"We're not here to play politics, we're here to make money," said Mike Shearman, a British Petroleum executive who heads the Shah Deniz consortium. "We'd be foolish to rule out any option."
During a recent visit to Istanbul, Turkey, President Clinton's special envoy to the Caspian region, Richard Morningstar, urged the companies to weigh their options "in a broader political and economic context" and not to ignore "political considerations and political realities."
On his return to Washington, Mr. Morningstar acknowledged that it was unlikely that the oil companies would decide to build a pipeline to Turkey anytime soon. But he said any statement they make about their intentions should include a "concrete commitment" to build a line to Turkey at some point in the future and a pledge to begin "intense negotiations" with Turkey over ways to bring down the cost of the line.
"I don't think you'll see a decision this year," said Brian Chipman, an investment adviser based in Baku. "There may be some statements or even signatures, but nothing firm as far as committing money. The companies want to put things off as long as possible."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); AZERBAIJAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

STATE: CASPIAN SEA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OIL; CASPIAN SEA; TURKEY; RUSSIA; IRAN; AZERBAIJAN; UNITED STATES (95%); AZERBAIJAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CASPIAN SEA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PIPELINES OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); INTERVIEWS (67%); TERRORISM (50%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



357 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

DOLLAR GAINS. Economic reports showing higher retail sales and producer prices diminished prospects that the Federal Reserve would lower interest rates, sending the dollar up. It rose to 122.72 yen in New York from 121.98.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since April, 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (85%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; SALES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX RETAIL SALES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); RETAILERS (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



358 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels 

 BODY:
One of the biggest questions facing anyone interested in understanding American society, indeed the modern condition generally, is why conservative evangelical Christianity not only persists in this country but also positively thrives.
Thanks to attention-getters like sprawling megachurches and rallying Promise Keepers, it is no secret that evangelicals are growing in number. Less well known is that evangelicals outrank even fundamentalists in their adherence to traditional doctrines, their defense of the Bible, their rate of churchgoing, their personal evangelizing and their financial support for efforts to spread the Gospel. 
 And when it comes to believing in social change, participating in politics, voting or volunteering in community programs, evangelicals leave mainline Protestants, as well as Roman Catholics, in the dust.
But wait a minute. Wasn't this kind of straightforward Bible-based faith banished to the nation's cultural backwaters 73 years ago by the anti-evolution excesses of the Scopes trial in Dayton, Tenn.? And if that didn't do the trick, shouldn't the certainties of the old-time religion have long since fallen victim to the corrosive effects of modern pluralism?
These are questions not to be answered by pundits' obsession with charting every last twitch of the religious right, which is only one facet of conservative religion in the United States. Nor can they be answered by a couple of popular theories.
One is that evangelical Christianity flourishes only in sheltered zones where geography, demography, ignorance or homogeneity shields it from contact with what Walter Lippmann, in 1929, called the "acids of modernity." The other is that evangelical beliefs appeal to anxious people who feel their social status threatened and yearn for security in a world of rapid change.
Neither theory fits the facts. By most standards measuring contact with this elusive thing called modernity -- level of higher education, employment patterns, income, urban versus rural residence -- people who identify themselves as evangelical Christians are barely different from other Americans.
They are more highly educated, for example, than are those calling themselves religious liberals or nonreligious, and only slightly less likely to have a graduate education than mainline Protestants.
Nor is there evidence that evangelicals are any more economically anxious or threatened by downward mobility than other Americans. Although they do feel that traditional values are under siege, they appear to be more worried about the danger this poses to others than to themselves and their own families.
These findings are from a careful new study, "American Evangelicalism: Embattled and Thriving" (University of Chicago Press), by Christian Smith, a sociologist at the University of North Carolina.
Professor Smith's conclusion, based on extensive polling and interviews, is that evangelical Christianity is thriving not merely in the face of modern pluralism but precisely because of it. A zest for conflict and for drawing up religious battle lines is deeply embedded in the "cultural DNA" of American evangelicalism, he says, and pluralism is just the environment where it can flourish.
Evangelicals are confident that they possess an ultimate truth, although Professor Smith found that they "are not particularly arrogant or triumphalistic" about it. They are similarly convinced that they have a superior morality to guide them through life and a mission to bring these gifts to the world.
Pluralistic modernity may implicitly challenge such claims. But this condition of "sustained dissonance," rather than undermining evangelical identity, Professor Smith believes, only sharpens and strengthens it.
His book offers a theory of religious subcultures that supplements the theory that evangelical success owes primarily to its entrepreneurial competitiveness in the nation's "free market" of religions. He also amends the theory emphasizing strictness of belief and practice as the key to the religious groups' vitality: if that were the case, evangelicals would not be enjoying greater vitality than their more unbending theological cousins, the fundamentalists.
In fact, American evangelicalism has created a subculture managing to maintain "both high tension with and high integration into mainstream American society simultaneously," he writes. "Contemporary pluralism creates a situation in which evangelicals can perpetually maintain but never resolve their struggle with the nonevangelical world."
That last sentence, of course, points to a problem. The vibrant evangelical Christianity of the last century not only flourished in the interstices of personal and family life but also moved the whole culture and shaped the nation's institutions. It inspired social reforms, from abolitionism to temperance. It founded colleges, built hospitals, created charities and molded national sentiment.
Now, however, Professor Smith points out, the very factors that assure the continuing vitality of evangelicalism also appear to cripple its hopes of transforming the world. Many Americans, for example, are turned off by some of the traits -- "personal conviction, confident evangelism, moral rectitude, fervent devotion" -- that Professor Smith cites as part of evangelicalism's distinctive identity. Even more of an obstacle, he argues, are the practical limits of evangelicals' preference for a strategy of changing society through individual conversions, personal influence and strictly voluntary action.
Professor Smith does not say so, but there may be something still more basic operating here. Has evangelical Christianity grown unconsciously fond of the cultural gridlock that has become a chief precondition of evangelicalism's continuing vigor?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; EVANGELISM RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (97%); CONSERVATISM (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); EVOLUTION THEORY (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (50%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CHRISTIAN (PROF); STEINFELS, PETER CHRISTIAN SMITH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



359 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Request to Alter Space Station Orbit Is Dropped

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
NASA and the Russian Space Agency have agreed to set aside a last-minute Russian request to launch an international space station into an orbit closer to Mir, officials announced today.
While putting the new station closer to Russia's 12-year-old Mir station would make it easier to transfer equipment and supplies from the old outpost to the new one, the request came too late to be acted on, said Randy Brinkley, NASA's space station program manager. 
 NASA was surprised last week when Russia's prime station contractor proposed the orbital position change just two-and-a-half weeks before launch of the first part of the new station.
Delaying the Nov. 20 flight by 10 hours to match the orbits would have forced similar shifts in the subsequent assembly flights, and resulted in potentially unfavorable sun angles on the solar-powered station, engineers said.
"We have mutually concluded that it would not be prudent to make these changes," Mr. Brinkley said during a news conference held at the Johnson Space Center in Houston. "It added technical complexity and risks to the mission that were not justified."
The decision, which followed "frank and candid" discussions between the two partners, was not imposed by the United States, he said.
"The conclusions were mutual," Mr. Brinkley said.
"Both sides concluded that it did not make sense."
The Russians, struggling to find money for their space program with their nation in economic collapse, had said they wanted to transfer thousands of pounds of newer equipment and scientific instruments from Mir as an economy move.
However, some critics questioned the Russians' motives, wondering if the requested orbital change was part of plan to delay the decommissioning and destruction of Mir, which the Russians have agreed to do next summer.
The Russians have so little money that the United States and other partners in the international station fear that money spent on Mir will prevent Russia from meeting its obligations with the new project.
"The Mir competes with the international space station for very critical resources and for funding," Mr. Brinkley said.
NASA will consider ideas for salvaging Mir's research equipment to use on the international space station, he said, but only if it does not interfere with assembling the new station.
The United States and 15 other nations plan to begin building the new station in orbit next week when the Russians launch a module that will supply power and propulsion during the early stages of the five-year construction period.
The space shuttle Endeavor is to follow on Dec. 3 with the second station part, an American-built connecting passageway that attaches to the first module.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION MIR AS (66%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (92%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (55%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (92%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (55%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; SPACE STATIONS; MIR (SPACE STATION); INTERNATIONAL SPACE COOPERATION AND VENTURES SPACE STATIONS (94%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (93%); SPACECRAFT (91%); SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (79%); SPACE SHUTTLE (79%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E RANDY BRINKLEY (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



360 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: FOOTBALL;
Big Plays Reside at a Small College

BYLINE: By WILLIAM N. WALLACE 

DATELINE: MIDDLETOWN, Conn.

 BODY:
Jake Fay throws the passes. Matt Perceval catches them. Fay-to-Perceval has accounted for 12 touchdowns this season, seven of them in Wesleyan's 55-28 season-opening victory over Middlebury, a Division III record.
According to National Collegiate Athletic Association records, only one player has caught more in one game. Paul Zaeske of North Park University in Chicago caught eight in a 1968 Division II game. 
 Fay and Perceval are the best of friends, classmates, roommates, economics majors and cogs on one of the better Wesleyan teams in recent decades. Besides that, they are having a very good time.
"I really like it here," Perceval said. "I'm so glad I came."
He came a long way, from Box Elder, S.D. "Near Rapid City," he said. Fay is from "just up the road," he said, meaning Glastonbury, Conn.
Football at Wesleyan, and at the nine other members of the New England Small College Athletic Conference, is perhaps what Norman Rockwell had in mind when he painted Saturday Evening Post covers 60 years ago depicting autumnal splendor. This is football full of good cheer, empty of evil, on leafy campuses of reputable, old liberal arts colleges.
And it is good football. Wesleyan Coach Frank Hauser has put together an offense that has scored 240 points in seven games and has all the devices of more celebrated teams at higher echelons. Fay's passing game is supplemented by the seniors Tom Themistocles and John Pascucci, described by Hauser as running backs as good as "you'll find in small-college football."
 After winning their first four games, and extending a winning streak to seven, dating from last season, the Cardinals (5-2) lost to Amherst in overtime, beat Bowdoin and then were routed by unbeaten Williams (7-0) last Saturday, 57-19. The team's resiliency will be tested, Hauser suspects, in its finale here today against Trinity (2-5).
Division III college football means no athletic scholarships and, in the case of the 10 N.E.S.C.A.C. members, no playoffs, no bowl games, no spring practice, no league standings and no recruiting off the campus. The league's credo is, "The conference was created in 1971 out of a concern for the direction of intercollegiate programs, and it remains committed to keeping a proper perspective on the role of sport in higher education."
Dick Farley, the coach at Williams, once said: "If you can't play here, you can't play anywhere. There is no Division IV."
Fay and Perceval can play. That was established in their freshman seasons, when Fay became the Cardinals' starting quarterback following an injury to an upperclassman.
 The two had met that fall at their first football practice. They connected right away, and have been throwing the football 10 months out of the year ever since.
"We never exactly quit," Fay said.
As juniors they have nine games left before this euphoric life concludes -- this fall's final game and eight next year.
Although there are not supposed to be formal league standings, everyone keeps track. Williams has been the dominant force under Farley, whose teams since 1987 have won 80, lost 12 and tied 3. The Ephs play at Amherst (5-2) today with the Little Three title at stake. The Little Three -- Amherst, Wesleyan and Williams -- was put together long ago when Harvard, Princeton and Yale were called football's Big Three.
As for crowds, Wesleyan had its largest in years, 6,290, for the Amherst game, and 7,190 were at Weston Field in Williamstown, Mass., for the Williams game last Saturday.
Hauser's Cardinals were 7-1 last year, their best record since they were undefeated in 1969, and they beat Williams last year for the first time since 1985. Football began here in 1881, and Wesleyan's prowess has been limited. (The 1886 team lost to Yale, 136-0.) Cardinal teams have won the Little Three competition only 12 times, to 26 for Amherst and 40 for Williams.
These Little Three games are special, Fay said with a glint in his eye. "The intensity level, the emotion, they're really something," he said. "Beating Williams last year was so great."
 What about this year? "We got blown out," he said, after completing 20 of 39 passes for 308 yards and a touchdown. The scoring pass went to Perceval, who runs the 40-yard dash in 4.4 seconds and is the team's kick-return specialist.
 Hauser said if he had a problem with Fay, it was keeping him free of self-blame. Fay, for example, assumed the fault was his in the overtime loss to Amherst.
 Now about Perceval's seven touchdown catches in the opening game.
Fay said he remembered the first and third ones but not the others. Perceval, acting shy, recounted one or two, a slant here, a fade there. Two were for 57 and 64 yards, and six of them came in the first half. If they had only saved a few for the Williams game.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Matt Perceval, left, is the favorite receiver of quarterback Jake Fay at Wesleyan, which ends its season today. (Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NORTHEAST USA (56%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: WESLEYAN UNIVERSITY RAPID CITY JOURNAL (56%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESLEYAN UNIVERSITY NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NORTHEAST USA (56%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ATHLETES (77%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (71%); 

PERSON: WALLACE, WILLIAM N; FAY, JAKE; PERCEVAL, MATT JAKE FAY (96%); MATT PERCEVAL (92%); FRANK HAUSER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



361 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Pressure Builds for Accord At Talks on Climate Change

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 

 BODY:
Negotiators in the Buenos Aires talks on global warming were locked in a last-minute struggle last night to resolve key questions. The matters seemed merely procedural but in reality went to the heart of the politically charged issue of how fast the world can and should move to deal with the prospect of climatic change.
At issue were the shape and pace of the work schedule for putting flesh on the bones of the Kyoto Protocol, an agreement reached a year ago in Japan. Under it, industrialized countries committed themselves to make legally binding reductions in emissions of heat-trapping waste industrial gases like carbon dioxide. 
 Mainstream scientists say that if the emissions are not reduced, the world's climate could be seriously disrupted in coming decades.
As the Buenos Aires discussions opened on Nov. 2, virtually all major participants said the measure of their success would be the adoption of a work schedule. But as the 12 days of talks went well past their scheduled end of midnight Friday, no accord had been achieved.
The work schedule is crucial because it would govern how soon operating rules are established. Not until then, assuming that the Kyoto Protocol is ratified by the required countries, including the United States, can the protocol take effect.
Late in the day, the conference chairwoman, Maria Julia Alsogary of Argentina, circulated a draft proposal establishing a two-year deadline for fashioning the rules.
As midnight approached, there was cautious optimism. "I think it's likely we're going to reach closure, but the clock is ticking," said Dirk Forrister, a member of the American delegation. It was clear, he said, that the deadline would be extended: "We're going to be going into the wee hours" of this morning.
At Kyoto the industrialized countries agreed to reduce their emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases by an average of about 5 percent below 1990 levels in the next 10 to 14 years. The gases are produced mainly by the burning of coal, oil, wood and natural gas.
The United States' reduction would be 7 percent. Developing countries so far have no specific targets but are required in general to control their emissions.
One of the two operational mechanisms established at Kyoto is called emissions trading. It would allow a country or private company to achieve its cuts partly by buying reductions from a country or company that has reduced its emissions more than required.
In theory, the method's proponents say, that would bring about faster reductions at lower cost. They say this has been proved by an emissions trading system for reducing industrial sulfur dioxide emissions in the United States.
The other arrangement, called the clean development mechanism, is intended to enable rich countries to invest in emissions reduction projects in poor countries.
One example is high-efficiency power plants that emit less carbon. That way, in theory, the poor countries would reap environmental and economic benefits. The investor and the recipient would share credit for the emissions reductions achieved.
One sticking point in Buenos Aires involved which of the two mechanisms should be given priority. Many developing countries, seeing the prospect of reaping new investment in their economies, wanted the rules for the clean development mechanism to be worked out first, on an accelerated schedule, with those for emissions trading completed later.
The United States and other rich countries feared that if the clean development mechanism received first priority, developing countries would refuse to approve rules for emissions trading. Developing countries have been suspicious of emissions trading, fearing that it might be used an excuse for not reducing emissions. The United States therefore insisted that the two mechanisms move ahead on parallel tracks.
As the Buenos Aires session moved into its final hours, the parallel-track idea appeared to be ascendant. Ms. Alsogaray's proposal would require that "substantial progress" on rules for the operating mechanisms be demonstrated a year from now, with a firm decision in two years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (91%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: EARTH (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (91%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES (ARGENTINA); KYOTO (JAPAN); UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (91%); JAPAN (79%); EARTH (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; CARBON DIOXIDE; AIR POLLUTION CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (76%); INDUSTRIAL GASES (75%); NATURAL GAS (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); POWER PLANTS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



362 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 5; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1551 words

HEADLINE: Redrawing The Free Market;
Amid a Global Financial Crisis, Calls for Regulation Spread

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BERLIN, Nov. 12

 BODY:
In Western capitals there is a rush to rethink the world. At issue is the end of the so-called Washington consensus, which has held more or less unchallenged since the end of the cold war: that more open markets, freer trade and larger international capital flows are necessarily good.
The catalyst has been disaster that no rally on Wall Street can quickly undo. The global financial crisis has thrown 20 million Asians back into poverty over the last year, made 40 percent of the Russian population poorer than ever, and produced growing unemployment in Brazil, a country already racked by some of the greatest disparities between rich and poor in the world. 
 "International volatility has been such that free-market capitalism is on the defensive," said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International. In place of the old certainties lies disquiet.
At the heart of the disquiet is the growing sense that however fecund the global exchange of trade, information and money has been in recent years, this unbridled flow can also be capriciously destructive. Forms of intervention to control or direct the flow are therefore being heatedly discussed.
"A very important debate has begun, sparked by the general realization that you cannot leave people unprotected before the global market," said Anthony Giddens, the director of the London School of Economics. "There is a will to recognize the need for some new governance of the world economy."
The question of just what that new governance should be is creating a world of unusual intellectual flux, one comparable to the post-1945 era in its quest for some overarching design for equitable development. Just as the development of the New Deal and the European welfare state rescued industrial capitalism from its interwar collapse, so a similar and equally critical quest has now begun at a global level for cushions to the harsher effects of electronic capitalism.
Prominent economists have suggested a global taxation on currency speculation, the establishment of a second United Nations Security Council for economic affairs that would act to avert disaster in the economic field, limits on international flows of capital, and setting target zones for exchange rates.
But such steps, which have fairly wide support in Europe, tend to provoke deep suspicion in the United States, although the danger that further volatility could lead to spreading protectionism and possible political upheavals is widely recognized in Washington. At the center of the disagreement between Americans and Europeans lies the nature of today's instantaneous world. Has this new global society amounted to an electronic energizer, as the Clinton Administration has tended to argue, a revolutionary generator of new wealth, new job possibilities and greater freedom? Or has the brave new world, as many European intellectuals have insisted, been no more than a slick reincarnation of the unfettered capitalism of the 19th century, using new technology to atomize societies, isolate the poor and advance a new ideology of exploitation upheld by an ever-wealthier, on-line global oligarchy?
"We live in an increasingly unequal world," said Elmar Altwater, a political scientist at the Free University of Berlin, "and what we have now understood is that this will continue as long as there is no political correction. Incomes based on labor simply have not grown in real terms, even as income based on the global application of capital has soared. What is needed is more political intervention."
Jean-Paul Fitoussi, an economist and adviser to the French Prime Minister, said: "If there are systematic losers from today's global economy, we could be overwhelmed. A way must be found to bring the Frankenstein of deregulated global financial markets under control."
Such references to "Frankenstein" in the same breath as "markets" makes many American economists grimace. After all, the United States under Bill Clinton has seen the creation of millions of new jobs, a vigorous economy that derived 30 percent of its growth from international expansion and, until recent volatility, consistently soaring share prices.
In Europe, by contrast, high unemployment and increasingly strained social security systems have bolstered a far darker vision, popularized by a best seller called "The Economic Horror" by the French writer Viviane Forrestier. It has sold more than 310,000 copies and been translated into 17 languages.
"Shame should be quoted on the stock exchange for it is an important element of profit," Ms. Forrestier writes in one of the milder phrases of her uniformly bleak catalogue of contemporary devastation.
Pierre Bourdieu, a French intellectual with a large and passionate following, a man who is perhaps the nearest figure the country now has to a Jean-Paul Sartre, has made his name with relentless and more sophisticated attacks against what Europeans and Latin Americans generally call ultraliberalism, that is, unfettered free-market orthodoxy.
A dapper, soft-spoken man, Mr. Bourdieu argues that the central aim of "the pure logic of the market" has been to weaken every collective group -- the nation itself, the state, labor unions, cooperatives, associations -- to install what he calls a worldwide "reign of absolute flexibility" in which international capital and multinational corporations dictate terms of employment and wages. "Ours is a Darwinian world of insecurity and stress, where the permanent threat of unemployment creates a permanent state of precariousness," he has written.
The quest for more equitable development has been strengthened in Europe by the arrival of governments whose intellectual inspiration comes from the left: Tony Blair in London, Lionel Jospin in Paris, Massimo D'Alema in Rome and Gerhard Schroder in Bonn.
It has also been reinforced by the ravages that the rapid, often herdlike daily movement of money across frontiers has recently inflicted on such societies as Indonesia, Thailand and Brazil. The abrupt unmasking of Russia's sham capitalism -- with its "stock market," its "financiers" and its privatized companies beside zero regulation, almost zero tax collection, rampant asset-stripping and a general absence of the rule of law -- has also brought home the danger of exporting a modern capitalist market economy to a society unready for it.
Reviewing this and other fiascos, James D. Wolfensohn, the president of the World Bank, said last month, "We have to learn to have a debate where mathematics will not dominate humanity."
Mr. Clinton, too, has noted recently that a quarter of the world's population now lives in countries in a recession. He has begun to talk about the need to "lift the lives of ordinary people." Still, what form of regulation the market needs and in what degree remain matters of sharp dispute.
Mr. Blair talks about the "rebirth of progressive politics," by which he seems to mean that the state has an active role to play after the Thatcher years but one that is highly disciplined and ultimately aimed at giving everyone a stake in the national economy. Mr. Clinton has proposed a "third way," between capitalism and socialism. The term third way is not new, however, and has been applied during this century to everything from German social democracy through Yugoslav economic experiments to attempted reforms in the Soviet Union during the Gorbachev era. What both Mr. Blair's and Mr. Clinton's formulations have in common, though, is the notion that highly disciplined public entities can bring the necessary balance to market forces.
So far, Western governments have instructed the World Bank to direct extra funds to "the most vulnerable groups in society" and provided an extra $90 billion to the International Monetary Fund to be used to try to pre-empt crises. But these are essentially short-term Band-Aids.
More sweeping measures are certain to meet resistance. "The last thing the world needs is an economic Security Council at the United Nations," said Mr. Hormats of Goldman Sachs. "If you really want to undermine confidence, that would do it." He added that limits on flows of capital through controls or regulations should be approached warily.
Paul Krugman of M.I.T. has argued in The New Republic, however, that pressure to constrain or limit international capital flows seems certain to grow if the response to crises continues to be governed by the need to "mollify market sentiment." Mr. Krugman says that cutting interest rates is what is really needed to revive these economies and give poor people in countries like Brazil a better chance to make their way.
Such limits on capital flows would be a body blow to the spirit of American capitalism, which has been so buoyant and dominant since the cold war's end. This capitalism has been revolutionary, introducing millions of people to stock-holding both directly and through mutual funds.
But capitalism elsewhere has also had a much crueler face as rising poverty rates in Asia, Latin America and Russia show."Capitalism survived after World War II," said Mr. Fitoussi, the French economist, "because we invented a system where there were no consistent losers, everyone gained a little." The problem, he said, is that that is no longer the case.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "WORLD VIEWS -- How Americans and Europeans Disagree on Capitalism"
The Clinton Administration sees modern international financial dealings as an electronic energizer and generator of new wealth. But Europeans think the new technology is a reincarnation of 19th-century capitalism upheld by an on-line global oligarchy; Lionel Jospin, French Prime Minister (Agence France-Presse); Massismo D'Alema, Italian Prime Minister; Tony Blair, British Prime Minister (Associated Press); Gerhard Schroder, German Prime Minister (Reuters)(pg. B11)
 
Drawing. (Illustration by Joel Priddy)(pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (92%); BRAZIL (79%); GERMANY (79%); ITALY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); GLOBAL EXCHANGE (56%); GLOBAL EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GLOBAL EXCHANGE (56%); GLOBAL EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; FRANCE; GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (92%); BRAZIL (79%); GERMANY (79%); ITALY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CREDIT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; CAPITALISM BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); COLD WAR (89%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); TRENDS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); CURRENCIES (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JOSPIN, LIONEL (PRIME MIN); D'ALEMA, MASSIMO (PRIME MIN); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) TONY BLAIR (74%); GERHARD SCHRODER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



363 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Mexico Expects 3% Growth Next Year

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 13

 BODY:
In a bid to outstrip the United States in economic growth next year despite the uncertainties in global markets, Mexico proposed one of the leanest federal budgets in its history today and said it would impose some unpopular taxes to keep the deficit down.
If the Congress accepts the basics of the 1999 budget announced by Finance Minister Angel Gurria, Mexico will have cut $10 billion in federal spending in five years. But officials said they were betting on tight Government finances to bring down inflation and keep the investment environment stable so that the country, led by a thriving export sector, will grow by 3 percent next year. That is about twice the expansion they expect to see in the neighbor to the north. 
 Mexico is one of the United States' largest trading partners. Demand for goods from the United States this year in its surprisingly resilient economy did much to make up for the plunge in United States exports to ailing Asian nations.
Mexican officials believe their 1999 goal is realistic because despite world turmoil, the country will close out 1998 with 4.6 percent growth. They project that inflation will decline next year to 13 percent from 17.6 percent in 1998.
The stern fiscal discipline practiced by President Ernesto Zedillo contrasts with the loose ways of Brazil, Latin America's biggest economy, where a federal deficit of 7 percent generated financial instability that threatened in recent weeks to radiate to all emerging markets.
Mr. Gurria said he would try to hold Mexico's deficit to 1.25 percent of the gross domestic product next year even though federal revenue will decline because of persisting record-low petroleum prices. Mexico calculates that it will get no more than $11 a barrel on average for its oil next year. Because of lost oil income in 1998, the country will post a 1.42 percent deficit for the year.
Though officials expect foreign investment to remain strong, perhaps as much as $10 billion next year, they also foresee that international credit will be severely limited, increasing the costs of borrowing money and servicing the foreign debt.
The Government plans $2.25 billion in spending cuts next year. "We are down to the bone," Under Secretary of Finance Martin Werner said today. In coming days officials will announce the first increase since 1995 in gasoline and diesel prices, in order to collect more taxes on fuel sales. Mr. Gurria also proposed a 15 percent tax on local and long-distance telephone calls.
To sweeten the package for wary opposition lawmakers, the Government wants to raise income taxes to 37 percent from 34 percent for the wealthiest Mexicans. Officials decided not to eliminate subsidies on electricity, a move that was dreaded by business.
Mr. Gurria's $101.7 billion budget proposal, and the carefully conciliatory speech he gave to present it, drew mildly favorable initial responses in the lower house of Congress. But one item that is certain to arouse opposition is the Government's request to double the funds next year, to $2.43 billion, for financing its bailout of banks.
The bitter congressional debate over the $65 billion bailout, now in its eighth month, went into a full stall last week. Opposition lawmakers have accused Government officials of violating the Constitution and squandering the treasury to rescue failed or corrupt bankers.
Mr. Werner said today that the feud over the bailout had given investors doubts about the stability of Mexico's financial system, resulting in an increase in interest rates.
"The discussion has wandered far away from the central issue of lowering the cost to the Government of the bailout," Mr. Werner said. "We have seen a lot of magical formulas for solving the problem which do nothing more than deceive people."
He acknowledged, however, that the Government had absorbed losses of $11.5 billion over the last five years to save and revive institutions left behind by just three failed Mexican bankers. The three, Jorge Lankenau Rocha, Angel Isidoro Rodriguez Saez and Carlos Cabal Peniche, bought banks from the Government during its privatization campaign in the early 1990's. Mr. Lankenau is in jail and Mr. Rodriguez is out on bail, both of them facing multimillion-dollar fraud charges. Mr. Cabal, a fugitive for four years, was arrested last week in Australia and is wanted in Mexico on 21 counts of fraud.
Mr. Werner said he was confident that opposition lawmakers, who won a majority in the lower house of Congress in 1997 and will approve a federal budget for only the second time in Mexican history, would understand that the Government was offering the lowest possible budget.
"We have been at this for 10 or 15 years," Mr. Werner said, referring to Government technocrats like him. Congressional deputies, he added, "don't have the kind of fresh experience that we do."
Nevertheless, he said, Government officials, taking a lesson from setbacks in the bank bailout debate, took "hours and hours" to discuss the budget with key legislators before presenting the final version.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); FUEL TAX (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); GASOLINE (73%); TRENDS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (63%); DIESEL FUEL (63%); GASOLINE PRICES (63%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JULIA; GURRIA, ANGEL (MIN) MARTIN WERNER (79%); ANGEL GURRIA (68%); ERNESTO ZEDILLO (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



364 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Set Brisk Pace And Producer Prices Edge Up

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
Retail sales rose in October at the fastest pace in five months and producer prices crept higher, leading some economists to predict that the Federal Reserve's policy makers may refrain from cutting interest rates next week.
"The economy's stronger than we thought," said Gary Thayer, an economist at A. G. Edwards in St. Louis. "The Fed's going to think the urgency for a rate cut isn't there." 
 Retail sales rose 1 percent in October, the Commerce Department said today. That was twice the pace expected by forecasters. The gain was led by purchases of high-cost durable goods, including autos, appliances and furniture. It followed an increase of three-tenths of 1 percent in September.
Producer prices rose two-tenths of 1 percent in October, after rising three-tenths a month earlier, Labor Department figures showed. Prices rose during October in part because oil prices were up for a time early in the month. The core rate of the Producer Price Index, which excludes food and energy, rose one-tenth of 1 percent, down from the four-tenths of 1 percent increase in September.
Survey figures today showed that consumers are more upbeat about their economic prospects so far in November than they were a month ago. The University of Michigan's sentiment index for November rose to 102.4 from 97.4 in October.
Before today's reports, many analysts had been betting that the Fed would cut the overnight bank lending rate for the third time since the end of September at Tuesday's policy meeting. Forecasters cited Fed concerns about lingering nervousness in financial markets and problems overseas that could bring an end to the United States expansion, which is almost eight years old.
With consumer demand staying strong, some analysts said the chairman of the Fed, Alan Greenspan, might refrain from pushing his colleagues for immediate action. "It doesn't look like a recession, so they can afford to wait," said Ian Shepherdson, an economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (67%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR RETAIL SALES (92%); PRODUCER PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAILERS (79%); RECESSION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



365 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Capacity Glut Likely to Spur More Auto Mergers

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 13

 BODY:
Further large mergers are likely among auto makers because of a worldwide excess of assembly plants and the just-completed marriage of Daimler-Benz A.G. and the Chrysler Corporation, industry leaders said in interviews this week.
Auto makers around the globe have the ability to produce 70 million vehicles a year. But demand has been around 50 million vehicles a year even in good times, and is eroding now with economic slumps in East Asia and Latin America. This week's creation of DaimlerChrysler A.G., in an industry in which big cross-border mergers have historically been hard to accomplish, has forced every auto manufacturer to reassess its strategic options. 
 "With the world economy in the situation it is, and the fact that only about 10 out of the 40 manufacturers in the world are making money, there's going to be a dramatic restructuring," said Robert J. Eaton, now one of the two co-chairmen of DaimlerChrysler A.G.
"Everybody's talking to everybody in the auto industry," said William Clay Ford Jr., the chairman-elect of the Ford Motor Company. "What may come of it, I don't know, maybe nothing actually, but there are a lot of people that are talking and it'll be very interesting -- I think it'll be very interesting a year from now."
The two companies most talked about by industry executives as potential acquirers are Ford Motor, which has $22 billion in cash and will soon have a new management team, and Volkswagen A.G., which already bought Rolls-Royce this year. The three companies most discussed as potential targets are the Nissan Motor Company of Japan, A.B. Volvo of Sweden and Bayerische Motoren Werke A.G. of Germany.
The auto maker attracting the most attention, particularly as a potential merger partner for Ford, is Nissan. Japan's second-largest auto maker has lost money for six of the last seven years and has had difficulty this year finding banks to lend it money, particularly after its credit rating dropped again this summer.
The Government-run Japan Development Bank agreed this week to lend 100 billion yen, or $817 million, to Nissan, a move with some parallels to the Government loan guarantees that helped rescue Chrysler in 1980. Nissan's troubles have left many auto industry leaders convinced that a merger or some other deal is likely for Nissan, although Nissan officials insist that their company has a plan for recovery and is better off than Chrysler was a generation ago.
Only five global auto makers are likely to have the resources to cope with Nissan's $35 billion debt: Ford, Volkswagen, DaimlerChrysler, the General Motors Corporation and the Toyota Motor Corporation.
But G.M. and Toyota already work together closely, so a bid by either of them for Nissan could raise antitrust problems. And top executives of DaimlerChrysler have ruled out any further big mergers until they work out the details of this week's transaction, which could take years.
That leaves Volkswagen and Ford Motor. Volkswagen's chairman, Ferdinand Piech, has indicated an interest in Volvo and BMW. Volvo has shown little enthusiasm, while the Quandt family, which owns 45.6 percent of BMW, moved most of its stake into holding companies last month to improve defenses against any hostile takeover bid.
But so far, Volkswagen has shown little interest in East Asia. Volkswagen did not even participate in this autumn's auctions of the Kia Motors Corporation of Korea.
Ford Motor has been trying to expand in East Asia. It lost to the Hyundai Motor Company in the final Kia auction, although Hyundai has mentioned an interest in taking Ford Motor as a partner. Now, Ford Motor is eyeing the Japanese market.
Asked whether his company might do a deal with Nissan, Mr. Ford was cautious. "We would certainly look at anything, but given the balance sheet and the off-balance sheet problems that exist in a lot of the Japanese companies, you have to be very careful any time you went into any kind of venture there," he said. "We all believe at Ford that it's going to emerge as a very important market from their troubles, so we would like to have a stronger Japanese presence, but what form it takes has yet to be determined."
Some Wall Street analysts have criticized Ford Motor for holding so much cash, but Mr. Ford said that he refused to be rushed. "I'm not going to let it burn a hole in our pocket," he said. "I think that we're not in any hurry to spend it. We're always looking at things like buybacks and dividends and acquisitions."
If Mr. Ford decides to do a deal in Asia, he will not have to look far for investment banking expertise. John L. Thornton, the chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia, joined Ford's 11-member board two years ago.
Nissan is trying hard now to turn around its troubled North American operations, and will soon introduce a series of new cars and sport utility vehicles. Jason Vines, a Nissan spokesman, said the goal was improved operating results, not preparation by the company for a sale.
Renault and Peugeot are struggling in France, but French nationalism has discouraged international auto makers from seriously considering them as takeover candidates. But Fiat S.p.A. of Italy persuaded Renault on Monday to agree to a merger of most of the two companies' foundry operations, which cast heavy metal parts.
Even as auto makers study possible merger options, they are looking at ways to profit from rivals' mergers. Ronald Zarrella, the president of G.M.'s North American operations, said the difficulty of combining Chrysler and Daimler-Benz might be useful. "I hope they're very distracted and we can take some market share from them," he said.
Thomas Stallkamp, the president of DaimlerChrysler and formerly the president of Chrysler, said that the German and American auto makers had been able to work together with even fewer difficulties than anticipated when the merger was first announced last May.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jurgen E. Schrempp, left, and Robert J. Eaton, co-chairmen of DaimlerChrysler, toasted the merger of the companies May 6 in London. More such deals are likely. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAI (FRA) (94%); DAI (BIT) (94%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); VOW (FRA) (91%); VKW (LSE) (91%); BMW3 (FRA) (84%); BMW (BIT) (84%); 7201 (TSE) (82%); TYT (LSE) (82%); TM (NYSE) (82%); 7203 (TSE) (82%); VOLV.B (STO) (81%); VOLV.A (STO) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (84%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (81%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (57%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

COMPANY: DAIMLER-BENZ AG; CHRYSLER CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; VOLKSWAGEN AG DAIMLER AG (94%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); VOLKSWAGEN AG (91%); BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (84%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (82%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (82%); AB VOLVO (81%); DEVELOPMENT BANK OF JAPAN INC (63%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLER-BENZ AG; CHRYSLER CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; VOLKSWAGEN AG

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (93%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (57%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PRODUCTION; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); MERGERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH ROBERT J EATON (56%); WILLIAM CLAY FORD (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



366 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Gets a Loan

 BODY:
The $41.5 billion international package to support Brazil announced yesterday has several things going for it. It is larger than had been expected, which makes it less likely that speculators will bet against Brazil and therefore makes it less likely that the money in the package will actually have to be used. It includes commitments not only from the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, but also from the United States and other major countries. Finally, it is based on promises by the Brazilian Government that long-needed fiscal reforms will be put in place.
Nonetheless, the package is risky. Brazil's currency, the real, remains overvalued, and nothing is being done directly to address that problem. The hope is that the country's existing program of gradual devaluation will eventually cure the problem. But in the meantime, that overvaluation could discourage international investment in the country. Only with such investment will it be possible for Brazil to lower the very high interest rates it has imposed to protect the real. Those high rates are very damaging to the economy. 
 A lot remains to be done on fiscal problems by both the country's Congress and its state governments, and it is far from certain that the needed reforms will be approved. If they are not, the I.M.F. and the other lenders will face difficult decisions regarding continued lending.
Fortunately, world financial markets are far less nervous than they were even a month ago. Because Brazil is the largest economy in Latin America, its fate is of great importance to the region, and the economic health of the region could make the difference in determining whether the Asian recession spreads to this country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (70%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND WORLD BANK (70%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); DEVALUATION (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); RECESSION (75%); APPROVALS (73%); INTEREST RATES (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



367 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: As L.I. Economy Booms, New Office Buildings Bloom

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON 

DATELINE: WOODBURY, N.Y., Nov. 13

 BODY:
The steady growth of the Long Island economy, coupled with low interest rates and a renewed demand for office space, has led to a resurgence in office building construction in Nassau and Suffolk Counties, according to builders, real estate executives and public officials.
"People are buying or renting everything in sight," said Alan Berger, president of the Long Island Chapter of the New York State Commercial Association of Realtors. "We can't keep up with the demand." 
The demand has caused available commercial office space to drop sharply from a peak vacancy rate of 23 percent during the mid-1980's and early 90's to a recent low of less than 8 percent.
"All of the space left vacant after Grumman and the rest of the aerospace and defense industry left Long Island has now been absorbed, and nearly everything that could be converted to office space has been sold or rented," said Mr. Berger, who also serves as president of the commercial investment division of the Long Island Board of Realtors.
"Despite the high taxes here, investors discovered there was a lot of disposable income, so they started buying up everything in sight," Mr. Berger said.
This morning several officials gathered at an industrial park here for the groundbreaking ceremony for a $20 million office building, the first to be built in Nassau County in a decade on speculation, or the belief that soon after the concrete is poured, all 100,000 square feet of office space will be rented.
The four-story building is being constructed by the Tilles Companies, which is credited with inventing the concept of leased industrial parks -- combining the suburban setting of trees, grass and parklike grounds with office buildings -- 30 years ago.
Roger Tilles, who with his brother, Peter, is a partner in the Tilles Companies, said, "We're building on 'spec,' which means we are confident enough with the commercial real estate market and the state of the economy that we will finance, build and fill the office building without the need for a major tenant to commit ahead of time to space."
Mr. Tilles said one of the major reasons for his confidence in the Island's economic future was the recent 20 percent cut in electric rates by the Long Island Power Authority.
Richard M. Kessel, the chairman of the authority, who was present at the groundbreaking, said data collected by the utility reflected an increase in commercial demand for electricity throughout the Island, especially over the last two years.
Mr. Berger observed that the aging of Long Island's population was another factor that added to the pressure on commercial space. He said investors were buying up old schools and church buildings and converting them into housing for the elderly, rather than turning them into commercial office space.
"With less to go around, the price for commercial space is on the rise at all levels," he said. For example, he said space in a neighborhood shopping center in Northport that was priced at $18 per square foot a few years ago, was now going for $21. In a top-of-the-line office building providing a variety of amenities, the current rate is about $28 per square foot, compared with $24 a few years ago and $18 five years ago, he said.
"People are coming to us with money in hand begging for commercial space, and we can't find a place for them," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (51%); LONG ISLAND BOARD (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND BOARD (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RENTING AND LEASING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) REAL ESTATE (92%); OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (84%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (64%); AGING (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (51%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



368 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3462 words

HEADLINE: WHEN THEORY MET REALITY: A special report.;
Teachings of Two Nobelists Also Proved Their Undoing

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON and MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN 

 BODY:
Two months ago Myron S. Scholes made a sentimental journey to the steel-manufacturing city of Hamilton, Ontario, to be honored as a local boy made good.
He had recently been awarded, with Robert C. Merton, the Nobel award in economics, for breakthrough work in finding a way to value risky financial investments known as options. Those formulas, devised 25 years ago, made sophisticated investing more of a science and less of an art, encouraging the growth of a host of new securities markets. Many people made millions. 
 The trip home was one of a number of personal appearances that amounted to, in Mr. Scholes's words, a victory lap. As the star guest at a party in Hamilton, he described his trip to Sweden to accept the Nobel and spoke fondly of the local people who had looked after him in his youth. At the end, he nearly broke down in tears.
Certainly, it was an emotional moment. But there was something else. Back home in Greenwich, Conn., the situation was grave.
The giant investment fund in which Mr. Scholes and Mr. Merton were partners, Long-Term Capital Management, was on the edge of financial ruin. The fund had made a variety of big, risky bets that had gone terribly wrong. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York would within a week organize a private takeover to prevent the fund's outright failure and a rout in the world's financial markets.
In the end, the very thing that the two economists had taught the world to understand -- managing investment risk -- proved their undoing.
Indeed, that a fund with so much brain power could crash so ignominiously is the decade's most powerful reminder yet of the chasm between devising investment models and turning them into profitable trades.
Neither Mr. Merton, 54, nor Mr. Scholes, 57, agreed to comment for this article. But interviews with dozens of friends, academics and people close to Long-Term Capital paint a picture of two economists who after years in academia were hired by some former students who had made it big on Wall Street. The credibility of the two economists made the firm something of a legend, attracting heavyweight investors, lenders and trading partners. Mr. Scholes, who had the charisma of an ace salesman, went on the road to help the firm raise money.
But for all the brilliance of their theory, it was based on an assumption that the future performance of bonds would mirror their past movements. When Russia decided to stop paying its debts in August, investors in many markets panicked in a way that a mathematical model could not have anticipated. And for all their prominence as architects of the theories on which traders placed their bets, Mr. Scholes and Mr. Merton in fact were not directly involved in the firm's trading; they were therefore somewhat removed from the firm's daily operations. And they were ultimately powerless to stop the fund from running aground. Suddenly, they were worth a whole lot less.
 
The Speculator
A Salesman Who Loves Risk
Myron Scholes is a natural salesman with a penchant for taking risks.
He was born in 1941 in Timmins, a small mining town in northern Ontario. His father, a dentist, moved the family south to Hamilton when Myron and his little brother, David, were young. Myron received a Bachelor of Arts from McMaster University in 1962. He then headed to the University of Chicago, where a master's in business was his stepping-stone to a doctorate in finance and economics, awarded in 1970.
Even while pursuing an academic career, Mr. Scholes was an avid investor. In an interview with The Ottawa Citizen a year ago, he recalled a sobering experience speculating on stocks in the late 1960's.
"I would take my salary and invest it in the stock market," Mr. Scholes told the newspaper. "Then I'd use the securities to borrow from the bank to live. I always told my wife that we were investing, not borrowing."
A bear market in the early 70's ravaged his stock portfolio. With his loans coming due, he recalled, he pleaded with his banker for an extension and got it. Stock prices recovered, allowing him to repay his debts.
In the early 70's, he was on the faculty of the Sloan School at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Mr. Scholes elicits tales of brilliance from colleagues and students at M.I.T, as well as the University of Chicago, where he taught finance and banking from 1974 until 1983, and Stanford University, where he was a professor in the business and law schools.
"He was very charismatic," said Carol Levenson, a University of Chicago graduate who is now editor of Gimme Credit, a high-grade corporate bond investment advisory service in Chicago. "He was so far over our heads that nobody was smart enough to have any interaction with him. We felt like we were studying with Einstein."
At M.I.T., Mr. Scholes teamed up with Fischer Black, an economist who had his own consulting firm. The two developed a formula for valuing stock options, pioneering work that gave rise to an explosion of futures contracts, options and other securities known as derivatives, whose value is derived from some other instrument like a stock or a bond. At the time, though, the men could not get their work published.
Mr. Merton, also an economist at M.I.T., examined their formula, applied some high-powered mathematics and produced an elegant elaboration that was quickly accepted for publication. Ordinarily, the story would end there -- publication would have led the formula to bear forever Mr. Merton's name.
But Mr. Merton refused to publish his effort until the work of Mr. Black and Mr. Scholes was published, which happened in 1973. So the formula for placing a price on stock options is now known throughout the financial world as Black-Scholes. This formula, with Mr. Merton's elaboration, produced Nobel awards for Mr. Scholes and Mr. Merton. Mr. Black died in 1995, and the Nobel is not awarded after death.
The work of the three economists "created an entire new industry," said Zvi Bodie, a finance professor at Boston University and a textbook author with Mr. Merton. They devised a trading strategy that could take the risk out of buying and selling stock options. An investor with a stock option could offset the ups and downs of its market price by buying and selling shares of the underlying stock in a precise manner.
In the process of devising this strategy, the economists demonstrated how to put a market price on options, futures and other derivatives. Once traders had that knowledge, they began aggressively trading stock options on the Chicago Board Options Exchange, and began creating hundreds of other derivative securities, like those backed by the stream of payments from home loans.
One of Mr. Scholes's former students marvels at the fact that the men who came up with the options pricing formula did not sell it to the private sector or trade with it themselves.
While the formula made their reputations, the three economists initially were content to carry on their academic pursuits, consulting here and there, but largely ignoring the sirens of Wall Street.
 
The Mathematician
An Ordered Mind And a Poker Face
Robert Merton looked for order all around him, whether in the stock market or on the poker table. Known for his integrity and brilliance, he has spent his career applying high-powered mathematics to the real world.
Born in 1944, Mr. Merton has had a lifelong fascination with numbers and markets. By the age of 10, he was dabbling in stocks.
He is the son of Robert K. Merton, a renowned professor at Columbia University, who founded the sociology of science and coined such phrases as deviant behavior, self-fulfilling prophecy and role model. He grew up in the Westchester town of Hastings-on-Hudson.
The young Merton received an undergraduate degree in mathematical engineering from Columbia and pursued mathematics studies at the California Institute of Technology. But his interest in stocks and other securities led him to drop mathematics in favor of economics. The idea was to apply the mathematical machinery he had mastered to complex situations.
Because his background was not in economics, several graduate schools rejected him. M.I.T. accepted him in 1967 only after Harold Freeman, a statistician and the only member of the economics department without a Ph.D., intervened on his behalf after taking note of the recommendations from impressive mathematicians.
There Mr. Merton quickly hooked up with Paul A. Samuelson to work on pricing financial securities. Mr. Samuelson, America's first Nobel laureate in economics and the leader of the university's economics department, said, "Bob was one of the best graduate students we've ever had and one of the youngest people we have ever tenured." Mr. Samuelson -- who pioneered the application of mathematics to economic analysis -- added: "Bob and I were working on some of the same problems. One of the joys of teaching was to watch him surpass my work."
After earning a Ph.D. in economics, Mr. Merton taught at M.I.T.'s business school, where Mr. Scholes had been appointed assistant professor of finance after leaving the University of Chicago. Among others, Mr. Merton taught Lawrence Hilibrand, David Mullins and Eric Rosenfeld. All would later become partners of Long-Term Capital.
Mr. Merton and Mr. Scholes did research on options pricing and other projects at M.I.T., and became close friends. They also did some consulting, including a project for Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette to develop models for pricing options for the over-the-counter market and for the new Chicago Board Options Exchange. They even had a joint mutual fund venture in the mid-1970's. It was not "a commercial success," Mr. Merton said last year, but "a broadening experience."
Of the two economists, Mr. Scholes is clearly the extrovert and loves telling jokes and stories. Unlike many in academia, he does not take himself too seriously. Friends say he would be more likely to be mistaken for a salesman than an academic.
Mr. Scholes can also be impetuous. Richard Roll, Allstate chair of finance at the Anderson School at U.C.L.A., recalled an incident in 1970, when Mr. Scholes spoke at Carnegie Mellon in Pittsburgh. "I'd just bought a new motorcycle," Mr. Roll said. "He wanted to get on it to see how it felt to drive. I said, 'Wait a minute, that's a big engine there,' and before I knew it he had laid rubber, hit a curb and landed in my neighbor's yard in a mangled heap." Later that afternoon, Mr. Scholes sprained his ankle diving into his friend's swimming pool.
Mr. Merton, who built cars and drag-raced in his youth, spends his spare time playing poker -- so seriously, says a colleague, that he tries to throw off his opponents by looking into a light bulb to constrict his pupils before playing his cards. Good players are said to be able to determine by the dilation of their opponents' eyes whether their cards are a blessing or a curse.
 
The Marriage
Wall Street Finds Ideas It Can Use
The ideas of Mr. Scholes and Mr. Merton had an immense influence on Wall Street. Still, the two did not work for a big investment firm until late in their careers.
Marrying top economists to top traders was the brainchild of John W. Meriwether, a managing director of Salomon Brothers in the 1980's and the leader of the firm's bond arbitrage group. In 1988, one of Mr. Meriwether's lieutenants, Mr. Rosenfeld, helped bring Mr. Merton to Salomon as a consultant to John Gutfreund, then the chairman. Mr. Merton, who also moved from M.I.T. to Harvard University that year, provided advice on business matters and changes in global financial markets.
While Mr. Merton remained at Harvard full time, Mr. Scholes took a sabbatical from Stanford two years later to join Salomon as a senior adviser to the bond arbitrage group, a group that had had great success. Although Mr. Scholes had met Mr. Meriwether socially, it was Mr. Rosenfeld who persuaded the academic to come to Salomon. Mr. Scholes subsequently became a managing director.
He worked not on trading strategy but on a problem the firm had: Salomon's management was disturbed that it was losing derivatives trades to rival firms. The reason? Some competitors -- such as J. P. Morgan and American International Group -- had top ratings from the big credit rating agencies; Salomon did not. A top-notch rating provides comfort since one of the biggest risks in a derivatives trade is that the firm entering into the transaction will not be solvent or able to meet its financial obligations when the contract expires.
Over about two years, Mr. Scholes figured out a way to use some of Salomon's capital for a separate subsidiary that landed a top rating from the agencies. The stamp of approval cleared the way for a greatly expanded derivatives business at Salomon.
Mr. Scholes was also interested in identifying tax strategies. He scoured the world for ways to turn an investment that generated income into a capital gain, since gains are taxed at a lower rate than income. He also looked for ways to turn pre-tax losses into after-tax profits. "He saw that as a new frontier," said a partner at a rival Wall Street firm who recalled discussing the strategies with him. "By sheer dint of his brilliance, he could be in a position to take advantage of tax loopholes or create some himself that would open up vast opportunities even if the trades didn't look so profitable on the surface."
 
A Fresh Start
Founding Fathers Of a Big Fund
After a scandal involving fraudulent bids for Treasury bonds in 1991, Mr. Meriwether and other top executives resigned from Salomon. Three years later, when Mr. Meriwether started his own firm, Long-Term Capital in Greenwich, Mr. Scholes and Mr. Merton joined him as founding partners.
In Long-Term's early days, Mr. Scholes acted as a salesman, meeting with potential clients. "When they first started out he was instrumental in helping them raise funds, go out on the road," said Matthew Richardson, associate professor of finance at the Stern School of New York University and a research assistant to Mr. Scholes at Stanford.
By all accounts, Mr. Scholes was a natural. "Myron is always talking," said Mr. Roll, the professor of finance at U.C.L.A. "If you met him on the street, the last thing you'd think was he won the Nobel Prize for academic research. You'd think he was a salesman." In just a few months, Mr. Scholes and others raised $1 billion for the fund.
Once the money was in hand, however, Mr. Scholes became less active in operations. He did not sit on the trading desk, but in the back of Long-Term's offices, contemplating the big picture. In the last couple of years he and Mr. Merton had been studying ways to expand into other businesses, like managing money for individuals.
From the beginning, Mr. Merton was even more distanced than Mr. Scholes from the fund's daily operations, venturing to Greenwich from his office at Harvard once every two weeks or so. Often, his contributions to the firm's operations were made by electronic mail.
Many outsiders have assumed that the economic models used by Long-Term Capital to identify trading opportunities were the creation of Mr. Merton and Mr. Scholes. But even there, the academics did not dominate. People close to the fund said that while Mr. Scholes and Mr. Merton laid the foundation for the models through their early work, most of the refinements were done by the traders, who also determined how much in securities to buy and when to sell.
As any academic will attest, putting investment models into effect is far different from creating them. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model, as extended by Mr. Merton, is a theory based on assumptions that stock and other trades can be executed without cost and -- crucial to the fall of Long-Term Capital -- that the volatility of stocks and bonds can be known from their past movements.
Unexpected events in the real world -- such as Russia's decision to stop paying its debts in August -- can wreak havoc on these models. In fact, the spread in prices between similar securities rose to three times their historical levels after the Russian debt moratorium. Long-Term Capital had made bets that these spreads would ultimately narrow; the fact that they widened caused giant losses.
While Mr. Merton and Mr. Scholes were not responsible for building Long-Term Capital's models, they did serve as a sounding board for the fund's traders. As members of the firm's risk management committee -- all the partners were -- they questioned the trades and discussed the size of various positions. The risk management committee met every Tuesday, and Mr. Merton sometimes communicated by conference call from Cambridge.
According to people close to Long-Term Capital, Mr. Scholes and Mr. Merton posed demanding questions to their partners. For instance, they asked about the size of specific trades and the risk that getting out of them would be difficult if investors fled certain markets for safety.
But operations like Long-Term Capital Management do not run by consensus. Disagreements over policy are a way of life. So even if the economists asked tough questions, it is likely that they got reasonable answers in return. After all, if a trader has taken a position, he ought to know how to defend it.
It is a bit surprising that the firm had risk management meetings only once a week. For a firm its size, daily meetings would be more typical. But having made so much money for so long, the partners could easily have been lulled into complacency.
The first realization that they were in trouble came in June, when the fund lost 15 percent of its value. Emerging markets were starting to look dicey; in mid-June, the Russian Government canceled two if its planned debt sales owing to lack of investor interest. July was quiet. Then, on Aug. 14, disaster struck. Markets everywhere froze as it became clear that Russia was about to default on its debt.
Many of the firm's partners were out of the office, either on vacation or business. Mr. Meriwether was on a plane to China, Mr. Rosenfeld was on Nantucket, Mr. Hilibrand was out. Mr. Scholes was in the office, part of a skeleton crew who watched in horror as markets around the world tumbled.
According to people close to the firm, the partners returned to Greenwich as soon as they could. Their capital was dwindling fast and there was no sign of relief from the markets. Nevertheless, the traders continued to believe that their positions were sound and would ultimately be profitable.
It did not take long, however, for them to realize that the large size of their positions presented an insurmountable problem in markets seized up by fear of risk. But no one at the firm realized how many other firms across Wall Street had mimicked the broad outline of Long-Term's trades for their own accounts. As a result, when Long-Term tried to liquidate some of its big positions to raise capital, it found too few buyers. Everyone on the Street was trying to sell at the same time.
"A series of events occurred that were outside the norm," said Martin Gruber, Nomura Professor of Finance at N.Y.U.'s Stern School and a friend of both men. "These catastrophes happen. The fault isn't with the models."
The Long-Term partners decided that raising money was the only way out of the mess. They wanted more cash not to abandon their trades -- though they did jettison some of what they called nonessential positions -- but to see their bets through, according to people close to the fund.
Fresh money failed to materialize in an acceptable form, despite talks with several investment firms and such moneyed investors as Warren E. Buffett and George Soros. Unable to meet calls for more collateral from its trading partners, Long-Term was forced into the arms of a Wall Street consortium, aided by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. To save their fund, the partners sold 90 percent of their equity to a group of banks and brokerage firms for $3.6 billion.
The personal fortunes of many of the partners were immediately wiped out. Some partners, having borrowed to invest in their firm, are facing bankruptcy. Mr. Scholes and Mr. Merton are not, but each man's net worth has taken a substantial blow.
While Long-Term's near collapse does not look good on a resume, the economists remain well regarded in academia and will surely be in demand as consultants. Mr. Scholes had hoped to set up a foundation and retreat somewhat from the firm. Those plans are on hold now.
What Mr. Merton and Mr. Scholes are learning firsthand is just how humbling markets can be. It is a lesson that investors repeatedly learn but always manage to forget.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ROBERT C. MERTON, above, made his name at M.I.T., where he worked with the economist Paul A. Samuelson, shown in photo at right, next to Jerome B. Wiesner, M.I.T. president, center, and Mr. Merton, at left. (Reuters; Charles Carey/Boston Globe); MYRON S. SCHOLES, today, above left, and in his youth, below, between his mother and his brother. (Yokohama/The Hamilton Spectator; Scott Gardner/The Hamilton Spectator)(pg. C3)
 
Charts: "PROFILE: Myron S. Scholes"
 
BORN -- July 1, 1941, Timmins, Ont.
 
HOME -- Greenwich, Conn.
 
EDUCATION
B.A., McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, 1962
M.B.A., University of Chicago, 1964
Ph.D., University of Chicago, 1970
 
CAREER
Faculty, M.I.T., 1969-74
Faculty, University of Chicago, 1974-83
Faculty, Stanford University, 1983-96
Managing director, Salomon Bros., 1991-93
Partner, Long-Term Capital, 1993-present
Nobel Prize, economics, 1997 (at left in photo)
 
FAMILY -- Wife Jan Blaustein, and two daughters from a previous marriage, Anne, 29, and Sara, 27
 
INTERESTS -- Skiing and golf
 
"PROFILE: Robert C. Merton"
 
BORN -- July 31, 1944, New York City
 
HOME -- Boston
 
EDUCATION
B.S., Columbia University, 1966
M.S., California Institute of Technology, 1967
Ph.D., Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1970
 
CAREER
Faculty, M.I.T., 1970-88
Faculty, Harvard University, 1988-present
Consultant, Salomon Bros., 1988-93
Partner, Long-Term Capital, 1993-present
Nobel Prize, economics, 1997 (at left in photo)
 
FAMILY -- Separated. Three children, Samantha J., 28, Robert F., 24, and Paul J., 19
 
INTERESTS -- Working out and poker
(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: BiographySpecial Report

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (91%); SWEDEN (56%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (89%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (89%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG-TERM CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (67%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG-TERM CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (91%); SWEDEN (56%); ONTARIO, CANADA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (89%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (89%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NOBEL PRIZES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); BONDS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); MATHEMATICS (73%); MODELING & SIMULATION (68%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M; SCHOLES, MYRON S; MERTON, ROBERT C MYRON S SCHOLES (95%); ROBERT C MERTON (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



369 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-7
 
Neither U.S. Nor Iraq Gives Way in Confrontation
President Clinton and Saddam Hussein made clear the vastness of the differences between them, offering contradictory analyses of the crisis and incompatible solutions. While calling Mr. Hussein's defiance of the United Nations unacceptable, Mr. Clinton did not issue an ultimatum and offered a small opening to Mr. Hussein to end the impasse. A1 

At the United Nations, representatives of France, Russia and China urged Secretary General Kofi Annan to go to Baghdad to try to persuade Mr. Hussein to back down. But Mr. Annan refused, saying he would go there only if such a mission were likely to succeed. A6
 
More Air Force planes were sent to the Persian Gulf as the United States continued to build a force large enough to carry out a sustained bombing campaign. A6
 
Riots in Indonesia Continue
At least eight people were killed and scores were injured as soldiers, students and thugs clashed in Jakarta. Parliament adopted several decrees intended to nudge Indonesia toward a more democratic future and voted to hold general elections next spring and to begin reforms. A1
 
Motive of Attack Disclosed
One of the clear but unstated objectives of the American missile strike in Afghanistan last August was to kill Osama bin Laden and as many of his lieutenants as possible, Administration officials acknowledged. According to the officials, White House lawyers conducted a secret review in the months before the attack and concluded that such operations were legal under American and international law. A3
 
Political Deal in Cambodia
Cambodia's rival political parties broke a three-month deadlock and agreed to a coalition government that left Hun Sen, who seized power in a coup last year, as sole Prime Minister. A7
 
I.M.F. Announces Brazil Aid
The International Monetary Fund announced a $41.5 billion rescue package for the Brazilian economy that would require a level of sustained economic discipline and sacrifice that the largest nation in Latin America has not demonstrated in the past. A4
 
Space Station Grounded
NASA and the Russian Space Agency have agreed to set aside a last-minute Russian request to launch an international space station into an orbit closer to Mir. A5
 
Struggle at Talks on Climate
Negotiators in the Buenos Aires talks on global warming were locked in a last-minute struggle over the shape and pace of the work schedule for the Kyoto Protocol, an international agreement reached a year ago in Japan. A7
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A8-11
 
Clinton and Jones Agree To $850,000 Settlement
President Clinton agreed to pay Paula Corbin Jones $850,000 to settle her legal claim that he crudely propositioned her seven years ago. Ms. Jones dropped what she had once called her most important demand: that Mr. Clinton apologize and admit wrongdoing. Through his lawyer, the President continued to call Ms. Jones's accusation baseless. The settlement averted the possibility that an appeals court would reinstate her suit, and White House officials believe the settlement will help Mr. Clinton avoid impeachment. A1
 
The independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr again indicted President Clinton's longtime friend, Webster L. Hubbell, left, in connection with the Whitewater matter. The 15-count indictment included the accusation that Mr. Hubbell had sought to conceal from Federal regulators actions of Hillary Rodham Clinton. A1
 
Mr. Starr sent evidence concerning Kathleen E. Willey to the House Judiciary Committee, but did not say the material constituted grounds for impeachment. Ms. Willey accused the President of groping her in the White House. Mr. Clinton denied the assertion under oath. A10
 
A Marine Corps officer who wrote a newspaper column rebuking President Clinton as an "adulterous liar" got the military equivalent of a stern talking-to from his commander, but was not otherwise punished. A10
 
States' Tobacco Settlement
The nation's four biggest cigarette makers and officials of eight states have reached agreement on the outlines of a settlement designed to resolve all remaining state claims over health costs related to smoking, attorneys general and industry lawyers involved in the talks said. The plan would cost the tobacco companies $206 billion over 25 years and would restrict cigarette advertising and marketing, while eliminating the threat of state suits to recover the Medicaid costs of treating people with smoking-related illnesses. A1
 
There is no shortage of proposals for how to spending New York's $20 billion share of the settlement. A9
 
Church Charged in Death
Florida prosecutors filed criminal charges against an arm of the Church of Scientology, alleging abuse or neglect of a disabled adult and the unauthorized practice of medicine in connection with the death of a church member while she was under Scientologists' care. A8
 
Preserving the Everglades
Officials in Florida decided to buy out hundreds of residents who live in an unincorporated area of west Miami-Dade County, in a move that environmentalists hailed as a significant step toward restoring the balance of water in the Everglades. A8
 
Lawsuit Over a Shipwreck
Relatives of the crew of a pleasure ship lost during Hurricane Mitch have sued the vessel's owners for sending it to sea as the storm approached. A8
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
21 Troubled City Schools Are Added to State's List
State Education Commissioner Richard Mills designated 21 New York City schools as failing, bringing the total number of failing schools in the city to 97, which is 3 more than last year. About 9 percent of the 1,100 schools in the city are now designated as failing; only four schools elsewhere in the state are on the list. B1
 
Whitman Has Appendectomy
Governor Whitman of New Jersey had surgery in Morristown to remove her appendix. B4
 
Officers Accuse an Officer
Two of the four officers facing Federal civil rights charges in the brutalization of Abner Louima have incriminated Officer Justin A. Volpe, according to court documents. B2
 
Mother and Lost Son Reunited
A 15-year-old autistic boy found wandering in the Erie Lackawanna Terminal in Hoboken, N.J., on Tuesday was reunited with his mother. B3
 
Record Price for Ruth Ball
The baseball that Babe Ruth hit for the first home run in Yankee Stadium was sold for $126,500, a record for a baseball sold at auction. B3
 
ARTS & IDEAS B9-17
 
Resignations of Protest
Two prominent American poets, both women, have resigned as chancellors of the Academy of American Poets to protest the absence of blacks and other minority groups on the academy's board of chancellors. B9
 
SPORTS D1-6
 
OBITUARIES C16
 
Red Holzman
The coach who led the New York Knicks to their only two N.B.A. championships. He was 78. C16
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-15
 
Consolidating Auto Industry
More large mergers are likely among auto makers because of a worldwide excess of assembly plants and the just completed marriage of Daimler-Benz and Chrysler, industry leaders said in interviews. C1
 
Uncertain Markets Await Fed
The stock market finished mixed as investors looked toward the Fed meeting on Tuesday. The Dow rose 89.85 points, to 8,919.59, and the S.& P. 500 climbed 8.03, to 1,125.72. But the Nasdaq fell 3.07, to 1,847.99. The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 2/32 , to 1004/32 , while its yield fell to 5.24 percent from 5.25 percent. C1
 
Retail sales rose in October at the fastest pace in five months and producer prices crept higher, leading some economists to predict that the Fed would not cut rates. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A12-13
 
Editorials: Lawsuits against handguns; the case of Jonathan Pollard; Brazil gets a loan; Verlyn Klinkenborg on winter.
 
Columns: Frank Rich.
 
Bridge B16
 
Weather B18
 
Crossword B15

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC5065 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT (54%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); INDONESIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); BRAZIL (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (77%); LATIN AMERICA (58%); GULF STATES (58%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (56%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (76%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN & INTERNATIONAL TELEPHONE INC (54%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); INDONESIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); BRAZIL (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (77%); LATIN AMERICA (58%); GULF STATES (58%); INDIAN OCEAN (56%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (86%); SPACE STATIONS (85%); SPACE EXPLORATION (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); AIR FORCES (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); COUPS (73%); LAWYERS (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); RIOTS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); SPACECRAFT (66%); SPACE INDUSTRY (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); CLIMATE CHANGE (64%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (54%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (52%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



370 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: Global Warming: Costly Solutions?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "U.S. Signs a Pact to Reduce Gases Tied to Warming" (front page, Nov. 13): I do not agree with those who suggest that implementation of the Kyoto Protocol would be expensive. The studies that usually support such estimates assume a significant increase in energy demand over current levels and that the current energy consumption is "economically optimal." 
 Demand projections have been more often wrong than right, and fossil fuel prices do not cover their full social costs. The phase-out of subsidies and tax breaks for fossil fuels would provide significant economic benefits just by removing distortions. The Government also indirectly supports fossil fuel consumption through highway construction and the like.
 
EDGAR HERTWICH
Berkeley, Calif., Nov. 13, 1998
 
The writer is a Ph.D. candidate, Energy & Resources Group, University of California at Berkeley.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY&RESOURCES GROUP (63%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KYOTO (JAPAN); UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); GREENHOUSE GASES (88%); CONSUMPTION (87%); ENERGY DEMAND (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (53%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (51%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (51%); 

PERSON: HER, KHOUA MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



371 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON SAYS IRAQ CAN AVERT ATTACK BY GIVING IN TO U.N.

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
President Clinton and President Saddam Hussein of Iraq today made clear the vastness of the differences between them, publicly offering contradictory analyses of the current crisis and incompatible solutions.
Mr. Clinton said the crisis was caused by Iraq's refusal to submit to arms inspections. Mr. Hussein, speaking in Baghdad for the first time since he sparked the crisis, insisted that the problem had been brought on by unjust and lethal economic sanctions. 
 Mr. Clinton said Mr. Hussein could avert a barrage of punitive air and missile strikes only by agreeing immediately and unconditionally to resume international inspections of Iraq's plants for production of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons.
But Mr. Hussein responded that he would agree to inspections only if the harsh economic sanctions imposed on Iraq after it invaded Kuwait in 1990 were eased.
While calling Mr. Hussein's continued defiance of the United Nations unacceptable, Mr. Clinton did not issue an ultimatum and offered at least a small opening to Mr. Hussein to end the impasse.
Administration officials said that Mr. Clinton was prepared to order military action at any time, but that as of tonight he still intended to leave for Asia on Saturday evening for a week of economic meetings in Malaysia, Japan and Korea.
At the United Nations this afternoon, representatives from France, Russia and China urged Secretary General Kofi Annan to travel to Baghdad to try to persuade Mr. Hussein to back down. But Mr. Annan refused, saying he would go there only if such a mission was likely to succeed. Page A6.
The United States and other countries would prefer a peaceful resolution of the crisis, Mr. Clinton said at a White House ceremony at which he signed anti-crime legislation, but "none of us can tolerate an Iraq free to develop weapons of mass destruction with impunity."
Still, Mr. Clinton added, "Saddam Hussein has it within his hands to end this crisis now by resuming full cooperation with Unscom," the United Nations Special Commission for arms inspections. The choice facing Mr. Hussein is his alone, the President said, as are the consequences of failing to back down.
In Baghdad, Mr. Hussein said his refusal over the last three months to cooperate with the United Nations monitoring regime was intended to dramatize his demands for an end to eight years of sanctions that have brought suffering to the Iraqi people.
"Iraq's decisions of Aug. 5 and Oct. 31 are not aimed at creating a crisis or not cooperating with the Security Council, but at satisfying Iraq's just demands," Mr. Hussein said, as reported by the official Iraqi News Agency. "Iraq will accept positively any initiative that meets these just and balanced demands."
Mr. Hussein was responding to a letter from President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia, who opposes the use of force to compel Iraq to agree to weapons inspections.
Mr. Yeltsin told Mr. Hussein that Baghdad's decision to end cooperation with the United Nations weapons commission had "dealt a serious blow to the normalization process," a Kremlin spokesman said.
Russia has been trying to avert an American strike, but Iraq's uncompromising decision has put Moscow in a difficult position. To encourage Iraq to back down, the Russians said they would try to speed up the inspection process. But Russia has sought this before without much success. "Russia is opposed to the use of force in any case," said Viktor Posuvalyuk, Mr. Yeltsin's special envoy for the Middle East.
American officials say that even if Mr. Hussein relents and readmits the weapons inspectors, his pledges would have to be swiftly tested and the Unscom program strengthened.
"We will have to make them more effective," an official said of the weapons inspections. "For the last year the inspectors have been simply political pawns and not a true instrument of inspections."
Administration officials continued to issue threats today as ground and air forces moved toward the region in preparation for a possible large-scale strike against Iraq.
An Iraqi opposition group reported that the Government's intelligence agencies had evacuated their offices in Baghdad on Friday. The group, the London-based Iraqi National Congress, also reported that units of the Special Republican Guard, which protects Mr. Hussein, had been redeployed to locations including Tikrit, the Iraqi leader's hometown.
A senior Administration official who advocates a sudden and severe attack on Iraq's weapons programs and other sites dear to Mr. Hussein said the costs of Washington's failing to act would outweigh the risks of a military strike.
He said that the United Nations inspection program had effectively ended and that forbearance on the part of the United States would probably not lead to its reinstatement.
"If we don't act, the international community will have huffed and puffed and walked away," this official said. "No threat of force by the President would be credible -- it is only hollow and empty."
The official added: "Saddam could believe that he has a green light to threaten the region again. He certainly will rebuild his weapons of mass destruction, and he will use them."
But the official said Mr. Clinton was withholding a decision to order a strike, in part because of the dangers of any use of force and in part to allow time for more ships, planes and troops to flow into the region.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, briefing reporters before departing for the Asia-Pacific economic conference in Malaysia, said the United States had pursued military and diplomatic options on Iraq.
"Unfortunately," she said, "one by one, the diplomatic options have been rebuffed."
She said Mr. Hussein had blamed the United Nations, the United States and others for the breakdown of the inspection program. That, she said, "is completely disingenuous and dishonest and despicable."
The President continued to consult with foreign leaders and members of Congress to insure support for any action, White House aides said.
Today Mr. Clinton telephoned Prince Sultan, the Defense Minister of Saudi Arabia; the Emir of Kuwait, and Secretary General Annan. He also plans to talk with Republican and Democratic leaders of the House and Senate before ordering any use of force, said Joe Lockhart, the White House press secretary.
Mr. Clinton believes that the American people and foreign leaders will back him if he decides to unleash force on Iraq, Mr. Lockhart said.
"I think the President believes the public understands the threat and will support whatever option he may choose to best contain the threat," Mr. Lockhart said.
Another Administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said some Arab leaders would complain if there was an American military attack, but he said at least some of that criticism would be for domestic consumption.
"Over the past few weeks, the communications going to Saddam from a very wide range of people -- including those who would prefer a deal to the use of force -- have been strong messages that he has to comply," the official said. "The Gulf Cooperation Council countries, and Egypt and Syria, which is hardly a friend of the United States, are all saying to Saddam, 'This is in your hands.' That is very helpful. It shows that this is not an American vendetta against Iraq."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Master Sgt. Steve Meyer said goodbye yesterday to his sons, Timothy, left, and Joseph, and his wife, Denise, at McGuire Air Force Base in New Jersey before leaving for deployment in the Persian Gulf. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (73%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (59%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

COMPANY: ;UNITED NATIONS AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); IRAQI NEWS AGENCY (50%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (73%); FRANCE (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (59%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (76%); LEGISLATION (68%); CRIMINAL LAW (63%); 

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



372 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Announces a $41.5 Billion Rescue Package for Brazil

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Nov. 13

 BODY:
Ending nearly three months of uncertainty here, the International Monetary Fund today announced a $41.5 billion rescue package for Brazil that will require a level of sustained economic discipline that Latin America's largest nation has never demonstrated in the past.
Brazilian officials and economic experts responded with restrained relief and confidently predicted that their country would be equal to the tough challenge it will face over the next three years. 
 Under the terms of the accord made public in Washington today, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso is obliged during that period to carry out a combination of spending cuts and tax increases adding up to a whopping $84 billion.
One goal, which had not been spelled out before today, is to bring the federal budget into a surplus next year equal to 2.6 percent of the economy. The program calls for the surplus to increase to 2.8 percent and 3 percent of the economy by 2000 and 2001, respectively. The surpluses are determined before any interest or debt payments. Brazil has not registered a budget surplus of that size for several years.
Otherwise, the main elements of the plan are in line with reports that had leaked out before the official announcement: The I.M.F. will provide $18 billion in funds, $4.5 billion more will come from the World Bank, with a similar contribution from the Inter-American Development Bank. The United States and 19 other countries will supply $14.5 billion, of which Washington kicks in the largest amount, $5 billion.
"This is not a definitive solution," Carlos Kawall, chief economist for Citibank in Sao Paulo, said today. "But it is a decisive step toward restoring credibility and reducing the risk-aversion problem we have been having as a result of crises elsewhere, especially in Russia."
With 20 governments plus various international lending organizations having done their part, the situation now "has to be resolved internally," he added. "We have a difficult year ahead of us, following a year that already has not been so good, but it won't be a total waste if we can just reverse the negative tendencies we've seen."
Carlos Geraldo Langoni, a former president of the Brazilian central bank, said the package announced today "pulls Brazil out of the eye of the hurricane" that descended on the country after the collapse of the Russian economy in August.
"But there are still important reforms that have to be implemented," he said. "Now Brazil has to overcome the credibility gap and show it is able to put these austerity measures into practice quickly."
To a large extent, the success or failure of the bailout plan will depend on Mr. Cardoso's ability to persuade a fractious Congress to approve the tax, administrative and other reforms required by the agreement. The President has been able to assemble a majority in both houses, but only by making costly concessions to allies that have slowed the pace of reform.
"The problem for the President is not the opposition -- it's his friends," said Alexandre de Barros, a political analyst in Brasilia. "This coalition he has behind him charges a high price for its support. Most of them will agree to do what has to be done, on the theory they will get their reward later. But others are going to demand their pork barrel now."
At a news conference in Brasilia today, Finance Minister Pedro Malan opened the Government's campaign with an appeal to the patriotism and better instincts of legislators. "I would like to express my confidence that Congress will know how to rise to the challenges of the present moment, having already demonstrated it can do so in the past," he said.
But in one clear indication of the difficulties Mr. Cardoso will face, the Governor-elect of the state of Rio de Janeiro, Anthony Garotinho, is seeking a $250 million loan from the federal Government to pay an obligatory Christmas bonus to state employees. Brazil's problem, Mr. Garotinho recently argued, "is not that it has too many civil servants, but that it has too few."
Under Brazil's complicated federal system, the governors of the 27 states often have more influence over legislators than the President. The tax reforms Mr. Cardoso has pledged to carry out would severely crimp both the power of and the flow of money to governors and mayors, and in similar situations in the past, legislators have tended to vote not along party lines, but in the interests of their home state.
"The markets are counting on a lot of things being passed with reasonable majorities in the next four weeks or so, which is not unreasonable," said Riordan Roett, director of the Latin American Studies program at Johns Hopkins University. "But it is slowly dawning on people that state governors and mayors will have to be whipped into shape, and that that is not easily done with the snap of anyone's fingers."
Even in Mr. Cardoso's Cabinet there have been signs of resistance. Health Minister Jose Serra last week prepared a study complaining that spending on health has grown at a rate only one-third that of the overall budget since 1994. The study was then carefully leaked to the press.
But economic and political experts here were quick to draw a distinction between Mr. Cardoso's situation and that of his crippled Russian counterpart, Boris N. Yeltsin. Elected to a second term last month with a resounding majority, Mr. Cardoso will be inaugurated in January with a high level of popular support after having reduced inflation from annual rate of 941 percent in 1994 to a current level of zero, dramatically increasing purchasing power for the working class.
Mr. Cardoso's success in vanquishing inflation, experts said, made Brazil's 165 million people more willing to accept the economic recession and increased levels of unemployment that are predicted for the near future.
"We're probably going to have record levels of unemployment in the first half of next year," said Mailson da Nobrega, a former Minister of Finance, but if Mr. Cardoso succeeds in reducing interest rates and holding the exchange rate steady, complaints will be relatively few.
The Sao Paulo stock market reacted gratefully in anticipation of lower interest rates -- now at more than 40 percent -- and an improvement in foreign reserves, which have dropped by nearly half since the collapse of the Russian economy in August. After declining by more than 3 percent on Thursday, the Bovespa index rose 2 percent today.
"This is not the first time Brazil confronts this type of crisis," said Marcus Vinicius Pratini de Moraes, a former Cabinet minister who is now president of the Brazilian Foreign Trade Association. "But it is the first time it is confronting this type of crisis with a stable economy."
 Nevertheless, there were also voices warning that the country should not feel too cocky about its prospects. "There is no reason for Brazilians to exchange the pessimism of the last two months for the excessive optimism of recent days," the newspaper Jornal do Brasil admonished in an editorial today.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Willker Goncalves, 5, ate while his mother, Sonia Bezzera, sold first-aid kits in Sao Paolo. The I.M.F. austerity plan is likely to increase joblessness. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (82%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (82%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (82%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (82%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (82%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (82%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); TRENDS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); FOREIGN LENDING (73%); APPROVALS (72%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY FERNANDO HENRIQUE CARDOSO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1998



373 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2255 words

HEADLINE: WINTER IN THE SNOW;
Sunday River's Peaks and Bowls

BYLINE: By JOE CUTTS; JOE CUTTS, an associate editor at Ski magazine, lives in Burlington, Vt.

 BODY:
TIME was, early this century, when a downcountry aristocrat with a case of frayed nerves could retreat to the wilderness of Bethel, in western Maine, to cure what ailed him. The prescription: Vigorous exercise in the outdoors, and perhaps a little golf at what is now the Bethel Inn and Country Club.
Much has changed in the little town of Bethel since then. Logging is no longer the chief employer, and its central artery, the Androscoggin River, has been very nearly cleaned up. The grand Broad Street houses built by industrious businessmen are now likely to be inhabited by prep-school teachers and second-home owners. It's still a fine retreat, but the preferred retreat time is winter, not summer, and the prescription for peace of mind is not golf, a sport that might push a fragile soul over the edge, but skiing, a big-muscle, high-adrenaline activity that can restore one's sense of well-being. 
 There is good skiing near Bethel, in the rugged mountains on the Maine-New Hampshire border, and the town itself, its turn-of-the-century charm preserved, has a rich character, worth exploring in the evening hours. My friend Paul and I, off on a quick boys-only getaway at the Sunday River Ski Resort, arrived in Bethel after a beautiful drive through the White Mountains. We took a quick look around, decided to return later, then headed on to the resort.
Sunday River is six or seven miles north of Bethel. It is the cornerstone and headquarters of the American Skiing Company conglomerate, whose resorts include Killington and Sugarbush in Vermont and Steamboat in Colorado. Over the past two decades, Sun River has grown tenfold, from a creaky little day area to one of New England's largest and sleekest skiing destinations: 7,000 acres, 654 of them skiable. The east end is the business end, with shuttle buses heaving about on a maze of roads connecting parking lots and condominiums and base areas. We, however, had decided to bunk at the just-opened (and, at that time, not quite completed) Jordan Grand Resort Hotel, at the far western edge.
We pointed our overloaded Audi west down a long, isolated stretch of newly built road that only grudgingly yielded views of the ski area on our left. When the Jordan Grand came into view atop a knoll, with the Jordan Bowl area behind it, we'd come so far it seemed like a separate resort. But while the Jordan Grand is now somewhat isolated, it could soon be the center of the action: there are plans to expand farther west still, well beyond it.
The hotel's wilderness setting is lovely, and its lobby, with blond beams, three-story fieldstone fireplace and vaguely arts-and-crafts decor, is rich and warm. Accommodations range from small hotel-style rooms for two to more spacious quarter-share condo units. Our room cost about $200 for one night, but came with two lift tickets, worth $94. The room was basic, with a bath and two double beds, and we wished we had asked for an end unit, since the kids next door showed little promise, in their parents' absence, of resolving an animated debate over which television channel to watch. But there was a small balcony, providing fresh air and broad northward views of the mountains.
The real beauty of our ski-in, ski-out accommodations became evident in the morning. Not 10 minutes after pulling shut the door of our room, we were sliding into the short lift line at the Jordan Bowl detachable quad, and 6 minutes later we were at the resort's highest peak, tightening the buckles of our ski boots.
The top of the Jordan lift affords the best view, and a good chance to get oriented. The morning sunlight slanted in low, clean and cold as a friendly ski patroller discussed points of interest in his broad Maine accent. Less than 30 miles to the southwest, Mount Washington and the rest of the Presidential Range serrate the horizon. And the Appalachian Trail runs along a high ridge to the northwest, laboring over Old Speck, the highest peak in the area, at 4,180 feet.
Then our patroller pointed eastward, to the far end of the area, where the top of the White Cap lift was visible some three miles away. "Getting there's easy," he explained. From where we stood, you can make an uninterrupted three-and-a-half-mile run all the way across the resort to the bottom of White Cap. Getting back is more difficult, requiring two chairlift rides and the good part of an hour.
 BUT that is one of the pleasures of Sunday River. It sprawls across so many peaks and bowls that you have the feeling of having used your skis as a method of transportation, of having been somewhere. It's not quite the European experience of touring from village to village -- even country to country -- but there's a sense of adventure nonetheless.
We pushed off down Lollapalooza, a wide, friendly beginner trail, and warmed up with long arcs. The Sunday River trail map bristles menacingly with black diamonds (slopes for experts only), but the majority of the terrain is fairly manageable. In fact, the resort is an advanced-intermediate's paradise. With a modest set of skills, the whole mountain is yours, with the exception of a few sinister pitches.
The snow is guaranteed at Sunday River, which is a point of pride. Almost all of those blue-square groomed intermediate trails and more difficult but still mellow black-diamonds are lined with the latest and most sophisticated snow-making equipment. Tower guns belch snow of astonishing quantity and surprising quality. Then the grooming fleet takes over, crawling across the mountain in the night, chopping, smoothing, shaping, buffing.
On this unblemished surface, an expert can feed his skis the fall line, taking advantage of the precise morning light, the sparse early crowd and the yielding corduroy. There is no better surface for setting a well-tuned edge and letting a modern sidecut ski slice the snow in long clean arcs. For a moment, you're Hermann Maier, flying like the wind, leaving only pencil-thin tracks behind.
Experts will find new challenges recently carved out of the woods. The Spruce Cliffs area skis like an elevator shaft, plunging over a knoll and into the dense trees near the top of Spruce Peak. Flying Monkey, part of the Oz area, is a new, treed area hewn from the woods: The spruces have been removed, leaving only gnarled birches interspersed with moguls. These runs are over quickly, but they're both bona fide nerve testers.
For beginners there is the South Ridge area, at the center of the resort, where novices ply gentle slopes under the tutelage of Sunday River's "Perfect Turn" ski instructors.
It takes most of a day to explore the resort from end to end. At quitting time, guests of the Jordan Grand can ski to the back door, click out of their bindings and catch their breath near the heated outdoor pool, where children splash about, watched by their parents. For the driven, there is the adjacent workout room, where stationary rowers, bikers and walkers take in the plate-glass view of the pool, and the forest behind it. For others, like ourselves, a short nap proved a fine reviver.
That evening, we headed back down the access road to the Sunday River Brewing Company, Bethel's most popular apres-ski spot. The SRBC, as it is known, is about halfway between the resort and the village of Bethel, its red metal roof marking the turnoff to the access road where it diverges from U.S. 2. Inside, there's a restaurant to the left, a pub to the right and, between, a glassed-in brewing room, where stainless steel brewing vessels gleam.
The pub was already crowded when we arrived. A fire burned in the stone fireplace, and the requisite moose head surveyed the room from its perch over the mantle. At the bar, a foursome of young professionals from the Boston area's South Shore -- Sunday River's bread-and-butter customers -- sampled the basic pub-food menu and assured us that this is where the action is on any given night. . Our bartender, Colin, suggested the 420 IPA, which was a good steer: malty, big (7 percent alcohol, mind) and judiciously hopped.
Tempted as we were to set up camp at Colin's elbow, we set out instead in search of dinner in town.
Bethel is very much the antithesis of the booming development at the foot of the ski area. Like other New England towns that suffered economic downturns after World War II, its beauty has been frozen in time, saved from the sprawl of prosperity.
At the bottom of Church Street are the handsome brick buildings of Gould Academy, a private school with a well-known ski-racing program. Farther up are the brace of churches that lend the street its name and, at the top, is the charming village common, complete with gazebo.
Above the green, Church becomes Broad Street, a residential district of lovely 19th-century homes, each with a carriage barn behind it. The street is dominated not by power lines but by trees. It is rare and rewarding to see a town taking such care of itself; skiers with a taste for historic New England villages might well decide to find their lodgings here, within 15 minutes of the slopes.
The Bethel Inn and Country Club fronts the common -- very much the classic New England inn with its yellow clapboards and green awnings. There's formal dining upstairs, but we opted for the Millbrook Tavern downstairs: more sweater-and-jeans friendly, and less expensive. On television (volume down), the University of Michigan hockey team had taken Boston University to overtime in the national championship game. On our table was a well-broiled New York strip steak. Life was good.
Walking our meal off, Paul and I discovered the Suds Pub, below the Sudbury Inn on Main Street. The Suds is a bar for local people, and strikes you as a bit shabby when you first walk in, becoming progressively more cheery as your stay extends. There was more good microbrew on tap (served in pitchers of momentarily daunting proportions); B.U. was running out of luck on the television over the bar, and an earnest rockabilly duo was hard at work in the corner. The real night to hit the Suds, we were told, is Hoot Night, every Thursday, when the mike is open to all comers. The results are always interesting and sometimes downright musical.
Talk turned to the pros and cons of Sunday River's explosive growth ("Some Day Bigger," local people call it), and to the old days. Finally, Michigan put B.U. out of its misery. It was time to head back up the hill.
At the bottom of the slopes, we checked out Bumps Pub, which still showed signs of action at that late hour. Outside, a knot of people had gathered around an open fire, which would have been a nice touch, with the mountain as backdrop, had not a nearby street light been competing with the fire, and winning.
We decided to turn in and catch the first chair in the morning.
 
On the slopes, in the town
 
Basics
Sunday River Ski Resort, Post Office Box 450, Bethel, Me., 04217; general information (207) 824-3000, snow conditions (207) 824-5200, fax (207) 824-5110.
By car, Sunday River is about seven hours from New York, three hours from Boston.
 
On the Slopes
Lift tickets are $49 for a full day on weekends and holidays, $47 weekdays; for those age 6 to 12 and 65 and older, it's $31 weekends and holidays, $30 weekdays; no charge for children age 5 and under.
 
Lodging and Dining
The Jordan Grand Hotel and the Summit Hotel offer two-bedroom hotel-style rooms as well as condominium suites. Midwinter Ski-and-Stay packages, which include lodging and a lift ticket, start at $109.95 a person, a day. Five-day packages start at $379. Lower rates are available midweek and during shoulder seasons (before Christmas, after April 1).
Sunday River also has slopeside condominiums that can accommodate three to eight people. Prices, based on maximum occupancy, start at $69 a night, or $379 for a five-night stay. Lodging reservations: (800) 543-2754, or on the Internet at sundayriver.com.
The Bethel Inn and Country Club, on the village common, (207) 824-2175 or (800) 654-0125, is a classic New England inn, with fine dining, health club, 22 miles of cross-country skiing trails and a pool. Rates are $69 to $195, per person, double occupancy, breakfast and dinner included. Town house units are also available. In the main dining room, dinner for two, with wine, costs about $50; downstairs, in the Millbrook Tavern, dinner for two, with wine, is about $35. The Sudbury Inn, on Main Street (207) 824-2174, serves mostly regional American cuisine with international highlights; dinner for two, with wine, costs about $30.
The Sunday River Brewing Company, at the junction of U.S. 2 and the Sunday River access road (207) 824-4253, serves beers brewed on site, in six styles, and food from a full menu; dinner for two, with beer, is about $25.
 
Events
The Bethel Winter Festival will be held Jan. 9 and 10 in Bethel and the surrounding area. Activities include fireworks, moonlight cross-country skiing, skiing and snowboarding clinics, sleigh rides, snowshoeing, dog-sled rides and a beer fest. Information: (207) 824-2282.
 
Other Places to Visit
Mount Abram, Me., six miles east of Bethel, is a less-expensive, less-crowded option that is especially popular with local telemark skiers. Mount Washington and the rest of the Presidential Range are less than an hour away by car. The shops of North Conway, N.H., are an hour away. Other nearby ski resorts, all in New Hampshire, include Attitash Bear Peak and Cranmore (an hour) and Wildcat (35 minutes).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Skiers skirt a daunting dropoff on the slopes of Sunday River, in western Maine. (Paul O. Boisert for The New York Times)(pg. 10); Lobby of the Jordan Grand Resort Hotel. (Paul O. Boisert for The New York Times)(pg. 18)
 
Map of Maine highlighting Sunday River ski resort. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (66%); NAICS713920 SKIING FACILITIES (66%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (66%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SUNDAY RIVER SKI RESORT (MAINE) AMERICAN SKIING CO (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUNDAY RIVER SKI RESORT (MAINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: WHITE MOUNTAINS; MAINE; UNITED STATES (94%); MAINE, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: SKIING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS SKIING (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); RESORTS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: CUTTS, JOE

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



374 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENTS REPORT;
Airlines Try to Tuck In Their Upper-Class Fliers

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
THERE'S a revolution under way among the upper classes on international flights. Demand for business-class seats is so strong that airlines are dividing into two ranks, those that are eliminating first class to make room for more business-class seats and those that are telling their first-class passengers to lie down and go to sleep.
The newest development will begin Dec. 1, when Delta Airlines will stop selling first-class tickets for international travel as it begins to refurbish planes and expand its business-class cabins. During the ensuing eight months, Delta will install new business-class seats that it says will be more comfortable than the existing ones, with advanced video entertainment and computerized games. Delta also said it would improve its meal and wine selections. 
 This reduction to two-class international service will require the refurbishing of 42 Boeing 767's and 15 MD-11's. Delta has also ordered a dozen Boeing 777's with just two classes of service.
Two-class service is also used by Continental, Trans World Airlines, US Airways and Virgin Atlantic, each of which claims its business class is better than others'. These airlines all emphasize seat pitch -- the distance between seats -- in their business classes. On these airlines, the business-class seat pitch is typically 55 inches, but can be as much as 60 inches. In coach, the seat pitch is usually 31 to 34 inches.
Two other airlines, American and United, said that they were going in the opposite direction, with plans to upgrade their first-class cabins on international flights, while keeping business class. Both airlines will install first-class seats that can be converted into beds on their biggest planes. American's changeover begins in January. United has not announced a date.
Singapore Airlines said it would install pods, which have seats that flatten into beds behind flexible curtains, for its first-class passengers as part of a $300 million upgrade of its first-class service. Japan Airlines, Qantas, ANA and some other Asian airlines are also moving to sleeping pods for first class on long-haul flights.
Virgin has said it will put sleeping compartments for two in what would otherwise be cargo space under its business-class sections on Airbus 340-600's that are on order.
Singapore is also putting in bigger business-class seats, but is cutting the size of its business-class cabins to 58 seats, from 65, on its 747-400 jets.
In coach, where most travelers sit, American, United and some other airlines are replacing the seats with ones featuring better cushioning and little flaps so you can fall asleep and not get a sore neck. But there won't be more leg room.
The decision by American, United, Singapore and others to install sleeping pods follows the move two years ago by British Airways, which reduced the number of first-class seats on its Boeing 777 and 747 planes to 14, from 18, and to 12 on its DC-10's to make room for seats that can be turned into semi-private pods, an idea taken from designs used aboard sailboats.
Having fewer seats to sell means higher prices. British Airways charges $8,676 for first-class round-trip service between New York and London, which is 59 percent more than the $5,440 for business class. (Coach seats sell for $1,400 unrestricted and as little as $300 with advance purchase in winter.)
Driving the changes are expense-account policies of corporations and the economics of differing types of aircraft. With corporate profits slowing, fewer companies are willing to spring for first class, even for senior executives. British Airways promotes its sleeping pods as a productivity boost, said John Lampl, a spokesman for the airline. "You can get a full night's quality rest before your morning meeting in London," he said.
But productivity can also be measured by how fast a business traveler gets from one city to another. And for a resident of many cities in the United States, getting a night's sleep on the way to London would require connecting to a British Airways departure city instead of going nonstop in business class on Delta, US Airways or Continental.
Delta flies to more cities in Europe than any other American carrier. But it relies heavily on Boeing 767's, twin-engine planes that have two aisles but are not wide enough to accommodate sleeping pods profitably.
David Coleman, United Air Lines' senior vice president for marketing, said the types of planes in an airline's fleet have a major impact on the service it can offer. "There is and will be a significant demand on the major routes for first-class travel, but the economics of a lie-down product on a 767 are poor."
Delta has 42 Boeing 767's for international routes. It also has 15 MD-11's, planes wide enough to accommodate pods, and has ordered a dozen Boeing 777's, also a wide-body craft. But Delta said it would have two classes of service, business and coach, on those planes as well because demand for business class is growing four times as fast as for first class.
American said its first lie-down seats will be available early next year, when it receives new 777's for trans-Pacific flights. These seats will next be installed in first class on North Atlantic routes, then on its South America routes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (90%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); C6L (SGX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); SINGAPORE (86%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC; US AIRWAYS; TRANS WORLD AIRLINES; UNITED AIRLINES INC; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (90%); BOEING CO (57%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELTA AIR LINES INC; US AIRWAYS; TRANS WORLD AIRLINES; UNITED AIRLINES INC; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); SINGAPORE (86%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (91%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



375 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 74; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Attention, Shoppers

BYLINE: By Judith Newman; Judith Newman has written for Harper's Magazine, Vanity Fair and New York.

 BODY:

In Sam We Trust
The Untold Story of Sam Walton and
How Wal-Mart Is Devouring America.
By Bob Ortega.
413 pp. New York:
Times Business/Random House. $25.95. 
 Thinking of buying this book? Chances are excellent you'll be walking into a Barnes & Noble or Borders, two of the superstores that are coming ever closer to obliterating independent booksellers. And for that, says Bob Ortega, you must either thank or curse Wal-Mart's founder, Sam Walton -- because it is Walton's practices that are driving the trend toward Brobdingnagian chain stores today. In his ambitious, exhaustive and sometimes exhausting book, Ortega, a reporter who covers the retail industry for The Wall Street Journal, asks us to consider a question fundamental to the way America does business: How high is the cost of low cost?
"In Sam We Trust" is really two books in one. Initially, it comes off as an admiring biography of Sam Walton that tells the story of his drive to become the biggest of the big among chains like Sears and Kmart. Because neither Walton's family nor key Wal-Mart executives would cooperate with the book, to tell this story Ortega is forced to rely heavily on Vance Trimble's 1990 biography, "Sam Walton: The Inside Story of America's Richest Man," and on Walton's own 1992 autobiography, "Made in America." Thus many of the credos and habits of the modest, down-to-earth and "casually relentless" Walton have already been well documented, and so have the policies that made Wal-Mart the single largest private employer in the United States today. In a nutshell: lowest prices and highest product turnover equals biggest profit.
Seeing rural America as the great unserved population, Walton opened his stores in small towns where he faced minimum competition, stole managers and useful ideas from his rivals and cut deals on merchandise directly with manufacturers. Gentlemanly, modest and notoriously chintzy -- he made his managers share hotel rooms on business trips -- Walton was also a gifted leader. He was one of the first retailers to institute a profit-sharing plan, because he believed it was the only way to give every worker a sense of having a stake in the business. (In an age of the paranoid mogul, it is surprising to learn that Walton always kept a listed phone number at home, so that even the lowest-level "associates" could have access to him.) Walton "was to the faith of consumerism what the Mahatma Gandhi was to nonviolence," Ortega writes.
For the first half of this treatise, Ortega is seemingly breathless in his admiration of Walton's achievements. Of the opening of the first Wal-Mart, he writes, "As with many epochal moments in business history, it was decades before the significance of this date became clear." Indeed, how one feels about "In Sam We Trust" depends in part on how inherently dramatic one finds the rise of discount retailing in America. If the reader's heart beats a little faster at the start of such paragraphs as "Meanwhile, back at the Searcy distribution center," then he's come to the right place.
But midway through the book, the tone and focus change. "In Sam We Trust " becomes another work entirely: an indictment of the greed and excesses of a company bent on profit, whatever the human cost. However much he admired the man, Ortega seems to deplore the business he created.
In 1988, an economist at Iowa State University published a study showing what happened to the economies of small towns after the opening of a Wal-Mart on the outskirts. It wasn't pretty. Noncompeting businesses like restaurants and bars did not suffer, but on average Wal-Mart siphoned off three-quarters of the sales of competing businesses in town. When the study engendered plenty of bad press, Walton countered with his own study: a team of researchers at the University of Missouri were paid a piddling $10,000 to look at 14 Wal-Marts in that state. To no one's surprise, their findings concluded that far from being hurt by the giant stores, the counties "almost all showed growth or revitalization after the opening of Wal-Mart." At any rate, the war between Wal-Mart and Main Street was on.
While seeds of discontent had been sown before Sam Walton's death (in 1992, from bone cancer), his folksy image provided a shield against public charges of rapaciousness. But once his handpicked successor, David Glass, took over, the company got involved in one public relations blunder after another. There was the bad publicity over the company's selective enforcement of rules on staff romances (mixed-race couples were punished, for example, while a married Wal-Mart attorney who got involved with a file clerk was not) and the debacle over Wal-Mart's "Made in America" program (despite its claims to the contrary, much of Wal-Mart's merchandise was and is made overseas). Then there was Kathie Lee Gifford, with whom the company had developed a line of clothing. She became a lightning rod for criticism when union sympathizers got out the word that her clothing was being produced by children in Guatemala and sweatshop workers in Manhattan.
Ortega veers, not always successfully, between the many stories he's trying to tell. He'll end a chapter with the promise of the Kathie Lee Gifford saga, and won't return to it again for another 60 pages. And once he gets there, do we really need a many-paged recitation of Kathie Lee's entire career history, right down to the bit parts she used to play on the soap opera "Days of Our Lives"? Someone badly needed to take a weed whacker to this manuscript.
Finally, coming from a Wall Street Journal reporter, there's something a bit overzealous, and perhaps naive, about Ortega's conclusions. "The history of the company," he writes, "provides ample evidence that Wal-Mart, like any corporation, is merely a machine, an amoral construct with one imperative: the profit motive. That pursuing that motive to the utmost may have a corrosive effect on communities or individuals -- including people within the corporation -- never enters into the equation." Duh. Ortega ends with an exhortation to consumers to take control of their shopping destinies. "Whatever the issue -- buy American; allowing independent monitors into factories; ending sweatshop conditions and forced and child labor; treating its own workers with dignity and respect; building stores that help rather than hurt a town's sense of community -- Wal-Mart . . . will respond to what the public demands from it."
Ortega is right. Unfortunately, what America demands is not fairness or decency, but cheap goods and lots of 'em. It's called capitalism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: IN SAM WE TRUST (BOOK)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (76%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (76%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (76%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (76%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); RETAILERS (89%); TRENDS (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); BOOKSTORES (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); LITERATURE (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (63%); 

PERSON: ORTEGA, BOB; NEWMAN, JUDITH SAM MOORE WALTON (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



376 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 7; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Seized by Fame, And Jarred by It

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

 BODY:
"CAN I have your autograph?"
 The request, from a New Jersey man awaiting his car at a parking garage near Times Square, seemed to hit Stephen DeRosa like a slap in the face. "Are you crazy?" screeched Mr. DeRosa, who had just finished another breakneck performance in "The Mystery of Irma Vep," Charles Ludlam's Gothic romp at the Westside Theater/Downstairs. "Surely you must be mistaken." 
 Ah, fame.
After years of temping, working in a video store and living off the kindness of his mother, Mr. DeRosa is unaccustomed to life as an actor with a recognition factor. He signs the man's Playbill: "You're silly!," and ducks inside his own red Mercury Mystique, visibly unnerved by the brush with celebrity.
Six weeks after the revival of "Irma Vep" opened to gushing reviews and packed houses, Mr. De Rosa is still adjusting "to life in the theah-tah," he said, with an Olivia De Havilland flourish. He already has a budding fan club -- well, mostly retired teachers from his days at P.S. 193 in Whitestone, Queens. And even though his performance thrusts him into four disguises, strangers do occasionally recognize him on the street. "It must be the nose," said Mr. DeRosa, a slight, shamelessly self-deprecating 30-year-old with thinning hair and basset-brown eyes who seems to take great pleasure in talking about psychotherapy, his mollycoddling mother and "the dark years" he spent as an under employed actor.
Not that a steady paycheck has affected his style of life. He still lives at home in Yonkers, dreams of the day he can afford to move to Manhattan, and carries an unshakable fear of the minimum wage. "The best thing about the job so far is being able to see my therapist twice a week," he said before a recent show, sipping a decaffeinated espresso at a restaurant on Theater Row and venting feelings of guilt for having ordered two appetizers, a main course and dessert.
His frenetic personality is tailor-made for the whirligig of "Irma Vep," a cross-dressing sendup of both highfalutin and cheap horror films. He alternates as Jane Twisden, a prim, tight-jawed chambermaid, and Lord Edgar Hillcrest, a stodgy Egyptologist whose first wife, Irma Vep, has died under mysterious circumstances. He also makes a brief appearance as "the intruder," a homicidal ghoul who looks like a cross between a werewolf, the Phantom of the Opera and "someone with a really bad thyroid condition," as the actor described it.
Mr. DeRosa's characters dart in and out after the instant costume changes that are the play's hallmark. In one scene, he struts offstage as the tweedy Lord Edgar and is back six seconds later as Jane, in flannel nightgown and five-foot-long auburn braid. The secret? "Velcro, Velcro and more Velcro," Mr. De Rosa said. "That is the real mystery of 'Irma Vep.' "
His onstage sparring partner and the director is Everett Quinton, who played Mr. DeRosa's roles 14 years ago when Ludlam first produced and starred in "Irma Vep" in Greenwich Village. Ludlam, who died in 1987, was both companion and mentor to Mr. Quinton, and Mr. DeRosa said he was ever mindful of the author. "Sometimes, the legacy of Charles Ludlam can be overwhelming," he said. It is a legacy so weighty that Mr. DeRosa said he was still afraid to watch a videotape of Ludlam's performance.
From the look of the current revival -- and according to those who have seen both it and the original -- Mr. DeRosa and Mr. Quinton are well matched for this tightly choreographed farce that would surely crumble under the weight of clashing egos. "Charles had this incredible generosity that's necessary to make such an intense play work," Mr. Quinton said. "Stephen has that generous spirit and a real respect for the play. And that's not just spin." About his co-star, Mr. DeRosa says simply, "I feel like I'm working with Sid Caesar or Milton Berle."
Not that Mr. DeRosa is dead wood. He can provoke laughter with a flash of Jane's brittle smirk or with lines like "Here's your toddy," delivered in an accent that he admits he stole from the English maid on "Frasier." Writing in The New York Times, Peter Marks called Mr. DeRosa "Tim Conway to Mr. Quinton's Harvey Korman" and described his performance as "consistently smashing."
Offstage, Mr. DeRosa is a volley of cartoonish voices, one-liners and goofy facial expressions. "He's one of the most wildly funny people I've ever met," said the director Mark Lamos, who worked with the actor in "Love's Fire," a series of one-acts by well-known American playwrights based on Shakespeare's sonnets.
MR. DE ROSA made his acting debut at 12, when he starred as Tevye in his elementary school production of "Fiddler on the Roof." The show's producer, Sally Berkowitz (who was also his sixth-grade teacher and forms the core of his fan club), still insists that young Stephen was better than Zero Mostel. "So many people wanted to come see him, that we had to do the show twice," she crowed.
Louisa DeRosa, his mother, couldn't agree more. "Stephen began acting right after he was born," she said without a hint of exaggeration. "At six weeks, he was posing for photos with his hand on his chin." Mrs. DeRosa was often so busy running her fast-food restaurant in Rockefeller Center that the babysitter for her only child was often the family television set. "His first words were actually from a commercial," she said.
As a boy, he spent his free time chatting with customers at his mother's restaurant or exploring midtown. Mrs. DeRosa called him the Mayor of 48th Street because he would roam the block and conduct mock interviews with strangers. "Try to imagine a fat, annoying 8-year-old with a tape recorder," Mr. DeRosa said. "That was me."
He describes his parents as theatrical, larger-than-life people, "the kind of folks who live for today, even if it's a little bit reckless." His father, a storefront lawyer in the Bronx, was a cigar-smoking, wisecracking man with a penchant for gambling and martinis. "He was more Joe Pesci than 'Father Knows Best,' " Mr. DeRosa said of the elder DeRosa, who died when his son was 15. "My mom is sort of like Auntie Mame," he added. "She's very self-dramatizing and she believes that vanity is a virtue. For a long time, she was obsessed with me getting a toupee."
He may have been acting all his life, but it was only two years ago that Mr. DeRosa actually got paid to perform -- in the Acting Company's well-received "Love's Fire." Mr. DeRosa got himself noticed in the play by Tony Kushner, the massively titled "Terminating, or Lass Meine Schmerzen Nicht Verloren Sein or, Ambivalence," in which he was cast as a neurotic gay man who desperately wants to sleep with his former therapist, a lesbian. "When I read through the script, I thought, 'Tony Kushner must have consulted my therapist,' " Mr. DeRosa said.
In more serious moments, he talks about the frustrating years he spent looking for acting work or trying to get by as a clerk at Blockbuster Video. After graduating from the Yale School of Drama in 1995 -- he applied three times before getting accepted -- he was unprepared, he said, for the endless rejections from casting directors. "I figured I'd come out of Yale and they'd be clamoring to hire me," he said.
In 1996, he put together a cabaret act at a piano bar in Greenwich Village and called it "Wake Up and Smell DeRosa, or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love Unemployment." The title turned out to be a cruel joke on its author, who fell into a deep depression when the show closed. "I call it my Dostoyevsky period," he said. "It really made me question my decision to go into acting, and at that point I almost quit."
He credits his mother with persuading him to stick with it. "She would make me some food and say, 'There's always tomorrow.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stephen DeRosa as the maid in "The Mystery of Irma Vep." (James Estrin/The New York Times); Mr. DeRosa as Lord Edgar Hillcrest in "Irma Vep."
(Anita and Steve Shevett)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MYSTERY OF IRMA VEP, THE (PLAY)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOMBARDIER INC-DE HAVILLAND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); RESTAURANTS (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (64%); HORROR FILMS (60%); HAIR LOSS (50%); 

PERSON: LUDLAM, CHARLES; DEROSA, STEPHEN; JACOBS, ANDREW MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



377 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 68; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: Taking the Starch Out of Status

BYLINE: By Joseph Nocera 

 BODY:
In the spring of 1996, two young men named David Filo and Jerry Yang, both still in their 20's, became overnight multimillionaires. They did it, of course, the way everybody becomes an overnight multimillionaire nowadays. They started an Internet company in their spare time --just for fun, they called it Yahoo! -- and after securing some venture capital, they completed an Initial Public Offering, or I.P.O., to use the initials that even schoolchildren can now toss off on the playground. Yahoo! stock opened for business at $4.33 a share (split-adjusted, I scarcely need to mention), and by the end of that first day, the stock had risen 154 percent. That's a bigger first-day gain than even during Netscape's fabled I.P.O. Presto! Filo and Yang, who held 31 percent of the stock, were suddenly worth a combined $270 million. If that's not the classic definition of "New Money," I don't know what is.
New Money. Now there's a phrase you don't hear anymore. Once upon a time, though -- 50 years ago, just 10? -- New Money was a term that was meant to contrast with Old Money, and there was no doubting which was preferred, at least among the taste makers on the East Coast. New Money was grasping and crass (think: your typical Texas oilman); Old Money was refined (think: David Rockefeller). New Money yearned for respectability; Old Money had it. New Money flaunted its wealth; Old Money believed there was no greater sin. Old Money had status that New Money could only dream about. 
In the 1950's and early 1960's -- an era, please recall, when personal income was taxed at rates as high as 91 percent -- the act of trying to get rich quick, by, say, striking oil in Texas, was regarded with suspicion, if not outright hostility. An oilman who stumbled on black gold was viewed, with enormous condescension, as lucky more than smart -- more akin to a gambler than a titan of industry. Real wealth was something accrued over generations, not days. The self-made man stood several orbits outside the nation's elites. The typical entrepreneur couldn't get a decent table at "21" unless he bought the joint -- as the entrepreneur Marshall Cogan did in the 1980's.
Today, it's Old Money that has become ever so slightly disreputable -- with its associations of undeserved connections, "coupon clipping" and third and fourth generations that were messed up because of their inherited wealth. Meanwhile, the act of trying to get rich quick by, say, starting an Internet company has become virtually the sole requirement for entering the ranks of the nation's elite. Now the assumption is that the richer you are, the smarter you must be and the more status you have. It's not a matter of privilege, or birthright, but merit -- or at least that's how it is now seen. Consequently, the word "entrepreneur" has become a term of praise rather than opprobrium.
Billionaires or near-billionaires -- like Bill Gates; Jeff Bezos, the head of Amazon.com; Scott McNeely, the head of Sun Microsystems; and even Filo and Yang -- have become something akin to national heroes. Think about it: when mothers used to tell their children that they could grow up to be anything they wanted, they usually cited the Presidency as the greatest possible aspiration. Now mothers are more likely to tell their kids that they can grow up to be the next Bill Gates.
How does this sort of thing happen? How does the entire culture change the way it views money? One theory, proposed by Nelson W. Aldrich Jr., the author of the 1988 book "Old Money: The Mythology of America's Upper Class," is that Ronald Reagan began the shift in attitude. As Aldrich observes, Reagan was a self- made man who surrounded himself with other self-made men, like his Treasury Secretary, Donald Regan (and later White House Chief of Staff), who had risen from a working-class childhood in Cambridge, Mass., to become the chairman of Merrill Lynch. These men, in turn, promoted the values of the self-made man -- "Market Man," Aldrich calls him -- and set about rousting the patrician elites from their business enclaves. Aldrich cites in particular the rise of the hostile takeover movement in the 1980's -- which a different administration might have put a stop to, but which the Reagan Administration tacitly encouraged. It overthrew one family-dominated company after another, "all in the name of greater efficiency."
Aldrich's theory is fine so far as it goes, but a more powerful factor, it seems to me, was that business simply became cool in the 1980's -- and has remained so ever since. And this had nothing whatsoever to do with Reagan or with the government's promoting the values of the self-made man. It was because out in Silicon Valley, a new kind of industry was being born. It wasn't dirty or slick. It didn't require digging holes in the ground. Instead, it was a futuristic industry that was clean and fun. It took place in an office -- or more famously in a garage. The only equipment required was a computer and a brain. It was run by a bunch of wide-eyed kids who captured the public's imagination. They weren't just out to make money: they were idealistic and were going to change the world -- or so they said. And, oh yes, it turned out to be the greatest creator of instant wealth this nation has ever seen. In a sense, New Money became respectable the moment it was connected to a California computer start-up instead of to a Texas oil well.
On the whole, the respect given to New Money is laudable. In a country that claims to celebrate achievement, it is nice to see business achievement getting its due. The old entrepreneurs used to say that "money is a way of keeping score," and to an astonishing degree, the culture now accepts that idea. At the very least, it's a good thing that we're no longer so quick to sniff at the making of money -- an activity, after all, that drives our economy (and puts food on our tables).
And yet, I can't help missing something. For underlying this change are all the old issues that have always formed the subtext of Old versus New -- issues of class and "sophistication." It wasn't the Texas oilman's riches that caused the elites to shun him; it was his tastes. He preferred a slab of beef to foie gras; he listened to country music instead of to Chopin; and when he wanted to buy some expensive artwork for the house, it was more likely to be a Western Remington sculpture than a European Impressionist painting. The elites saw the entrepreneur's wealth as less attributable to real skill than to his happening upon the right hole in the ground.
The new entrepreneurs are nothing if not tasteful. Their industry revolves around "brain power." It is populated by kids who have gone to the best schools (or, better yet, have dropped out of the best schools, as Gates did: he was too smart for Harvard). They live in big, elegant homes. Ultimately, New Money has joined the ranks of the elites because most of the new billionaires are elitists. They don't think they are, but they are. The have the same general tastes and sophistication that used to mark Old Money.
I remember when I first realized this, about 10 years ago, while I was working on an article about Steve Jobs. I was living in Texas and had gained a great fondness for the old New Money men I'd met there -- oil prospectors, flamboyant real-estate types and the like -- a fondness I still retain. But Jobs, I could instantly see, wasn't like them at all. He was, instead, an exemplar of the new New Money ethos that had begun to reign in California. There was nothing crass or grasping about him. He wore jeans, but the casualness was studied. His tastes were understated and modern. When we went out to dinner one night, he took me to a place that served nouvelle cuisine and ordered a beautiful bottle of wine. Then he drove in a sleek foreign import to his big, elegant home.
And there was this: Jobs professed to care not at all about money. This has also become part of the Silicon Valley ethos -- everybody there claims not to be doing it for the money. "I was pretty comfortable before," Marc Andreessen of Netscape told Fortune magazine two years ago -- when he was worth about $100 million. "I'm just sort of more comfortable now."
So, has New Money acquired the values that used to be associated with the Old? I suppose so. But I've got to tell you, it makes me long for the Texas oilman. There was something finally, reassuringly democratic about the notion that anyone lucky enough to hit a gusher could become an instant millionaire. And in his willingness to be loud, to admit that he wanted to get rich, he was at least being honest. Can the New Money boys in California really say the same?

GRAPHIC: Photo: Silicon Valley-ites, like Filo (right), care as little about money as Old Money did. (Mark Richards)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); CHILDREN (71%); TRENDS (69%); 

PERSON: NOCERA, JOSEPH DAVID FILO (90%); JERRY YANG (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



378 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 62; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 2472 words

HEADLINE: Taking the Starch Out of Status

BYLINE: By Alan Wolfe 

 BODY:
Of all the inequalities around us, those involving status are surely the most benign. Status's main rivals -- wealth and power -- are, to those who want them badly enough, worth killing for. No wonder those who study economics and politics tend to be, in William James's term, "hardheaded, hardhearted and hardfisted." Pursuing wealth or power means treating the world as composed of isolated individuals, each seeking a cutthroat advantage over everyone else.
Status is made of far softer stuff. It is, for one thing, more subjective than either money or clout. Owning the company or commanding the troops gives you certain privileges irrespective of whether the folks whose destiny you control admire (or even like) you. But the qualities that constitute status exist in the eyes of the beholder, not the possessor; if ordinary people did not admire exquisite taste, athletic prowess, stunning beauty or insider knowledge, no one could acquire prestige by monopolizing them. Those who seek status, no matter how snobbish their disdain for those who lack it, have no choice but to recognize people of lower status as important enough to give them what they need. Status is therefore symbiotic: we look up to people of high status, but those fortunate souls are equally dependent on us. 
 Status is also simply more interesting than wealth and power -- perhaps because, being so intangible, it is so much harder to control. Ask Bill Gates, who found it easier to make billions of dollars than to gain admission to the Augusta National Golf Club. Or Isaac Mizrahi, who has maintained his coolness quotient despite having bombed as a businessman. When the economist tells us how much a person or corporation earns, the story is over. When we learn how much status a person may have, the questions have only begun. If we want the world to resemble a balance sheet or a lawyer's brief, we can be satisfied with wealth and power. If we like the world mysterious and ironic, we ought to appreciate status.
It is, I admit, a little hard to celebrate status when those who once monopolized it -- the blue-blood aristocracy -- gave it such a bad name. There is something downright embarrassing about such old-school signs of elitism: debutantes, bridge tournaments, junior leagues, burial vaults. Taking appearance as reality, those once charged with the responsibilities of status confused their mandate to entertain us with a mandate to rule us. Their chattering frivolity was fun in films like "The Philadelphia Story," but when it came to excluding Jews, women and blacks from top schools -- and promoting their own to corporate boards -- status became more sinister.
Rebelling against the sheer absurdity of distinctions based on birth and breeding, however, Americans have largely cleaned up the status game. They have dismissed private clubs as sexist or racist. They have voiced their preference for meritocracies over old-boy networks. They have even taken pleasure in the improbable romance between an aristocrat and her social inferior as the Titanic sinks. Proms are still in, but prom kings and queens are out -- while Big Men on Campus are not especially big and most certainly not men.
At the same time, those institutions truly deserving respect have, by and large, maintained their cachet. We can bicker about whether a particular college should have been ranked a bit higher or lower by U.S. News & World Report, yet we accept that most rankings do a fairly good job of dividing prestigious institutions from mediocre ones. The position of United States Supreme Court Justice routinely appears very high on surveys of job prestige -- probably because our top judges generally have done a fine job interpreting the Constitution. Artistic endeavor, culinary expertise, ministerial authority: none of these qualities are easy to define, yet it is a source of continuous wonder that status in such areas generally goes to those not only with the most talent but also with the determination to put their talent to use. As Americans have come to realize, just because status exists in the eyes of others does not mean that the others are always wrong. Granted, a few anti-status extremists have tried to flatten the social landscape by abolishing class rankings in schools, refusing to keep score in their kids' soccer matches and finding fault with whatever role models cross their path. But the majority of Americans recognize that there is something to be said for assigning high status to those people who, year after year, maintain their prestige in a world filled with competitive rivals.
Indeed, without status, human social life would barely be worth living. As much as we may dislike distinctions because they offend our egalitarian sensibilities, we require distinctions for the same reason we have borders between states. They make possible a map of the social territory capable of guiding us through the myriad institutions and practices that surround us. In a world without wealth, we would be poor. In a world without power, we would be impotent. But in a world without status, we would literally be lost. So automatically do we assign things into rankable categories -- even as we then immediately suspect the categories we create -- that we come to take status for granted, rarely recognizing how important its markers are to defining who and what we are.
Yes, the skeptic might respond, distinctions are necessary, but arbitrary distinctions, the stuff of status as we generally understand that term, are not. Since at least "The Marriage of Figaro," we have loved to unmask the pretension of status, to affirm that ordinary people are, if anything, more authentic than their hypocritical superiors. Yet there is even something to be said in favor of distinctions that are unable to justify themselves by the cold logic of merit. As much as our democratic sympathies rebel at the arbitrary ways some people get to be counts -- or, in our world rather than that of Beaumarchais and Mozart, obtain a "legacy" admission at Princeton or win the rewards given to a bond trader who happens to guess correctly -- our curiosity is nonetheless piqued. Arbitrary distinctions -- from having a trust fund to having blond hair -- furnish the raw material for our satires and become the butt of our jokes. We are attracted to them precisely because they are arbitrary, for they remind us of how little of the world we really can plan and predict. It is as if, unable to believe that we can ever do completely without hierarchies of distinction, we instead create essentially silly ones and then spend most of our time mocking them. (Surely the recipient of the gentlemanly "C" in college will become a gentlemanly alcoholic, while the bond trader will lose as arbitrarily as he gained.) In novels like "The Financier" and "The Titan," Theodore Dreiser wrote about moneyed worlds in which distinctions had real consequences -- and nobody reads them. Jane Austen wrote about seemingly frivolous social status and everyone reads her.
The very accidental qualities that render status distinctions unfair, moreover, also render them safe. Possessors of high status often think that what gives them prestige in one area can be used in another. They are almost always wrong. Sammy Sosa or Mark McGwire may be exalted as sports heroes -- but because their status was achieved by training themselves, however skillfully, in the essentially arbitrary act of hitting home runs, they are excluded from applying their status in other realms of endeavor, like business. Similarly, a chemistry whiz may find that social acceptance eludes her. And a downtown hipster may find himself rejected by a conservative co-op board.
Fortunately you need not spend much time justifying the absurdities of inherited status, for we are living through a period when status is being transformed in America. If we cannot help being fascinated by endless speculation about who is up and who is down, we can take comfort in the fact that status is increasingly being stripped of the pretensions of an earlier time. Now subject to the same democratic energy that has revolutionized our economy and our technology, status can energize and excite just as it once deadened and stultified.
Consider, when it comes to status, how much is in play. Venerable law firms -- the kind depicted in the drippingly status-conscious novels of Louis Auchincloss -- are either driven into bankruptcy or taken over by younger partners more willing to put in billable hours than to be pictured at black-tie charity events. Moreover, the corporate lawyer, as a breed, is now subjected to continuous scorn from journalists and stand-up comics (both professions with prestige problems of their own). Tennis survives, but sustained only by the outrageous antics of bad boys who flaunt their disdain for Wimbledon whites yet are far more athletic than their genteel predecessors. Those who keep the ancient art of polo alive by financing it also insist, despite their lack of skill, that they be allowed to play, but without their support, there would be no polo to play. Prestigious academic institutions that once paid their faculty poorly -- "You mean you actually plan to live on your salary?" the dean of a Seven Sisters college exclaimed to a friend of mine when he first sought academic employment -- now, in the face of raiding tactics by on-the-make schools in the South and the West, offer deals too cozy to be refused. A younger group of politicians, calling themselves conservative of all things, seek prestige, not by joining, but by attacking, the Establishment. What once made Sammy run now makes all of us run.
Status, in short, has persevered, the decline of the WASP notwithstanding; it has just been turned upside down. Formerly associated with the well bred, status was assumed to be quiet. These days, it often clings to the loud and the brash. Under the rule of noblesse oblige, the person of status was under an obligation to use his privilege for some public purpose; today status is acquired for the sake of status, an end in itself rather than a byproduct of, or means to, something else. Status was once the kind of thing that, if you had to ask who had it, you betrayed that you did not. Now so rapidly does the terrain shift from one day to the next that we all need guides to know with whom it lies.
Newly acquired wealth did not purchase status; if anything, it delayed its arrival. Now the rich try to convert their wealth to status before the age of 40, wanting for themselves what John D. Rockefeller knew he could bequeath only to his children and grandchildren. Occupations once associated with status -- the priesthood, the military -- can no longer automatically guarantee it. And some people who earned their status the traditional way (Colin Powell comes to mind) convey the sense that they are not especially interested in using the status they have.
This democratization of status constitutes the Revenge of the Bypassed. Those engineering students with slide rulers in their pockets who were never invited to the high-school beer bash are now approached for donations to our cultural institutions. Kids from the inner city who lacked the educational credentials so valued by our society not only entertain us with their athletic or musical ability but also become taste makers for the society as a whole. Two Jewish guys looking for a prestigious state to identify with their ice cream choose once economically depressed Vermont. Celebrities like Roseanne flaunt, rather than hide, their white-trash backgrounds. The lowly bagel replaces the lofty croissant. For a few months, the beer of choice in the fanciest Manhattan bars comes from Mexico, not Europe. Your publisher suddenly wants you on Oprah, not in The New York Review of Books.
None of this necessarily represents the triumph of bad taste. Just like the old elites, upstart Americans -- the kind dismissed by cultural critics like Dwight MacDonald for their "midcult" sensibilities -- prefer Monet to paint-by-numbers, even if they look at the paintings at a Las Vegas hotel called Bellagio instead of at MOMA. More and more Americans opt to spend a weekend in Paris rather than at the Jersey Shore. Pavarotti, maybe even Puccini, has become a household word. Even in Arkansas these days, the cappuccino is top-notch.
Ought we to lament this transformation in the nature of status? By all means, no. What is actually taking place in America is a decent compromise between a system of inherited status and all its snobbish pretension and a system without status and all its poverty of the imagination. It is as if the part of us that does not like status has fought the part of us that needs status to a draw. Status is not being eliminated; it is being made more freewheeling and fun.
For all our determination to kill off older forms of status, they are dying of their own accord -- and the cause of their death is boredom. Breeding is an inefficient way to insure that some people will have respect in the eyes of others, for rarely can the qualities that enabled one person to rise to the top be passed down beyond one generation. Edith Wharton and Henry James could make something of the upper class at the end of the 19th century. By the end of the 20th, there is not a whole lot left to make much of anything. Inventive people that we are, Americans have decided to keep status but to bring creativity to the ways it is defined. This not only means that we do not know in advance who will have status and who will not; it also means that we cannot easily predict what will provide status and what will not.
Revolutions in status give us all the excitement of rapid social change with little of the accompanying turmoil. Unlike swings in the stock market, which churn the stomach and leave victims on the floor, transformations in status enable us to participate vicariously in the irresistibly fascinating game of dividing winners from losers. Computer geeks, up 300 points! Journalists, down 50! And because the stakes involved in struggles over status are less bloody than they are in politics, status revolutions enable us to purge ourselves of old ways without purging ourselves of actual people.
Status transformations have their victims and their costs, but if there is going to be rapid change, then let it be over symbols. No one knows who will be in America's status elite tomorrow. But we do know that just as we will have the rich and the poor and the powerful and the powerless, some will have more status than others. Perhaps we will learn, even as we are bothered by the unfairness of the whole thing, to appreciate with the right kind of ironic detachment our status distinctions. As distinctions go, they really are not so bad.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Success is not a quality that can be passed down through the generations. (Photographs by Tina Barney)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); TRENDS (66%); GOLF (64%); CARD GAMES (60%); TOURNAMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: WOLFE, ALAN WILLIAM HENRY 'BILL' GATES III (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



379 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 2A; Page 42; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: HOLIDAY MOVIES;
An A-List Writer, Minus the Attitude

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD

 BODY:
ASK a studio mogul, top producer or agent for the names of the superior screenwriters in Hollywood, and Steven Zaillian will be near the top of the list.
"He's one of the two or three best screenwriters in town, and I'm being liberal when I say that," said Joe Roth, chairman of Walt Disney Studios, which made "A Civil Action," the newest film written and directed by Mr. Zaillian. "There's an economy and clarity to his writing that's always entertaining." 
 Mr. Zaillian, who won an Academy Award for his adaptation of "Schindler's List," is a surprisingly diffident, almost modest and entirely un-Hollywood figure. In contrast to other screenwriters, who may earn lavish sums but complain all the way to the bank about their plight at the hands of producers, stars and executives, Mr. Zaillian, 45, shrugs off any problems he has faced over his 18-year career. "Maybe I've been lucky," he said one recent morning as he sat drinking coffee on the patio of a house in Mandeville Canyon where he and his small staff were editing "A Civil Action."
"I mean, not every script I've worked on has turned out the way I've wanted them to turn out," added Mr. Zaillian. His screenplay for "Awakenings" (1990) earned him an Academy Award nomination, and he also wrote such films as "The Falcon and the Snowman," "Mission Impossible" and "Clear and President Danger."
But, he went on, "If you're going to write and not control it then, somehow, you've got to expect that sometimes it's going to turn out different than you thought. Sometimes worse. And sometimes better, if the director is, like, really good and brings something to it," Mr. Zaillian said.
"A Civil Action," adapted by Mr. Zaillian from the Jonathan Harr nonfiction legal drama that was on The New York Times best-seller list for two years, opens in New York and Los Angeles on Dec. 25, in order to qualify for Academy Award nominations, and then will open nationwide in January.
The movie deals with an eight-year fight by working-class families in Woburn, Mass., who claimed that two large corporations had contaminated their town's drinking water with chemicals, causing the deaths of five children and one adult.
The central figure in the film is Jan Schlichtmann, a self-possessed personal injury lawyer who becomes consumed with the case at the cost of virtually everything else in his life. The film stars John Travolta as the lawyer and Robert Duvall as his highly skilled adversary. Also in the cast are William H. Macy, Tony Shalhoub, Zeljko Ivanek, Kathleen Quinlan, John Lithgow, Sydney Pollack and Kathy Bates.
Mr. Zaillian said he had first read the book, in manuscript form, when one of the producers, Rachel Pfeffer, sent it to him.
"I didn't know if it would make a movie at all," he said. "I had to write the script to see if I could make sense of what was 1,200 pages of manuscript. It was a wonderful book, but what was troubling about it for a movie was the sheer length of it, the number of characters, and it wasn't a whodunit. It was more about the process of the law -- and is that dramatic?"
Mr. Zaillian smiled. "Also, there was the fact that everybody loses, at least on the face of it," he said. "That's not usually the typical movie fare. It's a tragedy. I mean, that was the thing that we all had to keep in mind. I mean, it's really kind of remarkable that the studio let us do it."
Mr. Zaillian said he had handled the adaptation much the way he had dealt with "Schindler's List," the Thomas Keneally novel based on the Holocaust. For both screenplays he rigorously concentrated on the main character and avoided the pitfalls of trying to tackle the enormity of the historical circumstances. In "Schindler's List," for example, about a German profiteer who saves the lives of more than 1,000 Jews during World War II, Mr. Zaillian would have been overwhelmed as a screenwriter if he had decided to take on the Holocaust.
"I wanted to focus on Schindler, and Schindler alone, and imagine events almost entirely through his eyes," Mr. Zaillian said. "It's such an imposing subject that you can be overwhelmed by trying to tell too much of it and having too many angles on it. The point was to follow him, just follow him, stick with him, and what he learns about the subject, you learn. The same is true of this one."
In shaping the script for "A Civil Action," Mr. Zaillian said, the environmental drama and the legal story, and even the human tragedies, were secondary to the story of one man's obsession with the case. "It's ultimately his story," he said.
Mr. Zaillian is far more ambivalent about directing than screenwriting. His directorial debut, in August 1993, was a gentle family drama with an unfortunate title, "Searching for Bobby Fischer," which was far less about chess than about a family's relationships. Few films opened that summer with higher critical praise, but it proved a box-office disappointment.
Mr. Zaillian shrugged. "Sure, it's a bit depressing," he said. "It's sort of like you work really hard on something for a long time and it lasts two or three weeks and you think, 'I'm going to kill myself.' It's too much work not to have people see it, although the funny thing about 'Bobby Fischer' is, almost everybody I meet has seen it, and not just people in the industry. Maybe it's the bargain matinee. Maybe it's the video."
He said the sheer difficulty of being a director had surprised him, and that was why it took him so long to take over another project. "I wasn't prepared for how hard it was -- I was spoiled by the life style of a writer," he said. "Being a director you face the pressure, the hours, the staying focused for six straight months or much longer on one thing, just so focused with a lot of money being spent. It took a lot out of me, and I didn't want to do it again. I just wanted to write a couple of scripts after that."
Mr. Zaillian does not see screenwriting as something to be taught with specific rules. "It's the same as any other kind of writing: it just has to be good, the ideas have to be clear and the writer has to convey them in a way that's interesting, and it doesn't matter whether it's a screenplay or novel," he said.
And he is loath to analyze what makes a great screenplay. "You hear about these books and courses on screenwriting," he said. "On page 20 something has to happen. The character arc and all that stuff. I have no idea. I don't think about those things. Every time I do it, it feels like the first time and I'm scared and I don't know if it's going to turn out. And if I get to page 50 or so and I'm not enjoying it, then I know it's not working."
"The tone of the movie is the magic thing for me," he said. "That's like the big battle. The tone and the voices and how people sound. The level of realism. That's what matters to me."
Scott Rudin, one of the producers of "A Civil Action," said of him:"There's not one wasted moment in the way he tells a story. And there's a compassionate strain in his writing that most people don't come close to. The way he directs is exactly the way he writes. It's about the accumulation of detail; it's very methodical, very empathetic and very compassionate."
Mr. Zaillian, who is married and has two sons, grew up in Los Angeles. His father, Jim Zaillian, who died in 1980, was a radio news reporter. After he graduated from San Francisco State University in 1975, an interest in making documentaries led him to a series of low-level film editing jobs. Then a script he wrote in 1979 called "Bad Manners," about high school boys in the late 1960's, caught the attention of Ray Stark's producing company. Soon, Mr. Zaillian was being hired to write scripts.
"For a long time I wouldn't call myself a writer, it was so hard to say the word," he recalled. "I would say, 'I write.' But I didn't consider myself a writer until I did three or four. I kept thinking it was going to end and it wouldn't last."
Asked about his unfortunate experiences, Mr. Zaillian said without hesitation, "Jack the Bear." This strange 1993 comedy-drama starring Danny DeVito was about the unraveling of a television horror show host whose psychopathic neighbor poses a threat to children. "People got hired and it just got taken away from me," he said. "I don't want to bad-mouth anybody; these things happen. But it so upset me that I said to Scott Rudin, who I've known for a long time, 'I want to do this again, write another thing about kids, but do it right.' And that's how 'Bobby Fischer' happened."
Besides being relatively modest, Mr. Zaillian is also surprisingly loyal, at least by Hollywood standards. Although any of the major talent agencies would welcome the high-priced Mr. Zaillian as a client, he has remained loyal to Harold Greene, his first agent, who is now in his mid-80's and who runs a one-man agency in Marina del Ray, Calif.
"If I'm missing something, I don't know what it is," Mr. Zaillian said, smiling: "I always think I'm working on the best things that are being done out there. I haven't worked on anything because I needed the money or done something that I didn't believe in."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steve Zaillian in the Los Angeles editing room where he was doing post-production work on "A Civil Action," which he wrote and directed. (Mon-ica Almeida/ The New York Times); John Travolta, right, as a lawyer consumed by a case, and Tony Shalhoub in "A Civil Action." (David James/SMPSP/Touchstone Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: CIVIL ACTION, A (MOVIE)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES WRITERS (93%); DRAMA LITERATURE (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); FILM (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); LAWYERS (76%); FAMILY (75%); BESTSELLERS (61%); PERSONAL INJURY (60%); 

PERSON: ZAILLIAN, STEVE; TRAVOLTA, JOHN; SHALHOUB, TONY; WEINRAUB, BERNARD MICHAEL I ROTH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



380 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 2A; Page 28; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: HOLIDAY FILMS: UP AND COMING -- Famke Janssen;
Transformations As a Way of Life, Not Just on Screen

BYLINE: By JUSTINE ELIAS; Justine Elias writes about film, television and theater from New York.

 BODY:
IN "The Faculty," which opens on Christmas Day, Famke Janssen plays a timid, bespectacled high school teacher, a woman whose voice quavers when she urges a promising but wayward student to apply himself. Since the movie is a thriller directed by Robert Rodriguez ("Desperado") and written by Kevin Williamson ("Scream"), it is safe to expect that the shy educator will undergo a radical shift in personality and appearance before the final reel. Then it should be easy to recognize Ms. Janssen as the confident actress who has given a series of witty, engaging performances in relatively small parts: the Russian-born owner of a gambling joint in "Rounders," the bitter, alcoholic ex-wife of a Southern lawyer in "The Gingerbread Man" and a tough, blue-collar Bostonian in "Monument Avenue." In "Celebrity," a Woody Allen film that opens on Nov. 20, she plays a sophisticated editor in love with a neurotic, on-the-make writer played by Kenneth Branagh.
"I'm trying to fight typecasting as hard as I can, while I have time," says Ms. Janssen, who lives in Manhattan with her husband, the director and screenwriter Todd Williams. Though she earned good notices in 1995 for her performance as a lethal Russian spy named Xenia Onatopp in "Goldeneye," Ms. Janssen says that the international publicity she earned from being a Bond Girl led her to reject offers to play glamorous, cartoonlike leading women and to seek out more intriguing supporting roles. "Once you achieve a certain level of success or fame, it becomes really difficult to go against type. This is a good time for me to experiment." 
 Though it is hard to imagine Ms. Janssen blending into a crowd -- she is 5 feet 11 inches, and her exotic beauty has been compared to that of 1940's stars like Hedy Lamarr -- her colleagues praise this very quality, as well as her dedication and humor. Denis Leary, who acted with Ms. Janssen in "Monument Avenue," says he didn't recognize Ms. Janssen when first saw her in the film's Boston production office. "She came dressed in character, in leather pants and denim, and I walked right by her," he says. "I thought she was someone from the neighborhood, auditioning for a small role," he says. "She spent a few days hanging around, and within a few days she had the accent down. I was really impressed."
Ms. Janssen's ability to adopt a convincing regional accent -- Slavic by way of Brooklyn, Savannahian, or blue-collar Bostonian, to name a few -- is all the more surprising because English is not her native language. The 34-year-old was born in Amsterdam, and she did not move to the United States until she was in her early twenties. By that time, she had dropped out of her Dutch university, where she was studying economics, and spent several years working in Europe as a fashion model. She arrived in New York with enough money saved to join an acting workshop and re-enroll in college -- this time as a creative writing and literature student at Columbia University.
Though Ms. Janssen now sounds thoroughly American, an agent urged her to change her name to avoid being perceived as foreign. (Her first name, unusual even in her native country, means "little girl" in the Friesland dialect.) "I know actors do it all the time, but I felt I'd be losing my identity," Ms. Janssen says. "Instead, I worked harder on losing my accent."
She did, however, make one concession for her career: convinced that she would have a better chance at getting film work, she spent five unsatisfying years as a struggling actress in Los Angeles, playing a crime-fighting supermodel in a television movie, and an object of desire in a "Star Trek: The Next Generation" episode called "The Perfect Mate."
At this stage of her career, she says, her success is tied to the director. "It's really in the director's hands, and I've tried to work with directors who consistently do their own thing. If you do well as an actor, a good director will pick up on it, and keep it in the film."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I'm trying to fight typecasting," says Famke Janssen, left, whose roles have ranged from a Russian spy in "Goldeneye" to a timid teacher, above, in "The Faculty," opening on Dec. 25. (Photos by Robin Holland for The New York Times and Miramax Films)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: FACULTY, THE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); NETHERLANDS (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NETHERLANDS (78%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (65%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION WRITERS (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); FILM (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); 

PERSON: JANSSEN, FAMKE; ELIAS, JUSTINE WOODY ALLEN (56%); KENNETH CHARLES BRANAGH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



381 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: WORKING;
Seeing the Fruit Of One's Labor

BYLINE: By MICHELLE COTTLE; Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer.

 BODY:

Q. I recently switched from a small, hands-on company to a large, hierarchical one. Adjusting has been a bit of a struggle. Before, I had a say in all aspects of the business, and I saw the impact I had. Now, I'm a widget handler and wonder if I am adding any value to the company's products. What should I do: stay put and work my way up to a position where I'll clearly make a difference, or go back to being a big frog in a small pond? 

A. As far as corporate culture shock goes, nothing is quite as depressing as feeling that you've signed on to be an inconsequential drone in a giant cubicle hive. But before you rush back to your former pasture, make sure you're not just suffering from the grass-is-greener syndrome.
Compile a list of everything you loathed about your old employer and reflect on whether the problems were related to the small, entrepreneurial nature of the place. (To keep you honest, talk with friends who can remind you how you complained while working there.)
Try to assemble as complete a picture as possible of your personality and work style, advised George Zeller, a senior employment specialist with Career Moves, a counseling service in Boston. You may even want to take one of those personality tests intended to reveal whether you're best equipped to be the chief financial officer of a multinational corporation, a French teacher or a zookeeper. But don't expect any big revelations, Mr. Zeller warned. In some ways, these tests just mirror what you already know.
Still, you might be discovering that you have landed in the wrong environment for your personality type. I asked Joseph Frey, a clinical psychologist in Augusta, Ga., for the Highlands Program, a career development firm, about your case, and he said you sounded like a "structural generalist."
The "structural" part of that phrase means that you need a hands-on type of job. You enjoy having a product that you can feel, see, or touch at the end of the day. But as a generalist, Mr. Frey said, you also like being part of a team and want a bit of diversity in your workday. Smaller companies are ideal environments for structural generalists, Mr. Frey said, while large, hierarchical firms often force such folks to choose between their dominant personality traits.
Even if you decide to stay with the larger firm, start planning your rise from dronedom. According to Mr. Zeller, a lot of people just want to get lost and be invisible, so you need to make it clear that you are not one of them. Volunteer for different assignments. Acquire as many skills and experiences as you can. Maintain a diary of your accomplishments. After a while, go to the boss and say, "For the past few months I did this. I did that. I went to training and picked up these skills. I helped Sally with that project. Now I want to take on a new project."
Some companies, of course, don't allow such cross-pollination among departments or positions. In that case, your only option may be to seek a less-rigid hive.
 
Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer. Each week, she will respond to readers' questions about career and workplace issues. Send them by E-mail to working@nytimes.com or by mail to Working, Money & Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (54%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (54%); AUGUSTA, GA, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); GEORGIA, USA (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (54%); BOSTON, MA, USA (54%); AUGUSTA, GA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: COTTLE, MICHELLE MICHAEL MCMAHON (70%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



382 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / Long Island;
A Planned Community Progresses in Smithtown

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN 

DATELINE: SMITHTOWN

 BODY:
FOR now, a 11.5-acre parcel on Terry Road is still a sea of sand, but it will soon become the site of a 29-house development called Coventry Village at the Galleria, where sales of the first 11 houses began last weekend.
The new project is the third phase of a much larger development called the Galleria, which, when completed, will not only include housing but also small neighborhood stores, a day-care center, a restaurant, other commercial space and possibly a supermarket. 
 The Galleria's distinction from most projects on Long Island is the way it was structured as a planned community, with elements that would complement one another in a cohesive fashion.
The project began 15 years ago when the DiCanio Organization of Smithtown began assembling properties along Terry Road -- occupied by a cement plant and sandmining operations, among others.
In all, DiCanio assembled 83 acres, which with additional purchases have since grown to 88 acres. Most of the land fronts on Terry Road, but a 1.5-acre section fronts on Route 347.
The property originally had some residential zoning, but most of it was zoned for industrial and commercial uses.
"I felt it would be good planning to place housing next to existing residential neighborhoods and to place businesses along the periphery of the site," said Vincent DiCanio, president of the DiCanio Organization.
Town planners were of like mind. The zoning on the various parcels, which dated back to 1932, "didn't make a lot of sense," said Frank DeRubeis, Smithtown's Planning Director.
"What we wanted to do was start with a fresh sheet of paper that eliminated the industrial zoning, reconfigured the neighborhood business zoning and put the residential portion in locations that made sense, to come up with what we felt was the best plan," Mr. DeRubeis said. "I wanted a neighborhood."
The master plan for the Galleria, which the town approved in 1989, not only provided a residential and commercial mix, but housing that offered something for everyone as well. There will be rental apartments for those not yet ready to purchase a home; town houses for young couples buying their first home and for older couples trading down from a larger house and detached houses for families with children.
The town also received a pledge that 50 of the rental units would be made available at below-market rents to town residents who made no more than 80 percent of the median income.
Four of the Galleria's six phases are residential. A property owners' association will act as an umbrella group to maintain an internal road that will link the various phases to one another and connect Terry Road to Route 347. Property owners will also maintain a private sewage treatment plant.
A 312-unit apartment complex called Avalon Commons owned by AvalonBay Communities of Alexandria, Va., already occupies a 20.6-acre portion of the 88-acre site and a 10,425-square-foot CVS Pharmacy, the first commercial development, is under construction on 1.5 acres next to the apartments. It is expected to open next month.
At Coventry Village, colonials designed by Axelrod & Cherveny, architects in Commack, will each have three bedrooms, spacious front porches and an attached two-car garage toward the rear of the house.
Prices for the initial 1,552- and 2,016-square-foot dwellings will be $209,990 and $219,990. At the end of the 30-day period there will be a $10,000 increase. Lots range in size from about 8,000 to more than 14,000 square feet. DiCanio is developing this phase of the project in a joint venture with Greenview Properties of Islip.
Still to come is a 187-unit town-house development called Windcrest at the Galleria that will occupy 33.9 acres. Prices there will range from $169,990 to $229,000. The two- and three-bedroom town houses ranging in size from 1,400 to 2,400 square feet will be sold under a condominium form of ownership. That phase is expected to open for sales by March.
The overall Galleria project also will include an enclave of 13 single-family houses to be called Galleria Heights, on which construction is to start on 7.5 acres some time next year. They will sell in the $279,000 to $329,000 range.
DEVELOPMENT of the Galleria was delayed for several years by the downturn in the economy that already had begun when the project won town approvals in 1989. Lenders also pulled their financial support for a number of DiCanio's projects, forcing the developer to file in 1991 for reorganization under Chapter 11. Chapter 11 stipulates that creditors must approve the payment plan.
Nevertheless, a joint-venture agreement with what then was Trammell Crow Residential, a Dallas builder, for the 312-unit rental development survived the Chapter 11 filing, and Avalon Commons became the first phase to move forward.
Ultimately, DiCanio sold its ownership interest in the joint venture to Avalon, a company formed in 1993 by the Northeast and MidAtlantic division of Trammell Crow Residential. Avalon purchased the 20.6 acres from DiCanio in 1996, the same year the rental community opened.
The apartment complex, which has 13 two-story gray clapboard buildings trimmed in white grouped around landscaped courtyards, a pool and a clubhouse, was an instant success.
It has enjoyed a 98 percent occupancy from the start, said Gary Steinfield, senior development director of AvalonBay Communities, the name of the real estate investment trust formed by Avalon and Bay Communities of San Jose, Calif., when they merged earlier this year.
Monthly rents for the market-rate apartments range from $1,250 for a one-bedroom to $1,725 for a three-bedroom. The 50 apartments in the town's affordable housing program rent for $750 for a one-bedroom and $935 for two bedrooms.
Mr. Steinfield praised the master plan concept, saying "it introduced a series of land uses that will complement each other."
"The day-care center for example will be a perfect complement because our development attracts a lot of young professional parents with children," he said. "And having a CVS on our doorstep will also be a great convenience."
The concept of designing a planned community is gaining popularity on Long Island.
Although Smithtown never adopted a zoning category for planned unit developments -- or PUD's as they are often called -- the Town of Brookhaven among others adopted zoning it called planned district development in 1996, and the Town of Oyster Bay is holding public hearings next month on such a proposal.
"These districts allow you to get away from the rigidity of traditional zoning and present a mix of uses that are appropriate to that particular site," said David J. Portman, president of Frederick P. Clark Associates, planners in Rye, N.Y., which was the planning consultant to both Brookhaven and Oyster Bay when the towns drafted their ordinances.
"The idea is to look at property in totality and to give the developer flexibility subject to town board approval," Mr. Portman said.
John Girandola, Commissioner of Planning for the Town of Brookhaven, said the town had adopted the zoning because it wanted to see "better proposals and better designs that would enhance the town." Tied in are requirements that if a developer requests higher density for a planned unit development than the zoning allows, it must provide a park or a recreational facility or other public benefit.
The planned community "is a rapidly emerging concept that has been used very effectively in the south and is now finding its way north," said John Venditto, the Oyster Bay Supervisor. "It's a good concept that is welcome here in the town of Oyster Bay."
Usually, planned unit development zoning is proposed when a particular development seems ideal for it. In Oyster Bay, for example, the Holiday Organization of Westbury has signed a contract to purchase 65 acres of town-owned land and has proposed building different categories of housing on the property ranging from attached to detached units. The proposal also includes some commercial space.
The downside of planned unit developments is that once the master plan has been agreed to, any changes have a domino effect, said Mr. DeRubeis, the Smithtown planner. "In a PUD you have a vision of how the community is supposed to work," Mr. DeRubeis said. "If you change one element, it has an impact on all the rest."
But Mr. DiCanio said that this is a risk he was willing to take. "You do have to have foresight," he said, "and hopefully the tenacity if something turns within the market to live with that decision."
He added that the years spent on planning and building the Galleria, with probably five more years yet to go, have been worth it.
"It's been a long road and one that has taken its twists and turns," he said. "But it's going to be quite rewarding to see the project completed and perhaps used as a model for other planned developments."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vincent DiCanio, president of DiCanio Organization, at site of Coventry Village, part of Galleria complex. Avalon Commons is in background.
(Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)
 
Map.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AVB (NYSE) (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES INC (50%); DICANIO ORGANIZATION (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: DICANIO ORGANIZATION (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SMITHTOWN (NY); UNITED STATES (66%); VIRGINIA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ZONING (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); CHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); CEMENT MFG (68%); CITIES (64%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: SHAMAN, DIANA

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



383 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / New Jersey;
In Elizabeth, Outlets and Entertainment in a Mall

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
WHEN the 1.3-million-square foot mall now rising on a former landfill in Elizabeth is completed next October, it will be the first in New Jersey to combine manufacturers' outlet stores and large discount retailers, as well as traditional large mall stores, with entertainment.
Set in an old industrial section of this Union County city, what is officially called the Jersey Gardens Value Megamall will also become the state's eighth largest shopping center and, its developers as well as city officials hope, a tourist attraction. It is to include more than 100 outlet stores, 33 large traditional mall stores, a 10,000-square-foot food court in a two-story building and parking space for 5,528 cars off Exit 13A of the New Jersey Turnpike. 
 So far, the entertainment portion has signed on six restaurants and Jeepers, a 25,000-square-foot family recreation center, including rides for children 12 and younger. And Loews Cineplex Entertainment, created in May by the merger of Sony/Loews Theaters and the Cineplex Odeon Corporation, will open its newest theater format, a 108,000-square-foot, 22-screen theater with 5,000 seats plus a lounge area and special reserved seats for those paying a premium on their tickets.
There will also be an as-yet undetermined sports component where some retailers will offer "reality-based shopping," which means customers will be able to test out their purchases.
Road and traffic improvements, from ramps to an elevated roadway, are now under way to connect the 130-acre development site to the Turnpike.
The developer is the Glimcher Realty Trust of Columbus Ohio, a real estate investment trust, or REIT, that secured its financing before Wall Street's recent travails. Michael Ovitz, former president of Walt Disney Company and, before that, head of Creative Artists Agency, is involved in the mall's entertainment component.
"What we are offering is an experience," said Michael Glimcher, senior vice president of development and leasing at the company, noting that nearly 65 percent of the space at the mall had been preleased.
Beyond Jeepers and Loews, other tenants that have signed on for space at the mall include: Annie Sez, a discount women's clothing store; Record Town SuperStore, Oshman's SuperSports USA, Bed Bath & Beyond, Off Fifth-Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Jewelers on Fifth and Mikasa, a tableware store. Rents, including common area maintenance charges, range from $20 to $165 a square foot and average $55. Leases run from five to 15 years.
Financing includes $140 million in tax-exempt bonds and grants from the semi-autonomous New Jersey Economic Development Authority, most of it for the road improvements, as well as a $163 million loan from Bankers Trust and Huntington National Bank. Glimcher is also investing $56 million of its own equity.
"The mall has been talked about for years; now it is a reality, creating a sense of excitement about the opportunity for jobs and additional economic development it will create," said J. Christian Bollwage, Mayor of Elizabeth. "In the 80's other cities around us developed. Now, it's our turn."
He said the mall has stirred early discussions about a possible arena for the New Jersey Metro Stars soccer team on a portion of a 200-acre undeveloped tract adjacent to the mall. The arena, he said, could help the area to become a tourist attraction.
Estimates by the city are that when the mall is complete it will generate 5,200 permanent jobs, as well as $4 million to $5 million in annual tax revenues. The city, Mayor Bollwage added, will also receive a similar amount from a tax on retailers of 3 percent of gross sales and "hard goods," such as appliances, electronics and furniture -- permitted under a 1996 state law specically targeting Elizabeth -- that can be levied on tenants in the mall, which sits within a state Urban Enterprise Zone. In such a zone businesses are offered tax breaks and retailers can charge a 3 percent sales tax instead of the normal 6 percent.
The idea of building a mall on the former landfill, which closed in 1972, dates to 1995. But preparing the site for development was started three years earlier by OENJ Corporation of Elizabeth, a land developer specializing in difficult sites.
IN June 1997 Glimcher bought 126 acres of the site from OENJ, which still owns 40 acres along Newark Bay that it will develop. The company would not disclose the price.
Location was a key reason the company got involved in the Elizabeth project, said Mr. Glimcher. He noted that the site offered "access to all of New Jersey as well as to Manhattan" and represented "an opportunity in an untapped market."
Some 180,000 cars pass the site daily and 15.2 million people with an average household income of $61,000 live within a 40-mile radius of it. Newark International Airport is five minutes away and just to the north sits an IKEA furnishings store, which was recently expanded by 80,000 square feet to 268,324 feet and attracts more than two million shoppers a year.
Those factors along with the appeal of the 3 percent sales tax and the mall's hybrid nature will serve it well, despite the stock market's recent mood swings and signs of tempered consumer confidence, its developers said and many retail brokers agree. "Consumers are cautious but they are not paranoid," said Ted Kraus, who heads TKO Real Estate Advisory Group, a retail consulting firm in Mercerville.
The uncertainties in the world's financial markets, he added, have not severely affected the retail market in New Jersey, where the statewide vacancy rate is under 3 percent and rents remain stable at $15 to $41 a square foot on average, up from $12 to $35 a square foot annually last year.
"If there is a downturn in the economy and consumer spending slows, traditional retailers will be more affected than discounters, who may be more in demand by shoppers looking for value," said Richard E. Kalvoda, manager at the Ridgewood office of the real estate advisory group for PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Jonathan Schultz, president of the Schultz Organization, a commercial brokerage in Woodbridge, added: "The expansion of the discount speciality chains, or category killers, which has started to put supply in front of demand, will accelerate and at that point, only the strong will survive."
While the location of the Elizabeth mall makes its retail potential clear, brokers say the area's entertainment draw is cloudy. "When you think of entertainment, you don't think of that area," said Mr. Kalvoda. Added Mr. Schultz: "It may take time to catch on."
The developers and Loews Cineplex are betting otherwise. "It's one of the few areas in the state that has a dense population and no theaters," said Mr. Glimcher.
To Loews Cineplex, "it is an unbelievable location that with the quality of the mall will have a regional draw," said Marc J. Pascucci, its vice president of advertising and publicity. He said the Elizabeth theater reflected his company's newest design, and will be first in the New York-New Jersey area. He likened what he called the V.I.P. lounge to skyboxes in sports stadiums. It will have its own concession stand as well as an area where liquor and light snacks will be sold. Patrons will pay a ticket premium of 25 to 30 percent, said Mr. Pascucci.
Mr. Glimcher said his company will offer van service to and from Newark Airport to draw travelers on long stopovers. It is also negotiating with a ferry operator to run a service from a location on the property along Newark Bay to and from Manhattan.
The movie theater and the mall are being designed by David Rockwell of Manhattan, who has been involved in designing many entertainment attractions, including the Academy Awards Theater in Hollywood and improvements to Radio City Music Hall.
Jersey Gardens will have an "earthy" exterior finish of brown, beige and green to reflect "its name and create a green oasis in an otherwise gray area," Mr. Glimcher said, adding that he expected the mall, which began construction last April, to attract more than 20 million visitors a year.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Drawing of the 22-screen Loews Cineplex at the Jersey Gardens mall. The 108,000-square-foot theater will have 5,000 seats and what Loews calls a V.I.P. lounge area, likening it to skyboxes in sports stadiums. (T. Schallor/Rockwellgroup)
 
Map of northeastern New Jersey, highlighting the ZJersey Gardens Mall in Elizabeth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGX (TSX) (69%); DIS (NYSE) (65%); GRT (NYSE) (53%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (51%); HBAN (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512131 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS (EXCEPT DRIVE-INS) (69%); SIC7832 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS, EXCEPT DRIVE-IN (69%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (65%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (65%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (65%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (65%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (53%); NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (53%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (51%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (51%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (51%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: LOEWS THEATRE MANAGEMENT CORP (69%); CINEPLEX INC (69%); WALT DISNEY CO (65%); NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (60%); AMC ENTERTAINMENT INC (55%); GLIMCHER REALTY TRUST (53%); CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (53%); ANNIE SEZ (52%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (51%); RECORD TOWN (51%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (51%); HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INC (50%); NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ELIZABETH (NJ); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); MOVIE THEATERS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (88%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (86%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); MERGERS (77%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (74%); LANDFILLS (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (73%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (73%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); CITIES (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); TAX LAW (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (68%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (64%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (60%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE MICHAEL GLIMCHER (69%); J CHRISTIAN BOLLWAGE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



384 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / Westchester;
For Rye Brook, Intergenerational Housing

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD 

DATELINE: RYE BROOK

 BODY:
AN intergenerational approach to housing is taking shape at the Belle Fair development here, where work has begun on the first component, a combination of 170 detached houses and 46 duplexes on the site of the 140-acre former High Point Psychiatric Hospital on King Street.
Next month ground will be broken for the second and last component, Chancellor Park, a 168-apartment building for independent living for the elderly. The two components will form the county's first community integrating separate accommodations for the elderly with residences for all ages.
The houses were first marketed in late June and so far a total of 103 have sold from blueprints, according to Mitchell C. Hochberg, president of Spectrum Skanska, of Valhalla, one of three partners in the project. The others are the Benenson Capital Company of Manhattan and CareMatrix Corporation of Needham, Mass. 
 "When sales began prices started in the mid-$300,000's," Mr. Hochberg said. "Now they range from the low-$400,000's to the mid-$600,000's." The housing embraces a wide variety of styles and sizes, including three-and four-bedroom houses and duplexes, the latter designed for empty-nesters and retirees.
"The intergenerational aspect is one of the most important parts of Belle Faire," Mr. Hochberg said. The entire project, based on principles of what architects and planners call the new urbanism, aims to have some aspects of life in a small village.
All roads will lead to a village green at the center of the development, where there will be a general store, an outdoor swimming pool with a terraced deck, and a community center with an indoor swimming pool, a gym, a health club, a catering kitchen and a library with computers.
Chancellor Park is being developed by CareMatix, which currently operates 44 residential and assisted-living projects for the elderly. In addition, 22 more are expected to open in the next six months, said Michael Zaccaro, an executive vice president.
For CareMatrix, Chancellor Park is also the first independent-living building for the elderly to be constructed as part of a larger residential community, with people of all ages. However, three years ago the company built one of its retirement communities in an already established multi-age development, in Bonita Bay, Fla.
"But Belle Fair is the first time we've been partners in the development of the multi-age community at the same time we're building our own project," said Mr. Zaccaro. "It creates greater opportunities to really integrate the two projects together. I don't know of any other examples of this kind of partnership anywhere in the country." His company is now looking at starting similar projects in Florida, California and North Carolina.
Chancellor Park will be housed in one three-story building whose focal points will be two interior courtyards, according to Amy Carpenter, senior manager, at the Martin Architecture Group, based in Philadelphia, which is designing the project.
"Many of the units will look out on the courtyards," she added, noting that one courtyard would be used for al fresco dining. The other will be a garden setting, with seating, meandering paths and lots of landscaping, Ms. Carpenter said.
THE main entrance to the building will feature a lobby dominated by a circular staircase and two-story limestone fireplace, she added. The lobby's floor will have four different kinds of marble, and the walls will be accented in pickled oak trim.
"We needed to make the building appear residential and elegant to fit in with the rest of the complex," Ms. Carpenter said. "Nothing has been spared to create a truly elegant space."
Physically integrating the building to the rest of the development was also essential, Ms. Carpenter added. Since Chancellor Park is on a slightly lower grade than the rest of Belle Faire, a pedestrian bridge and ramp were designed to link the building to the complex's swimming pool, community house, and other amenities.
Rents at Chancellor Park will start at $2,700 a month for a studio to $4,550 for a two-bedroom apartment. That will include services such as housekeeping, meals and local transportation. There will also be a one-time community fee, ranging from $3,000 to $5,000, based on the size of the apartment. "We charge that to cover our costs of having to refurbish an apartment each time it's vacated," Mr. Zaccaro said.
Other residents of Belle Fair, whatever their age, will also be able to use the services at Chancellor Park, on an individual fee basis, Mr. Zaccaro added. "They can come to Chancellor Park and participate in the meals," he said. "We can also provide housekeeping and transportation services on an as-needed basis."
CONSTRUCTION has already begun at Belle Fair and the first homes are expected to be delivered in March, according to Mr. Hochberg. At the current sales space, he added, all houses will be completed in two to three years. Chancellor Park is expected to be completed within 18 months of the ground-breaking.
Since the project will border the Westchester County Airport, several noise-reduction features have been added, such as triple-pane windows and extra insulation.
"We already have deposits on 25 percent of the units, which is a lot more than we counted on getting prior to construction," said Mr. Zaccaro. Most of the people who have already signed up to live at Chancellor Park are from central Westchester, and "it's about an even mix of singles and couples," he said.
This will be CareMatrix's second project in Westchester. The other is Cambridge House, a 112-apartment rental development that opened in Ossining 11 months ago. "There the units are a lot smaller than at Chancellor Park," Mr. Zaccaro said. "There are more studios and one bedrooms, starting at $2,200 a month."
Mr. Zacarro added that there was a great need for more of these projects, especially at the level of Chancellor Park. "With rents starting at $2,700, that requires an income of $35,000 or more," he explained. "Fifty-nine percent of seniors living in the New York region have incomes higher than that. And that's not even counting other assets they may have."
The reason more such projects have not been developed is that the approval process is a lot more difficult in Westchester than in most other places around the country, Mr. Zaccaro said. The plans for Chancellor Park were first proposed in 1995. "Site procurement, obtaining permits and approvals, it takes a long time," Mr. Zaccaro said.
"The cost of doing business in the county makes it very difficult," he added. "As a result, a lot of other companies shy away. The upside for us is that if you get to actually complete a project, the pent-up demand is tremendous."

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Rendering of Chancellor Park, a 168-apartment independent-living building in the Belle Fair development where ground will be broken next month.
(Martin Architectural Group)
 
Map.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CMDC (AMEX) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS623311 CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES (84%); SIC8059 NURSING & PERSONAL CARE FACILITIES, NEC (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: CAREMATRIX CORP (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RYE BROOK (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; AGED REAL ESTATE (90%); AGING (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (78%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (71%); EMPTY NESTERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: VIZARD, MARY MCALEER MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



385 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Historic Districts Council's Annual Preservation Award;
Honoring a Landmarks Lion

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
"Landmarks Lion" is the name of the Historic Districts Council's annual award to devoted, aggressive preservationists. In its choice of James Marston Fitch this year, the council found a lion with a considerable mane and formidable roar.
As head of the preservation program at Columbia University's Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation through 1977, Mr. Fitch educated a generation of professionals who went on to fill the staff ranks at the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, Municipal Art Society and New York Landmarks Conservancy. 
 "He has been an enormous influence through the course he started at Columbia," said Jane Jacobs, no small influence herself since the publication of "The Death and Life of Great American Cities" in 1961. "His students are everywhere now."
Though cloaked in a soft Tennessee cadence, Mr. Fitch's voice has been unmistakably strong over more than 40 years on the front lines of preservation. He has espoused unpopular causes (he championed cast-iron buildings when the whole Victorian period was held in low esthetic repute) and has not shied from disparaging contemporary architects ("frivolous" is a term he has used more than once).
Indeed, he is currently having trouble writing the closing chapter of his next book, "The Architecture of the American People: 1621-2000," because he so disapproves of postmodern architecture.
Even his colleagues at Beyer Blinder Belle, where he directed the preservation program after retiring from Columbia, were not immune from his criticism. Mr. Fitch said he would have opposed the firm's plans to replace the facade of the St. Moritz Hotel on Central Park South. (The project, for Donald J. Trump, was scuttled in April.)
But it would be a great mistake to view Mr. Fitch simply as an 89-year-old curmudgeon. At Beyer Blinder Belle, he was deeply involved with the decision to build a new east stairway in the main concourse of Grand Central Terminal, where the Landmarks Lion ceremony will be held tomorrow.
He has also been finishing the third edition of "American Building: The Environmental Forces That Shape It," first published in 1948, which Oxford University Press will bring out in January.
Running through his work is the theme of architectural preservation as a form of environmental conservation. He has argued that if the cost of razing and replacing old buildings is measured not only in economic terms but in the expenditure of energy -- literally, in British thermal units -- preservationists have a much stronger case.
Twenty years ago, Mr. Fitch said, "The time may come when too many old buildings are being saved -- but that time is not yet foreseeable."
Last week, he offered an update, with typical fervor: "The number of buildings that deserve preservation has grown enormously. If you approach buildings from the standpoint of conserved energy, they present a priceless resource. The whole idea that a building with a facade that is slightly out of fashion is not worth conservation is grotesque." DAVID W. DUNLAP

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Marston Fitch. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HISTORIC DISTRICTS COUNCIL (NYC) OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (63%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HISTORIC DISTRICTS COUNCIL (NYC) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WILD CATS (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); 

PERSON: FITCH, JAMES MARSTON; DUNLAP, DAVID W DONALD TRUMP (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



386 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Habitats / 419 East 140th Street;
Wandering U.N. Aide Finds a Home in South Bronx

BYLINE: By By TRISH HALL 

 BODY:
SAM OGLESBY had worked overseas in economic development for the United Nations for 25 years, living in Thailand, Burma, Indonesia, Bhutan and Bangladesh.
In 1989 he was back in New York, working at the headquarters and living in a studio apartment on the Upper West Side. Because he liked walking, he spent hours roaming through the city's neighborhoods and found himself charmed by brownstones. He decided he had to have one of his own. 
 With the eyes of a stranger, he visited places like Brooklyn Heights, Park Slope, Carroll Gardens and Boerum Hill. But he had only $200,000 to spend, and even five years ago, when he really began his search for a house, they were out of reach. He wanted something architecturally interesting, and no more than 30 minutes from midtown.
Relatively quickly, he became enamored of Harlem, attracted to its atmosphere and its history. But he had no luck. Maybe it was timing. Maybe he wasn't decisive enough. In 1996, he almost bought a house in Morningside Valley for $90,000, but while he was worrying that it would be too complicated to untangle its problematic certificate of occupancy, someone else bought the house. Frustrated and disappointed, he gave up.
But after a while, reinvigorated by an article that described the Mount Morris area in Harlem, he began exploring there. One day about six months ago, walking on Fifth Avenue near 125th Street, he approached a man sitting on a stoop and asked him if he knew of any houses for sale in the neighborhood.
The man said no, but he did know of a landmarked block in the South Bronx with a house for sale. The man, it turned out, was a real estate broker, and he arranged to show Mr. Oglesby the house at 419 East 140th Street in the Mott Haven section, where most of the residents are Spanish-speaking. On the day of their appointment, Mr. Oglesby took the Lexington Avenue subway to 138th Street, which is only 15 minutes from midtown.
When he walked out of the subway and up 138th Street, he found himself in a place that reminded him of the developing countries where he had lived.
"The shops are very simple, and poor," he said, "with big plantains and yams and mangoes, not plastic tomatoes. The little Mexican grocery store has music blaring out, and there are people hanging out on the street. There is one kind of toothpaste, not 10."
He had liked the idea of living in Harlem, but never quite felt accepted. In Mott Haven, he said, he felt like he had come home.
When he reached East 140th Street, which is lined with well-tended houses of different colors, "it was suddenly like a 1950's sitcom," he said, adding that "people were tending their gardens and smiling and talking."
IT was not at all like the Upper West Side. "There you're lucky if you get a hello in the elevator," he said. In fact, in an elevator once, making what he considered neighborly conversation, someone told him that he "overshares."
When he arrived at 419 East 140th Street, he found a three-story brick town house built in 1897, with three fireplaces, a solid staircase, appealing woodwork, a pretty little garden in front and a yard in the back. It was structurally sound, with obvious but fixable flaws. All of the wood floors were covered with linoleum that seemed to have been applied with glue of steel, and the walls were obscured with plastic paneling.The ceilings had been lowered and surfaced with Styrofoam panels.
Like most people who live in New York, however, he associated the South Bronx with devastation, with gangs and knifings and burned-out housing, even though that image had nothing to do with what he was seeing. So he went to the local police station and asked, "If I were your uncle, would you tell me to live in this neighborhood?" They gave him mixed advice. "One said it's a good block," he recalled. "Another said, 'Don't do it.' "
He chose to believe in the believers.
Mr. Oglesby bought the house for $113,000, which was $6,000 less than the asking price. He had retired from the United Nations at the beginning of 1997 when he was 58, but was able to get a mortgage from the credit agency there, and when the house was appraised it was valued at $140,000. The taxes are only $595 a year. It is a landmarked block, and some of the houses, he said, are very elaborate, with marble floors and lavish moldings.
He closed in July, and since then has been working with friends, many of them from Indonesia, to renovate the building. He has also hired an Indonesian contractor who is putting in a new kitchen on the ground floor.
On the main floor, he has exposed gracious 12-foot ceilings. The center room, once a bathroom, will be his library, and is now being supplemented with books about the Bronx.
In the living room, he ripped out a closet and discovered a graceful arched opening that makes the perfect backdrop for his carved day bed from Thailand. Like all of the furniture collected during his years in Asia, it can go into a small van, because it is made from panels. "These pieces were built before nails," he said.
ON the top floor, he has turned the front room into his bedroom, furnishing it with a grand four-poster bed that looks as though it must have come from his travels, but turns out to have been recently bought on sale at Macy's. He has also stripped the paint from oak woodwork around the windows in the bedroom.
The back room, a guest bedroom, has, like the main bedroom, large closets. There is so much space he literally doesn't know what to do with it. Asked what he will do with the front room, opposite the living room, he said: "I don't know. Help me decide."
Not counting the value of his own labor, or the contributions of his friends, he figures it will cost about $15,000 to renovate the house. He will try to fix the outside, which is cracking and crumbling, with a grant from the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, which gives up to $15,000 per homeowner to help people of modest means preserve landmarked buildings.
Although he sometimes lectures on Asian culture and international relations as an adjunct professor at places like Fordham and New York University, his retirement is giving him time to take singing lessons and prepare for a cabaret performance.
When he's out at night, he never takes a cab because he knows too many people who have been in accidents. Instead he takes a bus that lets him off half a block away or the subway. Even at night, he says, "it's not a menacing place.S
And it is quiet. He found the Upper West Side very noisy, filled with trucks. In Mott Haven, he hears church bells on Sunday, and an occasional rooster. But his friends from Manhattan are dubious. "The South Bronx is the kiss of death to them," he said. "The area still has a horrible stigma."
He has quickly become a part of the neighborhood, getting to know its quirks, like its profusion of stores selling beepers. Around the corner, he can buy a good cup of coffee for less than a dollar.
"There's everything you want," he said, "but no tonic water, no New York Times." He has met a lot of people, like the couple down the street who have lived there for 50 years, and his neighbor, who the other day showed him pictures of her grandchildren.
When he dropped off some old clothes at the church up the street, the pastor reciprocated by giving him a funky lamp with pink and green glass, which now shares a room with his lacquered chest from Burma and clay jars from Indonesia. The beat policeman who is legendary for his good relations with the residents of Mott Haven stopped by to introduce himself and spent a half hour touring the house.
When he walks around the neighborhood with a visitor, showing off the antique shops on Bruckner Boulevard, the new houses selling for $300,000, and the recently sandblasted facades, people know him and say hello.
"In this neighborhood," he said, "oversharing is a virtue."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sam Oglesby, at right dusting off a doorway, closed on his Mott Haven town house, at left. last July. Among its amenities is a fireplace with faux marble trim, below. He is working with friends, many from Indonesia, to renovate the house, which is on a landmarked block. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)
 
Map of South Bronx, highlighting Mott Haven.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BHUTAN (92%); INDONESIA (91%); THAILAND (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BHUTAN (92%); INDONESIA (91%); THAILAND (90%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (52%); 

PERSON: OGLESBY, SAM; HALL, TRISH SAM OGLESBY (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



387 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2693 words

HEADLINE: A Market with Fewer Thrills, and Chills

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
IN bemused tones, the Oct. 19 internal memo from the chairman of the Coldwell Banker Hunt Kennedy residential brokerage to his company's 110 sales agents said: "We actually have sellers out there deciding whether to accept offers and buyers deciding whether they should make an offer based on what the Dow is doing that morning or afternoon."
Back then, a whole month ago in the day-to-day slalom ride of the financial markets, there were reports of luxury-apartment buyers walking away from million-dollar deposits, of jittery sellers -- visions of precipitous decline dancing in their heads -- lopping off 20 percent or more of their asking prices. 
 "We feel this is silly," the brokerage chairman, David Michonski, wrote in his memo.
And many observers and players in the New York regional residential market would concur, especially with the Dow having recovered substantially from its 513-point Aug. 31 plunge. To be sure, the stock market gyrations and the profound problems plaguing some foreign economies have dampened the heat of a feverish residential market and muffled the drums of bidding wars. But those dampening developments appear to be limited -- at least for now -- to the high end of the Manhattan market, to the new residential buildings of the downtown financial district and to the most affluent enclaves of New York City's suburban ring.
In the broader residential market, both national and regional, where the fundamentals buttressing home buying -- high employment, low inflation and low mortgage rates -- remain firm, middle-class and working-class buyers continue to keep the real estate business percolating.
"When the stock market starts to bump," said Edward Lee Cave, chairman of the high-end Manhattan brokerage that bears his name, "the very rich feel less rich. Their Wall Street shares have appreciated about 80 percent over the last four or five years. They've now gone down 20 to 30 percent. So instead of saying they are 50 percent richer than they were before, they are saying they are 30 percent poorer. That's human nature."
And so, what the luxury market has seen in the last few months, said Clark Halstead, founder of the Halstead Property Company, "has been an emotional reaction to the world economic crisis, rather than a real economic phenomenon."
As one high-end New Jersey broker, Michele Kolsky-Assatly of Coldwell Banker's Fort Lee office, said, "There is a reserved nervousness in the market." And she told of a Fort Lee home that had been on the market for 235 days while the owner held out for a bid of $1.25 million, then, in August, accepted an offer of $1.14 million.
But in the more down-to-earth Bronx, one leading brokerage, ERA Besmatch, is reporting the sale of 450 properties so far this year, compared with less than 400 by this time in 1997, and a demand that increased the average price for the homes it handles in neighborhoods like Wakefield, Williamsbridge and Pelham from $161,000 a year ago to $166,000. In Queens, Judy Young, manager of Market Place Realty, complained, "I have customers, but nothing to show them," pointing out that a house in Flushing, listed one day two weeks ago at $270,000, had sold the following day for $279,000.
The Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service recorded more sales in the third quarter of this year than in any previous quarter, an increase of 20 percent over the third quarter of last year.
On Long Island, sales were up 10 percent during the first nine months of this year, compared with the corresponding period in 1997. And two Sundays ago, at the grand opening of a 37-unit town house development in Smithtown, where prices ranged from $210,000 to $235,000, "people were lined up with checks in their hand," according to the developer, Steven Klar, and about 18 units were sold.
"The silliness is still with us," Mr. Michonski of Coldwell Banker Hunt Kennedy said last week, "but it's abating as people look beyond the weekly valleys to more important and stable factors of the market."
Among those factors, Mr. Michonski said, are suburban buyers, single people seeking starter apartments and the steady flow of immigrants. "Few people realize that we are at a 100-year high in immigration," Mr. Michonski said, "and what immigrants provide is first-time home buyer support in key markets. Now that's not as sexy as the Manhattan real estate market, but neighborhood after neighborhood is being revitalized by these immigrants, who save more and have a stronger desire for home ownership than Americans."
There are, certainly, some pale spots in the rosy picture. As in any volatile time, people think twice or thrice about making a major purchase. "We don't feel yet that the pace of sales has been hit significantly and prices haven't come down," said Jacob Shayovitz, president of the Brooklyn Board of Realtors, "but I think it's slowing down a bit. The word on the street is, 'Maybe I'll hold off a bit and see what happens tomorrow.' "
And in Connecticut, Diana Hughes, a broker with Preferred Properties in Stamford, said: "People are thinking twice. Some people backed out of deals."
Other market observers, however, point out that any indications of a slowdown have come at a time -- in the fall -- when real estate sales traditionally take a breather. And it is during such spells that prices moderate toward more realistic levels and buyers become more serious.
The lower end of the market is more affected by mortgage rates than stock prices, said Liz Lindsey, owner of Lindsey Real Estate in Mount Vernon, N.Y. "Our buyers look at housing as shelter, not an investment." And even in tonier Scarsdale, N.Y., Audrey Rapaport, manager of the Houlihan/Lawrence brokerage there, said two weeks ago, "Whenever the market's down, the traffic you get tends to be the serious buyers, and that's what we're seeing now."
Underpinning the residential market are some of the firmest fundamentals in decades. Barring the unforeseen, in 16 days, on Dec. 1, the nation will break the record for the longest peacetime economic expansion in history, the 92 months of growth between 1982 and 1990.
Mortgage rates, now hovering at about 7 percent, have been low and stable for most of this year, setting a 31-year low of 6.68 percent for a 30-year, fixed-rate loan during the week that ended Oct. 9. That 6.68 percent low, compared with the year's high of 7.28 percent for the week that ended May 1, marked the narrowest annual range for mortgage rates -- .60 percent -- since the late 1970's. "Certainly," said Keith Gumbinger, vice president of HSH Associates, a Butler, N.J., firm that tracks mortgage rates, "it's instructive to note, in the midst of volatility in the financial markets, that we have had tremendous stability this year in mortgage interest rates."
And so, according to projections calculated by the National Association of Realtors, 1998 is forecast to be the third year in a row that the nation sets a record for sales of existing homes. There were 4.1 million sales in 1996 and 4.2 million last year, and 4.7 million are expected this year.
"What we have," said James W. Hughes, dean of the School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, "is an extraordinarily powerful national home market, and that is certainly the overlying market reality for the region."
Dr. Hughes offered allegorical allusions to recent stages of the market: "First, we had a Goldilocks economy: not too strong, not to weak, just right. That was over the past three years.
"The past nine months or so, overlaying the Goldilocks economy, has been an Alfred E. Newman economy -- 'What me worry?' -- after we first had the Asian financial crisis about this time last year.
"And since the stock market swoon, we've had a Jekyll and Hyde economy: it still has great underlying fundamentals, but we have an increasingly worrisome dark side. And that's related to the impacts of the world financial crisis."
FORTUNATELY, Dr. Hughes said, the New York area is less exposed to the effects of foreign crises than other sections of the country. "The areas most hard hit are those that export manufactured goods, such as Seattle -- Boeing has lost a lot of airline orders -- and those that export food to Asia," he noted. The major local effect, he said, has been "the stock market swoon, and we haven't yet seen its impact on the broad housing market.
"The tony sectors certainly now have the jitters," Dr. Hughes said. "But the broad middle market is less impacted because the driving force there really is a maturing baby-boom generation trading up, positioning themselves in communities where they want to raise their children and live for a long time. For them, this is not a discretionary item, like moving from a $2 million house to a $4 million house."
There are some less obvious nuances to the New York area's residential market, said Rae Rosen, senior regional economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. "It is a very strong housing market," she said, "but this region has been one of the weaker areas of the country in terms of demand."
One barometer of that fact is relatively moderate price appreciation, except in the most affluent communities. "For existing homes, price increases are lagging the nation in percentage terms," Ms. Rosen said. For example, in the first half of this year, according to data published by the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, prices in New Jersey rose by slightly less than 4 percent, compared to 5 percent nationally.
Moderate price appreciation, however, is not necessarily bad news. "In the 80's, prices nearly tripled in the metropolitan area," Ms. Rosen said. "So the silver lining is that we improve our competitive position."
For most people, one truism holds, Ms. Rosen said -- the ability to buy depends on their current job and salary. "When you're talking about people who work for Wall Street, their ability to purchase the mansion of their dreams may be crimped," she said. "But for most people -- the rest of us middle-class people -- the thing that's driving it is job growth and low interest rates, and that's holding so far."
Even in high-end Manhattan -- so noosed to the year-end bonus and the quarterly report -- the financial tremors have not loosened a trap door under the residential market.
"We haven't had a downturn in prices," said Barbara Corcoran, chairwoman of the Corcoran Group. "What we have seen, and this is based on my own business, is that people had a knee-jerk reaction to the 500-point drop on Aug. 31."
The next day, "five out of our 51 contracts due to be signed were just not signed," Ms. Corcoran said. "I can't recall such a quick reaction borne out of sheer fear." September was marked by price reductions and far fewer multiple bids, she said, but by mid-October, "We had a tremendous uptick in activity." In the month since, the Dow has crept upward, even flitting near the 9,000 mark.
The 513-point drop on Aug. 31 represented a 6 percent decline in the Dow. Eleven years ago, on Oct. 19, 1987 -- so-called Black Monday -- there had also been a 500-plus decline in the Dow. But, at the time, those 508 points represented a 22.6 percent stock market plunge.
Nowadays, said Mr. Halstead of the Halstead Property Company, "unlike what we had in 1987, when there were 90 days of total paralysis in our office, just no new deals, the real estate market has continued through these gyrations.
"There may be an isolated case or two of people, not abandoning contracts, but reneging on verbal price agreements," Mr. Halstead said. "No one has abandoned their deposit and run for the hills. On the other hand, we have had some sellers reduce their asking prices."
MR. CAVE, of the brokerage bearing his name, said, however, that he had heard of instances where buyers walked away from deposits -- "two instances: one was $400,000 and the other about a million."
Still, he said, "If it was rife in the industry, I would have heard."
The essential well-being of even the sometimes immoderate luxury market was validated by the most recent findings of the Douglas Elliman Manhattan Market Report, the most comprehensive analysis available.
Jonathan Miller, president of Miller Samuel, the appraisal company that prepares the Elliman report, said that there were 2,214 verified sales of co-ops and condominiums in Manhattan during the third quarter of this year, a 9.61 percent increase over the 2,017 transactions recorded for the corresponding period in 1997. "And we found that the average sales price remained essentially unchanged," Mr. Miller said. In the second quarter, the average price was $529,416, and in the third quarter it was $518,986 -- a 1.97 percent drop.
At the same time, he said, the average number of days on the market decreased 6.2 percent, from 112 days to 105, and the discount from asking price (the difference between the last list price and the sale price) declined 14.02 percent -- "meaning that the sales price was 14 percent closer to the list price than during the previous quarter," Mr. Miller said.
If any single sector of the Manhattan market has quickly felt the effects of the stock market's zig-zags it is, not surprisingly, the downtown financial district, where new apartment buildings have risen and outmoded office towers have been reborn as residences.
Andrew Heiberger is president of Citi Habitats, a brokerage that deals, in his words, "with 20- to 30-somethings, would-be purchasers who work in the Wall Street area and are not only making large salaries but get commissions and bonuses that usually represent two or three times their base salary."
"They are pulling in their horns, sitting and waiting," Mr. Heiberger said. "Especially in the upper end, they are either staying put or are going to rent for a year and then look."
Mr. Heiberger said that since Merrill Lynch announced the layoff of 3,400 workers on Oct. 13, the number of sales inquiries at his offices for the upper end of the downtown market -- the condominium-loft buildings in TriBeCa, the far West Village and the financial district -- have just about halved. "Six months ago we were probably getting 75 inquiries a month for apartments priced from $400,000 to $1.5 million, and in the last five weeks we've probably received 45 inquiries."
Prices, however, have not dropped. "For a typical condo loft in those neighborhoods, we're still talking $400 to $500 per square foot, so just the demand is on hold," Mr. Heiberger said. "If there is another two months of stable Wall Street activity, the bidding wars could return as quickly as they vanished."
Bidding wars, or the lack of them, may not be the most rational measure of the residential market. But there is a school of thought that the current jitters and reasonable concerns, especially about the luxury end, will eventually prove to be a healthy development.
"Probably, in retrospect," said Mr. Halstead, "when we look at this period three or four months from now and get some data that's meaningful, we will see that prices stopped ascending and were level for the first time in a very long time. We needed it, because the market was overheated and going up too fast."
Assuming there is no global financial meltdown, said Dr. Hughes at Rutgers, "what we'll really see for the national economy, as we look forward from here, is a slowing of growth."
"But it's a manageable slowdown, and a slight slowing of the housing market in turn," he noted. "After all, the 1998 housing market has been the equivalent of the Yankees winning 125 games."
And unlike the 1980's, when inflation was rampant, lending was uninhibited and the real estate market subverted itself by over-building, "the hallmark of this expansion has been that there have been no excesses, no imbalances that caused the expansion to abort," Dr. Hughes said.
"The one excess which had been developing is the extreme overexuberance in the high end of the housing market," he said. "And so the effect of the stock market swoon is to tone down that excess, and make the whole market much more sustainable in the long run."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Since the stock market swoon, we have had a Jekyll and Hyde economy: It still has great underlying fundamentals, but we have an increas--ingly worrisome dark side." -- Dr. James W. Hughes, dean of the School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times); "When the market starts to bump, the very rich feel less rich." -- Edward Lee Cave, chairman of the Manhattan brokerage that bears his name; "For most people the thing that's driving it is job growth and low in-terest rates, and that's holding so far." -- Rae Rosen, senior regional econom-ist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. (Photographs by Chester Higgins/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Two reflections of the market: The house at left in Mount Vernon, N.Y., was sold within six days at close to the listing price of $259,000. The asking price on the house at right, in Greenwich, Conn., has been twice reduced over eight months, from $8 million to its present listing of $5.95 million. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 
Graph: "In Manhattan, Robust Sales" shows number of closings on co-ops, condominiums and townhouses in Manhattan south of W. 116 Street and E. 96th Street from January 1997 through September 1998. (Source: Douglas Ellman/Miller Samuel)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: HALSTEAD PROPERTY CO (63%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (59%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (59%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); SUBURBS (64%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS DAVID MICHONSKI (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



388 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Even the Rich Can Suffer From Income Inequality

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
THE trend is painfully evident in the statistics. Over the last quarter century, the incomes of millions of Americans have grown farther apart, so much so that a phrase, income inequality, has been coined to describe what has happened. Income inequality has persisted, undented so far, through the economic expansion of the 1990's. Now social scientists are beginning to assess the damage that it inflicts on Americans -- the rich as well as the much less rich -- in their daily lives.
The initial findings are sometimes startling, if still inconclusive. Life expectancy, for example, appears to be adversely linked to income inequality. Americans live longer than they used to -- someone born today can expect to reach 76 -- but still not as long as people in Japan, Germany and Switzerland, where incomes are similarly high but are more equally distributed. 
 Other factors besides income play a role in life expectancy: differing rates of highway deaths, for instance, and the prevalence of AIDS. But in any attempt to understand American social problems, enduring income inequality must now be considered as well, said Christopher Jencks, a professor of sociology at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
"If you had asked me a year ago if there was evidence that income inequality had some social consequence, I would have said, 'Gee, I don't know,' " said Mr. Jencks, who recently began a study of the subject with two other academics. "But the data seem to say that if you are of average income, living among people of average income, you are less likely to have a heart attack than if you live more stressfully in a community where there is you in the middle, and a bunch of rich people and a bunch of poor people. That seems hard to believe, but it is the direction in which the evidence seems to point."
For years, economists have been expecting egalitarian America to revert to the pattern of the early postwar years, when spreads in income were much smaller between people like office workers, teachers, mechanics, bus drivers and factory workers on the one hand, and doctors, lawyers, investment bankers, engineers and executives on the other. The assumption was that families would soon migrate back to middle income, earning between $30,000 and $80,000 a year in today's dollars -- a category that represented 63 percent of all families in 1973 but only 50 percent today.
If income inequality did persist, then many economists hoped for relief from a re-emergence of a second egalitarian characteristic of American life that has all but disappeared. Before 1973, salaries and wages rose faster than the inflation rate for most workers; janitors and chief executives, office workers and their bosses, shared in this progress.
But wages for most Americans earning less than $75,000 a year have either stagnated since 1973 or lost ground to inflation -- even after taking into account an across-the-board increase in wages since 1996, a trend now threatened by the slowing economy.
Wage stagnation changes perceptions. When the boss, to take a fanciful example, gets a big enough raise to buy a digital television set to replace his old color TV and his subordinates get enough of a raise to afford color TV's in place of black-and-white sets, that is progress in America. But when the boss's raise buys a digital TV but a meager increase for subordinates leaves them stuck with black and white, a social problem is born -- resentment.
"Income inequality and wage stagnation exacerbate each other; the inequality would not be such a problem if incomes were going up for everyone," said Frank Levy, a labor economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who deals with this issue in an updated version of his 1988 book, "Dollars and Dreams" (Russell Sage).
INEQUALITY isn't all bad. The pursuit of better jobs with higher pay and regular raises has induced men and women to get more education. They are postponing marriage while they prepare, and, once they do marry, the men spend much more time on household chores than in the past, some new studies show. And they seek as spouses women who are likely to be good earners rather than simply good homemakers.
But men and women also marry with the expectation that both parties will work hard indefinitely, and that is turning out to be untenable. Women in particular spend much more time at work, in part because their status in the workplace is growing closer to that of men, but also because it means extra family income in times of wage stagnation.
The problem is that when children come, the women, and increasingly the men, want to reduce the time they spend at work -- and they find that they cannot. More and more studies make this point.
That is partly because families need the money. And it is partly because so many jobs that pay well require long hours. "Most of the people caught in this stressful situation," said Rosalind C. Barnett, a psychologist at Brandeis University, "are managers and professionals who fear the negative career repercussions, the strain in their marriages and the loss of too much income if they cut back and follow their hearts."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WORKING HOURS; WAGES AND SALARIES; INCOME WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); INFLATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); FACTORY WORKERS (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



389 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
Insurance Shortcuts, On Line

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
DURING a lunch break at work this summer, Allen Crane tapped into the Internet on his desktop computer, looking for life insurance.
Within half an hour, Mr. Crane, a recently married computer programmer in Fort Worth, had looked at prices from more than two dozen companies. Later, he talked with his wife, Laura, and then, on another lunch break, went back to an Internet site called Quickquote and bought a $500,000 policy. 
 "I liked being able to comparison-shop," Mr. Crane said.
Internet shopping is booming these days, and shares in companies like Amazon.com, which peddles books, and Ebay, an on-line auction service, are surging. But it is not just books, collectibles and electronic gear that are popping up on computer screens. As Mr. Crane's experience shows, more and more people are searching the Internet for good deals in insurance as well. Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., says it expects Internet insurance sales to approach $155 million this year and to soar to $4 billion within five years.
Two years ago, when insurance sales were just beginning on the Internet, about the only kind you could buy was term life, the least complicated form of life insurance. But now, several companies are offering auto insurance over the Internet -- listing various companies' offerings on a single Web site -- and some have added homeowners', health and disability policies, too.
Pricing of auto insurance, with its many variables, is hard to translate over the Internet. But because it is mandatory in almost every state, it holds the most potential. "Eighty million households have to buy or renew auto insurance each year," said Linda Maurer, a spokeswoman for Insweb, an Internet company in Redwood City, Calif., that is betting heavily on auto insurance. "About four million people buy term life."
For most people, shopping for insurance is not quite as onerous as major surgery. But it is a long way down the pleasure list from planning a vacation in the tropics. Many customers say they just want to see what is available, know how much it will cost, make decisions and pay.
Right now, the Internet can handle most of those desires for comparison-shopping. Closing the deals is another matter -- few can actually be completed on line. And most companies still refuse to lop off the commissions they would otherwise pay an agent.
Information on life insurance seems easiest to come by. Customers can see a wide range of offerings and choose coverage with the click of a mouse. But customers must sign and return an application, and the policies generally will not take effect without a visit from a paramedic who takes blood and urine samples and checks blood pressure.
For other insurance, Internet companies are not yet able to provide more than a handful of prices. Shoppers often have to wait for prices in a return E-mail or phone call from an agent. Even so, some people say the Internet saves time and money.
In about an hour, Shirley Mathews, a retired commercial insurance administrator in Cincinnati, lined up full coverage for the three cars that she and her 28-year-old son drive. She got a price of $1,400 a year, $300 less than for her current policy.
Ms. Mathews is an experienced Web surfer. But it still took a while to find a distributor -- in her case, Insweb.com. Punch in the words "life insurance" or "auto insurance" and hundreds of Internet sites will pop up, representing individual companies or agents, distributors with multiple listings and billboards. Without an Internet address from a news article or an advertisement, there is little alternative to trial and error.
"That's one of the biggest problems with the Internet," said Dan Wager, an insurance agent who runs Quickquote in Incline Village, Nev., which provides prices for 28 companies. "But it's still a lot better than going through endless interviews with agents who typically represent only one or two companies."
Larry Laurence, the chairman of Itech Automated Life Insurance Quotation Systems in Point Richmond, Calif., which sells policies from 60 companies through a combination of the Internet and agents, warns that shopping for life insurance by computer is not without pitfalls. People with medical conditions like high blood pressure, for example, are apt to apply for the lowest-priced coverage. And then, when they are turned down, many will accept a more expensive policy from the same company, he said, even though better deals may be available elsewhere. An agent, he said, could help these customers find alternatives.
Another company that combines research on the computer with an agent's advice, Answer Financial Inc. in Los Angeles, sells exclusively through workplace groups. It offers life, auto and homeowners' insurance from 55 companies.
TO be sure, agents can be helpful. But Jay Angoff, a former Missouri insurance commissioner, cautioned that agents will be agents, however well-intentioned. "The legal duty of the agent to the customer is very, very minimal," he said. "The agent does not have a duty to inform the customer about other coverage that is available or that might be beneficial. The agent is the company's agent and not the customer's agent."
The Internet, of course, is hardly going to make agents disappear. Steven Aldrich, the president of Quicken Insure Market in Alexandria, Va., sees a combination of machines and agents well into the future. "About a third of the people are going to be very comfortable buying on line, without any human contact," said Mr. Aldrich, whose company is owned by Intuit Inc., the financial software concern. "Others are going to be happy to finish up with a telephone conversation. And another third are going to use the Internet to find an agent who will walk them through the entire process."

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "Where to Shop"
Some sites that offer multiple listings for insurance:
 
QUICKQUOTE -- http://quickquote.com
INSWEB -- http://insweb.com/
INSUREMARKET -- http://insuremarket.com
ITECHUSA -- http://www.itechusa.com
QUOTESMITH CORPORATION -- http://quotesmith.com
ANSWER FINANCIAL INC. -- http://www.answercenter.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); PTNT (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); INTERNET PATENTS CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: LIFE INSURANCE; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB LIFE INSURANCE (91%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); TERM LIFE INSURANCE (89%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); RETAIL SALES (75%); SEARCH ENGINES (68%); PARAMEDICS (60%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (50%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B ALLEN CRANE (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



390 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: PRELUDES;
A Generation Unafraid of the Dark

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN; Abby Ellin is a Manhattan writer. Her column on starting out in the world of money will appear the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: preludes@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
TWO years ago, Peter Shankman had what he called the "coolest job in the world": working in the digital newsroom at America Online. It was a coup for Mr. Shankman, a self-described techno-geek who had been a journalism major, and he hoped to stay awhile.
But his plans changed one gray November morning in 1996, when he and dozens of his colleagues were greeted with pink slips. Mr. Shankman, then 24, spent the next few days in a fog, wondering how his dream had evaporated. 
 Now, two years later, he is president of Geek Factory Inc., a public relations firm in Manhattan with mostly high-technology clients.
"Rather than find another full-time job, I thought, 'Why not go into business for myself?' " he said. "This isn't the 50's, where you took a job and worked for 40 years and retired; job security doesn't exist anymore. I'd rather take the risk when I don't have any liabilities, not even a goldfish."
The company is only six months old and he still has no staff, except for an unpaid high-school intern. But he is long on hope.
In leaving the corporate cocoon for the risky but potentially more rewarding life of an entrepreneur, Mr. Shankman is like many other people in their 20's and early 30's -- a generation that grew up hearing the success stories of people like Bill Gates and Ted Turner. In 1997, some 46 percent of business start-ups were by people 35 and under, according to the Entrepreneurial Research Consortium at Babson College in Wellesley, Mass.
Other signs of the trend abound. At least 500 colleges offer one or more courses in entrepreneurial studies, up from 240 in 1990 and just 80 in 1979, according to George Washington University's Center for Family Enterprise. And nearly 700 teachers and students attended the recent convention of the Collegiate Entrepreneurs Organization, run by the University of Illinois at Chicago, up from 550 last year.
"Young people are willing to take risks, whereas 10 years ago it was kind of an oddity," said Rieva Lesonsky, editorial director of Entrepreneur Media of Irvine, Calif., publisher of Entrepreneur magazine. "They're not ashamed of failure. Older generations thought they should exile themselves if they failed, but kids today think: 'Why kill myself? I'm 26 years old; I have my whole life ahead of me.' "
That is how Paul Brinberg felt when he left New York three years ago for San Diego, to help start a record label, PC Music. Mr. Brinberg, now 33, had been working in the finance department of Atlantic Records when a co-worker mentioned that he was contemplating starting his own company. Would he be interested in joining him? "I was about to turn 30, and I thought, 'It's now or never,' " he recalled. "I couldn't do that at 40 with a family."
So Mr. Brinberg and his wife packed their belongings and drove off to unknown territory. He and the business partner set up shop on a dining-room table and began cold-calling. "It's very much a bloody-knuckles business; you've got to keep knocking on doors," he said.
So far, the company has signed six bands. Last year he was able to pay himself a salary, albeit only half of what he was making in New York.
To be sure, business ownership has always attracted the younger generation, but in previous decades the most likely candidates seemed to be people with an almost genetic predisposition toward running their own show.
Consider Diane M. Heppting, now 39, who started while still in grade school. When she was 10, her father helped her invest in a mutual fund, which the two monitored daily. At 15, she opened a car-detailing business, because "I was asthmatic and couldn't mow lawns."
In 1981, after graduating from the University of Colorado with a degree in organizational management and personnel administration, she founded a company that sold medical-billing systems to hospitals and clinics. Within a year, she and her partner were building computer clones, eventually latching onto a revolutionary new technology called CD-ROM.
It wasn't easy -- she recalls that a bank manager once told her to "get married and have her husband apply for the loan." But she said it was worth it. "The hardest thing was not giving up too early," said Ms. Heppting, who now does consulting for other start-ups. Four years ago, at 35, she sold another company she started for several million dollars.
Mr. Shankman has a way to go before he achieves such success. But he has already found something more important.
"It's a constant learning experience, but it's hard not to fall in love with the freedom," he said. "The best thing that ever happened to me was getting the job at A.O.L. The second best was getting laid off."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Carpenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA ONLINE INC; GEEK FACTORY INC AOL INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA ONLINE INC; GEEK FACTORY INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TRENDS (76%); FAMILY COMPANIES (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (70%); STARTUPS (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (63%); 

PERSON: SHANKMAN, PETER; ELLIN, ABBY MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



391 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Why Do Chip Makers Look So Chipper?

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
AFTER three tough years, it seems that things are looking up in Chip Land.
The first bit of good news came from the industry bellwether Intel, which said late Tuesday that fourth-quarter sales and gross profit margins would be better than it had expected. A day later, the Semiconductor Industry Association predicted that sales next year would increase by more than 9 percent from 1998 levels. 
 Since the current year will likely see industry sales decline by nearly 11 percent from 1997, the worst year-to-year performance in more than a decade, it is hard to characterize the association's forecast as wildly bullish. Still, chip stocks, like Advanced Micro Devices, Micron Technology and Altera, went on a tear last week.
Ron Bohn, director of semiconductor research at Dataquest in San Jose, Calif., talked about the issues facing investors, and the industry, in the coming year.
 
Q. This year was a tough one for the business. How have companies addressed the problems that confronted them?
 
A. We think the industry made two major adjustments this year.
First, personal-computer manufacturers have adopted better inventory management, moving them toward just-in-time inventory techniques. Going forward, the industry now knows that inventories at PC manufacturers will be lean.
Second, the industry has adjusted pretty well to the sub-$1,000-priced personal computer, and won't have to make that adjustment again.
 
Q. Presumably, some companies have fared better at facing these challenges than others. In your view, which companies look the strongest coming out of this?
 
A. We don't talk about individual companies, but the big names have been through the worst, and are pretty sound.
Investors should limit themselves to one company in each of the various groups within the industry. But there are going to be lots of ups and downs, and there are no sure things.
 
Q. Expectations of a good holiday selling season seem to be the launching pad for optimism about next year. Are there good reasons to expect the positive momentum to continue in 1999?
 
A. Right now, unit shipments look good, D-RAM dynamic random access memory chip pricing has improved and microprocessors look good. In terms of personal-computer consumption and cell phone production, Europe looks good. And the United States looks O.K. in terms of PC consumption and digital electronics.
In terms of the consumer market, other regions of the world do not look so good. We still have concerns about Japan and the rest of Asia, which collectively were responsible for about 45 percent of the $138 billion in worldwide revenues generated by the industry this year.
Some parts of Asia, like Indonesia, are not that important as semiconductor consumers. But countries like Korea, Taiwan and Singapore, which are important, still have problems.
Meanwhile, the outlook for Japan is not really positive. The banking crisis there will probably limit consumption.
The one potential bright spot is China, which looks like it will remain a strong buyer of personal computers and communications equipment. If that forecast holds, it will be good news.
 
Q. Aside from worries about regional weakness, what are the other issues confronting the industry in 1999 and beyond?
 
A. The Internet is a big top-level issue, one that is positive for manufacturers, especially communication semiconductor makers, and companies building systems or servers that will facilitate the Internet.
Right now, the other unanswered question revolves around the Year 2000 problem. We are not sure what the impact of Y2K will be, if it will slow down purchases. I think we will know the answer to that by the middle of next year. By then, we will see if companies are confident enough about it to be buying new personal computers and communication systems, or if they will postpone those purchases.
 
Q. Despite your cautious optimism about the business, the last few years must have done some damage to the industry. Do you see consolidation in the business?
 
A. Yes, but it will be difficult for investors to play it. Acquisitions usually involve buying a big factory or a division that gets sold off, and it is difficult for investors to determine what those parts are worth to a competitor.
But there is definitely going to be some consolidation. Lots of companies lost lots of money in their semiconductor businesses, particularly in their memory business. You will see more of what Texas Instruments did earlier this year, when it sold its memory business to Micron Technology.
The microprocessor businesses, like Intel and Advanced Micro Devices, will continue to stand alone.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ron Bohn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MU (NASDAQ) (58%); AMD (NYSE) (56%); AMD (FRA) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (90%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SINGAPORE (78%); NORTHERN ASIA (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: DATAQUEST INC INTEL CORP (58%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (58%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (56%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (58%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: DATAQUEST INC SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (58%); SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (90%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SINGAPORE (78%); NORTHERN ASIA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER CHIPS; STOCKS AND BONDS ELECTRONICS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); MEMORY CHIPS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); LEAN MFG (78%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SHIPMENTS (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); BONDS (68%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: BOHN, RON; GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



392 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: TALKING QUALITY WITH -- JOSEPH M. JURAN;
The Guru of Doing It Right Still Sees Much Work to Do

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
IT is hard to believe that Joseph M. Juran is 93 years old.
His hazel eyes still alternately twinkle and pierce, his smile fluctuates between gracious and sardonic, his wit is keen and sharp. And never mind that he has spent two days holding court in a conference room at the Warwick Hotel in New York, patiently doing one-on-ones with reporters wanting to hear his take on whether American industry finally has its problems with quality under control. He looks rested and positively dapper in his dark suit and bow tie, fielding yet another stream of queries. 
 But then, novelty tends to perk up anyone. And for Dr. Juran, arguably the world's pre-eminent living expert on quality in products and the organizations that produce them (W. Edwards Deming, after all, died in 1993), sitting still for interviews is novel indeed. Then again, he is writing his memoirs, so maybe this is a dry run for a book tour.
Whatever his reasons for opening up, when Dr. Juran talks quality, people listen.
A native of Romania who emigrated to Minneapolis with his family at the age of 8, Dr. Juran graduated from the University of Minnesota with an electrical engineering degree in 1924 and has been stumping the campaign trail for quality ever since. He earned a law degree from Loyola of Chicago in 1936, in case he needed something to fall back on during the Depression, but he never found law as compelling as management.
Indeed, decades before re-engineering became a management buzzword, Dr. Juran was applying his then-radical concepts of empowered worker teams and continuous quality improvement to reduce defects at Western Electric's Chicago Hawthorne Works. During World War II, he and his techniques helped cut the time it took to process military supply orders from the front to 36 hours from 99 days.
His "Quality Control Handbook," published in 1951, and "Managerial Breakthrough," in 1964, have been hailed by management gurus like Peter Drucker as springboards from which American manufacturers could launch their sporadic leaps into quality. In fact, such praise has been heaped on various speeches and white papers and consulting projects that his Juran Foundation has churned out since he founded it in 1979.
NOT surprisingly, Dr. Juran does not mince words when he talks about how Japanese companies from carmakers to electronics whizzes have cleaned corporate America's clock on quality issues. He refuses to name today's offenders -- "it would be unethical for me to point to companies that just can't get their quality right," he said -- but he readily condemns companies for quality sins of the past.
"The Japanese started their quality revolution right after World War II, and it took them until 1975 before they caught up with the West in quality," he said. "Our companies didn't start fighting back until 1980, and even then, most of their initiatives failed."
Why the poor record? In Dr. Juran's mind, the buck stops squarely at the top.
"C.E.O's have always left quality to chance or to committees, never to people high-level enough to make decisions," he said. "So the workers would use statistical tools to quantify costs and defects, and they'd set goals and monitor progress toward them."
Why is that so bad? He explained: "Say there's always been a chronic scrap problem that could be solved, but that the workers just think is inevitable and gets built into the goal. It's a problem, but it's treated like a fate."
Dr. Juran has no patience with talk about motivating workers to produce higher-quality products. "Companies like General Motors would post big slogans like 'Do it right the first time' on every plant wall," he said. "Well, that sounds great on the transmitting end, but considering that operator mistakes and oversights cause maybe 15 percent of quality problems, it's pretty insulting on the receiving end."
BUT he is no cranky pessimist. He reckons that swelling numbers of companies are finally getting it right on quality -- raising service and customer-satisfaction levels as costs, defects and product-development cycles plummet.
They are the companies that have learned to do triage on their problems with quality. They let line workers deal with the "trivial many," the hundreds of little glitches from a screw that needs oiling to an inefficient mail delivery schedule -- minor quality problems that nonetheless can add up. But these companies do not hesitate to devote plenty of high-level resources to the "vital few" -- the materials or procedures or people that cause the most problems.
Consider the case of the auto company and the leaky cabs. By Mr. Juran's recollection, anyone driving that company's trucks in the rain got wet. But not all the truck cabs leaked in the same places, so the design errors were not easy to ferret out. Rather than let workers keep plugging isolated leaks, the company asked a team to diagram exactly where the leaks were occurring in a host of cabs. They found that three locations accounted for 90 percent of the leaks.
"They redesigned just those spots," Dr. Juran recalled. "Now, instead of an average of three leaky spots in every cab, they have an average of just one leak in every three cabs."
The solutions are not always so predictable, leading Dr. Juran to point out another attribute of companies that know how to tackle quality: "They are prepared to turn over a rock and deal with some pretty strange stuff underneath."
A case in point: A few years ago, another auto maker, realizing that too many of its cars were going out with unbalanced wheels, formed a team to figure out why. The trouble turned out to be not in the wheels but rather in the testing equipment: It gave inconsistent results, and the readouts were too small for plant workers to see without hunkering close.
So what started as a project to overhaul wheel making turned into a joint project with the supplier of the testing machine to calibrate the equipment better and provide it with a bright digital readout. Once the new gear was in use, "fewer cars needed servicing because of imbalanced wheels, and as a bonus, the company could actually cut its field service staff," Dr. Juran recalled.
THE ability to dissect a problem into chewable chunks is another characteristic of a quality-savvy company, Dr. Juran said. The example he cites is, of all things, a Hawaiian-themed resort with a troupe of hula dancers who were not dancing up to par. Hotel managers told them to solve their problem or else. So they trained a video camera on themselves and analyzed the tapes, spotting which dancers made which missteps at which points in the show.
"Some steps every dancer had trouble with, so they changed the choreography," Mr. Duran recalled. "Good dancers that got a few steps wrong got better training. Dancers that made lots of mistakes on lots of steps just got canned."

GRAPHIC: Photo: After decades of proselytizing for quality in manufacturing, Joseph M. Juran says that a growing number of United States companies are mastering the concept but that some are still learning far too slowly. (Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: WARWICK HOTEL (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (77%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ENGINEERING (88%); QUALITY CONTROL (86%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (71%); ETHICS (70%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (61%); AUTOMAKERS (61%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (61%); DEFENSE ORDERS (50%); 

PERSON: JURAN, JOSEPH M; DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



393 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: CARL DORF;
Pilgrim America Bank and Thrift

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
OVER the summer, it seemed, bank stocks came a cropper. Investors recoiled at the banks' emerging-markets exposure, their hedge fund loans and the potential damage from an impending recession. By Oct. 8, the sector had dropped 40.3 percent from its high on July 15.
After the Federal Reserve's one-two cut in the Federal funds rate last month, however, the question now is: How high will bank stocks bounce? 
 "The decline was overdone," said Carl Dorf, portfolio manager of Pilgrim America Bank and Thrift, a top-ranking financial specialty fund, from his office in downtown Phoenix. Despite the rebound that started a couple of weeks ago, Mr. Dorf said, "we think the sector is still much cheaper than the market."
"There's no reason why industrial companies should trade at 20-plus times earnings, while my group trades at 13 times earnings," he added. "Decent regional banks should trade at average market multiples."
His investing ideas have been, well, money in the bank for shareholders. The fund returned an annual average of 33.1 percent for the three years through Nov. 6, putting it in first place among 19 specialty financial funds tracked over that period, according to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago financial publisher. The group returned 25.1 percent.
This year, however, the fund has lost 2.6 percent through Nov. 6, compared with a positive, if measly, return of 1.8 percent for the group, according to Morningstar. Mr. Dorf attributes that underperformance, in part, to a big influx of cash.
Bank and Thrift began in 1986 as a closed-end fund called Pilgrim Regional Bank Shares; Mr. Dorf took over the fund in 1991. In October 1997, with assets of $354.2 million, it converted into a mutual fund and now has assets of $878.9 million.
Despite the structural changes, Mr. Dorf's strategy has stayed consistent. "We try to be risk-averse," he said, avoiding companies with high levels of bad loans. If he thinks financial stocks are likely to underperform, he can raise the fund's cash position to as high as 100 percent. However, he has never lifted it above 10 percent and it is now 7.7 percent.
Seeking quality at cheap prices, he says he usually will not buy a stock or add to a holding if its price-to-earnings multiple is higher than the average for the portfolio, now 13.5.
Mr. Dorf, 58, uses his own model to unearth value. He monitors a fairly small, informal universe of about 200 banks, savings institutions and financial services companies, from which he selects the 90 held in the fund. The model reviews some 30 pieces of financial information, among the most important being asset quality, measured by, say, the percentage of nonperforming assets and the size of the reserve for losses.
But he also pays heed to subjective factors, like management's skill and commitment to shareholders; the loan portfolio mix, and the various types of businesses it operates.
For example, he recently added to his position in Charter One Financial, a savings institution based in Cleveland that is already the fund's biggest holding. Management is shareholder oriented, Mr. Dorf said, and the chief executive, Charles John Koch, held close to 1 percent of the company as of last February. "Every one-point move in the stock price means more to the chief executive than his annual salary," Mr. Dorf said.
Charter One has what Mr. Dorf calls excellent credit quality, yet sells for just 12.8 times projected 1999 earnings. In addition, management has shifted the portfolio mix from single-family mortgages toward higher-yielding consumer assets like auto, consumer and home equity loans, he said. He expects annual earnings growth of 12 percent over three to five years. The stock now trades at $28.46875.
HE also added recently to his position in the BankBoston Corporation, which has a large presence in Argentina and Brazil. "Shares started to look very cheap because the market was reacting to fears of a devaluation in Brazil," he said.
He said he usually avoided a bank with international exposure unless it is dominant in a particular market. In this case, "Argentina and Brazil think that Bank of Boston is a local company, and that the United States is a subsidiary," he quipped. He also said the company was hedged against any potential devaluation. Mr. Dorf expects earnings to grow 9.8 percent in 1999; the stock is now at $41.125.
A recent buy is Sirrom Capital of Nashville, which lends money to small companies. Mr. Dorf compares Sirrom's business to venture capital lending, but Sirrom offsets the risk by taking warrants in the companies, allowing it to acquire stock at a fixed price. "A decent number don't survive, but some of the ones that do tend to be big winners," he said.
Sirrom traded at more than $30 a share in the spring, but several of its loans have since gone bad. Mr. Dorf bought shares at prices ranging from $4.625 to $13. The fund is betting that the market "has made a mistake," he said, adding that the company's stated book value per share is considerably greater than its stock price, now $5.625.
After Mr. Dorf buys a stock, he tends to hold on. The fund's turnover rate was 22 percent last year, compared with an average of 84 percent for all United States stock funds.
Unlike cheerleading sell-side analysts, Mr. Dorf is not a great fan of the big-name mergers that have refashioned the financial services industry. For example, he does not own the newly meshed Citigroup, because of its high foreign and credit card exposure as well as what he euphemistically called "management risk" -- evidenced by the departure of its former president, James E. Dimon.
He holds some BankAmerica stock, originally bought as Nationsbank shares, but sounds decidedly downbeat. "I didn't like the acquisition because it gave me international exposure I didn't want," he said. "Over all, it's a terrific franchise, but the timing is not judicious."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The summer decline in bank stocks was overdone, said Carl Dorf, portfolio manager of Pilgrim America Bank and Thrift in Phoenix. "We think the sector is still much cheaper than the market," he said. (Jeff Topping for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Pilgrim America Bank and Thrift"
 
Category -- Financial
Net assets (all share classes) -- $878.9 million
Inception -- January 1986
Manager -- Carl Dorf since Jan. 1991
Minimum purchase -- $1,000 ($250 I.R.A.)
Portfolio turnover -- 22%
3-year annualized return as of Nov. 6 (class A shares) -- 33.1%
Category average -- 25.1%
 
Sector breakdown
Retail -- 1.6%
Financials -- 94.5%
Other -- 3.9%
 
Fees (class A shares)
Front-end load -- 5.75%
Deferred load -- None
12b-1 fee -- 0.25%
Expense ratio -- 1.10%
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: PILGRIM AMERICA BANK AND THRIFT PILGRIM AMERICA BANK & THRIFT FUND INC (93%); MORNINGSTAR INC (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: PILGRIM AMERICA BANK AND THRIFT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKS AND BANKING; MUTUAL FUNDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); 

PERSON: DORF, CARL; GOULD, CAROLE CARL DORF (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



394 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2698 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Head Of the Fed;
Alan Greenspan's Journey To the New World Economy

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
JUST before 9 on Tuesday morning, if tradition holds, Alan Greenspan will stride through a doorway behind the desk in his private office and into the Federal Reserve's ornate board room. He will take his seat at the head of the 27-foot-long mahogany and granite table and then, for the 91st time in his 11 years as chairman of the central bank, call to order a meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the group that sets interest rate policy.
The process is almost ritualistic. But with much of the world reeling from the financial shocks set off last year in Asia, and with the markets and the economy at home in flux, the situation confronting Mr. Greenspan and his colleagues these days is anything but predictable. 
 Mr. Greenspan ascended to icon status through his success at the monumental, but well-defined, task of extinguishing inflation. The question now is whether he can guide policy as successfully through a period in which both the economy and the threats to it are changing with blinding speed.
At stake is a business expansion in the United States that next month will become, at seven years and nine months, the longest in the nation's history, aside from the 1960's boom fueled by spending on the Vietnam War.
For Mr. Greenspan, there is also a legacy at stake. He is 72. And though he has not indicated whether he wants to be reappointed when his current term, his third, expires in the summer of 2000, today's economic crosscurrents have created a challenge whose outcome will shape how he is remembered in the history books.
Just what is Mr. Greenspan thinking amid the swirl? He rarely answers questions directly, as anyone who tries to parse his public comments soon discovers. So economists, investors and politicians have been trying to read his mind since he was appointed to replace Paul A. Volcker as the Fed chairman in 1987. They have learned to pick up any major shifts in policy -- and, often, to anticipate the next interest rate move. Despite signs of continued economic strength, the guessing now is that Mr. Greenspan will trim rates by a quarter-point on Tuesday, following two cuts earlier this fall, to make sure that a gradual slowdown does not become a recession.
There has been less focus, however, on a broader, almost philosophical assessment of the changing economy that Mr. Greenspan has laid out over the last few years in speeches, Congressional appearances and private conversations with economists and Government officials.
At its heart are the financial markets. Where Mr. Greenspan once obsessed over small-bore indicators for clues to emerging inflationary bottlenecks, he now cites data like the spread between ultra-safe Treasury bonds and corporate debt to illustrate his concern that investor psychology could derail the economy.
Long viewed as a single-minded, perhaps narrow-minded, inflation fighter, Mr. Greenspan has been careful not to suggest any diminution of his commitment to price stability, which he calls the "essential precondition" for a healthy economy. But with inflation having receded for now, he has also become more fascinated with how advances in technology are affecting the economy -- and how the combination of technology and more powerful markets can bring prosperity or wreak havoc around the world in an instant.
Productivity growth, a key to better living standards, appears to be improving, in Mr. Greenspan's view, reflecting a delayed payoff from the huge investments by business over the years in computers and other new technology. Elements of the economy that are most prone to recession-inducing imbalances -- like industrial capacity and inventories -- can now be managed much more efficiently, he believes.
But the economy is increasingly vulnerable to financial market volatility. Central bankers can help avert market crises, but cannot do much to bring an overvalued market back into line, Mr. Greenspan contends.
His bottom line is this: Global forces are making monetary policy trickier, but they are advancing a sometimes painful, yet ultimately beneficial, shift toward market capitalism -- a cause he has promoted since his days as a saxophone-playing disciple of Ayn Rand in the 1950's.
"For good or ill, an unforgiving capitalist process is driving wealth creation," Mr. Greenspan said in a speech earlier this year. "It has become increasingly difficult for policy makers who wish to practice, as they put it, a more 'caring' capitalism to realize the full potential of their economies. As a result, increasingly, nations appear to be opting to open themselves to competition, however harsh, and become producers that can compete in world markets."
 
Questions of Myopia
Mr. Greenspan has as many critics as ever. Some think that he continues to focus unduly on inflation at the expense of jobs and higher wages, and that his failure to cut American interest rates sooner has exacerbated the global crisis. Others think that in his fixation on the markets, he is paying too little attention to warning signals of inflation, like rapid growth in the money supply.
Another group thinks he is drawing sweeping conclusions from a temporary period of good economic luck. And the rise of left-leaning governments in Western Europe, along with the resistance to free-market capitalism in capitals from Kuala Lumpur to Moscow, challenge his conclusions about economic history.
Mr. Greenspan, of course, does not set policy by himself, and his colleagues at the Fed have their own ideas about what is happening. But his evolving thinking helps explain why the Fed stayed largely on the sidelines in the last few years as the American economy exceeded the "speed limit" imposed by traditional forecasting models and rules. It serves as the foundation for the concerns he has expressed recently about the risks to the economy from the near-panic in the bond markets -- and suggests that he remains extremely concerned about the financial market problems even as the panic begins to subside.
It also helps to shape an impression -- by no means universal -- that Mr. Greenspan is more willing to rethink his approach than he gets credit for, and that he is not as preoccupied with economic minutiae as many have long believed.
"What's impressive about Greenspan is that he's open-minded to the fact that each business cycle is different and the economy is changing and we don't know as much as we think we know," said William Dudley, an economist at Goldman, Sachs.
 
Translating the Arcane
Early one morning last January, Mr. Greenspan took a three-block stroll along Vermont Avenue in South Central Los Angeles, ground zero in the 1992 riots. Along with members of Congress and other Federal regulators, he passed empty lots, boarded-up stores and other evidence that the boom that had brought prosperity to much of the country had done little to help restore that ravaged community.
"We regulators are swamped with all sorts of data, which we pore through day after day," Mr. Greenspan told reporters later. "I think it is terribly important to look at what is under the data. It's important to put a face on the numbers."
Yet that brief excursion into a pocket of poverty was uncharacteristic for Mr. Greenspan, whose approach to his job is fiercely intellectual and dispassionate.
He is the ultimate economic wonk, immersing himself in official statistics, raw data, Wall Street numbers and anecdotal information passed along to him directly or indirectly by business executives. His briefcase is often full of trade publications like Aviation Week.
He rarely gets out to factory floors or fast-food kitchens, and other than occasional visits with labor leaders, rarely seems to interact much with anyone but the elites in government, economics, business and finance.
But he can draw on the 30 years he spent as a consultant advising a wide range of industries for a sense of what all those arcane facts and statistics mean in the real world.
In "Economic Puppetmasters: Lessons from the Halls of Power" (AEI Press), a book due out in February, Lawrence B. Lindsey, a Fed governor from 1991 to 1997 who is now a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, cites a Fed board meeting a few years ago in which the discussion turned to flooding that had rendered all but one of a region's bridges across the Mississippi River impassable, creating a logjam for freight.
"Greenspan not only knew the location of the bridge, but also the various reroutings that could be used to get merchandise there," Mr. Lindsey writes.
The sheer breadth of Mr. Greenspan's data-gathering has always dissuaded him from relying on a particular forecasting model or rule-driven approach to monetary policy.
He is skeptical about the existence of a "natural" rate of unemployment, a level below which inflation will inevitably take root if the economy is growing at a healthy pace. He does not put any particular stock in the Phillips curve, which purports to establish a link between inflation and unemployment. And he views growth in the money supply, which monetarists see as the main determinant of inflation, as just one indicator, and not a terribly reliable one at that.
Yet while Mr. Greenspan shies away from reading immutable patterns in past performance, he is a keen student of history. "There's a scholarly dimension to him," said David Hale, an economist at the Zurich Group. "A lot of people in our business are consumed by money-market gibberish. He can see the sweep of history."
 
Technology's Twists
It is to history that Mr. Greenspan has looked to explain why the computer revolution and all the other technological advances of the last few decades were accompanied not by a spurt in productivity, as would be expected, but by a decline that began around 1970 and is only now showing signs of reversing.
He frequently cites work by two economists at Stanford University, Paul David and Nathan Rosenberg, who have shown that it often takes decades before new technology is fully absorbed and exploited by businesses. Factories built to use steam power, for example, could not capture the advantages offered by the development of electricity; it was only when new plants were built with electricity-driven machinery in mind that their productivity improved.
"What we may be observing in the current environment is a number of key technologies, some even mature, finally interacting to create significant new opportunities for value creation," Mr. Greenspan said in a speech last year, citing as an example the use of decades-old laser technology in fiber optic cable to carry traffic on the Internet.
If technology has begun to improve productivity, that would help explain a big mystery of the last several years: why, with low unemployment and steady growth, there has not been inflation. The likelihood that productivity is increasing more than official statistics show seems to be a key reason Mr. Greenspan held off on raising interest rates over the last several years.
Mr. Greenspan thinks that technology is also altering the business cycle. He contends that by allowing businesses to adjust their inventories more rapidly and reducing the time it takes to put newly ordered equipment into service, technology is dampening the major imbalances usually associated with a recession.
Yet technology is also behind the growing size and power of the financial markets, which in turn are having an ever more direct and powerful impact on the economy, he believes.
Consumers spent somewhat more freely as the stock market climbed relentlessly the last few years; in his view, it is only common sense to believe they will retrench somewhat if the market goes into a sustained fall. Businesses have increasingly turned to the stock and bond markets to raise money; just as the easy availability of capital has fueled business expansion, a credit squeeze in the market could halt that growth.
Moreover, with technology allowing investors to send money screaming from one place to another, no country can wall itself off from financial shocks. "New technology has radically reduced the costs of borrowing and lending across traditional national borders," Mr. Greenspan said in a speech last spring. While the globalization of finance has helped to raise living standards, it also "exposes and punishes underlying economic weakness swiftly and decisively," and appears to have "facilitated the transmission of financial disturbances far more effectively than ever before," he said.
But in being forced to heed market fluctuations, policy makers immediately confront the complexities of investor psychology, a variable that not even Mr. Greenspan can fully grasp, much less control.
He has been ruminating about how to deal with the markets since his famous reference to "irrational exuberance" in a speech nearly two years ago. He has tried talking the market down, with only temporary success, but seems to have concluded that there is no orderly way to deflate an asset bubble.
In his book, Mr. Lindsey quotes from an interview with Mr. Greenspan in April, before the stock market tumbled and then rebounded.
"There is a fundamental problem with market intervention to prick a bubble," Mr. Greenspan said. "It presumes that you know more than the market.
"There is also a problem of timing. You might prick too soon, in which case it comes back, and you may just make it larger the next time.
"There is also a very interesting question as to whether the central bank is intervening appropriately in the market," Mr. Greenspan told Mr. Lindsey. "This raises some fascinating questions about what our authority is and who makes the judgment that there actually is a bubble."
 
The Alter Ego
A guest at a party a few months ago on the South Lawn of the White House remembers seeing Mr. Greenspan and his wife, Andrea Mitchell, the NBC News correspondent, standing not far from President Clinton. Mr. Clinton happily posed for pictures; Ms. Mitchell chatted with friends. Mr. Greenspan stood awkwardly, as if dreading the possibility that someone would approach to ask if it was a good time to refinance.
Yet Mr. Greenspan's dour public face is to some degree a mask. Born in New York in 1926, he was a baseball fan and a talented musician; after attending the Juilliard School, he signed on with a swing band and toured the country playing saxophone before receiving an economics degree at New York University.
Much has been made of Mr. Greenspan's membership during the 1950's in Ayn Rand's inner circle. Rand's novels, especially "Atlas Shrugged," presented a vision of individualism and laissez-faire capitalism that became a guiding light for many libertarians. Mr. Greenspan has always minimized her influence on his current thinking, and while there are few economic conservatives more pure than he in Washington, he also has a strong pragmatic streak.
Consider his close relationship with the Clinton Administration, where he has far more influence than he ever did with the President who first appointed him, Ronald Reagan, or with George Bush, whose defeat in 1992 is often attributed by Republicans to Mr. Greenspan's slow response to the 1990-91 recession.
Mr. Clinton's place in history will owe much to Mr. Greenspan's stewardship of the economy over the last six years and how well the economy holds up over the next two. Some would argue, in fact, that Mr. Clinton's political survival this year was due in large part to the contentment that the prosperous Greenspan era has induced in the electorate.
As a result, Mr. Greenspan can almost certainly count on Mr. Clinton to nominate him to a fourth term in 2000 if the Fed chairman decides he want to stay on. Will Mr. Greenspan have had enough of the pressures and the criticism? Will he find it too hard to pull his head out of the national income accounts and let go of the economy's levers?
Today's indispensable man is not saying. But while Wall Street and Washington have a hard time imagining a post-Greenspan world, it is worth remembering that they could not imagine a world without Paul Volcker running the Fed, either.

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Illustration by Ron Morecraft)(pg. 1); The Fed's policy panel is set to meet in this board room on Tuesday. It will be the 91st time Alan Greenspan has called such a meeting to order. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 
Chart: "Seats Of Power"
The Federal Open Market Committee influences the nation's economy by raising or lowering interest rates. Its main mechanism is adjusting the Federal funds target rate -- what banks charge one another on overnight loans. The committee's members include the chairman of the Federal Reserve and its six governors (there currently is one vacancy) as well as the 12 Federal Reserve Bank presidents, five of whom get to vote each time, on a rotating basis. Here are seating assignments for the committee's meetings at the Fed's headquarters in Washington. The chairman, Alan Greenspan, and those pictured are the voting members.
 
Jerry L. Jordan, 57 -- President, Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
The Fed's most outspoken monetarist, he has warned through much of the year that money-supply growth was fueling inflationary pressures. In four dissenting votes this year, he asserted that the committee was understating the threat from inflation.
 
Edward M. Gramlich, 59 -- Governor
 
William J. McDonough, 64 -- President, Federal Reserve Bank of New York
A possible successor to Mr. Greenspan, he has put no discernible daylight between himself and the chairman on policy.
 
Alice M. Rivlin, 67 -- Vice chairwoman, Board of Governors
Often mentioned as a successor to Mr. Greenspan. A respected economist, she had little experience in monetary policy before joining the Fed. She is generally cautious and in sync with Mr. Greenspan.
 
Jack Guynn, 55 -- President, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
 
Edward G. Boehne, 58 -- President, Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
 
J. Alfred Broaddus Jr., 59 -- President, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
 
Roger W. Ferguson Jr., 47 -- Governor
 
Alan Greenspan, 72 -- Chairman
 
Thomas M. Hoenig, 52 -- President, Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
 
Laurence H. Meyer, 54 -- Governor
One of the nation's most prominent economic forecasters before joining the Fed in 1996, he is something of an intellectual foil to Mr. Greenspan. He is suspicious of the idea of a new economy, but comes to the same decisions on policy as the chairman.
 
Cathy E. Minehan, 51 -- President, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
 
Robert D. McTeer Jr., 56 -- President, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
 
Gary H. Stern, 54 -- President, Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
 
William Poole, 61 -- President, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
A monetarist, he cast a dissenting vote in May, saying money-supply growth justified a rate increase. As the global crisis took its toll on the United States, he voted with the majority to keep rates stable in the summer.
 
Michael H. Moskow, 60 -- President, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
 
Robert T. Parry, 59 -- President, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
(Illustration by Richard Golueke; The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (83%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (83%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HISTORY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); RECESSION (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (70%); BONDS (70%); CORPORATE BONDS (67%); CORPORATE DEBT (60%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); STEVENSON, RICHARD W ALAN GREENSPAN (95%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



395 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: A Fresh Look at Cuba

 BODY:
Nearly 40 years after Fidel Castro came to power and a decade after the end of the cold war, a reconsideration of American policy toward Cuba is overdue. President Clinton was recently given a surprising and irresistible invitation to do exactly that. It came from a bipartisan group of senators and an impressive roster of former Republican national security officials. He should respond promptly and positively.
Since the 1960's, Washington has prohibited Americans from trading with Cuba, investing in its economy and traveling there as ordinary tourists. In recent years, Washington has irritated America's allies by trying to punish their commerce with Cuba as well. None of this has noticeably diminished Mr. Castro's autocratic rule or advanced American interests. Arguments justifying the embargo on the basis of Mr. Castro's close military cooperation with the former Soviet Union became obsolete a decade ago. 
 The United States should end its embargo at the earliest possible date and move toward normal diplomatic relations. Increasing the presence of American diplomats, business people and tourists on the island will make it easier to promote desperately needed democratic change. But the 1996 Helms-Burton law makes it impossible to substantially ease the embargo without Congressional approval. Any significant change in Cuba policy must include Congress as well.
The senators, including Republican conservatives like Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, Rod Grams of Minnesota, Mike Enzi of Wyoming and Pat Roberts of Kansas, do not endorse specific new policies. Instead, they urge Mr. Clinton to appoint a national commission to seek a new consensus. They recommend that it include foreign policy and human rights specialists, Cuban-Americans, business representatives and members of Congress.
Over time, the views of Cubans in this country have become less monolithic. Opposition to Mr. Castro remains strong. But some younger Cuban-Americans question whether isolation is the best way to encourage democratic change. The presence of human rights leaders would assure that the concerns of Cuban political prisoners and opposition leaders are not overlooked.
With Mr. Castro past 70 and in uncertain health, Cubans have begun to look toward the political future. The United States should be trying to influence their debates constructively, not isolating itself on the sidelines.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (95%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (95%); KANSAS, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); COLD WAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); APPROVALS (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) FIDEL CASTRO (90%); BILL CLINTON (88%); RICK SANTORUM (56%); MIKE ENZI (56%); PAT ROBERTS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



396 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Correspondence: Middle America in China;
Funny, I Moved to Beijing And Wound Up in Pleasantville

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

DATELINE: BEIJING

 BODY:
I AM a product of America's cities. For the first 40 years of my life, I had never been to anything like Price Club. Dairy Queen was a once-a-year pit stop on vacations. I had never car-pooled to a soccer game. In fact, but for a brief period a decade ago, my husband and I never owned a car.
Then, a year ago, we moved to China -- and somehow ended up in middle America. 
 Let me describe a typical Saturday here in Beijing, within marching distance of the Great Hall of the People. We begin by all piling into the sport-utility vehicle (a Chinese-made Jeep) to get the kids to soccer. But wait: It's our turn to bring halftime snacks! No problem; we'll just stop at the Dunkin' Donuts for donut holes. In the People's Republic of China, I have become a soccer mom.
After the game, if the weather is warm, we might head to the pool for a swim. Other families drive to stables for horseback riding, still others to one of the many miniature golf courses for a bit more sport.
Later, there's a stop at the new Price Smart, Beijing's latest cavernous, members-only supermarket, where we can buy 24 rolls of toilet paper and vast containers of Tootsie Rolls. It's easy to find, right next to a huge bowling alley and down the ring road from a mall.
Hungry? There are over 40 McDonald's. There's Dairy Queen and Baskin-Robbins and the gleaming new Haagen-Dazs parlor that this summer sprang up from the gritty pavement off Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue.
So this is what the Communist Party means by "socialism with Chinese characteristics"! But isn't this what it's like in Des Moines?
Now, in case the skeptical among you think that what I'm describing is just the lifestyle of homesick American executives, diplomats and journalists, guess again. True, the soccer game was mostly for Western kids. But the most jarring thing about urban China is that it is the Chinese -- albeit better-off Chinese -- who are packing the Pizza Huts, the Ikeas, the Putt Putt miniature golf courses and the Clarins skin-care salons.
Although most people here have never voted and the Communist Party maintains a tight grip on politics, the market provides plenty of choice in many spheres, to the small but growing number of Chinese with disposable income. And they are making these choices with the gusto of Bedouins who suddenly happen on a vast reservoir.
There are many reasons why the fruit of middle America has been quick to catch on in Beijing. The Chinese have seen it on imported TV shows and longed for it for years. Middle America is relentlessly clean and modern -- appealing in a country with a lot of ancient relics but a shortage of functioning flush toilets. And middlebrow Americana suits the still-limited budgets of Chinese consumers.
Thus this year millions of Chinese paid $8 a head to see "Titanic," but few were willing to shell out $60 (two weeks' salary for a teacher here) to see a much-praised production of Puccini's "Turandot" staged in the Forbidden City. It is probably not a coincidence that the first joint-venture hotel in Beijing, the Jian Guo -- which caters to both Chinese and foreigners -- was modeled after a Holiday Inn in Arizona, not the Plaza in New York.
Of course, most of the city is still quintessentially Chinese, with bicycles and pedicabs vying for position with horse-drawn carts bearing high stacks of watermelons and cabbages. At dawn, the parks are still full of old men in Mao suits doing tai chi exercises, and the narrow alleys are jammed with vendors selling Chinese pancakes and odd boiled eggs that taste like salt.
The juxtaposition of such scenes with American-style bowling alleys and indoor playgrounds gives Beijing its extraordinary character. And the Chinese add their distinctive veneer to what would otherwise be predictably American establishments. In addition to Frosted Flakes, the Price Smart sells frozen jiaoze and fresh dou miao, the dumplings and bean sprouts that are staples of Beijing cuisine. The riding stables are staffed by former officers of the People's Liberation Army and offer surly horses that respond only to Chinese.
At McDonald's, workers teach children elaborate dance routines that defy Western neurons. Grandmas, or nai nais, who would never touch a burger nevertheless go to McDonald's to watch their precious grandchildren scarf down Happy Meals.
In the United States, I mostly dreaded trips to fun emporiums like Chuck E. Cheese. But somehow here I don't mind the cacophony of Fundazzle, an indoor playground sometimes flocked with whole schools full of Chinese children, with a climbing maze the size of a football field and a ball pit the size of a large swimming pool.
I like the sign there that reminds Chinese to put diapers on infants. (Most Chinese toddlers pee right onto the street through a perpetually gaping front-to-back slit in their pants.) I like the elaborate charts explaining to education-obsessed Chinese parents why the games are a scientific method of improving your one and only child's hand-eye coordination, sequencing skills or attention span.
As the kids play, I sometimes chat about this and that with the other parents, who I know by their age must have spent childhoods separated from their families or living as peasants in the countryside during the madness of the Cultural Revolution.
We've come from such different places to be here.
I'm perpetually surprised that so many Chinese can afford such outings, with tickets to Fundazzle going for $5 per child in a city where the average monthly income is officially $100. Even more that so many flock to the new Haagen Dazs, where we hesitate to go because the sundaes can set you back more than $10.
BUT there are now Beijing residents whose spending power far outstrips mine.
They would not be caught dead owning our tinny Beijing Jeep, for example, which we bought because high import duties precluded an imported car. Some have even joined expatriate corporate executives in whitewashed villa complexes in the suburbs of Beijing, places with names like Celebrity Gardens and Capital Paradise, with detached 4 bedroom homes, backyards and guards.
We won't follow, even though I hate the city's pollution and traffic.
The suburban developments of Beijing feel too much like the suburbs of St. Louis or Phoenix. You could be anywhere.
Still, I'm grateful that moving someplace exotic gave me license to get behind Price Smart's enormous orange shopping carts. Member shopping is cheap and convenient. And, Manhattanites, if you're too proud to do it close to home, come to China and check it out.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Carpenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (83%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (83%); SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); MIDWEST USA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (83%); INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); MIDWEST USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LIFE STYLES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT GOLF (89%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (89%); SOCCER (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (78%); BAKED GOODS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRENDS (70%); POLITICS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); HORSES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%); BOWLING CENTERS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



397 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: The World;
For Now, the U.S. Calls Russia's Bluff

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
WHEN the Kremlin finds itself in a tight economic squeeze, it acts a lot like the sheriff in the Mel Brooks comedy "Blazing Saddles." Pursued by a furious lynch mob, the sheriff puts a gun to his own head and threatens to pull the trigger if the crowd doesn't back off.
As a bitter winter closes in, Russia has again tried to take itself hostage. Kremlin aides have drawn ghastly scenarios of the troubles that they say will swamp their nation if the West refuses to supply billions in fresh aid. 
 Rubles will roll off the printing presses, they warn, spurring hyperinflation. The nation will default on billions of dollars of foreign loans, leaving Western banks high and dry. The oratory has even been salted with talk of the collapse of the Russian state and the breakdown of nuclear controls.
This time, however, the scare tactics have not worked. Call it tough love, Russia fatigue or a simple capitulation to domestic American political pressure: For the first time in President Boris N. Yeltsin's tenure, the United States seems prepared to let his Government fall flat on its face.
This is not to say that Washington has turned its back on Russia. It is still spending hundreds of millions of dollars to help safeguard nuclear materials. It is also sending $625 million worth of food to keep Russians from going hungry and prevent a breakdown of the social order.
 
Hands Off
But having addressed the most serious security and humanitarian problems, Washington is no longer pressing the International Monetary Fund to provide billions of dollars in new assistance or trying to prop up the Russian Government.
The Clinton Administration's hands-off approach has been spelled out in a series of speeches by top State and Treasury Department officials.
"International macroeconomic support of the kind we provide through the I.M.F. must wait until the Russian Government shows itself willing and able to make the difficult structural adjustments necessary for recovery and growth," warned Strobe Talbott, the Deputy Secretary of State.
"Money from outside will do no good if it is inflated away or it if pauses only briefly in Russia before ending up in Swiss bank accounts and Riviera real estate," he added.
In political terms, the Clinton Administration's response is hardly surprising. For most of the Yeltsin years, the Clinton Administration was closely identified with the market reformers in the Government like Anatoly B. Chubais, Sergei V. Kiriyenko and Boris Y. Nemtsov. Mr. Talbott went so far last year as to proclaim that Russia had begun to turn the corner under their guidance.
The West did more than talk. A three-year, $10-billion-dollar program of I.M.F. assistance was announced in 1996 just in time to boost Mr. Yeltsin's re-election prospects. When that was not enough, the West cobbled together a $17 billion rescue plan in July to help buttress the ruble.
But Washington's expectations were shaken when the rescue plan failed. Russia's reformers were forced to devalue the ruble and, in a dubious bit of policymaking, slapped a 90-day moratorium on the repayment of foreign debts held by Russian banks.
Soon the reformers were out, Yevgeny M. Primakov was Prime Minister and a new coalition Government seeded with Communists began to talk about the need for greater state control of the economy and issued a litany of potentially costly promises.
Having spent billions trying to support Russia's free market proponents without a clear victory, the West was not rushing to spend billions more -- at least not until Mr. Primakov's team drew up a detailed budget and economic plan.
The Western response has been a rude shock for the Russians. Viktor Gerashchenko, the Communist now in charge of the Central Bank, and Mikhail M. Zadornov, the Finance Minister, came to Washington last month with only the vague outlines of an economic plan, hoping to line up billions in I.M.F. aid. They returned emptyhanded.
Whether the Clinton Administration's tough approach represents a thorough rethinking of Russia is another matter. Critics say the Administration is rightly wary of bailing out Russia, but note that the crisis came to a head when the American-backed reformers were in the saddle.
"There is no self-analysis in Talbott's speech, as if we did not play a role in what happened in Russia," said Thomas Graham, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and a former American diplomat in Moscow.
It is too soon to say if the Kremlin is really prepared to take the tough steps that would be required to pry loose the I.M.F. funds.
To try to soften up Washington, the Primakov team has pushed for ratification of the Start-2 treaty slashing long-range nuclear arms. It has also promised to limit the printing of new rubles and pledged budgetary discipline.
So far, however, the Russia's economic strategy is mostly just talk. A test may come next month when the Government outlines its 1999 budget, which will show how it plans to deal with its huge deficit.
"They have not done a lot of the things that worry us the most," said the American official. "But no one has seen next year's budget and it is still not clear who is really calling the shots."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Washington is chilly to Russia's requests for another I.M.F. bailout -- maybe as chilly as it was in Moscow last week. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND SWISS BANK & TRUST CORP LTD (52%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; FOOD; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SHERIFFS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); POLITICS (72%); TRENDS (71%); FOREIGN LENDING (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); GORDON, MICHAEL R BILL CLINTON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



398 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Dreams of Fields;
The New Politics Of Urban Sprawl

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: SEATTLE

 BODY:
WHAT the author Tom Wolfe did for radical chic in the 1960's, narcissism in the 70's, and greed in the 80's, he may now be doing for runaway real estate development in his new novel on America at century's end. Urban sprawl, with all its strip-mall excess and soul-deadening homogeneity, is not just a central backdrop, but almost a character in "A Man in Full," the author's latest pen poke at contemporary life.
"The only way you could tell you were leaving one community and entering another was when the franchises started repeating and you spotted another 7-Eleven, another Wendy's, another Costco, another Home Depot," Mr. Wolfe writes. He was describing the Bay Area of California, but it could have been any metro area in the country. 
 On election day, voters from Southern California to New Jersey showed that the sprawl issue may have become a political driving force no less than a narrative function in the fictional world of Mr. Wolfe.
Voters across the country and across party lines, from desert suburbs in the West to leafy cul de sacs in the East, voted to stop the march of new malls, homes and business parks at the borders of their communities, and to tax themselves to buy open space as a hedge against future development.
For Vice President Al Gore, who has been ratcheting up the sprawl issue as a top green concern, edging aside more contentious and somewhat abstract environmental concepts like global warming, the votes are seen as the start of a winning national campaign. Who, after all, could be against what the Sierra Club now describes as an attempt to return to Beaver Cleaver's America, albeit with smaller lot sizes?
 
Paving Paradise
"I've come to the conclusion that what we really are faced with here is a systematic change from a pattern of uncontrolled sprawl toward a brand new path that makes quality of life the goal of all our urban, suburban and farmland policies," Mr. Gore said in an interview.
But Republicans like Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey, have also listened to the same complaints around the barbecue. At the very edge of what the author Joel Garreau famously labeled "Edge Cities," people say their new communities have become too dependent on the automobile, too removed from nature, too close to the clutter of boxy retail stores.
Paving paradise, almost a reflex reaction in Southern California, was halted by a huge majority in Ventura County, where voters approved a series of urban boundaries around the fast-growing new cities wedged between Los Angeles and Santa Barbara, and stripped their elected supervisors of the power to approve new subdivisions and put it in the hands of voters instead.
Developers now will have to get voter approval to push the flood of tile-roofed subdivisions any further into land that has some of the last big lemon groves in California. About 80 percent of the county will be off-limits to developers, unless voters say differently, supporters of the measure said. The Los Angeles Times heralded the vote as a "revolution."
In New Jersey, the most-densely populated state in the nation, voters in 43 cities and six counties decided to raises their taxes to buy and preserve open space. Statewide, by a two-to-one margin, voters also approved spending nearly $1 billion over 10 years to buy half of the Garden State's remaining garden space.
 
Grass Roots
Nationwide, voters approved nearly 200 state and local ballot initiatives on curbing sprawl.
The idea of Al Gore talking growth management for the next two years and beyond may be no more appealing than hearing another flat tax speech from Steve Forbes. The Vice President has been pounding the anti-sprawl bully pulpit for months, proclaiming the dawn of "an American movement to build more liveable communities." The issue is seen by his supporters as a key to all those Jeep Cherokee driving suburbanites with few political passions beyond the afternoon traffic jam. The elections earlier this month, based largely on grass-roots initiatives, have only bolstered Mr. Gore's case, his aides say.
But before Mr. Gore tries to lay a Democratic claim to an issue that cuts beyond most political lines, he will have to go through the Republican Governor of New Jersey. Just five years ago, Mrs. Whitman was held up by her party as a young Margaret Thatcher, with tax cuts as her banner.
Now, a year into a second term, Mrs. Whitman has made protecting open space the primary issue -- and perhaps her legacy -- for the state. In what may be an act of heresy to the tax-cutting wing of her party, the Governor has been campaigning for tax increases to keep land out of the hands of developers. Initially, she proposed an increase in the gas tax, but has settled on the kind of selective property tax increases that were approved across New Jersey on election day.
"We have got to understand that once land is gone, it's gone forever," said Mrs. Whitman while pushing the new open space measures. She could have been just another doorbeller from the Sierra Club, which, in response to a survey of members, has put sprawl at the top of its list of environmental concerns. The club says 400,000 acres of open space are lost to development every year.
The successful anti-sprawl campaigns steered away from talk of Government control or zoning arcana. They dwelled instead on images of lemon groves and tawny hills in Southern California, pumpkin patches and horse farms in New Jersey, and wind-whipped dunes in Cape Cod -- all just beyond the exurban fringe.
"We're not trying to subvert the American dream -- we're trying to get back to it," said Larry Bohlen, co-chairman of the Sierra Club's national campaign to fight sprawl. "It's that 'Leave it to Beaver' town where all the kids walk to school."
Opponents of these measures, led in California by home builders and developers, say the new political calculation could change in the blink of an eye if the economy turns bad. In bad times, people are less likely to vote to restrict growth. But in Oregon, which pioneered boundaries around all its major cities in the 1970's, voters have upheld the state's far-reaching anti-sprawl laws even during the depths of two recessions over the last 20 years.
Developers say the votes this month were not so much an anti-growth chorus as they were a reflection of the frustration people feel over traffic and crowded schools.
Still, the opponents say they are stunned by how quickly suburban growth has become a pejorative. "We seem to be at a point now where the word sprawl has been totally demonized," said Clayton Traylor, vice president for political issues for the National Association of Home Builders, which has 195,000 members.
Washington politicians may find it difficult to nationalize what is basically a local issue. Mr. Gore has raised the possibility of using the Federal tax code or major transportation bills to discourage growth that goes against community planning goals.
"In the past, we adopted national policies that spend lots of taxpayer money to subsidize out-of-control sprawl," Mr. Gore said. "They suck the life out of urban areas, increase congestion in the suburbs and raise taxes on farms."
Mr. Gore is vague on what, precisely, could be done on a national level. But whatever he attempts to do will be met by stiff opposition if it ends up slowing development, Mr. Traylor said. Building lobbies for highways and some conservatives were outraged that the $217 billion transportation bill that was just approved by Congress contained a small amount of money for bike paths.
"To the extent that the Vice President or anyone else at the Federal level tries to turn off the spigot for new infrastructure, we'll be there to fight them," Mr. Traylor said.
In Maryland, however, turning off the spigot proved to be a winning political cry, as supporters of new developments were hastily dispatched on election day. A Republican who favored two huge projects in Anne Arundel County, County Executive John G. Gary, was voted out office, while Republicans who vowed to pull the plug on new water and sewage systems in neighboring Calvert County took control of the Board of Commissioners.
 
Homebuilders Heartened
In other states, developers have tried to co-opt the anti-sprawl movement. Arizona voters narrowly approved a measure, sponsored by the state's banking and building industry, that would set aside $20 million a year for 11 years to buy open space. But in return, the law would ban development fees and urban growth restrictions.
The homebuilders were heartened by at least one of the sprawl votes that went the other way. In Georgia, voters turned down a measure to use a real estate transfer tax to preserve historical sites and open space. Georgia is the main setting for Mr. Wolfe's novel, a place where a huge, troubled development at the far edge of suburban Atlanta is at the core of one man's decline.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Homes encroach on farmland in McFarland, California, near Bakersfield. (David Wells/The Image Works)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (56%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (56%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: 7-ELEVEN INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS; ELECTION ISSUES; LAND USE POLICIES REAL ESTATE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); WRITERS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); SUBURBS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); CITIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HOME CENTERS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (62%); RETAILERS (50%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY AL GORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



399 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: IN MY...BRIEFCASE -- STEPHEN R. COVEY

BYLINE: By JULIA LAWLOR 

 BODY:
Stephen R. Covey, author of the best-selling book "The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People" (Fireside/Simon & Schuster), keeps spare briefcases under his desk just in case the one he carries falls apart or gets left behind in an airport lounge. As he tours the country promoting his books and lecturing to clients, Dr. Covey carries a heavy load of reading material. A devout Mormon, he is never without a Bible, and he has lately added a Sunday School manual for a course he is teaching on the Old Testament.
 When he emptied his briefcase recently, out came copies of U.S. News & World Report and The Economist; the books "Leading Minds" by Howard Gardner, about historical figures like Gandhi and Eleanor Roosevelt, and "The Power of Character," a collection of essays on one of his favorite subjects, and the manuscript of his work-in-progress, "Living the Seven Habits." 
 The original book's habit No. 3, "Put first things first," requires him to tote his Franklin Planner, a calendar system that allows Mr. Covey to mark events years ahead. As a father of 9 and grandfather of 28, he consults the planner often. Holidays, school plays, birthdays and graduations are sacred, he says, and he has also penciled in a family trip to Israel for spring 2000.
 When flying, Dr. Covey likes to nap or read without interruption. So he carries a sleeping mask and a baseball cap, to cover his bald head and reduce the odds of being recognized. JULIA LAWLOR

GRAPHIC: Photos: OFFICIAL AIRLINE GUIDE -- Impatient about waiting in airports, he consults this flight listing when he needs to change travel plans. ULTIVITAMINS -- Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah "turned me on to these," he said. "He thinks they're the best. I take 10 twice a day. I can't tell if they make a difference." COMPASS -- He uses this in speeches to make the point that leaders must have an unshifting purpose, like "true north." THEATER BINOCULARS -- A theater buff, he uses these whenever he can fit a show into his schedule. They are also good for gazing out airplane windows. (George Frey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (70%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (76%); RELIGION (76%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (73%); 

PERSON: COVEY, STEPHEN R; LAWLOR, JULIA ORRIN HATCH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



400 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY;
In the Trade Wars, Self-Interest Is All

 BODY:
Is what's good for the banana good for the steel? Not to the Clinton Administration. In a space of 24 hours, it threatened to slap 100 percent tariffs on European wines, cheeses and other products unless the European Union scrapped its restrictions on low-cost bananas shipped there by American companies, and then turned around and warned that it would not tolerate the "flooding of our market" with low-cost steel and other goods from Asia and Russia. 
 Beyond the philosophical divide between the two stances, the Administration's threatened clampdown on cheap imports flew in the face of Western-sponsored recovery plans for troubled economies, which depend in part on stepped-up exports to developed countries like the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (68%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION AMERICAN COS (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; RUSSIA; EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (68%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BANANAS; STEEL AND IRON; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); DUMPING (TRADE TERM) INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); CHEESE (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); TRADE DISPUTES (87%); EXPORT TRADE (85%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998

 
