

1 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Some Bond Investors Unsettled As an Inflation Indicator Rises

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
With a new whiff of inflation in the air, Treasury prices fell sharply yesterday, pushing interest rates higher.
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note jumped to 4.38 percent, from 4.27 percent Friday, after the government reported that an inflation barometer closely watched by the Federal Reserve rose 0.3 percent in January, the largest rise since April 2002. That is the highest the yield has been since Dec. 2, when it was 4.41 percent. 
 The price of the note, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, fell 28/32, to 96 31/32.
 The sell-off came even though this inflation barometer -- the core personal consumption price index excluding food and energy -- rose just 1.6 percent in the 12 months through January.
 Scott Gewirtz, co-head of government bond trading at Deutsche Bank, said ''the market has been complacent about inflation'' so even a little bad news can alarm investors. 
 A couple of inflation numbers have picked up recently, most notably the surprising 0.8 percent surge in the core Producer Price Index for finished goods in January. Bond traders also said that investors seemed to be worried that the February employment report, which will be released on Friday, will turn out to be stronger than expected, which could further raise inflationary fears. The current consensus forecast is for an increase of 225,000 jobs in February, according to Bloomberg News.
 Another indicator, the Chicago Purchasing Managers index, which measures manufacturing activity in the Midwest, rose more than expected in February. Some investors believe that a sharp increase in this regional index foreshadows a sharp jump in the national index, which is to be released today. 
 Traders also said the selling yesterday was heightened by holders of large portfolios of mortgages. As rates rise and the chances for mortgage refinancing dim, many institutional investors sell the Treasury securities they had bought to hedge against a further fall in interest rates and more mortgage refinancing.
 These developments will intensify the focus on Mr. Greenspan tomorrow, when he is scheduled to testify before the House Budget Committee. How confident he sounds about the inflation outlook could be hugely important for the near-term direction of interest rates. 
 One sign of the increase in inflationary concerns is that expectations for interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve are rising. Just under three weeks ago, the expected yield in September for the federal funds rate, the central bank's short-term interest rate benchmark, was 3.28 percent, according to the fed funds futures contract for that month. As of yesterday, that implied yield had risen to 3.52 percent.
 This means that the traders in these federal funds futures contracts are now betting that the Fed will raise its short-term interest rate benchmark, now at 2.5 percent, a quarter of a percentage point at each policy-making meeting between now and September. 
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)


An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.


Both issues are dated March 03, 2005. The three-month bills mature on June 02, 2005 and the six-month bills mature on Sept. 01, 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); FUTURES (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (87%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); CONSUMPTION (72%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



2 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Codey Proposes Suspending Home Rebate

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS

DATELINE: TRENTON, Feb. 28 

 BODY:
Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey, in a stark concession of fiscal distress, plans to propose a budget on Tuesday including the biggest spending reduction ever, mainly by suspending a popular property tax rebate program for homeowners.
 The $27.4 billion spending plan, outlined on Monday by State Treasurer John E. McCormac, is less than the $28 billion budget adopted last June for the 2005 fiscal year, a budget that has since grown by $400 million in added appropriations. The proposed $600 million cut is 2 percent of the 2005 budget. 
 Most of the savings comes from suspending the property tax rebate program for all homeowners but the elderly and disabled, who will see reduced rebates. The program, started in the flush 1990's by Gov. Christie Whitman, now costs about $1.5 billion a year.
 The proposed budget for the fiscal year starting July 1 does not raise any of the three major taxes: sales, income or corporate business. And Mr. Codey scrapped a proposal to tax 401(k) retirement accounts. 
 Rather, the biggest source of new revenue would be $500 million from the sale of state assets. Mr. McCormac declined to say what assets those might be, pending a review of all state property. The proposal also includes $150 million in new revenue from video lottery terminals at the Meadowlands sports complex. 
 Like most states, New Jersey has struggled to close record budget gaps in the slow economy of the last few years. But New Jersey balanced its budgets largely by borrowing and relying on one-time revenue measures. And last year, Gov. James E. McGreevey's budget increased state spending by 17 percent over the previous year.
 Just as the economy started to pick up last summer, the State Supreme Court cut off future borrowing for operating expenses. The court ruled that while the budget adopted in June could stand, with its $1.9 billion in borrowing, the state could not again issue bonds solely to achieve the balanced budget required by the State Constitution. 
 ''There is absolutely no borrowing in this budget,'' Mr. McCormac said. 
 Mr. McCormac stressed the reduced spending, which includes a 4.5 percent cut in funds for the executive branch departments. The total reduction of 2.2 percent is the largest ever in the state, he said.
 Other cuts include $50 million from the state payroll, roughly $85 million from health care programs and Medicaid co-payments and $28 million from cancer programs, which received sharp increases last year. 
 The budget was last cut in 1996, by 0.06 percent. The only other cut since 1950 was a 0.58 percent reduction in 1994. Spending has nearly doubled in 10 years. 
 Mr. Codey, a Democrat, is to present the budget plan to a joint session of the Legislature on Tuesday at noon. The proposals will be debated at committee hearings around the state before the legislators return to Trenton in May.
 The prospects for suspending the politically popular home property tax rebates and cutting the homestead rebates, the program for the elderly and disabled, are uncertain. Last year, Mr. McGreevey increased the homestead rebates, raising the maximum to $1,200 from $800, in a politically successful campaign to finance it by increasing the tax on incomes over $500,000. Under Mr. Codey's proposal, the maximum homestead rebate would return to $800. 
 Mr. McCormac said the governor hoped that the property tax rebates could be restored after one year. 
 The Republicans introduced the property tax rebates when they controlled the Legislature, but since 2002, when they lost both houses, they have demanded spending cuts to balance the budget. 
 The Senate Republican leader, Leonard Lance, said in a statement, ''For three years, Democrats ignored our pleas for fiscal discipline and increased spending 24.5 percent, borrowed $13 billion and increased taxes.'' 
 ''We are now paying for three years of fiscal pretense,'' Mr. Lance said.
 It was Mr. Lance who filed the suit that led to the Supreme Court ruling that prohibited future borrowing for operating expenses -- and effectively boxed Mr. Codey into a fiscal squeeze worse than the ones Mr. McGreevey had faced.
 In the next fiscal year, however, revenue should rise slightly, as the state sustains its economic recovery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MEDICAID (77%); DIVESTITURES (73%); LOTTERIES (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); US 401K PLANS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (60%); HEALTH CARE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



3 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Little Advance Is Seen at Ivies in the Hiring of Minorities and Women

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
Minorities and women have made little progress in breaking into the faculty ranks of the Ivy League, according to a new report.
 In 2003, Ivy League campuses hired 433 new professors into tenure-track jobs, but only 14 were black and 8 were Hispanic. Women received 150 of the jobs.
 The figures, culled from a federal database by a graduate student group at Yale University, shows the slow progress these highly visible universities, including Harvard, Yale and Princeton, are making in diversifying their faculties. 
 ''The tenure-track faculty jobs are where all the change is supposed to be taking place,'' said Rose K. Murphy, a senior research analyst at the Graduate Employees and Students Organization at Yale, a group of graduate teaching assistants seeking union recognition there, and a co-author of the study. ''But most of the new positions are still going to white men.''
 Lawrence H. Summers, Harvard's president, has drawn intense criticism for suggesting recently that women might not have the innate ability to become high-powered scientists and for not granting tenure to more women. 
 But the new study shows that Harvard has abundant company among the Ivies.
 From 1993 to 2003, the percentage of tenured black professors on the Ivy faculties remained essentially flat at 2 percent. The only Ivy campus where black professors accounted for more than 3 percent of the tenured faculty in 2003 was Brown, which had 17 black professors with tenure, or 4 percent of its tenured faculty. 
 There was also little change in the tenure-track positions, the entry-level jobs that give professors a chance to earn permanent positions. In 2003, black professors had no more than 4 percent of the tenure-track positions at any Ivy university, and at Brown there were none. 
 ''We don't do enough as an academic culture to recruit and nurture young students of color,'' said Robin D.G. Kelley, an anthropology professor at Columbia University who is black. ''I could probably invite all of the African-American faculty in the humanities at major universities across the nation to a party, and they would fit in my house. And it is not that big; I live in a New York City apartment.''
 Hispanic professors accounted for 1 percent of tenured professors in the Ivies in both 1993 and 2003, a period in which tenured positions grew by 9 percent, to nearly 6,000 jobs. In 2003, they held 3 percent of 3,560 Ivy League tenure-track jobs, up from 2 percent of 3,230 such jobs in 1993. 
 Women showed more progress at the senior levels. They represented 20 percent of all tenured Ivy faculty in 2003, up from 14 percent in 1993. But their share of the tenure-track jobs edged up slightly over the decade, to 34 percent from 31 percent.
 The report, ''The (Un)Changing Face of the Ivy League,'' was based on data from the Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System at the United States Department of Education. The Graduate Employees and Students Organization at Yale, which compiled the study with help from graduate students at Columbia and the University of Pennsylvania, said it planned to post its findings on its Web site, www.geso.org, today, and deliver its findings to the Ivy League presidents. 
 Ronald G. Ehrenberg, a professor of industrial and labor relations and economics at Cornell University who studies academic labor markets, said that the problems in recruiting women were different from those for minority professors. Professor Ehrenberg said that studies had found that eligible women often backed away from research universities because of the difficulties they saw in combining high-powered professional jobs and family. Some may also perceive discrimination, he said.
 ''That is not just an issue for academia,'' he added. ''It's an issue all over.''
 The problem in hiring members of minorities, Professor Ehrenberg said, is that the pool of candidates ''just isn't that large.'' He said that under-represented minorities earned only 6.5 percent of all Ph.D.'s granted from 1989 to 1993, and that the percentages in the arts and sciences and engineering were even lower. More than 40 percent of the doctorates earned by blacks were in education. 
 Officials of the eight Ivy campuses respond that they have been trying to diversify. Columbia, for example, recently appointed a vice provost for diversity initiatives.
 The University of Pennsylvania has set up special finances to help in the hiring and retention of women and minorities. About three years ago, it began to make special efforts to bring more women to the senior faculty, which is paying off. 
 Penn was the only Ivy in 2003 that hired more women than men into tenured positions: it hired six women with tenure and five men. Across all the Ivies, women accounted for 25 percent of 117 tenured hirings that year. 
 ''We realized that if we're bringing in men at the senior level, we had to bring in more women at the senior level,'' said Janice R. Bellace, associate provost at Penn.
 Brown University, as part of an initiative to hire 100 new faculty members, has designated 20 positions for expedited hiring, with the hope that many would be filled by minorities, a university spokesman said. 
 The study also noted the sharp rise in faculty jobs that were not on the tenure track at all: to 7,792 slots in 2003 from 4,266 slots in 1993. The 83 percent increase far outstripped the growth in other faculty jobs. Such jobs represented less than a third of the Ivy faculty in 1993 but climbed to 45 percent by 2003.
 The nontenure-track jobs, which carry titles like lecturer, instructor or researcher, generally pay less and provide fewer benefits, if any. They are usually short-term, and involve heavier teaching loads, the report said, even though they often require a doctorate. Blacks and women hold higher proportions of these jobs than of the tenure-track positions.
 The data did not specify where these nontenure-track jobs were. But on some campuses, like Columbia, some of the growth has been in research jobs at medical centers. Other campuses have increased the number of lecturers in academic departments, a move that some criticize as cost-cutting at the expense of education.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 2, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the failure of Ivy League colleges to increase hiring of minority-group faculty members misstated the number of non-tenure-track jobs in 1993 and the rise from 1993 to 2003. There were 3,743 such jobs in 1993, not 4,266; the increase was 108 percent, not 83 percent. In some copies, a chart with the article misstated the percentage of all 1993 faculty hires in the ''other'' category -- that is, nonresident foreigners of any race or ethnicity, American Indians, or unknown. It was 7 percent, not 13 percent. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Changes Come Slowly in the Ivy League''Faculties at the eight Ivy League colleges have diversified somewhat, but minorities and women are still far outnumbered.Faculty, By SexHires 2003ALL POSITIONSMen: 62%Women: 38TENUREDMen: 75Women: 25Faculty 2003ALL POSITIONSMen: 69Women: 31TENUREDMen: 80Women: 20Faculty 1993ALL POSITIONSMen: 75Women: 25TENUREDMen: 86Women: 14Faculty, By Race or EthnicityHires 2003ALL POSITIONSWhite*: 59%Asian: 11Black*: 4Hispanic: 3Other: 23TENUREDWhite*: 81Asian: 7Black*: 1Hispanic: 3Other: 8Faculty 2003ALL POSITIONSWhite*: 71Asian: 9Black*: 3Hispanic: 2Other: 14TENUREDWhite*: 87Asian: 5Black*: 2Hispanic: 1Other: 4Faculty 1993ALL POSITIONSWhite*: 82Asian: 6Black*: 3Hispanic: 2Other: 7TENUREDWhite*: 91Asian: 4Black*: 2Hispanic: 1Other: 1*Non-HispanicNonresident foreigners of any race or ethnicity, American Indians, and unknown(Sources by Graduate Employees and Students Organization at Yale
 U. S. Department of Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC TENURE (92%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); WOMEN (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (74%); LABOR UNIONS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



4 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Spending Was Flat in January

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Americans bought fewer cars and new homes in January, suggesting the economy will get less of a lift from consumers in the first quarter.
 Consumer spending was unchanged after December's 0.8 percent rise, which was the biggest in five months, the Commerce Department said yesterday. 
 Separately, the department reported that new home sales unexpectedly declined 9.2 percent, to an annual rate of 1.1 million in January. The drop in home sales came after December sales were revised higher, to an annual rate of 1.21 million. 
 The number of new homes for sale rose to a record 438,000 last month, from 423,000 in December.
 Corporate spending may help pick up the slack. A gauge of manufacturing and other businesses in the Chicago area showed faster growth this month, the National Association of Purchasing Management said. Consumer spending rose through the 2001 recession as corporate purchases declined. In the last half of 2004, business investment grew at its fastest pace since 1997.
 The purchasing managers' index unexpectedly rose to 62.7 this month, from 62.4 in January. 
 A drop in new vehicle sales held down spending in January from a month earlier, as automakers reduced discounts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); RECESSION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); AUTOMAKERS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



5 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2838 words

HEADLINE: The Next Einstein? Applicants Welcome

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

 BODY:
He didn't look like much at first. He was too fat and his head was so big his mother feared it was misshapen or damaged. He didn't speak until he was well past 2, and even then with a strange echolalia that reinforced his parents' fears. He threw a small bowling ball at his little sister and chased his first violin teacher from the house by throwing a chair at her.
 There was in short, no sign, other than the patience to build card houses 14 stories high, that little Albert Einstein would grow up to be ''the new Copernicus,'' proclaiming a new theory of nature, in which matter and energy swapped faces, light beams bent, the stars danced and space and time were as flexible and elastic as bubblegum. No clue to suggest that he would help send humanity lurching down the road to the atomic age, with all its promise and dread, with the stroke of his pen on a letter to President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1939, certainly no reason to suspect that his image would be on T- shirts, coffee mugs, posters and dolls. 
 Einstein's modest beginnings are a perennial source of comfort to parents who would like to hope, against the odds, that their little cutie can grow up to be a world beater. But they haunt people like me who hanker for a ringside seat for the Next Great Thing and wonder whether somewhere in the big haystack of the world there could be a new Einstein, biding his or her time running gels in a biology lab, writing video game software or wiring a giant detector in the bowels of a particle accelerator while putting the finishing touches on a revolution in our perception of reality.
 ''Einstein changed the way physicists thought about the universe in a way the public could appreciate,'' said Dr. Michael Turner, a cosmologist from the University of Chicago and the director of math and physical sciences at the National Science Foundation.
 Could it happen again? ''Who or where is the next Einstein?''
 No question is more likely to infuriate or simply leave a scientist nonplussed. And nothing, of course, would be more distracting, daunting and ultimately demoralizing than for some young researcher to be tagged ''the new Einstein,'' so don't expect to hear any names here. 
 ''It's probably always a stupid question,'' said Dr. Lawrence Krauss, a cosmologist at Case Western Reserve University, who nevertheless said he had yet to read a profile of a young scientist that does not include, at some level, some comparison to Einstein.
 Dr. Stephen Hawking, the British cosmologist and best-selling author, who is often so mentioned, has said that such comparisons have less to do with his own achievements than the media's need for heroes.

A Rare Confluence
 To ask the question whether there can be a new Einstein is to ask, as well, about the role of the individual in modern science. Part of the confusion is a disconnect between what constitutes public and scientific fame.
 Einstein's iconic status resulted from a unique concurrence of scientific genius, historical circumstance and personal charisma, historians and scientists say, that is unlikely to be duplicated.
 Dr. David Gross, who shared the Nobel Prize for Physics last year, said, ''Of course there is no next Einstein; one of the great things about meeting the best and the brightest in physics is the realization that each is different and special.''
 Physics, many scientists like Dr. Gross say, is simply too vast and sprawling for one person to dominate the way Einstein did a century ago. Technology is the unsung hero in scientific progress, they say, the computers and chips that have made it possible to absorb and count every photon from a distant quasar, or the miles of wire and tons of sensors wrapping the collision points of speed-of-light subatomic particles. A high-energy physics paper reporting the results from some accelerator experiment can have 500 authors.
 ''Einstein solved problems that people weren't even asking or appreciating were problems,'' said Dr. Edward Witten of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., Einstein's stomping grounds for the last 32 years of his life. ''It could be there are big questions nobody is asking, but there are so many more people in physics it's less likely big questions could go unasked.''
 But you never know.
 ''One thing about Einstein is he was a surprise,'' said Dr. Witten, chuckling.
 ''Who am I to say that somebody couldn't come along with a whole completely new way of thinking?'' 
 In fact, physicists admit, waxing romantic in spite of themselves, science is full of vexing and fundamental questions, like the nature of the dark energy that is pushing the universe apart, or the meaning of string theory, the elegant but dense attempt to unify all the forces of nature by thinking of elementary particles as wiggling strings.
 ''We can frame an Einsteinian question. As you know, asking the question is the key,'' said Dr. Leon Lederman, a Nobelist and former director of the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory. He likes to think, he added, that it will be solved by ''a Brazilian kid in a dirt floor village.''
 Dr. Turner said he hoped and expected that there would continue to be Einsteins. One way to measure their impact, he suggested, was by how long it took society to digest their discoveries and move on.
 By this metric, he said, Isaac Newton beats out Einstein as the greatest of all time (or at least since science was invented). Newton's world lasted more than 200 years before Einstein overthrew it. 
 ''Einstein has lasted 100 years,'' he said. ''The smart money says that something is going to happen; general relativity won't last another 200 years.''

Looking the Part
 Would that make someone a candidate for a T-shirt, or an Einstein? It depends on what you mean by ''Einstein.'' 
 Do we mean the dark-haired young firebrand at the patent office, who yanked the rug out from under Newton and 19th-century physics in 1905 when he invented relativity, supplied a convincing proof for the existence of atoms and shocked just about everyone by arguing that light could be composed of particles as well as waves?
 Is it the seer who gazed serenely out at the world in 1919 from beneath headlines announcing that astronomers had measured the bending of light rays from stars during an eclipse, confirming Einstein's general theory of relativity, which described gravity as the warping of space-time geometry?
 Einstein had spent 10 years racking his brain and borrowing the mathematical talents of his friends trying to extend relativity to the realm of gravity. When this ''great adventure in thought,'' as the philosopher Alfred North Whitehead called it, safely reached shore, Einstein caught a wave that lifted him high above physics and science in general.
 The world was exhausted morally, mentally and economically from the Great War, which had shattered the pretensions of Enlightenment Europe. People were ready for something new and Einstein gave them a whole new universe.
 Moreover, the mark of this new universe -- ''lights all askew in the heavens,'' as this newspaper put it -- was something everybody could understand. The stars, the most ancient of embodiments of cosmic order, had moved.
 With Whitehead as his publicist, Einstein was on the road to becoming the Elvis of science, the frizzy-headed sage of Princeton, the world's most famous Jew and humanity's atomic conscience.
 It helped that he wore his fame lightly, with humor and a cute accent. ''He was a caricature of the scientist,'' said Dr. Krauss. ''He looked right. He sounded right.''
 When physicists are asked, what they often find distinctive about Einstein are his high standards, an almost biological need to find order and logical consistency in science and in nature, the ability to ferret out and question the hidden assumptions underlying the mainstream consensus about reality.
 Dr. Lee Smolin of the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics in Ontario describes it as moral quality. ''He simply cared far more than most of his colleagues that the laws of physics should explain everything in nature coherently and consistently,'' he wrote last year in Discover.
 It was that drive that led him to general relativity, regarded as his greatest achievement. The other discoveries, in 1905, physicists and historians say, would have been made whether Einstein did them or not. ''They were in the air,'' said Dr. Martin Rees, a cosmologist at Cambridge University and Britain's astronomer royal.
 The quest for general relativity, on the other hand, was the result of ''pure thought,'' Dr. Rees said.
 Dr. Peter L. Galison, professor of the history of science and of physics at Harvard, described Einstein as ''somebody who had a transformative effect on the world because of his relentless pursuit of what the right principles should be.''
 Others said they were impressed that he never swerved, despite a tempestuous personal and political life, from science as his main devotion. ''He fixed his concentration on important problems, he was unvarying in that,'' Dr. Krauss said.
 Another attraction of Einstein as an icon is his perceived irreverence, and the legend of his origin as an outsider, working in the patent office while he pursued the breakthroughs of 1905. (Not that he was necessarily humble because of that; letters from his early years show him pestering well-known scientists and spoiling for a fight so much that his girlfriend and future wife, Mileva Maric, was always counseling him to keep a cool head.)
 ''Part of the appeal is that he comes from nowhere and turns things upside down,'' Dr. Galison said. ''That's the fantasy,'' he explained, saying that science has always represented the possibility that someone without a privileged background could intervene and triumph through sheer ability and brainpower. 
 There is no lack of inventive, brilliant physicists today, but none of them are T-shirt material, yet. In the cozy turn of the century, Dr. Galison said, Einstein was able to be a philosopher as well as a physicist, addressing deep questions like the meaning of simultaneity and often starting his papers by posing some philosophical quandary.
 But philosophy and physics have long since gone their separate ways. Physics has become separated from the humanities. ''Everything tells us science has nothing to do with the ideas of ordinary life,'' Dr. Galison said. ''Whether that is good or bad, I don't know.''
 As a result no one has inherited Einstein's mantle as a natural philosopher, said Dr. Galison.
 We might have to settle for a kind of Einstein by committee. The string theorists have donned the mantle of Einstein's quest for a unified theory of all the forces of nature.
 In the last half-century various manifestations of modern science have made their way into popular culture, including chaos theory and the representation of information in bits and bytes, as pioneered by Dr. Claude Shannon, the Bell Labs engineer. 
 The discovery of the double helix of DNA, the hereditary molecule, which laid the basis for the modern genetics, is probably the most charismatic result of modern biology. But the world is not awash in action figures based on James Watson and Francis Crick, the molecule's decoders.
 Meanwhile Einstein's role of symbolizing the hope that you could understand the universe has at least been partly filled by Dr. Hawking, whose books ''A Brief History of Time'' and ''The Universe in a Nutshell'' have sold millions, and who has even appeared on ''Star Trek'' and ''The Simpsons.''
 ''People know him,'' said Dr. Krauss, and his work on black holes has had a significant impact on the study of gravity and the cosmos, but he has not reinvented the universe.

The Next Big Idea
 One reason nobody stands out is that physics has been kind of stuck for the last half-century.
 During that time, Dr. Witten said, physicists have made significant progress toward a unified theory of nature, not by blazing new paths, but by following established principles, like the concept of symmetry -- first used by Einstein in his relativity paper in 1905 -- and extending them from electromagnetism to the weak and strong nuclear forces.
 ''It was not necessary to invent quantum field theory,'' said Dr. Witten, ''just to improve it.'' That, he explains, is collective work. 
 But new ideas are surely needed.
 Part of Einstein's legacy was an abyssal gap in the foundations of reality as conceived by science. On one side of the divide was general relativity, which describes stars and the universe itself. On the other side is quantum mechanics, which describes the paradoxical behavior of subatomic particles and forces.
 In the former, nature is continuous and deterministic, cause follows effect; in the latter nature is discrete, like sand grains on the beach, and subject to statistical uncertainties.
 Einstein to his dying day rejected quantum mechanics as ultimate truth, saying in a letter to Max Born in 1924, ''The theory yields much but it hardly brings us closer to the Old One's secrets. I, in any case, am convinced that he does not play dice.''
 Science will not have a real theory of the world until these two warring notions are merged into a theory of quantum gravity, one that can explain what happens when the matter in a star goes smoosh into a dense microscopic dot at the center of a black hole, or when the universe appears out of nothing in a big bang.
 String theory is one, as yet unproven, attempt at such a quantum gravity theory, and it has attracted an army of theorists and mathematicians. 
 But, Dr. Witten speculated, there could be an Einsteinian moment in another direction. Quantum gravity presumes, he explained, that general relativity breaks down at short distances. But what, he asked, if relativity also needed correction at long distances as a way of explaining, for example, the acceleration of the universe?
 ''Relativity field theory could be cracked at long distances,'' Dr. Witten said, adding that he saw no evidence for it. But when Einstein came along, there was no clear evidence that Newtonian physics was wrong, either. ''I would think that's an opportunity for an Einstein,'' he said.
 Another Einsteinian opportunity, Dr. Witten later added in an e-mail message, is the possibility that Einstein's old bugaboo quantum mechanics needs correcting, saying that while he saw no need himself, it was a mystery what quantum mechanics meant when applied to the universe as a whole. 
 Dr. Smolin of the Perimeter Institute said it should give physicists pause that their leader and idol had rejected quantum mechanics, and yet what everybody is trying to do now is to apply quantum mechanics to Einstein's theory of gravity.
 ''What if he were right?'' asked Dr. Smolin, who said he also worried that the present organization of science, with its pressures for tenure and publications, mitigates against the appearance of outsiders like Einstein, who need to follow their own star for a few lonely years or decades.
 But as Dr. Krauss said, it only takes one good idea to change our picture of reality.
 Dr. Smolin said, ''When somebody has a correct idea, it doesn't take long to have an impact.''
 ''It's not about identifying the person who is about to be the new Einstein,'' he went on. ''When there is someone who does something with the impact of Einstein, we'll all know.''

An Agenda for Another Einstein
 Albert Einstein achieved scientific fame by asking questions and solving problems that nobody else had realized were problems. The next big revolution will probably also come from an unexpected direction, but here are some of the Big Questions that are haunting physicists today.
 Did God have a choice? Are all the features of the universe, like the number of dimensions and the masses of elementary particles, predictable and inevitable according to some unknown law, or are some of them environmental accidents, meaning we simply live where conditions are favorable to life the way fish live in the sea?
 What is the dark energy that seems to be accelerating the expansion of the universe and pushing the galaxies apart faster and faster? 
 Why do we live at a time when this energy is just beginning to dominate over the gravity of matter in determining the course of cosmic evolution? Will this push continue forever, sucking all the energy and life out of the universe? And what is the dark matter, the mysterious gravitational glue that holds galaxies and clusters of galaxies together?
 Are four dimensions enough? Or are there additional hidden dimensions to the universe, so small we don't notice them? 
 What happened before the Big Bang? How do space and time emerge from formless eternity?
 Is quantum mechanics the ultimate description of reality? Or will the paradoxical laws that bedeviled Einstein have to be modified?
 Is relativity forever? In 1905 Einstein postulated that the laws of physics are the same regardless of how fast you are going or in what direction, but some measurements of cosmic rays suggest this stricture might be violated in some high-energy situations.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photos by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. F1)
(Photos by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)
1900
1904-6
1910
1931
1936
 1949 (pg. F4)Chart: ''A Century of Einstein''1879 -- Born in Ulm, Germany.1895 -- Renounces German citizenship and runs away to join his parents in Italy. Tries to imagine what it would be like to ride on a light wave, which will become the inspiration for relativity.1902 -- Lieserl, an illegitimate daughter, is born to his girlfriend Mileva Maric, who is in Serbia. Begins work as patent officer in Bern.1903 -- Marries Mileva.1904 -- They have a son, Hans Albert.1905 -- His miracle year. In March he writes a paper arguing that light behaves as particles, as well as waves. The paper will become one of the foundations of quantum theory. In June he finishes another paper which lays out the theory of relativity. In a sequel, he writes down ''E=mc2'' for the first time.1908 -- Experiments show that electrons appear to gain mass as predicted by relativity.1909 -- Einstein quits patent office and begins teaching at Zurich University.1910 -- Albert and Mileva have a second son, Eduard.1911 -- Einstein moves to German University in Prague. He predicts that light beams will be bent and clocks slowed by a gravitational field.1914 -- Einstein moves to Berlin to join Prussian Academy of Sciences. He and Mileva split up.1915 -- Einstein finishes general theory of relativity, which explains gravity as the warping of spacetime geometry.1916 -- He investigates how light quanta can be absorbed and emitted from atoms, laying the foundation for lasers and masers 50 years later.1917 -- To ensure that the universe would be static and not collapse of its own weight he adds a repulsion force, known as the cosmological constant, to his equations.1919 -- Astronomers measure light bending during a solar eclipse, confirming general relativity. He divorces Mileva and marries his cousin Elsa.1922 -- Einstein awarded 1921 Nobel prize.1924 -- Einstein predicts that at very cold temperatures atoms might meld together into an exotic form of matter called a Bose-Einstein condensate.1927 -- He and Oskar Klein try to unify gravity and electromagnetism by postulating a fifth dimension, the first of many attempts to produce a ''unified field theory.''1931 -- Einstein renounces cosmological constant.1933 -- Flees Germany and joins Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton.1934 -- Einstein, Nathan Rosen and Boris Podolsky argue that quantum mechanics is not complete because it allows measurements of one particle to affect measurements of its twin instantaneously even if the pair are light years apart, which Einstein called ''spooky action at a distance.''1939 -- Einstein writes a letter to President Franklin Roosevelt urging a project to develop an atomic bomb before Germany gets one.1945 -- Atomic bombs used on Japan.1955 -- Einstein signs manifesto urging nuclear disarmament. A week later he dies.1982 -- Physicists confirm Einstein's spooky action at a distance, now known as ''entanglement.''1995 -- Physicists create a Bose-Einstein condensate in the lab, verifying his 1924 prediction.1998 -- Astronomers discover some ''dark energy'' is accelerating the expansion of the universe. Einstein's cosmological constant is the leading candidate for an explanation.(pg. F4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); PHYSICS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); ASTROPHYSICS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); CELEBRITIES (78%); WRITERS (75%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (73%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (63%); COMPUTER GAMES (50%); BESTSELLERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (74%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) ILLINOIS, USA (67%) GERMANY (90%); SERBIA (75%); UNITED STATES (67%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); SWITZERLAND (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



6 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Elan Shares Fall After a Drug Is Withdrawn

BYLINE: By BRIAN LAVERY

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Feb. 28 

 BODY:
To a company that spent three years recovering from a crippling accounting scandal, Tysabri had looked like the ticket to its resurgence.
 The Elan Corporation, which developed Tysabri with Biogen Idec, had looked to the drug, a multiple sclerosis treatment, to catapult it into the ranks of the world's top biotechnology companies. Since the drug's introduction in November, Tysabri had shown the patient response, and earnings potential, that would make it a blockbuster. 
 Instead, Elan's stock plunged 68 percent Monday when the company withdrew Tysabri from the market after a patient's death. Elan shares fell to 6.49 euros ($8.59) in Dublin, and dragged the small Irish stock exchange's benchmark index down 6 percent with it. 
 ''It's a major body-blow for Elan,'' said Kevin McConnell, head of research for Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin. ''The question is, will we see Tysabri back?''
 Elan's chief executive, G. Kelly Martin, was confident on that prospect in a conference call, and said that he believed ''unequivocally'' that the Food and Drug Administration wants Tysabri on the market, and that it was realistic to expect it to be available again by the end of the summer. But even contemplating the worst possibility -- the F.D.A. revoking the drug's license -- Mr. Martin was upbeat.
 ''We're certainly not going to stand still,'' he said. ''We feel like we still have some very good assets in the company, particularly in research. We'll make adjustments and we'll make them decisively.''
 Elan's current portfolio in the United States includes just three products -- two intravenous antibiotics and a newly approved treatment for chronic pain. For several years, Elan has conducted research into Alzheimer's disease in a partnership with Wyeth, but that is far from yielding a marketable treatment.
 Nonetheless, Elan's management seemed unfazed by the development, given that the company has weathered severe storms in recent years. In 2002, Elan had a brush with bankruptcy, its top executives resigned in disgrace after revelations of off-balance-sheet operations, and its shares plummeted more than 95 percent. That near-death experience humbled a company that had previously dominated the Irish stock exchange.
 A series of far-reaching overhaul efforts under Mr. Martin and the chief financial officer, Shane Cooke, have left Elan in a relatively comfortable financial position, analysts said. With more than $1.5 billion in cash and the first repayment on its debt obligations not due until 2008, Elan should be able to get by even without its share of the $1 billion in revenue that Tysabri was expected to generate this year.
 ''In the short term, they've got a strong balance sheet,'' said Robert Brisbourne, equities analyst at Merrion Capital in Dublin. Even if Tysabri is withdrawn permanently, ''they certainly wouldn't be in much trouble for a couple of years.''
 Dublin's financial community did not seem overly worried that Elan had wiped out most of the gains that the Dublin bourse's ISEQ index had made so far this year.
 ''We've been here before,'' said Austin Hughes, chief economist at IIB Bank, an Irish subsidiary of KBC of Belgium, in a reference to Elan's near-collapse in 2002. And since Irish investors hold most of their portfolios in real estate rather than equities, ''the ripple effect on the broader economy is limited,'' he said.
 Because the Irish exchange is so small -- it trades only 71 stocks -- its indexes and overall performance are easily skewed by individual companies, rather than trends in industry sectors, Mr. McConnell noted.
 Before Tysabri's withdrawal, Elan was the fourth-largest company traded in Dublin by market capitalization, representing more than 9 percent of the value of the whole exchange; it fell to around 3 percent on Monday.
 The steep tumble in its shares ''has a huge psychological impact, but people quickly realize that it's not an economic story,'' Mr. McConnell said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (78%); SCANDALS (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); ANTIBIOTICS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ACCOUNTING (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (72%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (72%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (71%); WEATHER (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); SECURITIES BROKERS (67%); APPROVALS (62%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ELAN CORP PLC (96%); BIOGEN IDEC INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%)

TICKER: ELN (NYSE) (96%); BIIB (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (96%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (93%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (87%) IRELAND (87%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



7 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Ford's Lending Practices Challenged in a Lawsuit

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Feb. 28 

 BODY:
Ford Motor Credit, the division of Ford Motor Company that makes car loans, is being taken to court in a class-action suit contending that the company's lending practices allow dealers to discriminate against minorities.
 In the first trial over discriminatory practices in auto lending, a federal judge in Nashville will begin hearing a case on Tuesday that accuses Ford dealers of discriminating against minorities by tacking on additional percentage points that raise the overall interest rate on their loans. 
 In the practice, known as markups, dealers charge an interest rate higher than a lending institution would offer and either pocket the difference or split it with the lender. Attorneys for the plaintiffs said research shows that minorities are often subject to higher markups than nonminorities. 
 Ford Motor Credit is not the first lender to be accused of indirect bias when lending money to minorities. The financing divisions of General Motors, Nissan and Honda have all settled similar suits before they went to trial, as have other lending companies. 
 Automakers say they do not consider race in setting their loan rates, but the suits accuse them of turning a blind eye to the higher markup rates dealers charge minorities.
 Ford agreed last year to cap its dealer markups at no more than 2.5 percentage points above the rate the lender would charge, the same cap that G.M. agreed to as part of its settlement last year. But that did not satisfy consumer groups and lawyers, which would like to see Ford eliminate the markups altogether.
 ''There shouldn't be a markup at all,'' said Stephen Brobeck, executive director of the Consumer Federation of America, a consumer advocacy group. ''If the dealer performs a service, they should get a fixed fee for that.''
 The lawsuits shine a light on the practice of markups, which is one of the least understood and most overlooked aspects of buying a car. Consumer groups have long criticized markups, regardless of race, because consumers often do not realize dealers are tacking on an additional cost to the price of the vehicle. In some cases, buyers could have saved thousands of dollars simply by going through their bank, rather than the dealership, for a loan.
 The class-action suit against Ford involves tens of thousands of black customers who received loans through Primus Automotive Financial Services, a division of Ford Credit that manages loans for the Ford, Mazda, Jaguar and Land Rover brands of the Ford Motor Company.
 Ford says it believes this case is more about lining lawyers' pockets than reducing markups. A spokeswoman for Primus, Meredith Libbey, said that if the lawyers were truly trying to curb the practice of markups, they would have been satisfied when Ford agreed to match G.M.'s 2.5 percent cap. Trial lawyers involved in the case, she said, are seeking compensation for their legal fees. 
 ''These are trial lawyers looking for a payday,'' Ms. Libbey said. ''That's all that this is about.'' 
 Stuart Rossman, an attorney with the National Consumer Law Center, an advocacy group that has pressed lending institutions to eliminate markups, said the goal was to keep the pressure on to push markups lower. ''As you lower the cap, you limit the discrimination,'' he said. ''And we are going to continue to seek to have the numbers driven down.''
 A study last year by Mark A. Cohen, an economist at Vanderbilt University, found that between 2001 and 2004, Ford Credit's Primus division charged 62 percent of its black customers a markup, in contrast to 41 percent of white customers. The study also found that the markups Primus charged blacks were almost twice as high as those charged whites -- $862 for blacks compared with $475 for whites. Lawyers and consumer advocacy groups have also taken aim at banks and other lending institutions. Nine banks have been sued and four -- WFS Financial, BankOne, Bank of America and US Bank -- have settled. Cases against DaimlerChrysler and Toyota are pending, as is another case against Ford Credit.
 Settlements reached by the automakers with consumers have varied. Honda agreed in February to a 2.25 percent cap. Nissan, which settled its case in 2003, said that it would cap markups at 3 percent. A federal judge still must approve the Honda settlement. Ford could choose to settle the case before the trial ends, Ms. Libbey said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Ford dealer's lot in California. Consumer groups contend Ford discriminates against minorities when it adds a markup to auto loans. (Photo by Noah Berger/Blomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (86%); NEW CAR DEALERS (79%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); JUDGES (73%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (98%); FORD MOTOR CREDIT CO LLC (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); PRIMUS AUTOMOTIVE FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (51%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



8 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Partnerships More Elusive At Law Firms, Survey Shows

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Here is some bad news for junior lawyers: Making partner at big law firms is getting more difficult. 
 The number of equity partners at law firms grew by just 2.5 percent last year, down from 3 percent in 2002 and 4.5 percent five years ago, according to a study by the Citigroup Private Bank. Last year, more lawyers were also promoted into salaried senior positions, which do not pay out a portion of firm profits and carry less prestige. 
 The slower pace of equity partnerships is one reason that profits per partner at law firms -- often cited as an indicator of a firm's success -- grew by 8.9 percent in 2004; the fewer people sharing the profits, the more each takes home. Equity partners took home nearly $770,000, on average, in 2004, the study showed.
 Another reason for the growth in profit is that lawyers spent more time working. The number of hours billed annually by lawyers rose 2.5 percent last year, after falling in each of the previous three years. Lawyers -- both partners and associates -- on average billed about 1,750 hours each last year.
 In past years, much of the steady profit growth at law firms has been a result of consistent increases in billable rates. Such increases are becoming more difficult to pass along to clients, the numbers suggest. Hourly rates grew by 5.1 percent last year, compared with 5.7 percent in 2003 and a much faster rate of 12.3 percent in 2000, the study showed.
 ''It's not that this year they're saying, we can't get rate increases,'' said Dan DiPietro, head of client relations for the law firm group at the Citigroup Private Bank, which collected data from nearly 100 big firms for the annual survey. ''They're just saying, there are limits to what we can put through given the corporate focus on expense control.''
 While the study suggests that big law firms and the partners who run them have done very well indeed, it also suggests that as firms encounter stiffer resistance to rate increases from corporate clients, they will be forced to run leaner operations to sustain profits and growth. That may mean that over time, lawyers will have to work more hours and that it will become even more difficult to make partner.
 ''In the profession, for better or worse, economics matter,'' said Barry S. Levin, chairman of Heller Ehrman White & McAuliffe, a large law firm based in San Francisco. Not only are partners at firms concerned about preserving growth, Mr. Levin added, but clients are more and more concerned about keeping their legal costs down. 
 ''Without question, the cost of outside legal services is a big item in a client's budget, and there have been increased efforts to manage that cost,'' he said.
 But the market for legal services has improved since 2004, keeping lawyers busier than they have been in years. That is one reason productivity at law firms appears to have increased, said Brad Hildebrandt, chairman of Hildebrandt International, which advises law firms. Another reason, he said, was that some lawyers had less to do in previous years.
 ''Because law firms were not inclined to downsize drastically, it meant that they kept people that weren't fully occupied,'' Mr. Hildebrandt said. Mr. Hildebrandt was bullish on the coming year. ''The law firm was pretty busy and kept pretty busy and made a lot of money through all the downturns,'' he said, ''and it had a good year last year and it should have a pretty good year this year.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (92%); LAW FIRM PROFITABILITY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LAW FIRM BILLABLE HOURS (78%); LAW FIRM BILLABLE RATES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); BUDGETS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HELLER EHRMAN LLP (84%); CITIGROUP PRIVATE BANK (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



9 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE ROAD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: My Mail: O.K., Maybe I Am Just a Bit of a Nut for Miles

BYLINE: By Joe Sharkey. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
That old elite-status airline upgrade, it ain't what it used to be. On that much we all appear to agree. 
 After that, though, we, the airlines' more active frequent fliers, are all over the field, if reaction to last week's column is any indication. The column was posed as a modified Dear John letter to Continental Airlines, to which I have been remarkably loyal for years. As I readily conceded, the very frequent free upgrade to first class from a cheap coach fare -- as a consequence of my efforts to maintain top-level elite status in Continental's OnePass frequent-flier program -- was the main reason for my loyalty to Continental for most of my domestic flying. 
 Now, first-class fares are plunging on the major airlines, making that upgrade seat way more elusive across the board. At the same time, top-level loyalty status, with its frequent upgrade awards, has been devalued by major airlines. For example, some airlines, like Continental, recently changed policies to give higher upgrade priority to those who pay more. As a result, for example, a 25,000-mile-a year Silver Elite customer who pays a full economy fare gets dibs on an upgrade before me, a 75,000-mile-a-year Platinum Elite member, who takes advantage of a discount fare in coach.
 Hey, I yowled last week, that's basically a shell game they're running on loyal customers. If loyalty doesn't count for much, I suggested, I am out of there. Though Continental is the dominant carrier in my home airport, Newark, I decided that from now on, I am playing the airline field. 
 Oh, just take it easy, said Ursula Weide, a language translator from Alexandria, Va., who has Premier Executive status at United Airlines, where she has been an elite member for 14 years.
 United, like Continental and other major airlines, has ''changed the way it awards upgrades,'' she conceded. But the major airlines are gasping for life (United, of course, is in bankruptcy). So cut them some slack, she said.
 ''At times when our airlines are fighting for survival, to complain about Continental putting more emphasis on the bottom line, and to desert the airline, is only adding injury to insult,'' she said. ''You are doing exactly what you fault the airline with: keeping an eye on the bottom line alone.''
 In a telephone interview yesterday, she elaborated. ''They wouldn't be doing it if they weren't being squeezed out of business,'' she said, adding: ''United has done so much for me over the years that I feel I have to stick with them.''
 Other defenders of the major airlines who disagreed with last week's column were not nearly as courteous as Dr. Weide. 
 ''Can I suggest a new title for your column: It's all about me,'' wrote one great big grouch, who shall remain unidentified. ''I am so tired of your whines about your loss of Platinum upgrades on Continental,'' he went on. ''Firstly, your concerns are shared by a minority of business travelers. Secondly, though you do mention it in passing, why not do a thorough and intelligent analysis of the recent declines in first-class fares and the fact that those wishing to fly first class can now purchase tickets at quite reasonable cost.''
 Actually, my complaint was based on the fact that rules were changed in February, right after a good number of loyal customers had gone to considerable effort in 2004 to qualify for the top elite status this year. (Among those efforts were an antic 11,000-mile, six-city ''mileage run'' in late December, after I realized that I was 10,000 miles short of qualifying for Platinum status).
 I readily admit I am a cheapskate who usually manages to find a pretty low coach fare. But we cheapskates had no reason to suspect last year, when we were scurrying to qualify again for top elite status this year, that the game would be changed, essentially without notice.
 Lots of disgruntled frequent fliers agreed with that, by the way.
 ''Finally, someone has caught on!'' said Tandy O. Lofland, a Houston executive. ''Though I'm in Continental's other hub in Houston, our Platinum experiences, down to the year-end crazed run, are virtually identical.''
 He added, ''You're right, too. It's all about the upgrades, isn't it? Please keep up the drumbeat, as we loyal customers signed up and paid our dues with our time and money.''
 Steve Rothman wrote: ''While I understand Continental's need for improved revenue/profitability, they should also appreciate the need to retain the loyalty of their frequent-flier customers. Otherwise, as you suggested, we will just go to the best fare available on any airline.'' Mark Schaffer said he concurred with my determination to fly Continental when it serves my purposes (which is does often because it dominates my home airport, where it keeps fares low despite the absence of direct competitive pressure from Southwest or JetBlue). 
 ''I, as you, will continue to fly Continental,'' Mr. Schaffer wrote. ''I do believe their service is better than most other carriers. However, I will no longer change my schedule, or stay longer at a destination, to make sure that I can fly with my 'preferred carrier.' If I lose my elite status, so be it! All it seems to mean now is a blue carpet to the jetway,'' he said, referring to the lane with blue rug marked ''elite'' that Continental uses to board its elite-status passengers.
 On the other hand, Barbara Maddox said I should just get over it. First class offers only a slightly bigger seat, free drinks and a higher quality of snack nut, she said -- while suggesting that I was beginning to sound like a nut myself on this subject. 
 ''I want to empathize with you. Truly I do,'' she wrote. ''Maybe I missed the column where you explained what's so great about first class.''

On the Road appears each Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AIR FARES (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); LOYALTY MARKETING (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



10 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: With $32 Million Bid, Rochester Wins Chance to Put Ferry to Toronto Back in Service

BYLINE: By MICHELLE YORK

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, Feb. 28 

 BODY:
Be it a benefit or a boondoggle, this city will again have a high-speed ferry to Toronto.
 Rochester cast the winning bid -- $32 million -- at a bankruptcy auction in Federal District Court here on Monday to buy a luxury ferry that had offered a popular though short-lived service last summer.
 By buying the boat after the original owners fell into financial hardship, the city can resume service this summer and make use of a $30 million investment with New York State that improved the Port of Rochester and built a gleaming ferry terminal, which opened last summer. The city will also be able to focus on revitalizing the economy -- hurt from decades of losses in the manufacturing industry -- through tourism. ''It's our phoenix, rising up,'' said Mayor William A. Johnson Jr.. 
 The idea of a high-speed ferry service had been talked about for decades, though it was often hampered by bureaucracy and bad luck.
 Tourism experts had hoped that Rochester would capitalize on its Lake Ontario location, a 171-mile boat trip from Toronto. The city found developers in the late 1990's, when two Rochester natives, Dominick DeLucia and Brian F. Prince, took up the idea. The men, friends since graduate school, had made their fortunes at Lehman Brothers in New York City and returned to their hometown with the idea of helping it to better times. They spent several years putting together their plan and arranging financing from Dutch and Australian lenders for the purchase of the ferry last year for $42.5 million. The ferry has a movie theater, a gift shop and a restaurant and can make the voyage in under three hours.
 Almost immediately, their company, Canadian American Transportation Systems, ran into trouble. Mr. DeLucia said they were undercapitalized and could not cope with several mishaps, including a docking accident at a Manhattan pier after the ferry was brought from an Australian shipyard to Rochester last spring. After repairs, the engine malfunctioned. Both incidents pushed back the start date by several weeks, while the company continued to incur payroll and other expenses.
 Higher fuel prices and customs and pilot fees added to the company's debt, along with a loss of anticipated revenue from transporting tractor-trailers, which were not allowed on board because of increased border security.
 The ferry, which can carry 774 passengers and 238 cars, often sold out. But the company was more than $2 million in debt by Labor Day. After only 80 days, the owners abruptly stopped service, leaving 200 without jobs and hundreds of others with worthless tickets.
 ''Reading the future isn't possible,'' said Magistrate Jonathan W. Feldman of the district court. Pointing out that there are ''risks and rewards'' in every business venture, he said that ''no one has ever disagreed'' about the vessel being given a fair opportunity to succeed in this community.'' 
 About 100 people attended the auction, many of them former employees. When the courtroom filled, spectators gathered near the entrance to listen to the bidding through open doors. ''People loved the ferry,'' said Mary Ellen Bello, a former travel agent who came out of retirement to work taking reservations at the terminal. After it stopped running, she volunteered her time, hoping the original owners would be able to restart. ''It made Rochester a gateway city and opened tourism.'' 
 Bev Rouse, a former bartender on the ferry, agreed. ''We were doing something for the city of Rochester that needs doing,'' she said. ''The city needs revenue and it needs jobs.''
 Though the women cheered and high-fived their friends after the auction, Mr. DeLucia was somber. ''It's a bittersweet day,'' he said, adding that he would have liked to run the business he worked to create, but did not want to see the city lose it to someone else.
 The top mortgage holders, the bank ABN AMRO and the Export Finance and Insurance Company of Australia, were the only other bidder, with an offer of $29.6 million. Mayor Johnson said the mortgage holders, who bid as a team, were there mainly to secure their investment, making sure it did not sell for too low a price. Other ferry operators who toured the boat weeks ago did not bid.
 Despite the city's winning bid, some City Council members have expressed concern that taxpayers could end up subsidizing the ferry service if it runs into problems again.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said in a telephone interview that Rochester had already worked to resolve issues with customs fees, pilot fees and tractor-trailer revenue, in hopes of avoiding past problems. ''With the same amount of passengers, it should be a success,'' he said. ''At least Rochester didn't throw up its hands.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the purchase of a high-speed luxury ferry by the city of Rochester at a bankruptcy auction, to be used to resume service to Toronto, misstated the distance of the boat trip. It is 82 nautical miles; 171 miles is the driving distance.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (92%); AUCTIONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); SHIPBUILDING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MAGISTRATES (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); BORDER CONTROL (75%); US LABOR DAY (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (94%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) ONTARIO, CANADA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LAKE ONTARIO (79%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



11 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: Speculators See Gold in a Boom In Home Prices

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

DATELINE: SUNNY ISLES, Fla., Feb. 25 

 BODY:
Within six months last year, Carlos and Betti Lidsky bought and sold two condominiums. Then they bought and sold two houses. They say they will clear a half-million dollars in profit, and none of the homes have even been built. 
 Now Mr. Lidsky, a lawyer, and his wife, a charity fund-raiser, have put down a deposit on a fifth property, a $1.3 million condo in a high-rise under construction, and are planning to sell before the deal closes, without even taking out a mortgage.
 ''It is much better than the stock market,'' Mr. Lidsky said. ''This is an extraordinary, phenomenally good result.'' 
 In several metropolitan areas, from Miami to Riverside, Calif., where the real estate market is white hot, rapidly rising prices are luring a growing number of ordinary people into buying and selling residences they do not intend to occupy, despite warnings from some economists that prices cannot continue to rise as steeply as they have in the last few years. 
 According to LoanPerformance Inc., a San Francisco mortgage data firm, about 8.5 percent of mortgages nationwide in the first 11 months of last year were taken out by people who did not plan to live in the houses themselves, up from 5.8 percent in 2000. In some markets, that proportion is much higher: in Phoenix, more than 12 percent of mortgages were taken out by investors; in Miami, the figure is 11 percent.
 The National Association of Realtors, a trade organization that represents real estate brokers, said in a study being released on Tuesday that the percentage of homes bought for investment might be as high as one-quarter of the 7.7 million sold last year. 
 ''Americans are treating real estate as a viable alternative to stocks and bonds,'' said David Lereah, chief economist at the Realtors association. And some are buying at least two properties at a time.
 Like the day traders of the 1990's dot-com boom, people are investing in a market that seems to just go up. Promoters use Web sites to attract investors, promising quick profits. One site, getpreconstructionprofits.com, is run by a pair of investors who offer online training for $197. On their home page, they say people can earn over $100,000 in six months investing in unbuilt real estate.
 Some economists say the influx of investors into the real estate market could have negative consequences.
 ''Investors are now seemingly buying based on the expectation that house prices are going to grow as rapidly as they have in the recent past, long into the future,'' said Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Economy.com, a private research group. ''How quickly and high fixed mortgage rates rise will determine whether the speculative fever in the market just goes flat or whether it caves.''
 For now, low interest rates are helping to fuel the frenzy. Sometimes, homeowners borrow equity from their primary residence to finance down payments. These buyers, some of whom lost money when the stock market crashed five years ago, believe real estate is a safer bet. 
 Rita Lawrence, a construction business owner in Phoenix, has bought three houses in the last two years. Ms. Lawrence and her husband rent out two of them, and they hope to sell the third -- which they are buying for $195,000 -- for $249,000, after a quick renovation.
 Taxes can take a sizable part of the profits in these deals. Investors who sell within a year of purchase face federal short-term capital gains taxes of up to 35 percent, and 15 percent if they wait a year.
 Still, investors have been seduced by the steady upward march of house prices over the past few years. Since 2000, the national median price of a house has increased by 33 percent. And in the fourth quarter of last year, out of 129 metropolitan areas covered by the Realtors, 62 markets showed double-digit price rises over the same period a year earlier.
 Demand for investment properties has risen in markets with the most spectacular price increases, according to brokers. As buyers were priced out of Los Angeles, they moved into San Bernardino and adjacent Riverside County, where prices rose by 35 percent last year. Nancy Overgaag, a mortgage broker at Financial 2000 in Redlands, Calif., said about one-third of her customers were looking to invest in real estate. 
 Even in Manhattan, where average sales prices topped $1 million last year, investors are piling into the market, brokers say. 
 Some investment buyers are willing to rent out their properties at a monthly loss, anticipating future sales price rises. Dru Finley and her husband, Hsiao-Li Pan, who live in Brewster, N.Y., bought a one-bedroom condominium in Battery Park City in Lower Manhattan last summer for $499,000. They rent it out for $2,225 a month, about $1,000 less than their mortgage and maintenance costs. The couple hope to make up the shortfall when they sell the condo in a few years. ''It seems that real estate always goes up,'' in the long term, Ms. Finley said.
 Many homeowners are tapping the paper wealth in their own homes to buy more real estate. Mark Purnell, who manages internal technology for a software company in Southern California, said the four-bedroom house he bought eight years ago in Rancho Santa Margarita, south of Los Angeles, had quadrupled in value to $800,000. Last year he took out a $150,000 home equity loan and, with his brother, bought three houses in Phoenix.
 Mr. Purnell, 36, who is renting out those houses, said he would buy more in Phoenix but could not find anything. So he is turning his attention to Palm Springs, Calif. His Phoenix real estate agent, Kim Martin of Re/Max Achievers, said that investors had helped deplete inventories of available properties from about 25,000 this time last year to about 8,000 now.
 In a backlash against speculative investing in some popular markets like Phoenix and Las Vegas, some homebuilders now prohibit renting or selling houses for at least a year after closing. As a result, investors have started to back off in Las Vegas, where the pace of the price rises started to ease towards the end of last year. 
 But in Miami, the speculative craze is promoted in part by developers and brokers who help buyers to resell quickly.
 Brokers in Miami work overtime to get their clients into V.I.P. sales events before developers start pitching buildings to the public. 
 The Lidskys were heading out of town early last year when they got a call from Michelle L. Judd, a sales associate at Ocean IV, a high-rise being built in Sunny Isles by a consortium led by the Related Group of Florida, the same company that built the condo where they have lived since 2003. Ms. Judd was offering to sell them a second unit, but only if they would put down a deposit that day.
 Shortly before their flight, Mr. Lidsky drove to the sales office and without viewing any floor plans, ended up writing deposit checks totaling $159,380 for a $479,900 two-bedroom condo, and an adjoining four-bedroom unit for $1,113,900. The money came from a bank line of credit not secured by their current home. Within three months, Ms. Judd called again: she had buyers for the two-bedroom willing to pay $625,000 and $1.425 million for the four-bedroom.
 Such get-rich-quick stories have increased demand for preconstruction condo units in and around Miami. While many buyers do intend to move in to their homes, as many as half the original buyers of some condos resell them before they are built. Of the 280 units at Ocean IV, Ms. Judd said, nearly 130 had resold.
 Thomas Daly, a principal investor with the Related Group in 18 condo projects, said the company did not ''encourage investors'' but that once a project was initially sold out, the developer would help buyers resell their properties quickly ''to accommodate our purchasers.'' 
 Developers of some projects do not allow buyers to resell before closing, because they fear this could artificially inflate prices. 
 One of those projects, Arte City, a 202-unit condo complex being built in Miami Beach, is still attracting investors, although they are those who are willing to wait longer to sell. Jaime Nack, a 29-year-old event producer in Santa Monica, Calif., bought a one-bedroom unit at Arte City for $270,000, financing the down payment with a second mortgage on her one-bedroom condo in Santa Monica. 
 Ms. Nack plans to rent out the unit for a couple of years before selling. Because of its proximity to the beach, ''I think it will be safe even if the market drops a bit,'' she said. 
 Some real estate watchers in Miami wonder whether that drop will come soon. With more than 60,000 units in some phase of development in the Miami area, ''the supply may be greater than the ultimate demand,'' said Michael Y. Cannon, managing director of Integra Realty Resources-South Florida, a market analyst. A similar situation in 1986 sent the market spiraling, and it took seven years to recover. 
 For now, investors like the Lidskys are still buying. They intend to buy at least one more unit -- their sixth in less than a year -- in another condo. But the couple, who acknowledged being ''killed'' in the stock market five years ago, sounded a note of caution. 
 ''Maybe we won't lose money, but I just think it is not going to keep up,'' Ms. Lidsky said . ''At some point there are just going to be too many apartments in this area.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 8, 2005

 CORRECTION:
The dateline of a front-page article last Tuesday about growing speculation in residential real estate misstated the name of a Florida city where housing prices are rising. It is Sunny Isles Beach, not Sunny Isles.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Carlos and Betti Lidsky of Sunny Isles, Fla., have bought and sold four properties. ''It is much better than the stock market,'' Mr. Lidsky said. (Photo by Richard Patterson for The New York Times)(pg. A15)Chart: ''Where the Real Estate Investors Are''In the busiest areas for real estate, an increasing number of investors are coming into the market. Data shown are for the largest markets for investments in one-family homes.AREA: Las VegasPERCENTAGE OF HOMES BOUGHT AS INVESTMENTS: 16.1%GAIN IN MEDIAN HOME PRICE BETWEEN 4TH QUARTER 2003 AND 4TH QUARTER 2004: 47.3%AREA: SacramentoPERCENTAGE OF HOMES BOUGHT AS INVESTMENTS: 14.7GAIN IN MEDIAN HOME PRICE BETWEEN 4TH QUARTER 2003 AND 4TH QUARTER 2004: 31.5AREA: Riverside-San Bernardino, Calif.PERCENTAGE OF HOMES BOUGHT AS INVESTMENTS: 13.1GAIN IN MEDIAN HOME PRICE BETWEEN 4TH QUARTER 2003 AND 4TH QUARTER 2004: 34.7AREA: San DiegoPERCENTAGE OF HOMES BOUGHT AS INVESTMENTS: 12.6GAIN IN MEDIAN HOME PRICE BETWEEN 4TH QUARTER 2003 AND 4TH QUARTER 2004: 24.8AREA: Phoenix-Mesa, Ariz.PERCENTAGE OF HOMES BOUGHT AS INVESTMENTS: 12.5GAIN IN MEDIAN HOME PRICE BETWEEN 4TH QUARTER 2003 AND 4TH QUARTER 2004: 17.9AREA: Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater, Fla.PERCENTAGE OF HOMES BOUGHT AS INVESTMENTS: 11.6GAIN IN MEDIAN HOME PRICE BETWEEN 4TH QUARTER 2003 AND 4TH QUARTER 2004: 14.6AREA: Fort Lauderdale, Fla.PERCENTAGE OF HOMES BOUGHT AS INVESTMENTS: 11.4GAIN IN MEDIAN HOME PRICE BETWEEN 4TH QUARTER 2003 AND 4TH QUARTER 2004: 25.6AREA: MiamiPERCENTAGE OF HOMES BOUGHT AS INVESTMENTS: 11.1GAIN IN MEDIAN HOME PRICE BETWEEN 4TH QUARTER 2003 AND 4TH QUARTER 2004: 25.5AREA: Los Angeles-Long Beach, Calif.PERCENTAGE OF HOMES BOUGHT AS INVESTMENTS: 10.4GAIN IN MEDIAN HOME PRICE BETWEEN 4TH QUARTER 2003 AND 4TH QUARTER 2004: 23.7AREA: Orlando, Fla.PERCENTAGE OF HOMES BOUGHT AS INVESTMENTS: 9.5GAIN IN MEDIAN HOME PRICE BETWEEN 4TH QUARTER 2003 AND 4TH QUARTER 2004: 21.7(Sources by National Association of Realtors, LoanPerformance)(pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); FUNDRAISING (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); WEB SITES (65%); BONDS (64%); WEB BASED TRAINING (50%) Housing; Renting and Leasing; Mortgages; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Housing

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (82%) LoanPerformance Inc

PERSON: DAVID LEREAH (55%) Motoko Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (76%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Phoenix (Ariz); Florida; Las Vegas (Nev) ; California

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



12 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Biotech, Oil Prices and G.M. Lead Shares Broadly Lower

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks slid yesterday, weighed down by declines in biotechnology shares, oil prices above $51 a barrel and a downgrade of General Motors.
 Biogen Idec slumped 43 percent, while the Irish drug maker Elan skidded 70 percent after the companies suspended sales of their multiple sclerosis drug. They acted after a patient died from a rare and often fatal central nervous system disease. 
 Oil was another negative, with the April contract for crude oil settling 26 cents higher at $51.75. Rising oil prices raise concerns that higher energy costs will pinch corporate profits and curb consumer spending.
 The Dow Jones industrial average declined 75.37 points, or 0.7 percent, to close at 10,766.23. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 7.77 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,203.60. The Nasdaq composite index fell 13.68 points, or 0.7 percent, to 2,051.72.
 For the month, the Dow ended up 2.6 percent, the S.&P. 500 advanced 1.9 percent and the Nasdaq slipped 0.5 percent.
 Yesterday's sell-off came after a three-day rally last week in which blue chips hit highs for 2005 on Friday. Stocks, however, closed off their session lows, which some put down to end-of-month buying -- known as window dressing -- when money managers buy shares to bolster their portfolios.
 Another negative for stocks was an increase in geopolitical tension. A suicide bomber killed 125 people and wounded 130 south of Baghdad -- the single bloodiest attack in Iraq since the fall of Saddam Hussein.
 Lebanon's Syrian-backed government collapsed, piling more pressure on Damascus, already heavily criticized by the United States and Israel.
 Benchmark Treasury debt yields climbed to their highest levels so far this year and broke through a major chart level. Strong readings on inflation and manufacturing added to expectations for more interest-rate increases -- bad news for stocks because they mean higher borrowing costs for companies and consumers.
 ''The declines today were partially based on the effect of the bond market, where yields broke through resistance and went higher than people expected. So the lower bond market was hurting equities, plus I think we were retracing some of the gains we made late last week,'' said Tom Schrader, managing director of United States equity trading at Legg Mason Wood Walker.
 Investors were waiting for Friday, when the Labor Department will report on nonfarm payrolls and the unemployment rate for February. 
 ''People are looking toward Friday's jobs numbers, and I think people will be sitting on the sidelines and not doing a whole lot (ahead of that),'' said Michael Murphy, managing director of Wachovia Securities.
 Among declining biotechnology stocks, Biogen Idec fell $28.63, to $38.65, while Elan tumbled $18.90, to $8.
 ''Biotech got everything off with a bad tone. It wasn't good news for Biogen or the sector as a whole,'' said John Hughes, managing director of Epiphany Equity Research.
 The American Stock Exchange biotechnology index fell 5.5 percent, but shares of Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, which makes a multiple sclerosis drug that competes with Biogen and Elan, climbed $2.55, or 9.25 percent, to $30.11.
 Banc of America reduced its ratings on Ford Motor and General Motors. Ford fell 35 cents, to $12.65, and G.M. slipped 3.4 percent, or $1.24, to $35.65.
 American International Group fell 2.3 percent, or $1.55, to $66.80. A report in The Financial Times said that the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, is examining ties between A.I.G. and Coral Reinsurance as part of a wider inquiry into insurance industry accounting practices.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''3-Month Treasury Bills''High rate at weekly auction.Graph tracks bills from November through February.(Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); BOND MARKETS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (64%); BOMBINGS (64%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (63%); INTEREST RATES (62%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BIOGEN IDEC INC (95%); ELAN CORP PLC (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); LEGG MASON WOOD WALKER INC (51%)

TICKER: BIIB (NASDAQ) (95%); ELN (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (95%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (69%) UNITED STATES (92%); SYRIA (79%); IRAQ (74%); LEBANON (73%); ISRAEL (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



13 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1751 words

HEADLINE: With His Bells and Curves, Human Growth Science Grew Up

BYLINE: By STEPHEN S. HALL

DATELINE: DUNKESWELL, England 

 BODY:
Dr. Jim Tanner pored over two children's growth charts spread out on the table before him, observing the annual dots, casting an expert eye on where they landed amid the centiles and curves, lingering over the meager data about the 8-year-old girl, but venturing a tentative -- and, to her father, namely me, an unnerving -- conclusion.
 ''We're already seeing that she is going into early adolescence,'' Dr. Tanner mused, peering over his glasses. ''Eight and a half, hmmm. Well, probably, probably, it's the beginning. That would be slightly early, but for a takeoff for a girl nowadays? I mean, a bit early. But normal, absolutely.''
 We were sitting in a 100-year-old coach house that had once been part of the Stentwood estate in Devonshire, two hours southwest of London by train, and 15 miles farther, by curving one-lane roads, hemmed in by encroaching hedgerows, from the train station in Taunton, the nearest big town. 
 It may seem like a long way to go to ask a doctor to look at a child's growth chart, especially when the doctor has been retired for 20 years. But Dr. James M. Tanner, even in retirement, remains one of the greatest experts on a subject everyone experiences but few think about, human growth.
 Over a career that spanned half a century, Dr. Tanner helped bring the study of human growth into the era of modern biology. He helped create the first modern growth chart, has demonstrated the surprisingly powerful influence of environment upon the average size of national populations, and was among the first to argue that physical stature can shed enormous light on the quality of life of cultures both modern and ancient, findings that have revolutionized the field of economic history. On top of that, he is that rarest of academic creatures: a serious scientist who can legitimately claim to have been an Olympic-caliber athlete.
 Although Dr. Tanner is largely unknown to the American public (with the exception of pediatricians familiar with the so-called ''Tanner stages'' of pubertal development), he is well known to his peers. Dr. David Barker, the British epidemiologist who has studied birth weight and early development, says flatly, ''Jim is the god'' of the field. 
 Dr. Robert Fogel, the Nobel Prize-winning University of Chicago economist whose research on the lives and health of American slaves was influenced by Dr. Tanner's work, said, ''He's been one of the central figures in the biology of human growth, and the books he's written have become the central textbooks in the study of human growth.'' 
 Now 84, Dr. Tanner still discusses growth, the role of nurture versus nature in achieving maximum height, and a subtle -- but, he believes, important -- approach to data collection that explains differences between the growth charts that Dr. Tanner and his colleagues pioneered in the 1960's and the charts now in use in the United States.
 Sophisticated modern statistical approaches to childhood growth, in the form of national growth charts, did not emerge until after World War II. The first government-issued national charts in the United States were released only in 1977 by the National Center for Health Statistics. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention updated those charts in 2000.
 Dr. Tanner and his colleagues at the Institute for Child Health in London revolutionized growth charts in the 1960's by taking into account variations in a child's tempo of growth. Rather than one-size-fits-all curves, the Tanner-derived charts have separate curves, with a separate set of percentiles, for early-, average- and late-maturing boys and girls. Thus they expand the range of normal growth, using curves that are more forgiving of individual variation, especially around the crucial time of puberty.
 ''At 8, she's dead on the 50th centile,'' he said of my daughter's growth data, ''and what will happen now, dependent on when she has her growth spurt, she'll either go up like this'' -- his finger tracing an imaginary curve toward one adult height, ''or she'll go up like that. But she will not go like that,'' he added, touching on the dark 50th centile curve on the chart. 
 ''I think the deep, fundamental point in all this,'' Dr. Tanner continued, ''is differences in the rate of maturation. A child is small at a certain age. Is he small because he's small and he's going to be small unless he does something about it? Because another child, of the same height and the same age and the same smallness, is just delayed in his maturation. Perfectly normal. And will end up exactly average.''
 These subtle differences derive from the kind of data used to create a growth chart. The American charts (and some modern European charts) primarily rely on cross-sectional data: researchers take a large group of children, separate them by age, measure them one time and then plot the distribution of heights and weights for each age group.
 In contrast, Dr. Tanner and others believe a more accurate (and flexible) picture of a child's growth emerges from so-called longitudinal studies, where the same children are repeatedly measured over the course of many years of growth, so that individual variations in tempo -- those who mature early and those who mature late -- can be statistically incorporated into the charts. The data for such charts are more logistically difficult and costly to collect. But some growth experts believe such charts provide a more realistic picture of variation in individual growth patterns.
 To make the point, Dr. Tanner fetched one of his charts. There were three different curves representing variations on normality. One, in red, showed the trajectory of an early-maturing girl. The second, in black, showed the trajectory of girls maturing ''on time.'' The third, in green, showed the trajectory of late-maturing.
 ''So you see, at age 2 they're pretty much the same,'' Dr. Tanner said, pointing out a common starting point for three starkly different growth trajectories. ''But you get a very big effect later on.''
 At 11 years old, the 50th centile late maturer is nearly seven inches shorter than the early maturer, he said. ''But,'' he added, ''a few years later, they're identical.''
 ''There are more ways of being normal than are shown here,'' Dr. Tanner said, nodding toward the American-style charts. This philosophical difference has always been controversial, although other experts agree with Dr. Tanner, to a point. ''He's absolutely right'' about the limitations of cross-sectional charts, said Dr. Alan D. Rogol, a growth expert in Charlottesville, Va.
 ''You mush things together when you make a growth curve for a population,'' Dr. Rogol said. ''But for clinical work, I think the differences are not all that great. It's a tempest in a teapot.''
 The Tanner-inspired longitudinal charts are still sold and used in England, but he said their use had been overshadowed by cross-sectional charts distributed by drug companies or growth foundations that receive financing from companies that make human growth hormone, the use of which has exploded in recent years. 
 Asked if cross-sectional charts made the use of growth hormone more likely, Dr. Tanner said it would ''if you're simple-minded.''
 ''You're going to treat late maturers, lots and lots,'' he said.
 Born in 1920, Jim Tanner grew up partly in Egypt and China; his father was a career army officer. He attended St. Mary's School of Medicine in London on something like an athletic scholarship, having agreed to teach his fellow students physical education. He was the fastest junior British runner in the 110-meter hurdles in 1939, and trained with Britain's pre-Olympics track team. In all likelihood, he would have competed in the 1940 Olympics, had it not been for the war.
 He was among a handful of British medical students brought to the United States by the Rockefeller Foundation to complete their studies. He received his medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania, did his internship at Johns Hopkins and met his first wife, Dr. Bernice Alture, a Brooklyn-born general practitioner who also graduated from Penn. (She died in 1991.)
 The origins of the modern longitudinal growth chart began in 1948, when Dr. Tanner was approached by the British government and asked to take over a study of childhood growth that began during the war. The study, focused on orphans living in a home in Harpenden, north of London, was initially intended to observe the effects of wartime malnutrition on growth. But it evolved into the Harpenden Growth Study, the earliest of the longitudinal studies in postwar Europe.
 To develop the methodology of what would become the first modern growth chart, Dr. Tanner traveled to the United States and met with growth experts. In his research, he realized that several prominent American growth experts -- including Dr. Franz Boas, the legendary physical anthropologist, and Dr. Nancy Bayley, the psychologist at the University of California, Berkeley -- had understood the crucial importance of tempo of growth. But Dr. Tanner also discovered that their work had been largely ignored by their colleagues.
 ''We built this thing up, having just paid attention to what Boas and Bayley were teaching us,'' Dr. Tanner recalled. He continued to work on the Harpenden survey with his longtime associate, Reginald Whitehouse, until 1971. Once a month, the two researchers traveled to Harpenden, measured the children and took pictures, and later expanded the research to include data from other European surveys. Their first chart came out in the early 1960's.
 In the same era, he was responsible for choosing the five or six children in Britain who qualified for injections of human growth hormone, then rare and harvested only from human cadavers. In 1985, when several patients in the United States and Britain died from an infectious brain disease spread through cadaveric growth hormone, injections were immediately suspended.
 Still, some families objected. ''Some parents, amazingly, said, 'We'll take the risk.''' Dr. Tanner recalled. 
 ''We didn't accede,'' he added. 
 Treatments resumed only when genetically engineered human growth hormone became available the next year. In the 1990's, Dr. Tanner set out to write a new overview of growth, but soon abandoned the project. ''I realized that the time had passed when a single person could write a textbook on growth,'' he said. ''It just is not possible.''
 So his semi-retirement became permanent. ''I would not consider myself an expert anymore,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Jim Tanner helped show the influence of environment on the average size of national populations. (Photo by Jonathan Player for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); OLYMPICS (73%); TRAINS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (68%); NOBEL PRIZES (67%); TEXTBOOKS (67%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (64%); AWARDS & PRIZES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) ILLINOIS, USA (51%) ENGLAND (76%); UNITED KINGDOM (56%); UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



14 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Mideast Climate Change

 BODY:
It's not even spring yet, but a long-frozen political order seems to be cracking all over the Middle East. Cautious hopes for something new and better are stirring along the Tigris and the Nile, the elegant boulevards of Beirut, and the impoverished towns of the Gaza Strip. It is far too soon for any certainties about ultimate outcomes. In Iraq, a brutal insurgency still competes for headlines with post-election democratic maneuvering. Yesterday a suicide bomber plowed into a crowd of Iraqi police and Army recruits, killing at least 122 people -- the largest death toll in a single such bombing since the American invasion nearly two years ago. And the Palestinian terrorists who blew up a Tel Aviv nightclub last Friday underscored the continuing fragility of what has now been almost two months of steady political and diplomatic progress between Israelis and Palestinians. 
 Still, this has so far been a year of heartening surprises -- each one remarkable in itself, and taken together truly astonishing. The Bush administration is entitled to claim a healthy share of the credit for many of these advances. It boldly proclaimed the cause of Middle East democracy at a time when few in the West thought it had any realistic chance. And for all the negative consequences that flowed from the American invasion of Iraq, there could have been no democratic elections there this January if Saddam Hussein had still been in power. Washington's challenge now lies in finding ways to nurture and encourage these still fragile trends without smothering them in a triumphalist embrace. 
 Lebanon's political reawakening took a significant new turn yesterday when popular protests brought down the pro-Syrian government of Prime Minister Omar Karami. Syria's occupation of Lebanon, nearly three decades long, started tottering after the Feb. 14 assassination of the country's leading independent politician, the former prime minister Rafik Hariri. 
 If Damascus had a hand in this murder, as many Lebanese suspect, it had a boomerang effect on Lebanon's politics. Instead of intimidating critics of Syria's dominant role, it inflamed them. To stem the growing backlash over the Hariri murder, last week Syria announced its intentions to pull back its occupation forces to a region near the border -- although without offering any firm timetable. Yesterday, with protests continuing, the pro-Syrian cabinet resigned. Washington, in an unusual alliance with France, continues to press for full compliance with the Security Council's demand for an early and complete Syrian withdrawal. That needs to happen promptly. Once Syria is gone, Hezbollah, which has engaged in international terrorism under Syrian protection, must either confine itself to peaceful political activity or be shut down.
 Last weekend's surprise announcement of plans to hold at least nominally competitive presidential elections in Egypt could prove even more historic, although many of the specific details seem likely to be disappointing. Egypt is the Arab world's most populous country and one of its most politically influential. In more than five millenniums of recorded history, it has never seen a truly free and competitive election. 
 To be realistic, Egypt isn't likely to see one this year either. For all his talk of opening up the process, President Hosni Mubarak, 76, is likely to make sure that no threatening candidates emerge to deny him a fifth six-year term. But after seeing more than eight million Iraqis choose their leaders in January, Egypt's voters, and its increasingly courageous opposition movement, will no longer retreat into sullen hopelessness so readily. The Bush administration has helped foster that feeling of hope for a democratic future by keeping the pressure on Mr. Mubarak. But the real heroes are on-the-ground patriots like Ayman Nour, who founded a new party aptly named Tomorrow last October and is now in jail. If Mr. Mubarak truly wants more open politics, he should free Mr. Nour promptly.
 It is similarly encouraging that the terrorists who attacked a Tel Aviv nightclub on Friday, killing five Israelis, have not yet managed to completely scuttle the new peace dynamic between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. Israel contends that those terrorists were sponsored by Syria, but its soldiers reported discovering an explosives-filled car in the West Bank yesterday. The good news is that the leaders on both sides did not instantly retreat to familiar corners in angry rejectionism. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and the new Palestinian leader, Mahmoud Abbas, have proved they can work together to thwart terrorism and deny terrorists an instant veto over progress toward a negotiated peace. 
 Over the past two decades, as democracies replaced police states across Central and Eastern Europe and Latin America, and a new economic dynamism lifted hundreds of millions of eastern and southern Asia out of poverty and into the middle class, the Middle East stagnated in a perverse time warp that reduced its brightest people to hopelessness or barely contained rage. The wonder is less that a new political restlessness is finally visible, but that it took so long to break through the ice. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ASSASSINATION (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); HEZBOLLAH (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); ARMIES (71%); IRAQ WAR (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); MURDER (56%) Editorials; Elections; Palestinians; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Politics and Government

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) SYRIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); LEBANON (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (94%); EGYPT (93%); ISRAEL (92%); FRANCE (79%) Middle East; Lebanon; Syria; Egypt; Israel; Iraq; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



15 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Positive News For Japan On Economy

BYLINE: By TODD ZAUN

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 28 

 BODY:
A string of solid economic reports, including one showing unexpectedly strong industrial output, raised hopes Monday that Japan was quickly bouncing back from last year's recession.
 Industrial production expanded 2.1 percent in January from the month before, its biggest gain in nine months, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said. Retail sales jumped 5.7 percent in January from December, and 2.2 percent compared with the year-ago month, their biggest year-on-year rise since 1997. Housing starts soared 6.9 percent in January from the year earlier; economists had predicted a small decline. 
 The figures came as a relief after months of mostly disappointing data. 
 ''The only concern is that some of the numbers were so remarkably good that you worry about their reliability,'' said Richard Jerram, an economist for Macquarie Securities in Tokyo. ''The one thing they tell you with reasonable confidence is that you have another positive export-led expansion under way.'' 
 Monday's production report showed improvement across sectors. Healthy gains in Japan's traditional exports, like autos and electronics, suggested that a recent slowdown in exports was easing. Exports are a necessary ingredient for a long-lasting recovery in Japan.
 Japan's economy shrank at an annual 0.5 percent in the quarter ended Dec. 31, the third consecutive period of contraction, as consumer spending declined and export growth slowed.
 One concern weighing on Japan's economy has been the glut of computer chips and electronic components on world markets, but Monday's data provided some evidence that that situation may be easing. Inventories of electronics parts held by manufacturers declined 1.2 percent in January. 
 Many economists expect Japan's exports to pick up further in coming months, especially after news last week that the United States economy grew at an annual 3.8 percent pace in the fourth quarter, a faster rate than expected. The United States is the largest market for Japanese cars, televisions and other goods.
 To be sure, the industrial production report on Monday was not entirely positive. The economy ministry forecast that output at large manufacturers would decline 0.5 percent in February and another 1 percent in March. 
 Still, other figures reinforced the view that Japan was emerging from its bout of recession. The surge in retail sales was led by clothing and fuel, thanks to unusually cold weather in January, but strong sales of flat-panel televisions and DVD recorders also contributed to the gain in consumer spending. 
 Consumption accounts for more than half of the economy and its recent weakness helped push Japan into recession. 
 Many economists predict consumer spending will begin to pick up this year as employment conditions improve and a long decline in wages comes to an end. 
 Japan's unemployment rate fell to a six-year low of 4.4 percent in December.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Many economists expect Japan's exports to pick up further in coming months, especially after news of growth in the United States economy. (Photo by Andy Rain/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); CD & DVD DRIVES (62%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



16 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Canada: Economic Growth Slows

BYLINE: By Ian Austen (NYT)

 BODY:
Canada's gross domestic product grew by an annualized rate of 1.7 percent in the fourth quarter, a decline from 2.9 percent in the previous period, Statistics Canada reported. The decline in the growth rate was partly a result of a 0.9 percent decline in exports, the second consecutive quarter of falling exports. Some of the loss resulted from lower shipments of forestry products because of slower housing demand in the United States, the agency said, and a strong Canadian dollar also led to flat manufacturing output. Ian Austen (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); STATISTICS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); HOUSING MARKET (86%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



17 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Is Rebuffed But Waiting

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

 BODY:
WAL-MART has discovered the unpleasant flip side of the city's unofficial anthem, ''New York, New York.'' Making it anywhere doesn't mean you can make it here. The mammoth retailer's plans for a New York beachhead have gone the way of Martin Scorsese's latest dream of an Oscar -- down in flames.
 Wal-Mart was to be part of a new shopping mall in Rego Park, Queens. That was before an alliance of labor unions, small businesses, environmentalists and neighborhood groups persuaded politicians that this was the worst idea since Lincoln chose to take in a play. 
 With the City Council getting ready to give it a hard time, the mall's developer decided that running into walls was not worth the pain. It dropped Wal-Mart from the project.
 Never mind the usual concerns about traffic and the collapse of mom-and-pop stores. Wal-Mart's child-labor practices, its aggressive anti-union philosophy and its imperious air were all guaranteed to punch the alarm buttons of New York politicians given to social engineering.
 The fact that many Americans happen to like Wal-Mart because it keeps prices down got relatively scant attention. While they prefer to see themselves as a breed apart, New Yorkers have been known to enjoy low prices themselves.
 For that reason alone, even some of the mega-chain's most fervent opponents assume they have not heard the last from it. This is too big a market for Wal-Mart to ignore, and Wal-Mart is in certain respects too seductive a retailer for New York to snub. Don't be surprised, some say, if the company mends its ways just enough to pass political muster.
 ''Sooner or later, New Yorkers will want to have access to the shopping choices that other Americans have, rather than have to go to the suburbs,'' said Mitchell L. Moss, a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University and an informal adviser to the mayor.
 It might help to take a short journey through time, back to the early 1970's, when McDonald's made its first inroads here. The issues then were different from today's. But the attitude of many New Yorkers was much the same: the barbarians were at the gates and had to be repelled.
 Not that the city was unfamiliar with fast-food operations. It had the likes of Nedick's, White Castle, White Tower and Chock full o'Nuts. But McDonald's terrified people. Protesters marched through Greenwich Village. Upper East Siders rallied. The end, all agreed, was near.
 Typical was the lament of a woman who appeared in 1974 at a community board hearing to oppose a planned McDonald's franchise on East 66th Street. ''It would be a smelly, noisy pestilence,'' she said, predicting plagues of rats, garbage and exhaust fumes. No less worrisome, she predicted, were the unsavory types ''who would hang around such a place.''
 One man rose to add his own battle cry. ''Winston Churchill,'' he said, ''gave the boys at Eton just six words of advice: 'Don't give up. Never, never, never.''' 
 So much for those playing fields.
 In case you didn't notice, the golden arches are everywhere in the five boroughs -- 250 outlets, the company says. Somehow, the city has managed not to collapse. Nor have McDonald's employees been observed waylaying people on the street and dragging them inside to be force-fed Egg McMuffins.
 Quite simply, many people enjoy eating there. And they might similarly want to shop at Wal-Mart if given the chance.
 McDONALD'S did have to tinker with its formula somewhat to fit in here -- abandoning drive-through restaurants in most locations, for instance, and making sure that sidewalks were swept.
 ''Where there has been a will and a sense of local character, many of these stores have adjusted to community forms and demands,'' said Roberta Brandes Gratz, a member of the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission and the author of books on how cities have renewed themselves.
 The Home Depot outlet on West 23rd Street, Ms. Gratz said, is an example of a chain that adapted to New York ways by offering home delivery and providing attractive front windows. Even Wal-Mart has recalibrated its big-box formula, she said, to accommodate environment-conscious people in places like Bennington, Vt.
 There is no reason the same could not happen here, she and Professor Moss agreed. ''Let the opponents bring Wal-Mart into the tent the right way rather than expecting that they'll keep it out forever,'' Ms. Gratz said. ''Because they won't.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 2, 2005

 CORRECTION:
The NYC column yesterday, about Wal-Mart's efforts to open a store in New York City, used an erroneous given name in some copies for a member of the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission who said that in some cities the company had adjusted its big-box formula to accommodate community demands. She is Roberta Brandes Gratz, not Robert. Because of an editing error, a subheading misidentified the borough where Wal-Mart had been seeking space. It is Queens, not Manhattan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); CITIES (89%); FAST FOOD (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); MAYORS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (71%); CHILD LABOR (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); SUBURBS (70%); FRANCHISING (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (95%); MCDONALD'S CORP (83%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%); MCD (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (83%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



18 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: With New Chief, Uruguay Veers Left, in a Latin Pattern

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: MONTEVIDEO, Uruguay, Feb. 28 

 BODY:
When tiny Uruguay inaugurates its new president here on Tuesday, it will make a clear break with the country's past. After 150 years in which two moderate parties alternated in power, Uruguay's five million people will have turned decisively to the left.
 But more than that, the moment is fraught with symbolism for the region. Uruguay's shift consolidates what has become the new leftist consensus in South America. Three-quarters of the region's 355 million people are now governed by left-leaning leaders, all of whom have emerged in the past six years to redefine what the left means today.
 They are not so much a red tide as a pink one. Doctrinaire socialism carries the day far less than pragmatism, an important change in tone and policy that makes this political moment decidedly new. 
 From Brazil to Argentina to Ecuador and Venezuela, while demonstrating important differences in style and substance, these new leaders are united in their conviction that the free-market reforms of the 1990's have failed and by a renewed focus on egalitarianism and social welfare, but not to the point where it breaks the bank.
 They are sympathetic to the symbols and rhetoric of the left's revolutionary past, cozy with Fidel Castro, and frequently anti-American in their talk, but they continue to pursue economic policies that are favorable to American interests and sensitive to perceptions of Wall Street. None, for instance, would even think of nationalizing foreign-owned companies, as both Mr. Castro and Salvador Allende of Chile once did.
 From one country and leader to the next, the governments can be described as representing similar ''tendencies within a spectrum that allows for various colorations,'' in the words of Gilberto Dupas, director of the Institute of Advanced Studies at the University of Sao Paulo.
 Indeed, though many of the new leaders have roots on the revolutionary left, they now seem inspired less by Che Guevara than Felipe Gonzalez, the Socialist who was formerly Spain's prime minister. They have shown they are willing to play by the established rules of the game, even if it forces them to abandon cherished ideological goals.
 That overriding pragmatism has left the Bush administration less overtly antagonistic to the trend than it might have been in another era, with the clear exception of President Hugo Chavez in Venezuela, who is more fiery and provocatively populist than most. 
 Still, across the board, the attitude toward the United States has been one characterized by at least polite distancing, the case here and in neighboring Brazil and Argentina, as the economic reforms being rejected are closely associated with Washington and the financial institutions it backs, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. 
 ''There is a growing consensus against the way the United States is using its power,'' said Marta Lagos, director of Latinobarometro, a Chilean public opinion firm that regularly conducts surveys of political attitudes around the continent. ''Ten years ago that was an attitude typical of the elite, but now we see it across the board, regardless of class or level of education.''
 That backlash has left these governments groping for a middle way between the unrestrained capitalism of the 1990's -- what Mr. Chavez invariably calls ''savage neoliberalism'' -- and the earlier reliance on the state as the main engine of development. 
 To critics on the left, it reeks of a sellout. But others see it as maturing into the mainstream.
 President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil, for example, has followed the same policies of fiscal restraint and openness to foreign investment that he criticized as a candidate, and President Lucio Gutierrez of Ecuador has maintained the policy of his predecessors, who adopted the dollar as the county's currency. 
 Even Argentina, where President Nestor Kirchner has defied the I.M.F. and forced foreign creditors to take big losses on their debt holdings, has run up large budget surpluses.
 ''You have to see much of what is said as good use of communications for the purpose of maintaining their popularity,'' said Eduardo Gamarra, director of the Latin American and Caribbean Center at Florida International University in Miami. ''It's a domestic rhetorical game, but when they are put against the wall, they have to make pragmatic decisions.''
 Now it is Uruguay's turn, as this small country sandwiched between Brazil and Argentina marks the arrival in power of Tabare Vazquez, a 64-year-old physician, and the coalition known as the Progressive Encounter/Broad Front/New Majority.
 The new president proudly describes himself as a man of the left and says that his first actions in office will include restoring diplomatic relations with Cuba and re-examining an investment treaty with the United States. 
 ''We have changed because the world has changed,'' said Senator Jose Mujica, the most prominent of the former Tupamaro guerrilla leaders who now preside over Congress here. ''We live in a unipolar world in which attempts at socialism have failed and there are no alternatives. We have to take a pragmatic line.''
 The doctor's ascendance is indicative of the region's sharp turnabout from a decade ago. At the outset of the 1990's, ''The Washington Consensus'' -- the name given to the recipe of open markets, privatization and stabilized budgets being pushed by the United States -- seemed to have swept away everything before it. Voters were pleased to see inflation, a traditional bugaboo in the region, quickly brought under control and looked forward to other gains.
 But over the past decade, freer trade and increased foreign investment have failed to narrow the gap between rich and poor and left millions of poor people outside the economy and looking in resentfully. Between 1998 and 2003, once inflation is taken into account, Latin America as a whole did not grow at all, according to International Monetary Fund figures.
 As a result, in one country after another, the candidates who have been most successful in appealing to voters are those who, like Dr. Vazquez here, promise that the state will play a greater role and not leave the market to its own devices.
 The egalitarian argument resonated particularly strongly here and in neighboring Argentina, two countries that were once middle class and have fallen on hard times in recent years. Once known as the ''Switzerland of South America,'' Uruguay enjoyed a European-style welfare state whose last remnants were stripped away in the crises of the 1990's.
 ''What all of them have in common is that they favor measures to bring in the segment of the population that has thus far been excluded from the market,'' Ms. Lagos said of the new leftist leaders. ''That is combined with a massive rejection of the I.M.F. and the Washington Consensus.''
 The shift is not without political consequence for the United States. With Washington still pushing free trade and economic liberalization, many South American nations have begun a flirtation with China in hopes of finding some kind of counterweight. 
 But their main, stated focus has been to try to encourage trade and integration with each other in a way similar to, though far less evolved than, the European Union.
 Brazil and Venezuela in particular have been moving toward what Mr. da Silva described as a ''strategic alliance'' when he called on Mr. Chavez at midmonth. 
 During the visit, the two countries signed agreements that ranged from Brazilian financing of irrigation and subway projects in Caracas to a joint venture to build an auto lubricants plant in Cuba. Mr. Chavez also talked of ''military cooperation'' with Brazil and expressed interest in buying as many as 24 Brazilian-made patrol planes.
 ''Instead of the United States and Europe, Brazil, Argentina and Colombia,'' Mr. Chavez said in explaining his trade preferences. ''Even if it costs a bit more, it is necessary to make this a priority. It's not a one-day deal, the gains will come over the long term.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers preparing a television platform for the inauguration today of President-elect Tabare Vazquez. (Photo by Andres Stapff/Reuters)
 President-elect Vazquez intends to restore relations with Cuba. (Photo by Marcelo Hernandez/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); NATIONALIZATION (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%) Politics and Government; United States International Relations

COMPANY: TIDE ASA (70%)

TICKER: TIDE (OSL) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC4482 FERRIES (70%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%) Larry Rohter; Tabare Vazquez

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (72%) URUGUAY (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); CHILE (92%); SPAIN (79%); ECUADOR (79%) Latin America; Uruguay ; Latin America

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



19 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Merrill to Pay Florida Couple $1 Million

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
An arbitration panel has awarded a Florida couple more than $1 million for losses they said were caused by fraudulent research at Merrill Lynch. 
 An NASD arbitration panel in Boca Raton, Fla., recently awarded the couple, Gary and Lisa Friedman, more than $730,000 in losses and $300,000 in punitive damages, and stated that there was ''clear and convincing evidence'' that Merrill Lynch employees ''were guilty of intentional misconduct,'' specifically that the analysts and their managers knew the ratings they had assigned to companies were inflated. 
 The award came just weeks after Merrill Lynch won affirmation from a federal appeals court of the dismissal of a large group of shareholder lawsuits. The Federal Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit upheld a June 2003 decision by Judge Milton Pollack of Federal District Court in Manhattan, who ruled that there was no causal connection between the losses that investors sustained -- in Internet stocks -- and any misconduct by Merrill in its research. 
 The Friedmans' case is one of hundreds of arbitration cases and class-action complaints that contend that Wall Street duped Main Street by promoting stocks it knew to be worthless to win the more lucrative business of taking those companies public. At the height of the bubble, in December 2000, Merrill Lynch had recommendations of ''sell'' or ''reduce'' on just 0.4 percent of the 1,485 stocks it researched, a statistic that the Friedmans' case cited. Months later the bubble burst. 
 The practice of issuing overwhelmingly positive research was an accepted one on Wall Street until the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, sued Merrill Lynch in early 2002. Merrill settled for $100 million, without admitting wrongdoing. A year later, nine other firms joined Merrill in signing a settlement with federal and state regulators that set stricter guidelines for how analysts and bankers could interact. The firms paid $1.4 billion.
 Robert W. Pearce, the Friedmans' lawyer, said he had argued that all of Merrill's research was fraudulent, not just the research associated with the technology bubble (his clients did not own any Internet stocks). He had sought more than $5 million for his clients, but the arbitration panel awarded them $1 million. 
 A spokesman for Merrill Lynch, Mark Herr, said: ''The claimants losses, many of which came in blue chip stocks, were caused by the same thing that caused millions of other investors to lose money between 2000 and 2002: the market plunged. That cannot reasonably be blamed on Merrill Lynch's research.''
 The pace of arbitrations should slow: according to NASD data, 8,100 arbitration claims were filed in 2004, down from 8,945 in 2003. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISCONDUCT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DAMAGES (78%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EVIDENCE (76%); LAWYERS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); APPEALS COURTS (74%); CLASS ACTIONS (74%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



20 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Nuclear Chief Says Iran Must Cooperate

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: VIENNA, Feb. 28 

 BODY:
The chief of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations nuclear monitoring organization, said Monday that Iran must be more forthcoming with inspectors looking into its nuclear program, which the United States contends is a front for developing nuclear weapons.
 Mohamed ElBaradei, the agency's director general, spoke as its board met in preparation for a report on Tuesday about Iran's program.
 ''In view of the past undeclared nature of significant aspects of Iran's nuclear program, a confidence deficit has been created, and it is therefore essential that Iran works closely with the agency in a proactive manner,'' Dr. ElBaradei said in a speech to the board. 
 He said Iran should be encouraged to provide ''full detail and, in a prompt manner, all information that could shed light on some of the outstanding issues.'' 
 ''In some cases the receipt of information is still pending,'' he said, ''which in turn delays our work.''
 Iran, the second-largest oil producer in OPEC, says its nuclear intentions are limited to peaceful generation of electricity.
 Dr. ElBaradei told reporters that he welcomed an Iranian decision to show his agency an offer to sell Iran nuclear equipment, which was made in 1987 at the height of the Iran-Iraq war by aides to A.Q. Khan, the Pakistani nuclear scientist who built a nuclear smuggling network. 
 Dr. ElBaradei said the written offer was for centrifuges used to make enriched-uranium fuel. ''They indicated that they did not take these people up on the entirety of the offer,'' he said.
 A senior diplomat close to the nuclear montoring agency said the fact that Iranian officials had met with Dr. Khan's aides during its war with Iraq cast doubt on Iran's insistence that it wanted the equipment only to generate electricity. ''Usually the I.A.E.A. doesn't judge intentions,'' the diplomat said, ''but perhaps in this case it should.''
 Dr. ElBaradei said the agency had been able to verify Tehran's suspension of activities connected with uranium enrichment, a step in the processing of uranium for use as fuel for nuclear power plants or, when very highly enriched, in weapons.
 The European Union has demanded that Iran make a freeze on its enrichment activities permanent if it wants access to economic and political incentives, including telecommunications and aircraft deals and possible membership in the World Trade Organization.
 The White House said President Bush, at the request of European allies, was seriously considering whether to join forces with the European Union in its offer of incentives. ''We are looking at options for the way forward when it comes to Iran,'' said the White House press secretary, Scott McClellan. ''The president had some very good discussions about it last week.'' 
 The agency is not expected to pass any resolutions this week that would condemn Iran or refer it to the United Nations Security Council for possible sanctions, diplomats said.
 In Moscow, Russia's nuclear energy chief, Aleksandr Rumyantsev, shrugged off American concerns about a nuclear fuel supply agreement that he signed with Iran on Sunday. ''This agreement enhances international security in terms of preventing the proliferation of nuclear materials,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mohamed ElBaradei, International Atomic Energy Agency director. (Photo by Herwig Prammer/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); ARMS TRADE (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); SMUGGLING (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); IRAQ WAR (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); CENTRIFUGES (64%) Atomic Weapons; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Electric Light and Power; Arms Sales Abroad; Uranium

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (93%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%) International Atomic Energy Agency

PERSON: MOHAMED ELBARADEI (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Mohamed (Dir Gen) Elbaradei; Abdul Qadeer (Dr) Khan

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); EUROPE (93%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); AUSTRIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAN (58%) Iran; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



21 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Roger Johnson, 70, a Clinton Official

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: LAGUNA BEACH, Calif., Feb. 28 

 BODY:
Roger W. Johnson, who led a Fortune 500 company before becoming one of the highest-ranking Republicans in the Democratic administration of President Bill Clinton, died on Friday at his home here. He was 70. 
 The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
 Mr. Johnson headed the General Services Administration for nearly three years in Mr. Clinton's first term. He left that post in 1996 and, formerly a regular contributor to Republican candidates and a member of the Lincoln Club, a group of wealthy Orange County Republicans, switched parties to help the president win re-election that year.
 Before joining the government, Mr. Johnson spent nearly a decade as president and chairman of the Western Digital Corporation, a manufacturer of storage devices like disk drives. He was known for his ability to streamline management, skills he later carried to the G.S.A., which provides buildings, technology, services and workplace resources to federal agencies.
 His political conversion began in 1991, at a time when he felt dejected about the slumping economy. Soon afterward, he endorsed Mr. Clinton and was even co-host at a Clinton fund-raiser attended by fellow Republicans.
 Mr. Johnson, born in Hartford, received a bachelor's degree in business administration from the Clarkson College of Technology in 1956 and a master's in business administration from the University of Massachusetts in 1963.
 He is survived by his wife, Janice; two sons, Eric R., of Los Gatos, Calif., and Daniel W., of Sacramento; a daughter, Marek Johnson Cantor of San Juan Capistrano, Calif.; and three grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RANKINGS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (74%); LUNG CANCER (57%); CANCER (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WESTERN DIGITAL CORP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%)

TICKER: WDC (NASDAQ) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (70%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



22 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Lebanon's Pro-Syria Government Quits After Protests

BYLINE: By HASSAN M. FATTAH

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, Feb. 28 

 BODY:
Lebanon's prime minister, Omar Karami, resigned Monday, dissolving the country's pro-Syrian government and setting the stage for an intense struggle over the relationship between Syria and Lebanon. 
 The surprise resignation came as the streets of Beirut were filled with tens of thousands of flag-waving protesters and hours after a grueling no-confidence debate in the Lebanese Parliament. Pressure on both the government and Syria has risen since the car-bomb assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri two weeks ago, for which government opponents blame Syria.
 The Lebanese opposition has demanded a full investigation of Mr. Hariri's assassination, the resignation of the government, and an immediate pullout of Syria's 14,000 troops from Lebanon. Opposition leaders say they have consciously imitated the popular uprising in Ukraine, where demonstrators forced the government to call a new election after accusations of corruption. 
 Marches over the past two weeks here culminated in a huge demonstration at Martyr's Square on Monday in open defiance of an Interior Ministry order against the gathering, as the parliamentary session began. 
 Lebanese soldiers circled much of the city center with barbed wire and barricades on Sunday evening to block the Monday demonstration, but to little avail.
 Syria has been under intense American pressure because of its support for anti-Israel terrorism and for what Washington says is its tolerance of wanted former Iraqi officials taking refuge in Syria. In addition, the Bush administration has pressed for Syrian troops to leave Lebanon.
 Lebanese opposition leaders say they feel that the Damascus government is more vulnerable than ever and that this is the moment to act, especially as Lebanon's wary communities of Sunni Muslims, Shiite Muslims, Christians and Druse have grown more united in their demands for the Syrians to leave.
 Mr. Karami, a Syria loyalist, announced his resignation in a terse statement as Parliament reconvened debate on the confidence measure. ''Out of concern that the government does not become an obstacle to the good of the country, I announce the resignation of the government I had the honor to lead,'' he said. 
 Lebanese television reported that President Emile Lahoud had accepted Mr. Karami's resignation and that he would soon establish a caretaker government.
 Mr. Karami, scion of the Lebanese independence hero Abdul Hamid Karami and brother of the multiterm Prime Minister Rashid Karami, who was assassinated in 1987, was defiant as he faced Parliament on Monday morning. 
 ''I call on everyone to be patient and avoid taking their strength from abroad, allowing Lebanese demands to be manipulated by the ongoing conflict in the Arab world,'' he warned, in an allusion to growing pressure by the United States and France on his government and on Syria. 
 The resignation is likely to help budding democratic efforts throughout the Middle East. Few opposition members of Parliament expected to win the no-confidence measure, but in a nod to the growing populism of the opposition, Mr. Karami bowed to the Lebanese street. 
 ''The government would have won the confidence vote, they weren't afraid of that,'' said Jihad al-Khazen, a professor of political science at American University in Beirut. ''But they lost confidence on the street, and that was awkward. They lost legitimacy, they lost credibility.'' 
 Parliamentary elections had already been planned for May. 
 Mr. Karami became prime minister after Mr. Hariri resigned last October in protest over the lifting of term limits on Lebanon's presidency that allowed the pro-Syrian president, Mr. Lahoud, to remain in office for three more years.
 In scenes reminiscent of protests in the United States in the 1960's, protesters rushed to get to the site of the demonstration, just yards away from Mr. Hariri's grave, and camped through the night, waving Lebanese flags as anthems played on. Many handed flowers to the soldiers and beseeched them to cooperate with them. Despite orders to prevent demonstrators from entering the area, soldiers eventually relented to the flood of largely young protestors on Monday, and the demonstration carried on peacefully.
 ''We came to say that conditions are not acceptable anymore,'' said Tony Khouri, who had come from Amman, Jordan, with his wife, Caroline, on family business and stayed on for the demonstration. ''The goal is for everyone to stop interfering in our country and let us take care of ourselves,'' he said, alluding to Syria's grip on Lebanon.
 Such talk was virtually unheard of in public only a year ago. But the resignation of Mr. Karami underscored Syria's weakening grip on Lebanon. For more than 30 years, Syria has held sway over Lebanon's political and economic life through its military and proxy over the government, arming Hezbollah, and using the country as a gateway into the global economy. 
 Mr. Hariri's assassination on Feb. 14 turned the opposition movement, which initially began in 2001 and took shape in 2004, into a populist movement on the streets.
 ''It was unprecedented for the Syrians,'' Dr. Khazen said. ''It is the first time in Lebanon we see such national unity on such a crucial issue.'' Syria has faced fierce pressure in recent weeks. The Bush administration recalled its ambassador to Syria last week, and has demanded that Syria leave Lebanon completely. 
 United Nations investigators landed in Beirut on Friday to investigate the assassination, emphasizing the lack of confidence many Lebanese have in Lebanon's Syrian-backed government. The international community, together with Lebanon's growing opposition movement, has increased pressure on Syria. Arab leaders like the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak, have also sent Bashar al-Assad, the president of Syria, messages to withdraw, warning of dire consequences otherwise.
 Syrian officials described the resignation on Monday as a ''Lebanese issue.'' ''We hope that a Lebanese government will emerge to lead Lebanon to what is best for Lebanon and for the rest of the region in this very delicate time,'' an official of the Foreign Ministry said.
 State Department officials, who have the called the fall of the government the cedar revolution -- like Ukraine's orange revolution -- praised the opposition's efforts. At the White House, officials were elated, though they cautioned that the government's decision to resign did not assure a fair election. 
 Scott McClellan, the White House spokesman, told reporters, ''The resignation of the Karami government represents an opportunity for the Lebanese people to have a new government that is truly representative of their country's diversity.''
 The dissolution of the government may have been the easiest of the opposition's goals, other analysts say, warning that Syria's response remains unclear. 
 ''It's just a first success for the opposition,'' said Michael Young, an analyst and journalist based in Beirut. ''You have to watch out there isn't a military government or some kind of martial law that takes over.''
 The instability threatens to damage the Lebanese economy and cleave divisions in the country. ''In my opinion, he wants to throw the responsibility on someone else, and that somebody else will not be able to solve Lebanon's problem,'' said Adnan Araqji, a close confidante of Mr. Hariri's. ''They now have to sit at the table and negotiate with each other, or else the country will go to ruin.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Parliament speaker, Nabih Berri, top, addressing lawmakers before the surprise resignation of Prime Minister Omar Karami, bottom right. (Photo by Haitham Mussawi/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A10)
 Tens of thousands of demonstrators filled the streets of central Beirut and waved Lebanese flags yesterday to protest against Syrian interference in the country. They defied a government order against the gathering. (Photo by Marco Di Lauro/Getty Images)(pg. A1)Chart: ''Syrian Power in Lebanon''APRIL 1975 -- Clashes that are later seen as the start of Lebanon's 15-year civil war erupt in Beirut.JUNE 1976 -- Syrian troops enter Lebanon to restore peace.OCTOBER 1976 -- Arab conferences establish a predominantly Syrian peacekeeping force.JUNE 1982 -- After repeated Palestinian incursions from southern Lebanon, Israel begins a full-scale invasion. The Syrian Army is ousted from Beirut.MAY 1983 -- Israel and Lebanon sign a peace accord detailing the withdrawal of Israeli troops.MARCH 1984 -- Under intense pressure from Syria, the Lebanese government cancels its peace agreement with Israel.MARCH 1989 -- The Maronite Christian leader in Lebanon, Gen. Michel Aoun, declares a ''war of liberation'' against the Syrian presence.OCTOBER 1989 -- The Lebanese National Assembly takes a step toward ending the civil war by endorsing the so-called Taif Accord, which calls for Syria to pull its troops back to the eastern Bekaa region but does not set a date for a full pullout.OCTOBER 1990 -- In one of the last moves of the civil war, Syria's Air Force attacks the Lebanese presidential palace, and General Aoun takes refuge in the French Embassy. Through the early 90's, Syrian dominance in the country becomes less overt.OCTOBER 1998 -- Emile Lahoud, a general who is backed by Syria, is elected president by Parliament.MAY 2000 -- Israel ends its occupation of southern Lebanon.DECEMBER 2000 -- In a surprise move, hundreds of Syrian soldiers leave Beirut and settle in the Bekaa region near the border, though thousands still remain in the country.2003 -- Syria carries out two partial troop withdrawals, in February and July, bringing its force in Lebanon to about 16,000 soldiers, down from about 30,000 troops in mid-2000.SEPTEMBER 2004 -- Despite criticism from the U.N. Security Council, Parliament bows to Syrian pressure and extends Mr. Lahoud's presidential term by three years.OCTOBER 2004 -- Prime Minister Rafik Hariri and his cabinet resign in protest over Syria's dominant role in Lebanese government.DECEMBER 2004 -- A united Lebanese opposition denounces the Syrian presence and calls for a new government. Later, Syria for the first time admits the presence of its secret service in Lebanon and says it will dismantle the operation.FEBRUARY 2005 -- Mr. Hariri and 14 others are killed in a car bombing in Beirut.(Source by news agency reports)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); RELIGION (86%); POLITICS (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); RIOTS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); ARMED FORCES (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); TERRORISM (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%) Demonstrations and Riots; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%)

PERSON: EMILE LAHOUD (79%) Hassan M Fattah; Rafik Hariri; Omar (Prime Min) Karami

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (98%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) SYRIA (99%); LEBANON (99%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UKRAINE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%) Lebanon; Syria; Beirut (Lebanon); Lebanon

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



23 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: China's Oil Diplomacy in Latin America

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Feb. 28 

 BODY:
Latin America is becoming a rich destination for China in its global quest for energy, with the Chinese quickly signing accords with Venezuela, investing in largely untapped markets like Peru and exploring possibilities in Bolivia and Colombia.
 China's sights are focused mostly on Venezuela, which ships more than 60 percent of its crude oil to the United States. With the largest oil reserves outside the Middle East, and a president who says that his country needs to diversify its energy business beyond the United States, Venezuela has emerged as an obvious contender for Beijing's attention.
 The Venezuelan leader, Hugo Chavez, accompanied by a delegation of 125 officials and businessmen, and Vice President Zeng Qinghong of China signed 19 cooperation agreements in Caracas late in January. They included long-range plans for Chinese stakes in oil and gas fields, most of them now considered marginal but which could become valuable with big investments. 
 Mr. Chavez has been engaged in a war of words with the Bush administration since the White House gave tacit support to a 2002 coup that briefly ousted him. Still, Venezuela is a major source for American oil companies, one of four main providers of imported crude oil to the United States, inexorably linking the two countries' interests.
 Analysts and Venezuelan government officials say those ties will not be severed, as Venezuela is a relatively short tanker trip from the United States and Venezuelan refineries have been adapted to process the nation's heavy, tar-like crude oil.
 ''The United States should not be concerned,'' Rafael Ramirez, Venezuela's energy minister, said in an interview, ''because this expansion in no way means that we will be withdrawing from the North American market for political reasons.''
 In recent months, though, China's voracious economy has brought it to Venezuela, and much of South America, in search of fuel.
 ''The Chinese are entering without political expectations or demands,'' said Roger Tissot, an analyst who evaluates political and economic risks in leading oil-producing countries for the PFC Energy Group in Washington. ''They just say, 'I'm coming here to invest,' and they can invest billions of dollars. And obviously, as a country with billions to invest, they are taken very seriously.''
 China's entry is worrisome to some American energy officials, especially because the United States is becoming more dependent on foreign oil at a time when foreign reserves remain tight. It was the limited supplies that pushed a barrel of oil to $55 in October, driving up retail prices and hurting economies. On Monday, crude oil for April delivery settled at $51.75 in New York, up 26 cents. 
 The Senate Foreign Relations Committee, headed by Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, recently asked the Government Accountability Office to examine contingency plans should Venezuelan oil stop flowing. Chinese interest in Venezuela, a senior committee aide said, underlines Washington's lack of attention toward Latin America.
 ''For years and years, the hemisphere has been a low priority for the U.S., and the Chinese are taking advantage of it,'' the aide said, speaking on condition of anonymity. ''They're taking advantage of the fact that we don't care as much as we should about Latin America.''
 To be sure, China, the world's second-largest consumer of oil, has emerged as a leading competitor to the United States in its search for oil, gas and minerals throughout the world -- notably Central Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
 China has accounted for 40 percent of global growth in oil demand in the last four years, according to the Energy Department, and its consumption in 20 years is projected to rise to 12.8 million barrels a day from 5.56 million barrels now. Most of that oil will need to be imported. The United States now uses 20.4 million barrels a day, nearly 12 million of it imported.
 Aggressively seeking out potential deals, China tries to out-muscle the big international oil companies, always beholden to shareholders. Chinese companies, which have substantial government help, can dispense government aid to secure deals, take advantage of lower costs in China and draw on hefty credit lines from the government and Chinese financial institutions.
 ''These companies tend to make uneconomic bids, use Chinese state bilateral loans and financing, and spend wildly,'' Frank A. Verrastro, director and a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, told the Senate Energy Committee early in February. ''Chinese investors pursue market and strategic objectives, rather than commercial ones.''
 China already operates two oil fields in Venezuela. Under accords signed in Beijing in December and Caracas in January, it would develop 15 declining oil fields in Zumano in eastern Venezuela, buy 120,000 barrels of fuel oil a month and build a plant in Venezuela to produce boiler fuel used in Chinese power plants.
 Energy analysts say these deals, though mostly marginal, show that China is willing to wade in slowly, with larger ambitions in mind.
 ''These are steps you have to take to have a longer-term relationship,'' said Larry J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York. ''We don't know enough about whether they will lead to larger projects, but my sense is that they will.''
 Under the agreements, Venezuela has invited China to participate in much larger projects, like exploring for oil in the Orinoco belt, which has one of the world's great deposits of crude oil, and searching for natural gas offshore through ambitious projects intended to make Venezuela a world competitor in gas.
 Analysts note that part of China's effort is to learn about Venezuelan technology, particularly the workings of its heavy-oil refineries. Much of the oil that will be exploited in the future will be tarlike, requiring an intricate and expensive refining process. In return, China is offering the Venezuelans a $700 million line of credit to build housing, aid that helps Mr. Chavez in his goal of lifting his compatriots out of poverty. The recent trip also yielded plans to invest in telecommunications and farming.
 ''It's a country that permits you to get more out of agreements than just energy accords,'' Bernardo Alvarez, Venezuela's ambassador to the United States, said of China.
 Venezuela, with a view to exports to China, says it is exploring plans to rebuild a Panamanian pipeline to pump crude oil to the Pacific, where it would be loaded onto supertankers that are too big to use the Panama Canal.
 Another proposal, with neighboring Colombia, would lead to the construction of a pipeline across Colombia to carry Venezuelan hydrocarbons, which would then be shipped to Asia from Colombia's Pacific ports.
 Mr. Chavez has promoted these plans in three visits to China. In the most recent, in December, he unveiled a statue of Simon Bolivar in Beijing. Trade between the two countries could rise to $3 billion this year from $1.2 billion, Mr. Chavez said, celebrating their links as a way for Venezuela to break free of dependence on the American market.
 ''We have been producing and exporting oil for more than 100 years,'' Mr. Chavez told Chinese businessmen in December. ''But these have been 100 years of domination by the United States. Now we are free, and place this oil at the disposal of the great Chinese fatherland.''
 China, though, is not just interested in Venezuela. Much of Latin America has become crucial to China's need for raw materials and markets, with trade at $32.85 billion in the first 10 months of 2004, about 50 percent more than in 2003. Mining, analysts say, is among China's priorities, whether it is oil in Venezuela, tin in Chile or gas in Bolivia.
 Chinese involvement in Latin America is ''growing by leaps and bounds,'' said Eduardo Gamarra, director of the Latin America and Caribbean Center at Florida International University, adding, ''It's driven by the need for privileged access to raw material and privileged access to hydrocarbons.'' 
 In Brazil, the state-owned Petrobras and China National Offshore Oil have been studying the viability of joint operations in refining, pipelines and exploration in their two countries and in other parts of the world. This comes after a $1 billion Brazilian agreement with another Chinese company, Sinopec, to build a gas pipeline that will cross Brazil.
 In Bolivia, Shengli International Petroleum Development has opened an office in the gas-rich eastern region and announced plans to invest up to $1.5 billion, though it is awaiting a new hydrocarbons law being drafted before committing itself to deals.
 In Ecuador, China National Petroleum and Sinopec have been looking at oil blocks that the government is trying to develop.
 In Peru, the Chinese vice president signed a memorandum of understanding in January that could lead to more exploration deals. Currently, a subsidiary of China National Petroleum produces oil.
 The Colombian state oil company has been discussing exploration and production with the Chinese. Part of the lure is in new, more beneficial terms for oil companies and an improving security situation.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Hugo Chavez, left, with Wu Bangguo, leader of China's Parliament, in Beijing in December. Accords were signed to develop oil fields and build a boiler-fuel plant, and analysts expect further cooperation. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (89%); DICK LUGAR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); COLOMBIA (93%); BOLIVIA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



24 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Rice Urges Palestinians To Dismantle Terror Groups

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 28 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, traveling to an international conference on aiding the Palestinian authority, warned Palestinian leaders on Monday that they had better come prepared to show a clear resolve to break up terrorist groups.
 Speaking to reporters aboard her plane on the way here, Ms. Rice lamented the suicide bombing in Tel Aviv on Friday that killed five Israelis, and then said it was time for the Palestinians ''to begin dismantling the terrorist infrastructure; that is what I will be looking for.''
 She also said the event was ''an important opportunity for the Palestinians to demonstrate how they plan to carry out economic reforms.'' 
 Tony Blair, the British prime minister, is playing host for the conference on Tuesday, and in talks with President Bush last year he urged the United States to attend. Israel was not invited; the conference, attended by representatives from the United Nations, the European Union and more than a dozen nations, was to be dedicated to helping the Palestinians improve their government and security structures.
 But Ms. Rice's remarks suggested that, after the bombing last week, the tenor of the meeting had changed. Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian leader, has tried to curb attacks on Israelis by persuading the various Palestinian groups to observe a cease-fire -- rather than trying to dismantle them, as Israel has urged. Until Friday, that strategy had been largely successful; there had been no major attacks inside Israel since November. 
 Until now, the United States had offered cautious praise for Mr. Abbas's success in reducing the violence and suggested that a cease-fire might be workable as a temporary, opening tactic. But Ms. Rice's remarks on Monday urging him to dismantle the terrorist groups immediately indicated that the American attitude toward Mr. Abbas's efforts had hardened. Islamic Jihad, which took responsibility for the attack, had been among the groups that had agreed to the cease-fire, although over the weekend an official said on the group's Web site that a one-month pause in attacks was over. 
 Ms. Rice did say she had been pleased by the behavior of both the Israeli and Palestinian leaders after the attack. ''The statements'' from the Palestinian leaders condemning the attack ''were clearer than anything we saw in the old days,'' she said. 
 But she also called on the Palestinians to deal quickly with Islamic Jihad. 
 Ms. Rice also criticized Syria. She declined to confirm or comment on the arrest in Syria of Sabawi Ibrahim al-Hassan, Saddam Hussein's half brother, who is accused of playing a leading role in the Iraqi insurgency. Syria has been under pressure from the United States, which has repeatedly accused it of aiding the insurgency. 
 At the same time, Israel has accused Syria of allowing Islamic Jihad leaders to operate from Damascus and said orders for the Tel Aviv attack came from there. In the context of discussions of that attack, Ms. Rice showed no reticence in criticizing Syria, saying the Syrians ''can't say they want the peace process between Israel and the Palestinians to succeed'' while supporting terrorists.
 ''This was not just an attack on people,'' she added. ''It was an attack on the process. And groups that are intent on destroying this process have to be dealt with promptly.''
 Ms. Rice also offered guarded praise for the announcement on Saturday by President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt that he would work to amend the Constitution to allow other political parties to run in the next election.
 She called that ''a welcome step, a good step.'' Last Friday, Ms. Rice canceled a trip to Egypt scheduled for late this week, apparently in reaction to Egypt's arrest of a leading opposition political leader. Asked when she might reschedule the trip to Egypt, she noted that Washington ''has a large agenda'' with Egypt.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Palestinians Wound 2 Israelis
 (By The New York Times), JERUSALEM, Feb. 28 -- Palestinian gunmen shot and wounded two Israelis on Monday evening as they traveled in a vehicle near a Jewish settlement in the West Bank, outside Ramallah, the Israeli military said. 
 Despite a truce announced by the Israeli and Palestinian leaders three weeks ago, sporadic violence continues. Soldiers near the West Bank town of Jenin uncovered a vehicle rigged with explosives in preparation for an attack, the military said. The vehicle was later detonated in a controlled manner. According to the military, the attack was being planned by Islamic Jihad, the same group that carried out a suicide bombing in Tel Aviv last Friday. 
 An Israeli woman critically injured in the bombing died of her wounds on Monday, raising the death toll to five. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); RELIGION (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (92%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TONY BLAIR (54%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (96%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005



25 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: WE DELIVER

BYLINE: By Eric Asimov

 BODY:
YOU can see them in any kind of weather and at almost any time of day. On bicycles that look sturdy enough to withstand a collision with a tank, the seats often wrapped in old plastic bags, they surge ahead through snow and rain, heat and, yes, especially gloom of night. No marble carving will ever exalt their heroic efforts, yet they are fixtures of almost any residential neighborhood in New York City. They deliver dinner, and sometimes lunch and breakfast, too. Yet within the reinforced bags dangling from their handlebars, the prepared dishes in their plastic, microwave-proof containers convey far more than a meal. They speak of the evolving stew of cultures that simmers throughout the five boroughs. They speak of the typical New Yorker's contradictory character: brash but overworked, stoic but requiring rewards, impatient but willing to wait. Most of all they embody what many New Yorkers regard as an inalienable right: to have meals of almost any conceivable sort delivered to their door, hot, fragrant and appetizing. 
 Each night tens of thousands of meals flow through the city's arteries. Chinese and pizza, of course, but also Indian, Thai, Turkish, French, Mexican, sushi -- you name it, and it's delivered. Even some higher-end restaurants are beginning to deliver. When Marc Murphy opened Landmarc in TriBeCa early last year, he did not offer delivery. But Mr. Murphy soon found that his customers yearned for it, especially those with children. 
 ''I'm a fan of people coming to a restaurant and having a meal, but I've come to terms with that,'' he said. ''These people work all day, and they pay a baby sitter, and they're not going to come home and then go out to dinner.''
 Judging by the volume of menus crammed into kitchen drawers around the city, it may seem as if delivery food were as old a feature of New York as the Brooklyn Bridge. But it's a relatively recent phenomenon, becoming a significant part of the restaurant business only in the last 20 years or so. 
 ''Chinese Food Places Vying on Delivery'' was the headline for an article in The New York Times in 1983, in which the writer, Fred Ferretti, noted the increase in small Chinese restaurants around town, many promising speedy home delivery for the first time. ''Takeout menus are stuffed into apartment-house mailboxes, piled on lobby furniture, thrown in heaps on lobby floors or shoved under doors,'' he reported. ''The menus are elaborate, and they urge you to telephone for your instant banquet.''
 Why then? Back in the 1960's and early 70's Chinese restaurants like Uncle Tai's, David K's and Shun Lee Palace were popular Midtown destinations. But the economic crisis of the late 70's took its toll, and restaurateurs with fewer resources opened uptown in less expensive residential neighborhoods. ''That's when delivery took off,'' said Michael Tong, whose Shun Lee Palace is the sole Midtown survivor of that glossier era.
 Mr. Tong was against takeout food at first, feeling that he could not match the quality of what he served in the restaurant. But eventually he gave in. Now, he said, he does 500 delivery meals a night alone from Shun Lee West, his restaurant near Lincoln Center. ''I have 15 people, a team, just working on delivery,'' he said. 
 New York's infatuation with home delivery parallels takeout's growth throughout the country in the last 25 years, yet receiving a superb southern Indian eggplant and ginger dish at your door conveys a different sense of citizenship than does driving to the nearest Boston Market to pick up a chicken. 
 New York's population density, particularly in Manhattan, makes it especially conducive to delivery. Harry Balzer, vice president of the NPD Group, a consumer research company based in Port Washington, N.Y., said that in 2004 residents of the New York region were almost 30 percent more likely to eat a takeout meal than people elsewhere. About 49 percent of restaurant meals sold in the New York area were takeout, as opposed to 38 percent in other places.
 New York City kitchens are often not inviting places to cook, but lack of space is not the only reason for the rise of carryout, and it does not account for the national increase.
 A more persuasive case can be made that the rise in takeout meals is a response to the numbers of women entering the work force since the 1960's. According to the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, the percentage of women in the civilian labor force rose to 56.3 in 2002 from 40.8 in 1970, an increase of about 38 percent. That leaves far fewer people with the time and energy to prepare the evening meal. 
 The 49 percent carryout figure for restaurant meals in the New York region does not separate the city from its suburbs, nor does it differentiate delivery meals from carryout meals, in which consumers take prepared meals away from restaurants, delis, groceries and the like. In the suburbs, or in sprawling cities like, say, Phoenix or Albuquerque, people think nothing of driving a few miles to pick up dinner. 
 ''I think it's fair to say that New Yorkers use delivery more,'' Mr. Balzer said.
 Delivery was at first the province almost exclusively of Chinese and pizza places, but soon small neighborhood restaurants of almost every ethnicity got in on the act, recognizing the need to compete.
 In 1981, when Vijay Gupta opened Mughlai, an Indian restaurant on Columbus Avenue and 75th Street, delivery was not a consideration. He began delivery about a decade ago, he said, and it has skyrocketed in the last three or four years. ''I think it has tripled,'' he said. ''Now, 30 to 35 percent of my business is delivery.''
 Many restaurants, particularly those that opened without delivery in mind, have trouble nowadays keeping up with the demand. Delivery requires space for packing the meals, and people dedicated to the job. It means room for storing containers and the myriad condiments and cutlery that gets shoved into the bag.
 ''We could have much more business, but the kitchen is too small,'' said Gennaro Picone, who owns an Italian restaurant, Gennaro, on the Upper West Side. Mr. Picone has come to embrace delivery, but when he opened in 1997, he believed the service could give people the wrong idea about his restaurant. ''Doing delivery was kind of like, you degrade your place,'' he said.
 Perception is still an issue. Many restaurants do not want to take the chance that they will be judged on food that has sat in plastic containers for however long it takes to travel from kitchen to dining table. Others do not need the business. Those who live near Grocery, a small restaurant in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, ache for the day it begins delivery, but Charles Kiely and Sharon Pachter, the chefs and owners, say they have plenty of business already. So does Nice Matin on the Upper West Side. 
 Though most menu drawers are nonetheless still crammed to overflowing, those menus may one day go the way of the rotary phone. Web sites like www.menupages.com offer a tidier alternative, and new Web services are coming along with the hope of turning ordering into an online operation. SeamlessWeb, which has developed a business for corporate clients that allows them to order meals online, is poised this month to begin a residential service at www.seamlessweb.com. The company says it will allow consumers to order online directly from more than 600 restaurants. The virtual menu may point to a future of virtual restaurants, those constructed for the sole purpose of offering delivery service, without a storefront. 
 Mr. Murphy, of Landmarc in TriBeCa, said his focus has to be on the customers who actually come to his restaurant, but that he is trying to improve his delivery service. He said he now has one employee dedicated to taking orders and making sure everything is packed correctly. He sends his own house-made vanilla caramels with each order. And now, Mr. Murphy said, he is in pursuit of delivery's holy grail, the one tool that nobody has been able to get right.
 ''We're trying to find the right containers for delivering ice cream.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: PULLED PORK SANDWICH from Virgil's.
TEA-SMOKED DUCK from Chin Chin in Midtown.
MATZO BALL SOUP from Second Avenue Deli
PORK DUMPLINGS from Wu Liang Ye (delivery does not include elegant service from Herman Tang)
right, wonton soup from Ling Ling Young Young in Brooklyn.
PERNIL from El Nuevo Cibao in Brooklyn.
FISH from Viva El Mariachi in Astoria. (Photographs by Tony Cenicola and Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times
and Hiroko Masuike and Kike Arnal for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
SOUP, like this clam version from Chin Chin, is a smart delivery choice. (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)
RANGE OF CHOICE Shrimp from Long Tan in Park Slope, below, and a pastrami sandwich from Artie's Delicatessen on the Upper West Side, right.
HEAVYWEIGHT ORDER Nino Badalamenti, left, and Jerry Finazzo displaying their special house pie from Giardini Pizza in Carroll Gardens, a pizza that stands up to delivery despite having so many ingredients. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times, above and top left
 Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times, center)(pg. F4)Drawing (Illustration by Daniel Pelavin)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



26 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: Growth in Manufacturing Slows

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The manufacturing sector grew at a slower pace for the third consecutive month in February, though after 21 months of expansion economists said they were confident that the broader trend would continue.
 The Institute for Supply Management, a private research group, said yesterday that its index of manufacturing activity declined to 55.3 in February from a reading of 56.4 in January. 
The February figure was below the reading of 57 anticipated by analysts, and it was the index's lowest level since September 2003.
 A reading of 50 or above in the index means the manufacturing sector is expanding, while a figure below 50 represents a contraction. The institute's report is watched closely by economists and investors because it offers the first comprehensive look at factory activity for the prior month.
 Oscar Gonzalez, an economist at John Hancock Financial Services in Boston, said manufacturing was not growing as fast as he would like, but he predicted that the weak dollar and the strength of the rest of the economy would help the sector continue to expand in the months ahead.
 Even though manufacturing has been one of the slowest sectors to recover since the recession, particularly in terms of employment, Mr. Gonzalez said he was optimistic about the country's manufacturing base.
 Douglas Porter, deputy chief economist at BMO Nesbitt Burns, said that ''the strongest growth is behind us,'' but that he did not consider the loss of momentum to augur contraction in the manufacturing sector.
 While most indexes in the February report grew at a slower pace, including those for employment and production, the index measuring exports showed faster growth. 





LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); TRENDS (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US DOLLAR (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (69%); BMO NESBITT BURNS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (69%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (54%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



27 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Catholic Schools Must Be Fund-Raisers

BYLINE: By Samuel G. Freedman. 
E-mail: sgfreedman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
LOOKING back now, analyzing the past with harsh hindsight, Jean O'Shea remembers the radio advertising campaign that nobody ever heard. As the chief fund-raiser for Roman Catholic schools in the Brooklyn Diocese, she had the brainstorm two years ago of buying time on some all-news and light-music stations, putting out an appeal for donations. ''Calling all alumni,'' went her slogan.
 It was problem enough that she was counting on radio at all. She should have been able to draw on a list of the hundreds of thousands of living graduates of the diocese's elementary and middle schools. Except that no such list existed. And then, as it turned out, the diocese could not afford the $35,000 the ads would have cost.
 Last month, Ms. O'Shea's grimmest fears came to pass. The diocese said it planned to close 22 schools in Brooklyn and Queens, all for a cumulative deficit of just $6 million, lunch money in major philanthropic terms. Another two dozen schools, Ms. O'Shea believes, are at risk of being shut down or merged in the next academic year, all for a lack of perhaps $4 million. 
 This is not some problem peculiar to Brooklyn. The Chicago archdiocese announced last week that it would close 23 schools, the third such contraction there since 1990. Nationally, Catholic-school enrollment has dropped by half from its high point of 5.6 million pupils 50 years ago, with schools in poor urban centers losing the most.
 The recent Catholic-school closings have generally been covered as either a sob story or a sort of natural disaster, the inevitable outcome of demographics. It is indeed worth crying about the demise of Catholic schools, especially those that offer a lifeline for black and Hispanic children in poor neighborhoods. 
 But those tears change nothing. And there need not have been anything inevitable about the closings. In Brooklyn, for instance, the Catholic population has actually been growing over the past 40 years, and nationally the number of pupils in Catholic schools has been rising since hitting bottom at 2.5 million in 1991.
 Rather, as Jean O'Shea's ad campaign suggests, Catholic schools have suffered in part because of the slowness of leaders and laity alike to grasp enormous economic changes, especially for elementary schools tied to their parishes. Too many institutions and too many individuals have not acted on the new reality: Catholic schools will have to become expert fund-raisers to survive.
 ''I don't know why we've been so complacent and so unprepared,'' Ms. O'Shea said. ''There's a tremendous ignorance out there about what we do. And we haven't done a good enough job of telling our story.''
 So unaccustomed are many Catholic educators to intensive, professional fund-raising that the National Catholic Education Association's major research report, ''Catholic Schools Still Make a Difference,'' devotes exactly 5 of its 269 pages to ''finance and development.''
 ''As far as fund-raising, I hardly know of anyone who does it well,'' said Charles Zech, an economics professor at Villanova University outside Philadelphia, who is an expert on Catholic Church finances. ''There's never been a history or a need for it. So even though there's a reservoir of good will toward parochial schools, we aren't good at tapping it.''
 Two generations ago, a parish school typically charged $100 or less for annual tuition. Nuns, priests and members of religious orders worked for virtually nothing. The Sunday collection in church yielded roughly two-thirds of operating expenses for the school.
 Not a single one of those traits holds true any more. Lay teachers, unionized in some cases, must be paid a living wage. Urban parishes composed of working-class Irish, Italians and Poles have become home to working-poor Hispanics and African-Americans. Tuition has risen, in Brooklyn's case to about $3,200, which is $700 short of actual per pupil costs.
 At the same time, Catholic schools have taken on a mission that is as socially valuable as ever. They have become increasingly the schools of choice of nonwhite families, whose children now constitute one-quarter of Catholic enrollment nationally and almost two-thirds of Brooklyn enrollment. These families struggle so greatly to pay tuition that it is common in the Brooklyn Diocese for a parent to simply sign over an income-tax refund check, or even a weekly paycheck, to the school. 
 The result is a vicious cycle. The more tuition increases, the more families pull out their children. The more children leave, the more tuition must increase to sustain the school. And once a parish school dips below 250 pupils, generally considered the critical mass for financial and educational viability, closure looms. To put it another way, nobody should be surprised.
 Indeed, a study of the Brooklyn Diocese's parish schools in 1993 urged the development of a $100 million endowment. Instead, the diocese was able to put aside only $10 million for its schools from a fund-raising campaign. A separate philanthropic program called Futures in Education, founded in the early 1990's specifically to help parish schools, was raising only about $300,000 a year at the time Ms. O'Shea arrived in 1997. Since then, the annual intake has grown to about $2.8 million, enough to provide tuition assistance for 500 individual students but far short of what is necessary to balance the books every year.
 Without alumni records for the diocese as a whole, Futures in Education maintains a list of 2,600 prospective donors, of whom only 800 have ever given money. Others may have made donations to a scholarship fund for the New York Archdiocese on the incorrect assumption that it assists children in Brooklyn and Queens. And one can only speculate about whether the prospect of tuition vouchers, a cause championed by former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, contributed to a lassitude in Catholic education circles, a belief that soon enough tax dollars would bail schools out.
 ''The tsunami was in sight for a long time,'' said Charles McQuade, a retired executive who is chairman of the board of Futures in Education. ''Why haven't people stepped up? It's really an indictment of us,'' he said. 
 SOME positive examples do exist. The Christo Rey and Nativity schools (the subject of this column on Nov. 23, 2004) raise virtually their entire budgets from individuals, corporations and foundations. In Chicago, the archdiocese's Big Shoulders Fund has collected $132 million in its 18 years of operation, though it has spent much of the principal, leaving an endowment of only $28 million.
 The most successful model of all may well be in Memphis. Under Bishop J. Terry Steib and the diocese's school superintendent, Mary McDonald, the parochial system there has actually opened 12 schools in the past seven years. Donations of $10 million paid for rehabilitating buildings, and another $20 million went into an endowment. 
 In a diocese that covers half of Tennessee and has only 60,000 Catholics, Dr. McDonald appealed extensively to non-Catholics, too, arguing that creating and sustaining Catholic schools in Memphis slums offered the best prospect of stabilizing neighborhoods and training a skilled labor force. The newly opened schools offer literacy training and job placement, among other services, to adults in the community.
 ''You know how people say to think outside the box?'' Dr. McDonald said of her method. ''That's not good enough. You can't think there even is a box.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 5, 2005

 CORRECTION:
The On Education column on Wednesday, about the inability of Catholic schools to raise enough funds for their operations, misspelled the name of a network of such schools that raise virtually their entire budgets from individuals, corporations and foundations. It is Cristo Rey, not Christo Rey.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RADIO ADVERTISING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CLOSINGS (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); NATURAL DISASTERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



28 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Courting the Public

BYLINE: By Dirk Olin. 
Dirk Olin is the national editor of The American Lawyer magazine.

 BODY:
WHEN the Supreme Court resumed its term last week after its winter recess, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist was once again missing from the bench. His absence, due to illness, has fueled speculation about when he will retire and who will replace him.
 Given the state of American politics, the nomination process is almost certain to be tiresome, complete with grandstanding senators, ferocious lobbying groups and obscure pedants. Yet it remains preferable to the alternative used in most states: judicial elections. 
 Granted, federal judicial elections (which would require an amendment to the Constitution) have a certain superficial appeal. In a national campaign for the Supreme Court, perhaps Robert Bork could seek electoral redemption for the Senate's rejection of him in 1987. His handlers could fashion a ''new Bork'' who could be portrayed as ''a compassionate strict constructionist.'' Or maybe Alan Dershowitz could run, emphasizing his defense of O.J. Simpson to A.C.L.U. supporters and courting law-and-order types with his position on torturing suspected terrorists.
 Wild imaginings aside, the prospect of Supreme Court elections is appalling because it contradicts a central ideal of the American system of government. We don't elect federal judges, because we want them to be as apolitical as possible. And campaigning for office requires promises and compromises that inevitably corrode the impartiality that judges are supposed to bring to the bench.
 So why does America choose almost all of its state and local judges -- the ones who make the vast majority of law -- by election?
 It was not ever thus. Before the early 19th century, mayors and governors appointed nearly every jurist. That eventually devolved into a spoils system, however, and in the Jacksonian era reformers clamored for an elected bench. In 1832 Mississippi became the first state to constitutionally require elections for state judges, and between 1846 and 1912 every state that entered the Union essentially followed suit.
 During the 20th century, the pendulum started to swing back. Governors increasingly used expert panels to make selections based on merit, with those choices later facing retention elections. But an election is an election, and an estimated 87 percent of judges today face some sort of periodic plebiscite.
 The democratic impulse has fostered too much of a good thing. Charles Geyh, a critic of judicial elections who teaches law at Indiana University, has reviewed public opinion surveys and arrived at a what he calls the ''axiom of 80.'' Roughly 80 percent of the public says it wants judicial elections -- but 80 percent don't vote in them, 80 percent can't identify the candidates, and 80 percent believe that elected jurists are influenced by campaign donations.
 Until very recently, the Model Code for Judicial Conduct, which sets standards for ethical behavior, combined with a culture of decorum to insulate the bench from the harsher realities of electoral politics. But in recent years, justice has been coarsening. Conservatives and trial lawyers have joined a twilight struggle over polarized visions of the judiciary. The result is that judicial elections around the nation have become much nastier and more expensive.
 More concrete costs are also paid. The economists Alex Tabarrok and Eric Helland sampled more than 50,000 tort cases from 1988 to 1996 and found that the average award against an out-of-state corporation is $200,000 to $400,000 higher in states that hold partisan elections for judges as compared with those in which judges are appointed. (Out-of-state companies don't vote.) Similarly, the political scientists Gregory Huber and Sanford Gordon studied Pennsylvania trial judges and found that the closer they were to re-election, the harsher their sentences. These results will please neither conservatives nor liberals.
 Of course, elections do provide a greater level of accountability. But more active watchdog groups can have the same effect. Their power to fine, sanction and impeach judges for wrongdoing could bring a strong measure of oversight and accountability to the judiciary without debasing either judges or the system itself. 
 Judges should be independent of temporary majorities, which are exactly what elected representatives depend on. And while America's system of justice relies on people, not just laws, it should work to limit overt political influences on the judiciary where possible. Campaign promises, almost by definition, subvert jurisprudence by encouraging prejudice. Judges' loyalty should be to the Constitution and common law, not to their constituents.
 States should embrace the federal model. The next nominee to the Supreme Court will endure a klieg-lighted confirmation circus. He or she will also have to confront demands for promises on litmus-test issues like abortion. But senators will accept the usual demurrals, and the absence of a political opponent will prevent a promissory race to the bottom. Even the worst nomination process leaves more room for intellectual honesty than most elections. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); JUDGES (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); JUDICIAL ETHICS (78%); ETHICS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REFERENDUMS (75%); LEGAL ETHICS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); TERRORISM (52%) Courts; Elections; Judges; Appointments and Executive Changes

PERSON: Dirk Olin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



29 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET -- NEW JERSEY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: On the Hudson, a Move Away From Residential Rentals

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MILLER

DATELINE: WEEHAWKEN, N.J., Feb. 28 

 BODY:
The upscale development called Port Imperial stretches over a sliver of prime waterfront real estate here two and a half miles long, wedged between the Hudson River and the Palisades cliffs.
 It is a mix of high-rises and town houses built on the sites of former factories and warehouses and it offers postcard views of Manhattan. The thousands of rental apartments would seem an unstoppable revenue-producing machine, and a thousand more units have already been approved. 
 Nevertheless, in a significant shift of direction, the primary owner of the complex has sold a number of buildings and has entered an agreement with the buyer to develop future parcels in the complex jointly. The deal was inspired by a decision by the owner, the Roseland Property Company, to shift its development focus here from rental properties to units for sale. 
 ''What's happened, in the last three years, is the for-sale industry has been expanding dramatically, and prices have gone up,'' said Marshall Tycher, a principal at Roseland, a closely held company based in Short Hills, N.J. ''We saw that and realized that a lot of our land inventory was more suited to be developed as condominiums than rentals.''
 There is a 97 percent occupancy rate for the 1,150 apartments at Port Imperial, which stretches from Weehawken into the towns of West New York and Guttenberg. (When completed, 6,000 units are expected.) Not all of the existing buildings in Port Imperial are rentals, however. The Brownstones, a cluster of 42 town homes near the ferry slip, have been priced as high as $3 million. 
 As for the rentals, Mr. Tycher explained, the company has not raised rents on many of its apartments in the last 24 months or has done so only at a ''nominal'' rate, far lower than he would like. In most of the company's new buildings, he has been offering two to three months rent free, to fill up the buildings. 
 The company decided that it should shift to creating projects for sale and that the current climate is so favorable, it should raise capital quickly. Accordingly, it has quietly made a number of property sales within the last three months. 
 In the biggest deal, struck in February, Roseland is to receive $500 million from the Lennar Corporation of Miami, a publicly traded seller of condominiums in 18 states and the District of Columbia. Through the deal, Lennar will acquire interests in 15 parcels of Roseland property, some outright and some jointly, and be responsible for securing the financing on future projects that will be developed together. Roseland will develop, construct and manage the new properties; most are to be condominiums, although there will be some rentals as well as some retail spaces.
 The properties sold to Lennar encompass some 1,300 units in Port Imperial and another 1,200 units in Massachusetts, including projects in Malden, Revere and Hingham and a 585-unit condominium and rental development in East Boston called Portside at Pier One. In addition, Lennar will take over from Roseland 300 existing rental units at Port Imperial and convert them (Mr. Tycher declined to name the building).
 In a separate transaction last month, Roseland sold five other parcels at Port Imperial to K. Hovnanian Homes of Red Bank, N.J. Construction is expected to start next year, with the properties yielding 960 condominium units. Farther south, on the waterfront in Jersey City, Roseland sold the 283-unit Portofino to Crescent Heights, which is based in Florida, for $100 million in December. It, too, will be converted to condominiums. 
 Roseland and Lennar's partnership is part of a larger transformation under way on New Jersey's so-called Gold Coast: luxury rentals are giving way to condominiums.
 Crescent Heights, for example, just began converting the Palisades, a 538-unit, 41-story building in Fort Lee that it acquired last summer. And another developer in Jersey City, the Lefrak Organization, recently won approval to build a 212-unit condominium building in the so-called Northeast Quadrant of Newport. Up to this point, Lefrak has focused heavily on rental apartments at the Newport development; only 443 of its nearly 4,000 units there are condominiums. K. Hovnanian is also constructing more than 200 condominiums in Edgewater in a project called Riverview at City Place. These, too, were originally conceived as rental units. 
 Economic factors have driven the changes on the waterfront, real estate specialists say. ''It's cheaper to own than rent,'' said James W. Hughes, the dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, who noted that lower interest rates had made mortgages affordable. ''Why would I pay rent when I could own property cheaper?'' 
 According to statistics compiled by the New Jersey Department of Community Affairs, condominium construction in the last two years has soared in Hudson County, site of Port Imperial and many other luxury developments. From 2000 to 2002, there were 1,207 condominium units built. But in the last two years, that number nearly doubled, to 2,110.
 Roseland's deal with Lennar is a 50-50 partnership on future development although the proceeds of the sales will not exactly be split down the middle. (Roseland estimates that future sales will exceed $2 billion, with $1.3 billion coming from Port Imperial.) Average sales of the new condos are expected to be around $600,000.
 For Roseland, the cash provided by the sales and the joint venture arrangement will allow a faster construction schedule on the next phase of the development in Weehawken, according to Mr. Tycher. ''Developing Port Imperial by ourselves would not get the velocity quick enough,'' he said.
 One of the first projects undertaken by the joint venture will start next fall on the site of what is known here as the Banana Building, a former fruit warehouse. The building also houses the corporate offices for New York Waterway, the beleaguered ferry service whose owners are a partner of Roseland in the development of some of the buildings at Port Imperial. A major ferry slip is at Port Imperial.
 So far, both parties in the venture seem happy with the pairing. In fact, Jon Jaffe, the chief operating officer of Lennar, said he ''found a lot of chemistry'' between the companies. ''What they had developed was a very attractive portfolio of in-fill redevelopment properties that they'd done a phenomenal job of developing,'' he said. ''And that was very interesting to us.'' 
 After shepherding Port Imperial for nearly two decades, through legal battles and fierce local opposition from some citizens' groups to the development, Mr. Tycher acknowledged that he was having a difficult time letting go on some of the property. 
 ''As far as seller's remorse? Absolutely,'' he said. ''I first worked on this property in 1987. I've been at it off and on for 18 years.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Units in the Brownstones in Weehawken, N.J., near the ferry slip, have been priced as high as $3 million. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); APPROVALS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LENNAR CORP (85%)

TICKER: LEN (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (85%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



30 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Bit of a Rally as Oil Prices Drop and Chip Shares Climb

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Falling oil prices and an upgrade of the semiconductor sector by two brokerage firms pushed stocks higher yesterday.
 Technology shares climbed as both J.P. Morgan Securities and Lehman Brothers upgraded the chip sector. Morgan cited ''a more bullish view'' of the industry. Technology shares lagged as other stocks moved up last month, and investors greeted the news as a sign that the recovery was finally spreading to the sector. 
 A drop in oil prices helped feed buying of stocks, as investors hoped that crude futures would not pass $52 a barrel. Light crude for April delivery fell 7 cents, to $51.68 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 63.77 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,830.00. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 6.81 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,210.41, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 19.53 points, or 1 percent, to 2,071.25.
 Investors were disappointed with the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index for February, which came in at 55.3, lower than the forecast by 57 economists and down from 56.4 in January. 
 The upgrading of the chip sector lifted a number of individual semiconductor stocks. Intel, a Dow component, rose 63 cents, to $24.62; Texas Instruments was up 68 cents at $27.15; and National Semiconductor climbed 70 cents, to $20.65.
 Qwest Communications International continued to press its case for an $8 billion merger with MCI, which has already agreed to a $6.7 million takeover by Verizon Communications. Qwest executives said up to 15,000 jobs would be cut in its proposal, more than double the job cuts projected in the Verizon deal. Qwest rose 15 cents, to $4.05, while MCI gained 61 cents, to $23.36; Verizon added 28 cents, to $36.25.
 Shares of Marsh & McLennan, the insurance brokerage firm, gained 35 cents, to $33, even though it reported a loss for the latest quarter because of cost-cutting and a settlement with New York's attorney general for improper business practices. The company also said it would lay off up to 2,500 workers.
 BJ's Wholesale Club, the discount retailer, said that a lease-accounting adjustment ate into its quarterly profits, which fell 4.4 percent from a year ago, but the company still managed to beat Wall Street expectations by 2 cents a share after one-time charges. BJ's climbed 8.6 percent, or $2.63, to $33.20.
 Higher operating costs pushed Charter Communications, a cable television company, to a larger-than-expected fourth-quarter loss. The company missed analysts' loss forecasts by 19 cents a share. The stock shed 6 percent, or 11 cents, to $1.72.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasuries Up Slightly
By Reuters
 Treasury securities struggled to sustain the slimmest of gains yesterday. A report on manufacturing that was slightly softer than expected and disappointing auto sales figures bought a respite from recent selling. 
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note rose 3/32, to 97 2/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.37 percent from 4.38 percent on Monday. Here are the results of the auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.804
High Rate: 2.510
Coupon Yield: 2.550
Low Rate: 2.480
Median Rate: 2.500
Total applied for: $51,896,271
Accepted: $26,875,581
Noncompetitive: $104,809

The four-week bills mature March 31, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Treasury Yield Curve'' plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); LAYOFFS (87%); COMPANY LOSSES (85%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MERGERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); WHOLESALERS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (68%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (61%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (83%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%); CENTURYLINK INC (67%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (63%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (58%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (58%); CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (90%); VZC (LSE) (83%); VZ (NYSE) (83%); CTL (NYSE) (67%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); TXN (NASDAQ) (58%); CHTR (NASDAQ) (54%); MMC (NYSE) (53%); MHM (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (67%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (63%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (54%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



31 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Titan Corp. to Pay $28.5 Million in Fines for Foreign Bribery

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

 BODY:
The Titan Corporation, a leading military and intelligence contractor, will pay $28.5 million to settle criminal and civil charges that it bribed the president of Benin, government officials said yesterday.
 The combined penalties are the largest imposed on a company in the history of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. That 1977 law bars American companies from bribing presidents, princes and potentates in the pursuit of overseas contracts.
 Titan, with $2 billion in annual sales, mainly from military, intelligence and homeland security contracts with the United States government, pleaded guilty to three felonies before a federal judge in San Diego and will pay a criminal fine of $13 million. It also agreed to a $15.5 million settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 The commission said Titan funneled about $2 million to the 2001 election campaign of Benin's incumbent president ''at the direction of at least one former senior Titan officer based in the United States.'' It said Titan paid the money ''to assist the company in its development of a telecommunications project in Benin.''
 Titan, which is based in San Diego and has about 12,000 employees, said in February 1999 that its president and chief executive officer, Gene W. Ray, had met with the president of Benin, Mathieu Kerekou, to announce plans for ''a state-of-the-art communications system'' for the country. Mr. Ray, 66, has been Titan's chief executive since the company was founded in 1981. 
 Mr. Kerekou, 71, took power in a coup in 1972. Benin, an emerging democracy in West Africa with a population of about seven million, has a per capita gross national product of about $400.
 The S.E.C.'s complaint said that, from 1999 to 2001, $3.5 million flowed from Titan ''to its agent in Benin, who was known at the time to Titan to be the president of Benin's business adviser.'' About $2 million went to the president's election campaign, the commission said, some of it to buy T-shirts bearing the president's picture. President Kerekou was re-elected in March 2001 with 84.1 percent of the vote in a race against his own minister of state. The S.E.C. said yesterday that Titan's misconduct was global: though Titan does business in more than 60 countries, the company has had no policy on overseas bribery and has failed to oversee its 120 international agents. It said Titan had falsified documents filed with the United States government, underreporting commission payments in its business dealings in France, Japan, Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.
 Paul R. Berger, an associate director at the S.E.C.'s enforcement division, said in an interview that the evidence in the case showed ''the virtually complete lack of internal controls'' at Titan, along with the company's inability to operate with policies and procedures that would help them detect and deter such problems.
 David W. Danjczek, Titan's vice president for compliance and ethics, said: ''We are relieved that this chapter in the company's history is drawing to a close.'' Titan said it hired Mr. Danjczek in September to instill ethical behavior at the company after the wrongdoing was discovered.
 Titan's stock soared eightfold to more than $40 in the telecommunications boom, but was battered in the bust, and since the 2001 attacks on the United States the company has concentrated on contracts with American military, homeland security and intelligence agencies, including supplying translators at the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq.
 Shares of Titan rose 75 cents, to $17.35. Titan Wireless, the unit that operated in Benin, is now defunct.
 Titan said last year that it would set aside up to $32 million to resolve the S.E.C. and Justice Department inquiries, compared with the $3 million it originally reserved.
 The bribery investigation forced the Lockheed Martin Corporation to scuttle its plans to acquire Titan. Although the bribery in Benin ran from 1999 to 2001, the commission said, Titan affirmed in a merger agreement with Lockheed on Sept. 15, 2003, that it had not violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
 Until yesterday, the biggest penalty imposed under the act was the one imposed on the Lockheed Corporation, Lockheed Martin's predecessor, which pleaded guilty in 1995 to a felony count of conspiracy for bribing an Egyptian legislator. It agreed to pay a $24.8 million penalty, including a $21.8 million fine and a $3 million civil settlement.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (92%); CRIMINAL FINES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); ETHICS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); FELONIES (73%); EVIDENCE (70%); JUDGES (70%) Elections; Politics and Government; Bribery; Securities and Commodities Violations; Ethics; Fines (Penalties)

COMPANY: L-3 COMMUNICATIONS TITAN GROUP (96%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) Titan Corp; Securities and Exchange Commission; Titan Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%)

PERSON: Tim Weiner; Mathieu (Pres) Kerekou; Gene W (Co Exec) Ray

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) BENIN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (79%) Benin

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



32 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Codey Unveils Austere Budget In Trenton

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON, March 1 

 BODY:
Proclaiming that ''the days of spending like there's no tomorrow end today,'' Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey unveiled a $27.4 billion budget proposal on Tuesday that would reduce the size of the state work force, lower aid to universities and suspend or reduce popular property tax rebates. It also freezes state aid to schools and municipalities, which could lead to property tax increases across the state.
 Mr. Codey said he was taking those actions because New Jersey was facing a fiscal crisis ''that is the direct result of years of spending levels that couldn't, and cannot, be sustained.''
 ''The sad truth,'' he said in a speech to a joint session of the Legislature, ''is that New Jersey can barely afford to maintain the services we provide.'' He continued, ''We are debating how to hold on to the most critical.'' 
 Mr. Codey's budget would increase state revenues by raising fees for real estate transfers, placing a 2 percent tax on cable television company revenues, increasing the inheritance tax, allowing video gambling machines at the Meadowlands horse track and imposing a sales tax on an unspecified assortment of goods and services that are now exempt. Families earning more than $200,000 per year would pay $130 million in additional taxes if Mr. Codey's plan is adopted because they could no longer deduct their property taxes from their state income tax. 
 His plan would also reduce state spending by $600 million, which he called the largest cut in state history.
 In both content and tone, Mr. Codey's budget plan was a striking contrast to the fiscal policies of Gov. James E. McGreevey, whom he replaced in November. Mr. McGreevey railed against Republicans for bequeathing him a multibillion-dollar deficit, and financed his state spending with tax increases, one-time revenue raisers and borrowing. Last year, Mr. McGreevey increased spending by 17 percent, and paid for it by borrowing $2 billion to cover operating expenses, a maneuver that the State Supreme Court said it would not allow in the future because it violated New Jersey's constitutional mandate for a balanced budget.
 But Mr. Codey, a legislator for 30 years who also serves as Senate president, made a more measured and bipartisan pitch, asserting that Republicans and Democrats -- including himself -- had contributed to New Jersey's fiscal problems by failing to address the ballooning cost of the salaries, benefits and pensions for state workers and retirees.
 ''Too many budgets were driven by one concern -- the politics of survival,'' Mr. Codey told legislators.
 As a result, he said, ''Both parties have been unwilling to address the skyrocketing cost of health care, whether it was for Medicaid, state workers or retired teachers. The time has come for elected officials of both parties to put aside our partisan knives and work together to fix this budget problem. Now.''
 While some components of the proposal are likely to face intense opposition, many Republicans seemed pleasantly surprised by Mr. Codey's blunt assessment of the state's finances. The Senate minority leader, Leonard Lance, who led the court fight against Mr. McGreevey's borrowing plan last year, said he was relieved that Mr. Codey did not rely on excessive borrowing. Senator William L. Gormley, who represents Atlantic City and has been opposed to plans to put video lottery terminals in the Meadowlands, said it was nonetheless refreshing to hear a governor confront the issues that threaten the state's long-term fiscal health.
 ''It was an honest speech,'' Mr. Gormley said. ''Now we'll see whether there will be enough risk-taking on both sides to cut back on the entitlement programs. And whether there's someone who wants to be the next chapter in the profiles in courage by becoming a non-re-elected senator.''
 Wall Street analysts, who have lowered the state's bond rating in recent years, also said that their initial reaction to Mr. Codey's proposal was relief.
 ''It sounds as though New Jersey is taking a few steps toward addressing its underlying structural deficit,'' said Rich Marino, who analyzes municipal budgets for Standard & Poor's. ''That's quite a change from the past few years.''
 Mr. Codey's plan avoids any increase in the sales or income tax rates, and does not call for some of the politically volatile ideas that were floated by administration officials in recent weeks, like proposals that would tax contributions to 401(k) plans or sell the New Jersey Turnpike. The plan also calls for cutting 500 workers from the state payroll, which is now about 75,000, but would achieve those reductions by attrition rather than layoffs.
 To many New Jersey residents, the most noticeable effect of the plan would be a $1.1 billion rollback of the property tax rebate programs, which last year provided tax relief to 3 million homeowners. Mr. Codey's budget proposal would reduce the most generous Homestead rebates, given to the elderly and disabled, from $1,200 to $800, and suspend the N.J. Saver Program, which provided rebates averaging $690 to other homeowners.
 Because Mr. Codey's plan would freeze aid to municipalities and school boards, it is also likely to spur a rise in property taxes, which have soared by 23 percent during the past three years and are already the highest in the nation.
 State residents could also feel a pinch from the budget proposal in indirect ways. Mr. Codey's budget would raise $50 million by imposing a tax on cable television company revenues, a cost that could lead to higher subscription rates.
 There are also several important parts of the proposal that are, as yet, unspecified. The budget plan anticipates $500 million in income from selling state assets, but does not give details about what real estate, buildings or surplus equipment it intends to sell.
 Mr. Codey's spending plan also calls for $275 million in increased sales tax revenue, but entails impaneling a commission to decide precisely how to raise that money. Administration officials said that a few services likely to be subject to the sales tax were tanning salon treatments, limousine rentals and luxury boxes at sporting events.
 Bret D. Schundler, a Republican gubernatorial candidate, said that while Mr. Codey's budget plan might try to artfully disburse the pain, it was nonetheless an acknowledgement of the fiscal irresponsibility Democrats showed since taking power in Trenton in 2002. ''For years they spent like drunken sailors, '' said Mr. Schundler, who lost to Mr. McGreevey in 2001.
 Other Republican contenders for governor were less critical.
 ''The way he was talking about cutting entitlements,'' said John J. Murphy, a Morris County freeholder who is seeking the Republican nomination, ''sounded like a Republican stump speech.''
 Indeed, it is likely that some of the most determined opposition Mr. Codey faces is from within his own party, particularly from Democratic members of the General Assembly, who face re-election this year. While Democrats were generally complimentary toward Mr. Codey's address, some seemed wary of his call to suspend the homeowner tax rebates.
 ''The issue of property tax relief is still very important, giving some relief to taxpayers of New Jersey,'' said Assemblywoman Bonnie Watson Coleman, a Democrat from Mercer and the chairwoman of the Assembly Appropriations Committee.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey addresses the Legislature with his budget proposal, a marked departure from those of the recent past. It calls for a spending cut and a suspension of homeowner tax rebates. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); MEDICAID (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); SALES TAX (77%); ESTATE TAX (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); POLITICS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); COMPANY REVENUES (67%); INCOME TAX (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); SUPREME COURTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



33 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Vermonters Vote on Study Of National Guard's Role

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK; Katie Zezima contributed reporting from Boston for this article.

DATELINE: DUMMERSTON, Vt., March 1 

 BODY:
It began as a garden-variety Vermont town meeting.
 The people of Dummerston -- or at least the 120 or so who braved a blistering snowstorm -- voted Tuesday to give $300 to a meals program for elderly shut-ins, to spend $93,500 on a dump truck and plow, and to grant tax-exempt status to the Green Mountain Camp for girls. 
 But then they turned their attention halfway around the world.
 In a debate that echoed in at least 50 other Vermont towns holding their annual meetings this week, Dummerston passed a resolution asking the State Legislature to investigate the impact of National Guard deployments on Vermont's readiness for a natural disaster or other emergency. The measure, which also asks Congress and the president to ''take steps to withdraw American troops from Iraq,'' was part of a new effort by antiwar activists to take the debate over the war down to a distinctly local level. 
 ''There are people from Vermont who have been sent to Iraq who have been called upon to do things which they wouldn't choose to do,'' Ed Anthes, a mental health educator who supported the resolution, told the crowd in the cafeteria of Dummerston's elementary school. ''They have been put in a vulnerable position. And then when they come home, we're the ones that are going to take care of them.''
 The resolution was spearheaded by antiwar activists who hope the campaign will spread. So far, at least one community in Massachusetts, Arlington, is planning a similar resolution, and some Pennsylvania communities may follow suit. 
 ''A lot of folks are hoping to use Vermont as a model,'' said Peter Lems, the Iraq program coordinator for the American Friends Service Committee, which along with other antiwar organizations, like Military Families Speak Out, helped organize petition drives to get the measure on town meeting ballots.
 ''This shows that the antiwar movement is different for this war than it probably has been for every war before,'' Mr. Lems said. ''What these people are demanding is accountability, and they have this incredibly strong message -- their sons, their daughters and their parents in some cases have had their lives torn apart by the war. It's probably the most powerful message we have right now.''
 In results available Tuesday, 39 Vermont towns, including Dummerston, passed the resolution, 3 defeated it, 3 tabled it, and one town's vote ended in a draw. .
 Though the resolution succeeded in most towns, it also caused earnest and impassioned debate.
 Leaders of some towns, like Middlebury and Bethel, tried to keep the resolution from being considered at the town meeting, only to be told by the Vermont secretary of state that they had no choice.
 Some places, like Thetford, after emotional wrestling matches, watered down the antiwar language to get something that would pass. And in Starksboro, which has had two of its soldiers killed in Iraq, such a passionate debate erupted among the 65 or so people who showed up that the town decided not to vote.
 Vermont may have a reputation as a liberal state, but where the war is concerned it is not that simple.
 About 1,200 National Guard members from Vermont have been called to serve in the war, at least one person from each of 200 towns in this small and largely rural state. With 42 percent of Vermont's National Guard deployed, only one state, Hawaii, has a higher rate per capita of reservists serving in the war. There are only about 600,000 residents of Vermont, and no other state has had a higher percentage of its population die in the war: four members of the National Guard and seven members of the active military.
 ''Vermont is a very small state, and people are really feeling the effect of this,'' First Lt. Veronica J. Saffo, a spokeswoman for the Vermont National Guard, said. 
 This is not the first time weighty national issues have appeared at town meetings. Two years ago, about 15 towns debated the antiterrorism law known as the USA Patriot Act. And in the 1980's, various towns voted on the issue of nuclear weapons.
 But in many ways the Iraq resolution is different because it intertwines questions philosophical and deeply personal, beliefs about what nations should and should not do with the reality of husbands or daughters or nephews going to war.
 ''If it were just up to me, I would vote for it without a problem,'' said Hugh Johnson of Starksboro, whose stepson, Pierre Piche, was killed in Iraq in late 2003. ''At the same time, many of the people who spoke out against it are my friends and neighbors. It isn't really fair to say if we just had a slim majority that Starksboro is in favor of this, or if we lose by a slim majority that Starksboro is against it. It would only serve to divide what is otherwise a very, very tight and cohesive community.''
 Bill Gates, a logger from Bethel, whose son, Bill, 18, was deployed with the National Guard in January, was conflicted about the resolution. 
 ''My feeling is the Army National Guard, I would expect them to stay here and guard us,'' Mr. Gates said. He added, ''I'm not antiwar, and I appreciate a strong president that's willing to do it.''
 Benson D. Scotch, a lawyer in Montpelier who drafted the resolution, said the focus was on the Guard so politicians would ''get a picture of what this means to the family and the fabric of the community.''
 Not even antiwar activists are saying that the war has had drastic economic or practical effects in Vermont, but there have been reverberations. The Jonesville Country Store, a longtime stop for hikers and a place where hunters took fresh-killed moose, elk and bear to be butchered, closed in November when an owner, Stanley Budziak, was deployed with the National Guard. Mr. Budziak, who could be overseas for two years, ran the store with his mother, who is unable to handle the business alone.
 In Milton, the Police Department has lost 3 of its 14 officers to National Guard duty in Iraq, creating ''a situation where there is a very large amount of overtime,'' said Capt. Brett Van Noordt. ''It's wearing my officers down.''
 In Dummerston, the resolution set off sparks. Calvin Farwell, a science and Latin teacher, proposed removing the section advocating withdrawal of troops. His idea was rejected.
 ''The consequences of this resolution being accepted scare me,'' said Charles Ranney, 62, a retired mechanic who supports the war. ''The Pentagon will say we can't count on them, let's not fund them, and funding of the National Guard will fall to the state, and recruitment will drop and we will have to have the military draft reinstated.''
 John Willis, a photography professor, supported the resolution but was concerned that the call for troop withdrawal would make the Vermont towns ripe targets for critics.
 ''Now,'' Mr. Willis said, ''it's too easy for people who support the administration to say we're just a bunch of nuts in Vermont.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ed Anthes of Dummerston, Vt., spoke yesterday in favor of a resolution to look at the impact of the Guard deployment. The measure passed. (Photo by Jerry Swope for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMED FORCES (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); MEALS ON WHEELS (72%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (71%); FAMILY (71%); TAX LAW (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); NATURAL DISASTERS (69%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (68%); MENTAL HEALTH (66%); PETITIONS (62%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (56%) Local Government; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Disasters

ORGANIZATION: National Guard (US)

PERSON: Pam Belluck; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%) Vermont; Dummerston (Vt); Iraq; Vermont

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



34 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMPANY NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: CATERPILLAR TO RAISE PRICES AGAIN TO OFFSET COSTS

BYLINE: Reuters

 BODY:
Caterpillar, the heavy-equipment manufacturer, said yesterday that it would increase machinery and engine prices by 1 percent to 5 percent because of the rising costs of steel and other raw materials. Caterpillar said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that the increases were ''in line with general economic conditions and industry factors.'' The company, based in Peoria, Ill., raised prices by about 3 percent in July and another 3 percent in January to offset rising costs.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (92%); CATR (PAR) (92%); CAT (SWX) (92%); CAT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (66%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



35 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: G.M. and Ford Lose Ground In Sales Again

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 1 

 BODY:
The gears of the domestic auto industry are grinding again, with shares of General Motors and the Ford Motor Company trading near one-year lows and the companies continuing to lose customers. 
 Sales at G.M. fell 12.6 percent in February from the same month a year earlier, according to monthly sales reports released by automakers on Tuesday; Ford's sales fell 2.8 percent. Both companies scaled back the numbers of cars and trucks they planned to make as unsold models accumulate on dealer lots, though G.M.'s cut were deeper and it is showing few signs of a turnaround. 
 ''It's been a tough beginning,'' G.M.'s chief industry sales analyst, Paul Ballew, said. ''There's not a magic solution to improving your competitive position. You have to do blocking and tackling.'' 
 G.M. said on Tuesday that it would shuffle its senior management ranks and give several top North American executives broader global responsibilities. The company, which is expecting sharply lower profits this year, is consolidating its global engineering, product development and design operations as it tries to cut costs. 
 Over all, auto sales in the United States fell 1.8 percent in February from the same month a year earlier, to a seasonally adjusted rate of 16.3 million cars and trucks, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank, which tracks industry data. Sales so far this year have been sluggish; automakers have blamed a strong finish to last year that sated demand, and heavy snow in some regions. 
 The struggles of G.M. and Ford have caused economic ripples throughout the Midwest. On Tuesday, Lear, a parts supplier based in the Detroit suburb of Southfield, cited domestic production cuts when it said it would break even in the first quarter, down from a previous earnings projection of 50 cents to 70 cents a share. Lear, whose products include everything from auto seats to instrument panels, is an even larger employer in Michigan than the Chrysler unit of DaimlerChrysler. 
 Analysts appear to be pessimistic about G.M. and Ford's prospects; heavy spending on rebates and financing deals has not stemmed a tide of customer defections to rivals like Toyota. On Monday, Ronald Tadross of Bank of America downgraded both companies to a sell rating. 
 ''Recent developments underscore there is no way out of the box in which we see G.M. and Ford,'' Mr. Tadross said in a report. 
 Adding to the bad news on Tuesday, G.M. said that it would lay off the 3,000 workers at a plant in Lansing, Mich., that makes the Pontiac Grand Am and an older version of the Chevrolet Malibu. Both models are to be discontinued in May.
 Ford told analysts on Tuesday that its Premier Automotive Group -- which includes Volvo, Land Rover, Aston Martin and Jaguar -- would lose money in the first quarter. The division's return to profitability is considered crucial to Ford's broader profit goals. 
 John Casesa, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, said the projection ''will no doubt give already skeptical investors further pause.''
 Chrysler continues to be an exception, with sales up 8 percent and bolstered by several recent products, including its Chrysler 300 sedan and the Dodge Durango pickup.
 But the biggest gainers are Asian automakers. Toyota's sales were up 11.1 percent, Nissan sales rose 10.2 percent and Hyundai's 19 percent. There are exceptions. Honda sales were down 7.2 percent and continue to show intermittent weakness, while Mitsubishi is in freefall, with sales down nearly 40 percent in February. 
 Jed Connelly, Nissan's senior vice president for North American sales and marketing, said increased sales of the company's first large pickup, the Titan, and its first large sport utility vehicle, the Armada, had been helping to increase volume.
 ''We've already had a record year. This is the highest year we've ever had, even with one month to go,'' Mr. Connelly said. Nissan's fiscal year runs through March, but the company, which includes Infiniti, has already surpassed the sales of its previous fiscal year and is on pace to sell one million cars and trucks in the United States for the first time. 
 For both G.M. and Ford, increased competition in the S.U.V. and pickup markets from companies like Nissan has hurt; the two companies have become largely truck manufacturers that make their automotive profit from S.U.V.'s and pickups.
 Ford did have some positive news in February, with sales of passenger cars showing signs of revival. Ford's car sales were up 8 percent, a sign that the company's new large sedans -- the Ford Five Hundred and Mercury Montego -- are slowly helping Ford win back car customers. 
 A wave of new cars from G.M. -- including the Pontiac G6, Chevrolet Cobalt and Buick Lacrosse -- has yet to do the same for the company. G.M. said Tuesday that it would cut its second-quarter production levels by 10 percent from a year ago, with most of the cuts coming on the passenger-car side of the business. 
 Ford said it would cut second-quarter production by 1.2 percent but the company is increasing its production of cars. On Tuesday, Ford and G.M. also cut their first-quarter production estimates further than they had previously. 
 Steve Lyons, the president of the Ford brand, said he hoped he could at least hold on to his share of the market this year because of increased car sales. Late in the year, Ford will add a midsize car, the Fusion, and Mercury and Lincoln will also introduce midsize cars.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Auto Sales in February''ANNUAL SELLING RATEFor cars and light trucks (includes minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickups) sold in the United States.Graph shows light trucks and cars since Sept. 2003.INDUSTRY SALESFor vehicles sold in the United States.Cars2005: 571,3742004: 582,256CHANGE*: -1.9%Light trucks2005: 679,7942004: 692,242CHANGE*: -1.8Total2005: 1,251,1682004: 1,274,498CHANGE*: 1.8CAR SALESLeading U.S. sellers.G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 129,267CHANGE: -17.1MARKET SHARE: 22.6Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 92,266CHANGE: +7.5MARKET SHARE: 16.2ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 90,300CHANGE: +19.0MARKET SHARE: 15.8Daimler-ChryslerSNUMBER$ SOLD: 55,343CHANGE: +11.2MARKET SHARE: 9.7HondaNUMBER SOLD: 54,208CHANGE: -16.5MARKET SHARE: 9.5NissanNUMBER SOLD: 42,254CHANGE: -2.2MARKET SHARE: 7.4TOP-SELLING VEHICLESThe most popular vehicles and changes from a year earlier.Ford F-SeriesNUMBER SOLD: 59,562CHANGE: -11.1Chevrolet SilveradoNUMBER SOLD: 47,028CHANGE: -2.3Toyota CamryNUMBER SOLD: 31,874CHANGE: 5.0Dodge RamNUMBER SOLD: 29,202CHANGE: -8.3Toyota CorollaNUMBER SOLD: 25,479CHANGE: +8.8Honda AccordNUMBER SOLD: 24,222CHANGE: -9.4Chevrolet MalibuNUMBER SOLD: 23,255CHANGE: +13.8Ford ExplorerNUMBER SOLD: 22,250CHANGE: -19.1Ford TaurusNUMBER SOLD: 19,694CHANGE: -18.9Chevrolet ImpalaNUMBER SOLD: 19,135CHANGE: -17.8Dodge CaravanNUMBER SOLD: 19,115CHANGE: -6.7Nissan AltimaNUMBER SOLD: 19,044CHANGE: +5.7LIGHT TRUCK SALESLeading U.S. sellers.G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 176,430CHANGE: -9.0MARKET SHARE: 26.0%Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 158,147CHANGE: -7.9MARKET SHARE: 23.3Daimler-ChryslerSNUMBER$ SOLD: 143,814CHANGE: +3.4MARKET SHARE: 21.2ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 72,759CHANGE: +2.6MARKET SHARE: 10.7HondaNUMBER SOLD: 43,922CHANGE: +7.5MARKET SHARE: 6.5NissanNUMBER SOLD: 40,200CHANGE: +27.0MARKET SHARE: 5.9(Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank)*Based on average daily sales, including fleet sales, adjusted for anydifferences in the number of selling days in a month. +Includes Volvo andLand Rover sales. SIncludes$ Mercedes-Benz sales.(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (71%); ENGINEERING (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); SPORTS CARS (60%) Automobiles; Sales; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; International Trade and World Market; Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (52%); PREMIER AUTOMOTIVE GROUP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; Toyota Motor Corp; Nissan Motor Co ; Hyundai Motor Co; Honda Motor Co; Mitsubishi Motors Corp

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (52%); BAC (LSE) (52%); 8648 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); LANSING, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



36 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Ex-WorldCom Chief Denies Knowing of Wrongdoing
Prosecutors tried to show that Bernard J. Ebbers, the former WorldCom chief executive accused of securities fraud, had to have known about the company's doctored books.
 Mr. Ebbers, however, said during his nearly six hours on the stand that he was unaware of any wrongdoing and that he trusted Scott D. Sullivan, WorldCom's former chief fiscal officer, to handle the financial matters. [Page C2.]

Martha Stewart's Publisher Quits
Suzanne Sobel, left, the longtime publisher of magazines at Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, has resigned. The company said Lauren Podlach Stanich, the president of publishing, would take over for Ms. Sobel during the search for a successor. The timing struck some investors and analysts as odd, given the recent rise in the company's fortunes and Ms. Stewart's release from prison in a few days. Ms. Sobel, who oversaw advertising sales, helped guide the company through the difficulties it encountered as a result of Ms. Stewart's legal troubles. [C2.]

Take 2 Aspirin and E-Mail the Doctor
Doctors are being paid by health plans and medical groups to answer e-mail messages, providing them with more time to spend with patients who need to be seen. [A1.]

Marsh Rescue Plan Unveiled
Marsh & McLennan, which reported a loss of $676 million for the fourth quarter, is laying off 2,500 employees, cutting its dividend, increasing the commissions it charges, and dropping unprofitable clients. Market Place. [C9.]

F.D.A. Official Admits Lapses
After months of the Food and Drug Administration insisting that it did nothing wrong in its oversight of the withdrawn pain pill Vioxx, an agency official acknowledged before a Senate panel ''lapses'' in the agency's actions. [A15.]

The Los Angeles Times Scales Back
The Los Angeles Times has scaled back its national edition, which circulates in Washington and New York, into a 24-page format without paid advertising. [C5.]

Qwest Questions Verizon's MCI Bid
The chief executive of Qwest Communications, Richard C. Notebaert, told investors that Verizon Communications would and should face serious regulatory hurdles in its bid to acquire MCI. Mr. Notebaert made his remarks as part of an effort to persuade Wall Street investors and analysts that MCI would be better off rejecting Verizon as a suitor and accepting Qwest as a merger partner. [C4.]

Official Criticizes Pension Rules
The assistant Treasury secretary for economic policy told a Senate panel that current pension funding rules are inaccurate. [C8.]

Telecom Battle Waged in Poland
A dispute between French and German companies over the ownership of a Polish mobile telephone company has led to new managers being barred from the building. [C8.]

Strong Growth in Brazil in 2004
The Brazilian economy expanded in 2004 at its fastest pace in a decade, with booming exports and a sharp increase in consumer spending helping it rebound. [C8.]

Stocks Move Up as Oil Price Falls
Stocks were higher. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 63.77 points, to 10,830.00; the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 6.81 points, to 1,210.41, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 19.53 points, to 2,071.25. [C9.]

COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE

ENCLOSED MALLS are trying to find a way to survive now that department store chains continue to merge and open-air shopping centers proliferate. [C7.]
A NEW JERSEY DEVELOPER has moved away from residential rentals. [C6.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,830.00 up 63.77Nasdaq composite -- 2,071.25 up 19.5310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.37% down 0.01The euro -- $1.3183 down 0.0067The dollar -- 104.26 yen down 0.21Graph shows Qwest share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MERGERS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (75%); PENSION FUNDS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (72%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); DIVIDENDS (66%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (66%); CENTURYLINK INC (65%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (57%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); CTL (NYSE) (65%); MMC (NYSE) (57%); MHM (LSE) (57%); MSO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (65%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: RICHARD C NOTEBAERT (58%); MARTHA STEWART (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); POLAND (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (65%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



37 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Shopping Malls Adopting New Strategies to Survive

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: CHERRY HILL, N.J., Feb. 25 

 BODY:
The mall that shares the name of this prosperous Philadelphia suburb was the first enclosed shopping center east of the Mississippi, and these days it is showing its age. Its interior is a pastiche of styles from successive remodeling efforts, and its exterior has a fortresslike appearance that betrays its 1961 origins.
 Annual sales at Cherry Hill are $450 a square foot, well above the industry average of $366, but executives of Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust, or Preit, a Philadelphia company that bought the mall from the Rouse Company in 2003, say it could be more successful.
 In addition to eliminating the clutter on the inside, their plans include adding a dozen separate restaurants with different architectural styles to the outside, said Edward A. Glickman, the company's president. These will largely cover up the side of the mall that faces busy Route 38 -- in effect creating a new ''skin'' to hide the property's drab concrete facade. 
 With 37 malls and 13 big-box and strip malls, all on the East Coast, Preit is a relatively small player among rapidly consolidating mall landlords. But like its larger competitors, the company is trying to create more inviting environments, knowing that the competition for customers has gotten fiercer. ''You have to pay more attention to aesthetics,'' Mr. Glickman said.
 As department store chains continue to merge or disappear and Main Street-style open-air shopping centers proliferate, many people have predicted that the enclosed mall will soon be a relic of the past. ''Is the shopping mall dead?'' The San Antonio Express-News asked in an article on Jan. 17. ''Some shoppers think if it's not gone yet, the flowers have been ordered and the grave's been dug.''
 This kind of talk has become so commonplace that the International Council of Shopping Centers, a trade group, was recently moved to distribute a white paper defending the mall industry. There's no question that many malls -- defined by the industry as enclosed shopping centers with two or more anchors -- have suffered in recent years, although the trade group has not kept track of how many have closed, been adapted for other uses or turned into open-air big-box shopping centers. 
 Today, there are about 1,200 malls, said Malachy Kavanagh, a spokesman for the trade group. ''It's been said that in a few years the number of regional malls could be down to about 900,'' he said. Only two entirely enclosed malls are expected to open this year.
 About half of all regional malls today -- and most of those with the best locations, usually near major roadways -- are owned by REIT's, according to the shopping center trade group. For some of these better malls, Federated's $11 billion acquisition of May Department Stores could be a blessing if some underperforming department stores are closed, freeing up space for more popular retailers, analysts said.
 Shoppers are visiting malls only slightly more frequently today than they did a few years ago -- 3.2 times a month, compared with 3 times a month in 1998 -- although they are staying a little longer and spending more money, said Allen L. O'Dell, an executive vice president of Stillerman Jones & Company, a private consulting company. ''They are maximizing each visit,'' he said. But in 1983, shoppers spent longer in the mall (90 minutes, as opposed to 79 minutes today) and visited nearly as often (3.1 times a month), a Stillerman Jones survey showed. 
 In a 2003 survey of 79 malls, the shopping center trade group found that shoppers were going to the mall about 38 times a year and staying for 82.2 minutes, 5.2 minutes more than they did in 1996, but were spending $83.30 a visit, compared with $66.70 in 1996. (The figures were not adjusted for inflation, Mr. Kavanagh said.) 
 While these findings might seem disquieting, competition for well-located malls has become feverish, with prices rising to unprecedented levels. Next month, for example, Macerich, a retail REIT based in Los Angeles, is expected to complete a $2.3 billion purchase of Wilmorite, a company with 11 malls in Eastern states, many of them in secondary markets. Mall owners say properties are rising in value because of relative scarcity: few good locations for new malls remain and it is becoming increasingly difficult to get mammoth projects approved by local jurisdictions. So-called lifestyle centers with specialty shops that open onto sidewalks are much easier to build because of their smaller footprints.
 There are other positive signs for the industry. Sales per square foot rose 4.2 percent from December 2003 to December 2004, according to the trade group. And the vacancy rate remains low. According to a survey by Reis Inc. of malls in 62 metropolitan areas, the average vacancy rate in the last quarter was 5.3 percent, compared with 6.8 percent in the corresponding quarter of 2001. The annual asking rent for nonanchor tenants (excluding food courts) has risen to $37.89 a square foot, from $34.06, over the same time. 
 While some retailers, like Crate and Barrel and Borders Books and Music, prefer free-standing locations with ready access to parking and no common charges for air-conditioning, others, like Costco and Urban Outfitters, are opening mall stores for the first time.
 Retail specialists and mall owners say that successful operators of large enclosed malls are fending off threats to their industry by investing heavily in their properties and making changes that would have been unthinkable in the past, like adding open-air wings and putting discounters and high-end retailers under one roof.
 Last month, the Westfield Corporation announced plans to build a Target at its Topanga mall in the Woodland Hills suburb of Los Angeles, pairing the discount retailer with a Neiman Marcus for the first time. Such mixing is common in other countries, where there are fewer malls, but only in recent years have fancier retailers in this country stopped looking down their noses at low-priced stores as neighbors. ''We've been trying for 20 years to bring in the discounters and big boxes and widen the range of goods and service for consumers,'' said Peter Lowy, Westfield's chief executive.
 Jeffrey H. Brotman, the chairman of Costco Wholesale Club, said his company was being courted by the same mall operators who used to ignore him at industry conventions. ''They like us now,'' he said. ''They didn't like us before. We have become a much more known quantity for attracting the customer they are all dying to have.''
 But while Target and Costco have become the darlings of the mall industry because they draw customers at all income levels, several retail specialists said they did not expect Neiman Marcus or Saks to accept Wal-Mart as a fellow tenant anytime soon. ''They appeal to a lower-end demographic,'' said Michael Baker, a principal of Independent Retail Research, a consulting group in Syracuse. But Wal-Mart is moving into other malls aimed at middle-class shoppers, including the Westfield Shoppingtown Parkway in El Cajon, Calif., where it recently built a new two-level store.
 As an example of the big spending that mall operators said was mandatory these days, the Mills Corporation is planning to invest as much as $300 million to expand the gargantuan 2.1-million-square-foot Del Amo Fashion Center in Torrance, Calif., which it bought in 2003 and now owns in a joint venture with JPMorgan Fleming Asset Management.
 ''This mall was huge but very underutilized for the past 20 to 25 years,'' said Laurence C. Siegel, the chief executive of Mills. The company's plans incorporate all the latest trends, adding more luxury stores, 10 restaurants and 150,000 square feet of open-air space. The average mall now has more than 24,000 square feet of space devoted to food, with about half leased by restaurants offering table service, and about 20 percent of mall anchors now fit into categories other than department stores, the trade group said.
 More department stores are expected to close as a result of the Federated-May merger, particularly at malls where both retail companies are already represented. Ross Nussbaum, an analyst at Banc of America Securities, said this was likely to present opportunities for developers to bring in new retailers. ''When you have a struggling retailer that's not driving traffic to the mall, it's a blight on the mall,'' he said.
 At Cherry Hill, for example, Strawbridge & Clothier, a once-fashionable Philadelphia retailer that was acquired by May in 1996, might be a candidate for replacement, particularly because Federated owns the mall's more successful Macy's. Mr. Glickman would not say if he thought Strawbridge & Clothier was likely to close or what would happen to the space if it did. ''Everything with anchors is a horse trade,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Bahama Breeze restaurant outside the Cherry Hill Mall in a New Jersey suburb of Philadelphia. The mall, built in 1961 as the first fully enclosed mall in the eastern United States, is freshening its image. (Photo by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)Graph: ''Data Update'' shows the value of construction contracts for nonresidential buildings by region. Seasonally adjusted annual rate through January. (Source by McGraw-Hill Construction/Dodge)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PENNSYLVANIA REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUST (72%); GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES INC (71%)

TICKER: PEI (NYSE) (72%); GGP (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (72%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



38 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: White House Urges Changes To Clarify Pension Valuations

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 1 

 BODY:
Senior officials of the Bush administration told a Senate panel on Tuesday that the nation's companies should use ''mark to market'' values, or numbers that more closely reflect current market values, for their pension funds. Their remarks drew criticism from both business and labor representatives who testified. 
 Mark Warshawsky, the assistant Treasury secretary for economic policy, told the Senate Finance Committee that pension funding rules were inaccurate, permitting companies to shortchange their pension plans and mask their weaknesses. These practices, he said, jeopardize the benefits of millions of workers and undermine the finances of the federal agency that insures them. 
 ''The current problems in the system are not transitory, nor can they be dismissed as simply the restructuring in a few industries,'' he said. ''Minor tinkering with the existing rules will not solve these problems.''
 The officials had been asked to testify about the Bush administration's proposal for strengthening America's pension system, which was announced in January. An unusual number of pension funds have failed in the last few years, straining the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the federal insurer of pensions, and raising concerns about a possible taxpayer bailout.
 The testimony on Tuesday focused on the federal rules for funding pensions. One change the administration is seeking is to make the guaranty agency's data on pension plans available to the public, except in cases of trade secrets, pending mergers and other special circumstances.
 Now, said Ann L. Combs, the assistant secretary of labor, companies file annual pension reports to the Labor Department about two years after the fact. By then, the information is out of date. More current information is reported to the guaranty agency, she said, and is calculated with market-based methods. But the public is not permitted to see it. 
 ''This makes no sense,'' she said. ''Basic data regarding the funded status of a pension plan is vitally important to participants and investors.'' Ms. Combs also described the administration's proposals to increase the premiums companies pay to the agency and to bar companies from increasing their pension promises if they are in financial trouble. 
 Some senators expressed uncertainty about how serious the pension system's problems were. Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who heads the finance committee, said some constituents told him the guaranty agency ''might be crying wolf.''
 Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, said the airlines constituted a special case and should not be subjected to the same tightening of standards as other companies. 
 ''It almost looks like you want to put them into bankruptcy and make them terminate those plans,'' he said. 
 Bradley Belt, the executive director of the guaranty agency, said that was ''the last thing we want.''
 Alan Reuther, the legislative director of the United Automobile Workers union, said he thought the pension system's problems came mainly from steel and airlines. Given that, he said, it would be ''dangerous and counterproductive'' to impose stricter standards on all companies.
 Mr. Reuther said it would be preferable for the federal government to assume the pensions of the airline and steel companies immediately, and pay them with general revenue. 
 An official of the Business Roundtable also criticized the administration's proposals. Larry Zimpleman said his members thought that if the administration's measuring techniques were adopted, pension funding levels would immediately drop about 10 percent. 





LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (68%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (68%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); TRENT LOTT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



39 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Fiorina Called Candidate for World Bank

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 1 

 BODY:
Carleton S. Fiorina, who lost her job as chief executive of Hewlett-Packard almost three weeks ago, has emerged as a strong candidate to become president of the World Bank, according to an official in the Bush administration.
 Paul D. Wolfowitz, the deputy secretary of defense, was also under serious consideration, according to the official, who refused to be identified because discussion about the candidates is continuing. 
 But the Defense Department insisted on Tuesday that Mr. Wolfowitz would remain in place as deputy secretary of defense. 
 Its spokesman, Lawrence Di Rita, declared in a statement, ''As we've said before, Secretary Wolfowitz has been asked to stay on in an extremely important job, one that he likes doing very much.''
 As a powerful No. 2 man at the Pentagon, a departure for the World Bank by Mr. Wolfowitz could have great effects on military policy. 
 Yet a nomination of Mr. Wolfowitz could face opposition from European nations that see him as a principal architect of the Iraq war.
 Robert B. Zoellick, until last week the United States trade representative, had been the White House's candidate to succeed the current bank president, James D. Wolfensohn, who completes his second five-year term in May. But officials reopened the search when Mr. Zoellick was selected to be deputy secretary of state.
 The short list also includes Randall L. Tobias, global AIDS coordinator for the White House, who is a former chief executive of Eli Lilly & Company, and John B. Taylor, under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs. M. Peter McPherson, former president of Michigan State University, is no longer considered a leading candidate. A long shot is Representative Jim Leach, Republican of Iowa, who is a specialist on aid and development.
 The decision rests on several factors, including the results of consultations with members of the World Bank, politics within the Bush administration and a closer scrutiny of the candidates.
 The deputy spokesman for the Treasury Department, Tony Fratto, said there was no timeline for making an appointment.
 The Treasury Department, which handles the recommendation process, would not comment on the prospects for Mr. Wolfowitz, which were first reported Tuesday in The Financial Times, or on those of any other candidate.
 ''We don't comment or speculate on personnel decisions,'' Mr. Fratto said.
 By tradition, the United States chooses the head of the World Bank while the Europeans select the director of the International Monetary Fund. The countries left out of the process would like that changed.
 With this choice, President Bush would have a chance to name his own person to be the spokesman for the world's poor. Increasingly, Mr. Bush has pushed to put his mark on foreign aid policy, stressing help for countries meeting his criteria for responsible government. In the new budget proposal, foreign aid was spared the deep cuts made in many domestic programs.
 Whether Mr. Wolfowitz would be the best candidate to pursue these ideas is susceptible to questions by other countries that are major forces at the World Bank.
 Nancy Birdsall, president of the Center for Global Development, a nonpartisan institute, said, ''I don't think there's any question that the Europeans would want to veto Wolfowitz, and they would view his nomination as an act of bad faith on the part of the administration.'' 
 The Europeans could take a page from the United States and block a nomination of Mr. Wolfowitz just as President Bill Clinton's administration blocked the appointment of Caio Koch Weser, the German candidate to head the International Monetary Fund. The United States considered him too weak for the position.
 Ms. Fiorina, the only woman on the list, carries far less political baggage than Mr. Wolfowitz and has a reputation for dynamic leadership. As the head of a Fortune 500 company for six years, she gained executive experience that put her near the top of the list for the job. She would also add glamour as probably the only candidate famous enough to be widely known by her nickname -- Carly.
 Lael Brainard, director of the poverty and global initiative at the Brookings Institute, said, ''Her candidacy is within the traditional mold in that America has on occasion gone to someone with a proven record in the corporate world because, at the end of the day, the World Bank is a big management challenge.''
 Mr. Wolfowitz, as assistant secretary of state for East Asia and United States ambassador to Indonesia, oversaw policy for parts of the developing world. But neither he nor Ms. Fiorina is an expert in development.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Carleton S. Fiorina, formerly of Hewlett-Packard, and Paul D. Wolfowitz, of the Pentagon, are among the favorites. (Photo by Mauricio Lima/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 (Photo by Jason Reed/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (86%); DISMISSALS (78%); POLITICS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); BUDGETS (69%); IRAQ WAR (68%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information

COMPANY: ELI LILLY & CO (66%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (63%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Hewlett-Packard Co; Defense Department; State Department; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (66%); LLY (NYSE) (66%); LEL (LSE) (66%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (78%) Elizabeth Becker; Carleton S Fiorina; Paul D Wolfowitz; Robert B Zoellick; George W (Pres) Bush; James D Wolfensohn

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



40 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Brazilian Growth Rebounded to 5.2% in '04

BYLINE: By TODD BENSON

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, March 1 

 BODY:
The Brazilian economy expanded in 2004 at its fastest pace in a decade, with booming exports and a sharp increase in consumer spending helping it rebound from three years of meager growth.
 The government statistics agency said Tuesday that the gross domestic product increased 5.2 percent last year, the best performance since 1994, when Brazil adopted a new currency, the real, to curb rampant inflation. In 2003, the economy, South America's largest, expanded by just 0.54 percent. 
 The statistics agency also said that growth slowed in the fourth quarter of 2004, suggesting that the economy was starting to cool.
 Still, the strong annual figures are likely to provide some political relief to Brazil's left-leaning president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, whose administration recently suffered a humiliating defeat in Congress in a vote for speaker of the lower house. The data should also help insulate Mr. da Silva from critics on the left who say he has neglected the country's gaping social disparities by sticking to austere fiscal and monetary policies.
 Like other Latin American countries with abundant natural resources, Brazil benefited last year from global economic growth and a surge in prices for commodities like soybeans and iron ore. Exports jumped 17.9 percent as producers rushed to feed China's appetite for raw materials, helping Brazil post a record trade surplus of $33.7 billion.
 Much of the export growth came from agriculture, where output increased 5.3 percent. Brazil is the world's leading producer of beef, coffee, sugar and oranges, and the No.2 producer of soybeans after the United States.
 The domestic market also revived as a drop in interest rates early in the year and declining inflation helped draw shoppers back into stores. Consumer spending rose 4.3 percent in 2004, helping fuel a 6.2 percent expansion in industrial output and a 10.9 percent increase in capital investment.
 But in the fourth quarter, the economy grew 0.4 percent from the previous quarter, raising cautions about the rebound's sustainability. The central bank has increased interest rates six times since September to limit inflation, provoking outcries from industrialists who fear that the increases in borrowing costs could derail the economy. The benchmark interest rate stands at 18.75 percent; inflation ran at 7.4 percent in the 12-month period ended in January.
 Though most economists say that the rate increases have yet to weigh significantly on the economy, some have lowered their growth forecasts for 2005 to about 3.5 percent from 4 percent.
 Another factor that could hamstring Brazil's economy is the strength of its currency, which has rallied against the dollar and threatens to make the country's exports less competitive on world markets. Though exports have been surprisingly healthy so far this year, economists and some others expect the trade surplus to narrow in 2005 for the first time in four years.
 ''With the exchange rate the way it is, our profit margin on exports is almost nonexistent,'' said Peter Hendel, a vice president at the Brazilian unit of the Bosch & Siemens Home Appliance Group, which exports refrigerators, stoves and washing machines. ''That's going to have a negative impact on the trade balance later in the year.''




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STATISTICS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MINING OUTPUT (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%) BRAZIL (99%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



41 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1741 words

HEADLINE: Digital Rx: Take Two Aspirins And E-Mail Me in the Morning

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Doctors may no longer make house calls, but they are answering patient e-mail messages -- and being paid for it. 
 In a move to improve efficiency and control costs, health plans and medical groups around the country are now beginning to pay doctors to reply by e-mail, just as they pay for office visits. While some computer-literate doctors have been using e-mail to communicate informally with patients for years, most have never been paid for that service. 
 Brian Settlemoir, 39, an accountant in Folsom, Calif., recently sent an e-mail message to his doctor at the Creekside Medical Group to ask if it was time to reduce the dosage of a medicine after his cholesterol level dropped. The prompt answer was ''not yet.'' 
 ''I'm sitting at work,'' Mr. Settlemoir said. ''I've got e-mail open anyway. It's much easier than calling and getting voice-mail prompts and sitting on hold. It's very valuable to me.'' 
 Blue Shield of California pays his doctor $25 for each online exchange, the same as it pays for an office visit. Some insurers pay a bit less for e-mailing, and patients in some health plans are charged a $5 or $10 co-payment that is billed to their credit card and relayed to the doctor. 
 For doctors, the convenience of online exchanges can be considerable. They say they can offer advice about postsurgical care, diet, changing a medication and other topics that can be handled safely and promptly without an office visit or a frustrating round of telephone tag. And surveys have shown that e-mail, by reducing the number of daily office visits, gives physicians more time to spend with patients who need to be seen face to face. 
 For patients, e-mail allows them to send their medical questions from home in the evening, without missing work and spending time in a doctor's waiting room. In fact, many say exchanges in the more relaxed, conversational realm of e-mail make them feel closer to their doctors. 
 The patients can also use the e-mail connections, which they reach through secure Web sites, to get X-ray and test results and request prescription renewals. Doctors are not paid for these services, except in time saved in the office. 
 This shift toward online doctor-patient communication is important for another reason. Physicians and health care technology specialists say they believe that it could help spur the changeover to electronic health care information systems, which government officials and industry leaders say is needed to reduce medical errors and promote better care. Doctors at the clinics of the University of California, Davis, grew accustomed to using e-mail for clinical purposes before the clinics introduced electronic medical records, said Dr. Eric Liederman, medical director of clinical information systems at Davis. The messaging ''gave them some comfort and facility with using the computer,'' he said. 
 Early research at clinics at the university found that using e-mail improved the productivity of physicians, decreased overhead costs and improved access to doctors for patients, including those who still telephoned. ''There was a huge reduction in the number of calls,'' said Dr. Liederman, who is a big fan of e-mail exchanges. 
 Doctors and insurers say online consultations can be especially useful for patients who have chronic conditions like diabetes, asthma and heart problems. They have been frequent users and being in touch can help them to comply with regimens to cope with their diseases. 
 ''Patients love this stuff; I love this stuff; the staff loves this stuff,'' said Dr. Barbara Walters, a senior medical director at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in New Hampshire.
 One benefit of online messaging -- perhaps because it can be done in a setting less harried than a doctor's office -- is that it gives patients a greater degree of control. 
 ''The intelligence of our patients never ceases to amaze me,'' Dr. Walters said. ''Patients can describe what's going on with them, if given the chance and given the time.'' Since last year, several health plans -- Anthem Blue Cross, Cigna and Harvard Pilgrim -- have been paying Dartmouth-Hitchcock $30 for each online ''visit,'' Dr. Walters said. In some health plans, a co-payment by the patient reduces the insurer's share. The medical center gives participating doctors credits -- an e-mail consultation is valued at half an office visit -- that increases their pay. 
 Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans in California, New York, Florida, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Colorado and Tennessee are beginning to pay doctors similar amounts ($24 to $30, including any co-payment) for online consultations. Blue Cross of California has made the program available to 160,000 of its 6 million health plan members. Last month, Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield began testing the payment system with New York doctors at the Columbia University and Weill Cornell Medical Centers. 
 Kaiser Permanente, the nation's largest nonprofit managed care company, has tested patient-physician messaging in the Pacific Northwest and is starting the program this year in Hawaii and Colorado as part of Kaiser's $3 billion information technology program. Kaiser's salaried doctors get credits for messaging, adding to their pay. 
 System providers say overuse by doctors and fraud have not been problems. RelayHealth, a secure electronic system used by the Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans, for example, provides monthly user reports with names of doctors and patients. 
 Doctors who use the medical messaging services are advised to limit their replies to appropriate topics, and, under standard rules, the doctors reply only to patients who have already been examined in the office. 
 The records could even be useful in fending off medical malpractice lawsuits, according to Eric Zimmerman, a senior vice president of RelayHealth, based in Emeryville, Calif., because allegations based on undocumented telephone calls are often hard to rebut. ''Good communications with patients is protective,'' said Frank A. Sloan, an economist at Duke University who has studied malpractice suits. ''This kind of interaction is helpful.'' 
 Many of the health plans promoting Internet consultations are also introducing electronic systems that keep track of a patient's medical records and send prescriptions to the pharmacy. For doctors in small private practices who have hesitated to invest in computerized systems, the e-mail exchanges are often a first step into the growing world of health care information technology. 
 Online consulting is ''one of the biggest changes to come to health care since the beginning of the electronic medical record itself,'' said Judith R. Faulkner, chief executive of Epic Systems, a health information technology company based in Madison, Wis., that is working with Kaiser. 
 The federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Systems is sponsoring a study of disease management programs, including payments for online consultations, to help the government decide whether the benefits would justify the cost to Medicare. 
 Dr. David J. Brailer, the government's health information technology coordinator, said online communications between patients and physicians were ''one of 12 strategies to achieve President Bush's goal of widespread adoption of technology'' in health care. But he said more experience was needed before asking Medicare to pay for those exchanges. 
 A bill introduced in the House on Feb. 11 by Charles A. Gonzalez, a Democrat from Texas, and John M. McHugh, a Republican from New York, for the first time included a provision to authorize Medicare to make ''bonus payments'' to doctors for e-mail consultations.
 To comply with federal privacy requirements, medical information technology companies like RelayHealth, Epic and IDX, which is based in South Burlington, Vt., make secure software allowing only the doctor and his staff access to a patient's medical records, including the e-mail exchanges.
 Doctors can connect with the secure systems over the Internet from home computers or laptops if they wish, but overnight messages are typically answered the next day.
 Some employers are embracing medical e-mailing as a way to help maintain workers' productivity. ''Why do I have to leave my office to check out my sore throat?'' asked Dr. Jeff Rideout, corporate medical director of Cisco Systems, the big Silicon Valley technology company. 
 Cisco is paying the Palo Alto Medical Foundation for a one-year trial with the first 500 employees to sign up to see if providing online answers to medical questions eliminates unnecessary appointments for employees. The company's health costs have been rising at 10 percent a year, eroding overall productivity gains, Dr. Rideout said.
 Sixty-nine of the foundation's 300 primary care doctors are online in a system provided by Epic. Dr. Paul Tang, the Palo Alto group's chief medical information officer, said it charged $60 a year for patients using the service.
 Dr. Tang said most users were people with chronic diseases who were willing to pay for better access to their doctors. But other medical groups said they would prefer that insurers pay for e-mail consultations so there would be no barriers for patients. 
 The American Medical Association has issued a temporary identification number for online visits in the association's ''current procedural terminology'' code that doctors and hospitals use in sending bills. But Robert Mills, a spokesman, said the association was waiting for more data on how clinical messaging was being used before issuing code numbers like those for office examinations and follow-up visits that payers refer to in their schedules of fees. ''All consumer surveys in the last several years show patients want to be able to communicate through e-mail or messaging,'' said Dr. Thomas Handler, research director at the Gartner Group, the technology consulting firm. ''The problem was, reimbursements for the doctors weren't there.'' 
 That is changing quickly. One pleased consumer, Dona Gapp, a schoolteacher in New York, who is expecting her first child in April, said she used e-mail to ask Dr. Richard U. Levine, her obstetrician at the Columbia University Medical Center, if certain vitamins and nonprescription medicines were safe for her. 
 ''It was much easier to have access by e-mail,'' she said. ''When I had a chance to call, it was after 5 o'clock and he was not there.'' He replied to her e-mail within hours, she said.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 3, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about health plans and medical groups that pay doctors for e-mail consultations with patients misstated the number of doctors accepting online messages at the Palo Alto Medical Foundation in California. It is 300, not 69. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brian Settlemoir of California prefers e-mail to calling his doctor. (Photo by Steve Yeater/Associated Press, for The New York Times)
 Dr. Richard Levine, a Columbia University Medical Center obstetrician, advises patients by e-mail. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (89%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); HEALTH CARE (79%); MEDICAL RECORDS (79%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (74%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (73%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (71%); CHOLESTEROL (55%) Medicine and Health; Computers and the Internet; Electronic Mail; Doctors ; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals)

COMPANY: BLUE SHIELD OF CALIFORNIA (82%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (82%)

PERSON: Milt Freudenheim

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



42 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and France Join to Urge Syria to Pull Out of Lebanon

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY and ALAN COWELL; Joel Brinkley reported from London for this article and Alan Cowell from Jerusalem.

DATELINE: LONDON, March 1 

 BODY:
The United States and France together called on Syria on Tuesday to withdraw its troops from Lebanon, just a day after the pro-Syrian government of Lebanon collapsed under popular pressure. 
 In a joint appearance before reporters, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Michel Barnier, the French foreign minister, who are here for a one-day conference on supporting the Palestinian Authority, demanded the ''immediate withdrawal of all Syrian military and intelligence forces from Lebanon.''
 ''There cannot be any pretexts, any excuses not to carry it out,'' Mr. Barnier insisted, while promising that France and the United States would seek ways to guarantee Lebanon's security and independence. 
 Ms. Rice said that Washington would support sending international observers for Lebanon's elections in May and that sending international peacekeepers to take the place of departing Syrian forces was under consideration.
 ''Events in Lebanon are moving in a very important direction,'' Ms. Rice said. ''I think we have to look at what can be done in terms of helping them to stabilize the situation should that become necessary.''
 A senior administration official added, ''Realizing how difficult it will be for the Lebanese government to extend its authority over the whole country'' once the Syrian troops leave, ''we will look at a range of things we can do to help them.''
 The joint news conference might have seemed unlikely just a few months ago, given the angry words between France and the Bush administration over the war in Iraq.
 But in Lebanon and in the search for peace in the Middle East, the United States and France have found two areas of mutual concern and agreement -- though Mr. Barnier repeated France's call for an international conference on the Middle East, an idea the Bush administration opposes.
 Prime Minister Tony Blair had called for the gathering here of leaders from more than 20 European and Arab countries and international institutions to support the new Palestinian leadership, led by President Mahmoud Abbas.
 But the continuing turmoil in Lebanon overshadowed the meeting. Ms. Rice also discussed Lebanon with Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general. She said the two discussed ''the need to make certain'' that Syria withdrew from Lebanon, among other issues.
 The conference also came just four days after a suicide bomber in Tel Aviv killed five Israelis, an attack that threatened to undermine a truce that has held since Feb. 8.
 Meeting here alongside the conference, members of the so-called quartet overseeing Middle East peace -- the United States, the European Union, the United Nations and Russia -- issued a strongly worded statement demanding ''immediate action'' by the Palestinian Authority to ''apprehend and bring to justice the perpetrators'' of the Tel Aviv attack. The statement also called for ''further sustained activity by the Palestinian authority to prevent acts of terrorism.''
 Syria maintains about 14,000 troops in Lebanon but has promised repeatedly over the years to withdraw them. In an interview with Time magazine published Tuesday, Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad, restated his vow of last week that he would pull his troops out in ''the next few months.''
 Imad Moustapha, the Syrian ambassador to the United States, said in a recent interview that military intelligence officers were the only Syrian intelligence personnel in Lebanon, and that they would be withdrawn along with the rest of the military. But American officials said they were dubious that military officers were the only Syrian intelligence officers in Lebanon, suggesting that the issue might be a point of contention even if the Syrians withdraw. 
 Ms. Rice, in a second news conference on Tuesday evening, pointedly noted that Syrian ''security services'' must leave Lebanon. 
 Ms. Rice and Mr. Barnier reiterated calls for a ''full, credible and transparent investigation'' into the assassination two weeks ago of Rafik Hariri, a former prime minister, a killing that the Lebanese opposition attributes to Syria. The assassination ignited daily protests in Beirut by tens of thousands of people calling for a Syrian withdrawal, leading in turn on Monday to the resignation of Lebanon's pro-Syrian prime minister and his cabinet. 
 At a news conference on Tuesday afternoon in London, President Abbas said the Palestinian Authority had taken a ''series of steps to find out who planned and financed the attack'' in Tel Aviv on Friday but rebutted Israeli allegations that Syria was behind it. ''I am confident that the Syrians believe in the peace process,'' he said.
 But in Washington, the Bush administration continued to insist that Syria was involved, if only by offering refuge to the terrorist groups that have claimed responsibility for the attack. The White House press secretary, Scott McClellan, said, ''We do have firm evidence that the bombing in Tel Aviv was not only authorized by Palestinian Islamic Jihad leaders in Damascus, but that Islamic Jihad leaders in Damascus participated in the planning.''
 In an interview with the BBC, Mr. Abbas complained that Israeli control of access routes in the West Bank was hampering the investigation. But he said some suspects had been ''incarcerated.''
 Israel did not attend the London gathering.
 In a final 17-page statement, the conference listed practical steps to clean up Palestinian government corruption, enhance economic growth and unify the security services that proliferated under Yasir Arafat, Mr. Abbas's predecessor, who died in November.
 The measures include formation of a United States-led coordinating group under Lt. Gen. William E. Ward to assist in retraining Palestinian security services, coordinating with Israel and operating ''in region and between capitals,'' according to the statement. Ms. Rice, Mr. Blair, participants at the conference and representatives of the ''quartet'' all stressed that an eventual Middle East settlement should provide for a viable and ''contiguous'' Palestinian state as part of a two-state solution. The word contiguous is intended to address Palestinian concerns that Israel might try to break up the West Bank into what Palestinians call cantons, small islands of Palestinian control.
 The conference document also urged unspecified ''action by Israel'' to fulfill its commitments under the peace plan. Responding to a questioner who asked whether the conference had put pressure only on the Palestinian side, Mr. Blair said, ''None of this obviates the need for Israel to live up to its own obligations.'' 
 The conference produced no specific commitment of increased financial aid for the Palestinians, although there was a call for money to meet ''urgent short-term financing needs.'' 
 Palestinians officials have said they are seeking $1.5 billion in aid over the next three years. Current international aid to the Palestinian Authority is reportedly about $1 billion a year, about 60 percent of its budget. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 3, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A note yesterday with an article about a London conference on the Palestinian Authority misstated the whereabouts of one writer. Alan Cowell reported from London, not Jerusalem. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); POLITICS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); IRAQ WAR (71%); ASSASSINATION (69%); RIOTS (64%); TERRORISM (63%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (62%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (60%) United States International Relations; Politics and Government ; Demonstrations and Riots; Palestinians; Bombs and Explosives; Terrorism; Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations; Elections

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) European Union; United Nations

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (90%); TONY BLAIR (77%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%) Joel Brinkley; Alan Cowell; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Michel (Min) Barnier; Tony (Prime Min) Blair; Rafik Hariri

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); LEBANON (96%); FRANCE (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); SYRIA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); IRAQ (79%) Lebanon; Syria; France; Great Britain; Lebanon; Israel; Tel Aviv (Israel); Lebanon; Russia

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



43 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: Many Hurdles For Bush Plan

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON; David E. Rosenbaum and Robin Toner contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 1 

 BODY:
President Bush's drive to overhaul Social Security is in trouble, and while it is far too soon to declare it doomed, it faces obstacles on all sides.
 After a week at home listening to constituents on the issue, Congressional leaders of Mr. Bush's own party have returned to Washington and immediately begun playing for time, suggesting that they may not meet his goal of passing legislation this year. 
 Democrats, apparently feeling little political pressure to come up with a plan of their own or work across the aisle, remain remarkably united against the main element of Mr. Bush's plan: his call for private investment accounts to be carved out of Social Security payroll taxes. 
 A USA Today/CNN/Gallup poll published Tuesday showed Mr. Bush receiving his lowest marks on the handling of Social Security since becoming president.
 Perhaps most difficult of all for the White House, members of Congress have little sense that voters are demanding that they confront the issue now and make difficult choices that are bound to have political repercussions. 
 Contrary to the broad-based support that drove the last bipartisan action to overhaul an entitlement program -- the addition of a prescription drug benefit to Medicare -- the public has not been clamoring for a new approach to Social Security or for confronting the painful steps necessary to meet Mr. Bush's goal of ensuring its permanent solvency.
 Indeed, there is no consensus even among Republicans about how to proceed. They are divided, in some cases bitterly, over issues like how big the private accounts should be, whether the nation can afford to borrow trillions of dollars to establish them and whether a tax increase can be part of any solution. 
 ''When a boat springs so many leaks, it only floats for so long,'' said Tony Fabrizio, a Republican pollster, who declared that Mr. Bush was losing the momentum he had picked up after making Social Security the centerpiece of his State of the Union address. ''The Democrats have certainly shot holes in it, but the Republicans have also been shooting holes.''
 Robert Bixby, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a group that advocates balanced budgets and bringing Social Security's promised benefits into line with what it will be able to pay, said the chances that legislation would emerge from Congress this year now appeared slim.
 ''The political dynamics just don't seem to be there to achieve a meaningful Social Security reform this year,'' Mr. Bixby said.
 White House officials said Tuesday that the president's goal of getting legislation enacted this year was still achievable. But on Capitol Hill, Republican leaders, while maintaining their support for Mr. Bush's approach, appeared intent on dampening expectations of quick action and easing the anxiety within their ranks.
 Asked if it was a certainty that Social Security legislation would reach the Senate floor this year, the Republican leader, Bill Frist of Tennessee, said the ''pacing'' of that legislation would be ''determined by the American people,'' and added, ''In terms of whether it will be a week, a month, six months or a year as to when we bring something to the floor, it's just too early.''
 But to some proponents of taking action along the lines of what Mr. Bush has proposed, the chances of getting something done at all are receding, hurt by missteps and political posturing on all sides.
 Charles W. Stenholm, a Texan who was among a handful of Democrats to support private accounts before he lost his House seat last year, said both parties were to blame for not creating an atmosphere in which a deal could be worked out.
 ''Where we are right now is in deep trouble,'' Mr. Stenholm said. ''The problems associated with the future of Social Security for our grandchildren are still there, but we seem to be even farther away from a bipartisan solution. It's obvious the game plan the administration chose is not working.''
 Mr. Bush has been telling audiences that the politics of Social Security have changed, that the appeal of personal investment accounts and what he describes as the urgency of acting before the baby boom generation retires have combined to outweigh the costs, political and economic, of doing nothing.
 Some Republicans appear unconvinced. After their weeklong recess hearing citizens' complaints and seeing the organized opposition to private accounts, many Republicans returned with a warning that if Mr. Bush wanted action this year, he would have to do much more to convince the nation that Social Security's projected financial gap required immediate, bipartisan legislation. 
 The White House promised on Tuesday that Mr. Bush planned to do just that. Administration officials said the president, cabinet secretaries and other aides would blanket the country in coming weeks, redoubling their efforts to generate support for Mr. Bush's proposal.
 The officials said they would seek to get across a variety of messages: that older people, a potent voting bloc that tends to be suspicious of any changes to the retirement system, have nothing to fear; that younger workers will get a better deal from private investment accounts than if the solution to Social Security's long-term problems is limited to benefit cuts and tax increases; that doing nothing will inevitably lead to big tax increases or benefit cuts; and that Democrats in states where Mr. Bush is popular will run a political risk if they defy him.
 Noting that it had been only a month since the State of the Union speech, Nicolle Devenish, the White House communications director, said: ''If you look at what the president has been able to do in terms of elevating the issue, explaining a program riddled with terms like 'bend points' that are hard for busy families to wrap their brains around, the intensity with which we have engaged in the public campaign and the legislative process, we feel good about where we are. But we recognize there is much more to be done.''
 Asked what Mr. Bush intended to do to keep the issue moving forward and bring some Democrats to his side, Ms Devenish said: ''The president believes that once everyone has coalesced around the belief that there's a problem that has to be addressed, it will be something that invigorates members of both parties. Without the understanding and acceptance among the American public that we have to act now to strengthen Social Security, it will be very difficult to get to that point.''
 Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority leader, said he disagreed with another Republican, Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, a crucial broker of Social Security legislation as chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, who said Monday that Mr. Bush needed to shift public opinion in the next three weeks ''or you might have some question about the president succeeding.''
 Mr. DeLay responded: ''I think we are talking about months of dialogue with the American people. We are going to talk to the American people. When we feel comfortable enough that they understand what the issue is, we will write a bill.''
 But the challenge is not coming up with a bill that would accomplish Mr. Bush's goals. The challenge is to do so in a way that attracts enough Democrats to make the legislation credibly bipartisan. So far, not a single prominent Democrat has been willing to embrace Mr. Bush on the issue, a marked departure from what has occurred with other contentious issues, including the Iraq war, abortion rights and tax cuts.
 ''This privatization plan is sinking like a rock,'' said Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California.
 Betting against Mr. Bush has been a losing proposition for the last four years, and there are still possible routes to legislation, most likely through Mr. Grassley's committee, traditionally one of the least prone to instinctive partisanship.
 ''My advice,'' Mr. Stenholm said, ''is step back, relax and stop shooting down the other side's ideas. And that goes for everyone.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Bill Frist said yesterday it was too early to tell when Social Security legislation might be introduced. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); BUDGETS (88%); EXECUTIVES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (71%); CORPORATE TAX (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (51%) Social Security (US); Public Opinion; Privatization; Law and Legislation; Election Issues; USA Today/CNN/Gallup Poll; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Social Security (US); Taxation

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Richard W Stevenson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



44 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM EUROPE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Investors of the World, Here's the Word on Putin Inc.

BYLINE: By Erin E. Arvedlund

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 1 

 BODY:
In recent weeks, President Vladimir V. Putin's politics have generated most of the worry in the West. He has been cutting welfare benefits for veterans and pensioners, clamping down on free media and meddling in the Ukrainian election. Even President Bush, who badly needs the Kremlin's cooperation in combating terrorism, the spread of nuclear weapons and narcotics trafficking, gently chided Mr. Putin about maintaining democratic standards when the two met in Bratislava last week. 
 But the president's concerns about democratic principles may miss the larger point. The real threat to Russia's future could lie in the economy. For now, its gross domestic product is booming, it boasts a budget surplus and a windfall from record high oil prices. But it is pursuing a model of corrupt, state-managed capitalism, economists and political analysts say, that is inimical to democracy and could condemn its economy to perpetual third world status. 
 Many here believe the turning point was reached last December, when Russia renationalized one of its largest private oil fields in a deal that Andrei Illarionov, an outspoken Kremlin aide, acidly called ''the swindle of the year.''
 The transaction was an offshoot of the Yukos affair, the Russian government's campaign to dismember what was once Russia's largest private oil company and jail its billionaire founder, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky. Having staggered the company with a questionable $28 billion tax bill, the Kremlin seized the oil fields and auctioned them for about half their worth. 
 The winner, a state-owned business named Rosneft, overnight joined the ranks of Russia's top oil companies. 
 Big oil fields changing hands at a cut-rate price recalls the rigged privatizations of Russia's robber baron era in the 1990's. But instead, it was the Kremlin cutting this deal, a parallel that for some here crystallized thinking on Mr. Putin's course for the country. 
 ''Today, by our own decisions, we have done what is now, regrettably, clear to the outside world -- we opted for the third world,'' Mr. Illarionov said after the auction. ''We used to see street hustlers do this kind of thing,'' snapped Mr. Illarionov, who until recently was among Mr. Putin's most fervent supporters. ''Now officials are doing it.'' 
 A few days later, he was relieved of his duties as Russia's Group of 8 representative; he still has an office in the Kremlin.
 Exactly what Mr. Illarionov meant by third world is unclear. He would seem to be pointing to the developing world of the 1960's and 70's, with state-directed investment and rampant cronyism, rather than the more free market approach that became popular in the 1980's and 90's. 
 But the point was made. Instead of embracing free-market capitalism, Russia has veered away: renationalizing oil assets, weakening property rights and signaling to foreign investors that their millions -- and their presence -- are not entirely welcome. 
 ''Illarionov was being colorful,'' said John Litwack, head of the Moscow office of the World Bank. ''But if that is the new model -- to destroy assets, expropriate the company and put the industrialist in jail -- and if it's repeated, that's different than just renationalization. That's an environment more like the third world.'' 
 Even a former prime minister, Mikhail Kasyanov, who was dumped by Mr. Putin in 2003 and has talked about challenging him in 2008, told the Interfax news agency last week that the country ''has taken the wrong turn, which harms the country's economic and social development.'' 
 Economists say it is uncertainty that is most damaging. Building blocks of a free market system -- the courts, the tax agencies and law enforcement -- have been corrupted during Mr. Putin's second term and by the Yukos case in particular, undermining investor confidence. 
 Russia's tax authorities, used by the Kremlin to undermine Yukos, have gone on a rampage. Vimpelcom, the country's No.3 cellphone company, was served with a tax bill of $158 million late last year, linked by some Russian media reports to a vendetta by the telecommunications minister (who reportedly has investments in a competing company). Vimpelcom whittled that bill down to $17 million, but only after the intervention of the Norwegian government, whose state phone company Telenor is an investor.
 After a privately run airport here, Domodedovo, showed remarkable profit growth in a recent regulatory filing, its long-term lease was canceled by the government, which then asked to renegotiate at more favorable terms.
 Russia's business community now seems to worry that the government will muscle in on any profits, a tactic labeled ''tax terrorism,'' by Yevgeny Yasin, former minister of economics under Boris Yeltsin, and currently the director of Russia's Higher School of Economics.
 So if not Western-style, free-market capitalism, exactly what economic model is Russia embracing? 
 Pre-Yukos, some analysts said, Mr. Putin seemed to be following the path of Chile, Singapore and China -- a strong central government, a credible partnership with the business elite, a pruning of the influence of state-sponsored monopolies and crony capitalism. 
 Post-Yukos, Russia's path is unknown. Some believe it may end up mimicking 20th-century Mexico, where the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, used its control of the national oil and gas company, Pemex, to maintain power for decades. ''Pemex could be the model for Gazprom and Mr. Putin's party, United Russia,'' said Michael J. Economides, a professor of chemical engineering at the University of Houston and co-author of ''The Color of Oil.''
 Still others say that Russia is finding its own way. ''Russia's model is not Asian, not European and not Latin American,'' said Alasdair Breach, chief strategist at Brunswick UBS investment bank. ''It doesn't quite fit any of those categories. Hunting for a model is useful, but to find a direct comparison is impossible.'' 
 In any case, the Kremlin is re-evaluating the welcome sign once hung out for foreign investors, partly by taking control of some of the commanding heights. 
 ''Given that the Kremlin has succeeded in concentrating power, the worry is they're enjoying it for its own sake,'' said Mr. Litwack of the World Bank. ''There's no proof you have to be an open democracy or free market to attract investment. But you have to create conditions for investors.'' 
 And, many here believe, for democracy.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 4, 2005

 CORRECTION:
The Letter From Europe article on Wednesday, about economic threats to Russia's future, misstated the title of John Litwack, an official at the World Bank's Moscow office who commented on the demotion of an outspoken Kremlin aide. Mr. Litwack is the office's chief economist, not its head.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Auctioning off a chunk of the Yukos oil giant in December. Was this a turning point in Kremlin capitalism? (Photo by Denis Sinyakov/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 An anti-Kremlin poster in a demonstration last month said, ''Putin Kills Our Freedom.'' (Photo by Sergei Ilnitsky/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MILITARY BENEFITS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ETHICS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); NATIONALIZATION (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); TERRORISM (57%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (56%); MILITARY WEAPONS (56%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (51%) Politics and Government; Ethics; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (55%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (54%)

TICKER: ROSN (RTS) (54%); ROSN (LSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; Erin E Arvedlund

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UKRAINE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005



45 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Harvard Is Again at Top of the List for Donations to Colleges

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
Contributions to colleges and universities rose $800 million last year, to $24.4 billion, led by Harvard and Stanford with more than $500 million each, the Council for Aid to Education reported yesterday. 
 The donations amounted to an increase of 3.4 percent for all colleges and universities for the year that ended June 30, 2004. After adjusting for inflation the increase amounted to only 0.7 percent. 
 Harvard, which led the list for the 27th time in the past 36 years, received $540 million, slightly below the $545 million it received the previous year. Stanford, which is also typically among the two or three largest fund-raisers, saw its contributions climb 8 percent last year, to $524 million. 
 Harvard and Stanford were both far ahead of any other university. Cornell ranked third with $386 million, a 22 percent increase. It was helped by a $50 million bequest, a university spokesman said. 
 Other universities that received more than $300 million in charitable contributions last year were the University of Pennsylvania, $333 million; the University of Southern California, $322 million; and Johns Hopkins University, $312 million. 
 Also in the top 10 were Columbia, $291 million; the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, $290 million; Yale, $265 million; and the University of California at Los Angeles, $262 million.
 U.C.L.A. was the only public university in the top 10. The year before, U.C.L.A. was joined by three other public universities in that top tier: the University of Arkansas, the University of Washington and the University of Texas at Austin. The four universities each had had donations of more than $300 million. 
 Alumni were the largest source of charitable giving last year, accounting for $6.7 billion, or 28 percent of the total. Other big sources were foundations, $6.2 billion; individual donors who were not alumni, $5.2 billion; and corporations, $4.4 billion. 
 Ann E. Kaplan, director of the council's annual survey on Voluntary Support of Education, said that giving by individual donors who were not alumni rose 22 percent last year.
 ''Individuals give to colleges and universities for a lot of reasons other than that they attended an institution,'' Ms. Kaplan said, adding that the donors might be interested in specific programs like research or the arts. 
 The report by the council, a unit of the RAND Corporation, said voluntary giving averaged 7 percent of college and university expenditures last year, down from a high of 8 percent in 2001.
 ''Over all, the data suggest that voluntary support is not likely to offset declines in other funding sources,'' the report said. 
 Among private liberal arts colleges, the top 10 recipients were Wellesley College, $55 million; Smith, $42 million; Williams, $41 million; Middlebury, $37 million; Davidson, $34 million; Amherst, $33 million; Vassar, $31 million; Mount Holyoke, $29 million; Wesleyan University, $29 million; and Gettysburg College, $27 million.
 Nearly 1,000 institutions accounting for about 85 percent of college giving responded to the survey. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); RANKINGS (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); CHARITIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (79%); PHILANTHROPY (79%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%) Colleges and Universities; Finances; Philanthropy

COMPANY: RAND CORP (62%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); COUNCIL FOR AID TO EDUCATION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (55%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (54%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (54%) Harvard University; Stanford University; Council for Aid to Education

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (62%)

PERSON: Karen W Arenson

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



46 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: A Fed Member's View

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 2 

 BODY:
A Federal Reserve Board governor, Edward M. Gramlich, said on Wednesday that the United States economy was getting close to meeting most definitions of full employment and that inflation had been stable. 
 ''Unemployment is not far from most definitions of full employment, but yet inflation has been pretty stable,'' Mr. Gramlich said at Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa.
 ''The Fed acted aggressively against the soft spot by lowering interest rates'' and was able to bring financial markets into an equilibrium, he said.
 The unemployment rate in the United States was 5.2 percent in January. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); INTEREST RATES (83%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



47 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1564 words

HEADLINE: New Tug of War Over Excess Pension Cash

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
These are lean times for pension funds, and few companies report having more pension money than they need. But some business advocates have nevertheless begun urging Congress to let companies tap any surplus that appears in their pension funds, if and when the good times return.
 ''We think there needs to be access to the surplus,'' said Steven Kerstein, managing director of the global retirement practice for Towers Perrin, a large consulting firm. 
 A return to ''reversions'' -- the removal of surplus money from pension funds -- gives chills to pension rights advocates, who can recall the bitter fights waged over surplus pension money in the 1980's. Companies then had the ability to retrieve excess pension money more freely than now, and pension funds came to be used repeatedly to finance corporate raids -- and the raids were often followed by layoffs and other cutbacks. As a result, Congress imposed a 50 percent excise tax on pension reversions in 1990. That was steep enough to make surplus pension money lose its allure. 
 Now consulting firms and business organizations say the excise tax should be lifted, or at least reduced. They are responding to the Bush administration's proposal to establish stricter pension funding standards. Congress held several hearings on the proposal this week. The measure would require some companies to make much larger contributions to their pension funds than they now do. It would also encourage big contributions by raising the current ceiling on tax deductibility. 
 But companies will be reluctant to make big contributions as long as the excise tax impedes them from taking any excess out again, Mr. Kerstein said. 
 ''A number of companies that want to do the right thing over a long period of time are going to have surpluses,'' he said. ''And they won't want to have that cash trapped in the pension plan.''
 The problem, he and others said, is that if companies do put more money in, financial conditions could then change unexpectedly, creating a surplus in the fund. Then companies would feel they had put in too much and would have no way of getting the excess back. 
 The American Benefits Council, which represents companies with pension plans, recently issued a position paper discussing reversions, among other possible changes. It acknowledged that surplus pension money was a sensitive subject and urged Congress ''to re-examine this issue in a bipartisan manner.'' 
 ''The fear of creating unusable capital will clearly discourage many employers from maintaining defined-benefit plans,'' the council said.
 There is evidence that the excise tax did, in fact, discourage companies from contributing as much money to their pension funds as they had in previous years. Companies are required to set aside money to pay employees' pensions, but they have considerable latitude in deciding how much to set aside in any given year. In the years since the excise tax was imposed, companies have tended to contribute less, according to Richard A. Ippolito, the chief economist of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the federal pension insurer, from 1986 to 1999. 
 Mr. Ippolito analyzed the behavior of 1,900 pension plans in the years before and after the excise tax and concluded that it had caused companies to cut their pension contributions by about 20 percent. Applying this finding to the entire sector, he estimated that as of 1995, companies had withheld $218 billion to $262 billion from their pension funds. This is one reason pension funds have been so weak in the last few years, he said. 
 A second unintended consequence of the excise tax has been the proliferation of new pension-plan designs -- particularly cash-balance pension plans -- that have helped companies reap the financial benefit of a pension surplus without invoking the excise tax. Such designs existed in the 1980's, but did not take off until after the excise tax was in place. Only then did large numbers of companies convert their traditional pension plans to the cash-balance format.
 The conversions ''almost always impose substantial capital losses on workers,'' Mr. Ippolito wrote in a study of the excise tax in The Journal of Law and Economics. ''It is hard to imagine a public policy that has engendered a result so contrary to its original intent.''
 Only about 40 of the largest American companies are expected to report surplus pension money when they issue their 2004 annual reports, according to David Zion, an accountant and analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston who compiles and analyzes the pension data that large companies disclose. That was slightly fewer than in 2003, when 51 large companies reported pension surpluses, and a great decline from 1999, when 254 big corporations did. (Only about 370 of the largest companies ranked by Standard & Poor's have defined-benefit pension plans; the rest offer other types of retirement benefits that do not involve operating a pension fund.)
 Mr. Zion said that companies with surplus pension assets would not necessarily take the money out of their pension funds if the excise tax were lifted. The accounting rules have changed since the 1980's, he said, and the rules currently allow companies to include some of the projected earnings from their pension investments in their operating income. 
 ''Currently, the pension fund is a nice profit center,'' Mr. Zion said. ''They'd think twice'' before reducing it. For example, BellSouth reported the second-largest pension surplus of the big companies studied by Mr. Zion, $3 billion at the end of 2003. But Mr. Zion also found that BellSouth derived $486 million, or 8 percent of its $6.1 billion operating income that year, from pension-fund activity. Removing any surplus would reduce this effect. 
 The question of who actually owns the excess money in a pension fund has fueled big battles over the years. Workers usually assume that any pension surplus must be theirs, because the money that employers put into the pension funds is their deferred compensation. But companies tend to think that any surplus is theirs -- that they are entitled to the investment returns because they, not the workers, bear the investment risk in a defined-benefit pension plan.
 The law has helped resolve this question only in cases where a pension fund has terminated. Since the late 1930's, federal tax law has held that in that case, any excess belongs to the participants -- unless the plan contract specifically states that any excess resulting from ''erroneous actuarial computation'' belongs to the company. 
 In 1982, the Tengelmann Group of Germany made use of this loophole in an acquisition of the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company. Tengelmann wanted to close many unprofitable A.&P. supermarkets; terminate the pension fund; and use a $200 million pension surplus it had found there to finance the write-off. 
 The pension contract did not include the necessary reference to an ''erroneous actuarial computation,'' so Tengelmann's consultant inserted it. The errors were said to have resulted from using out-of-date actuarial tables, counting too many employees and making overly large contributions. The Internal Revenue Service approved the reversion in 1983. 
 Tengelmann's success aroused considerable interest, but not all companies were willing to terminate their plans and endure the wrath of their workers. They asked the I.R.S. to issue guidelines for retrieving a pension surplus without terminating the plan. In 1984, the I.R.S. complied, setting off a rush for untapped pension treasure. Thousands of pension funds were either caught up in corporate raids or whittled down, ostensibly to keep them from becoming the targets of raiders. By 1990, more than $20 billion had been siphoned out, according to Karen Friedman of the Pension Rights Center, a consumer organization.
 Much of the money helped finance corporate reorganizations and layoffs, scandalizing employees who thought the pension money was supposed to be for their income in old age. In 1986, Exxon used a huge $1.6 billion pension reversion to help cover the cost of refunds to customers the federal government accused it of overcharging. At the Alabama Dry Dock and Shipbuilding Company, a $1 million pension reversion was used to pay fines for exposing the work force to asbestos and other hazardous substances. 
 Some of the companies that pulled out enormous amounts of pension money in the 1980's turn up today on Mr. Zion's rankings of the nation's most underfunded pension plans. Exxon Mobil had the second-largest deficit in the S.&P. 500-stock index, $10.1 billion in 2003. Phillips Petroleum reverted $400 million in 1986; its successor, ConocoPhillips, had a $2.3 billion deficit in 2003. Goodyear Tire reverted $400 million in 1986; it reported a deficit of $2.7 billion in 2003.
 United Airlines reverted $254 million in 1985. It now says it cannot keep its pension plans going any longer and expects them to be taken over by the federal pension insurance agency.
 Mr. Kerstein of Towers Perrin said he thought that it would be possible to create new rules for reversions that would give companies flexibility without giving rise to the behavior that caused so much outrage in the past. 
 ''It's a whole different time,'' he said. ''I don't think companies are going to be cavalier about, 'Oh, we have a little bit of surplus, let's pull it out.''' 


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Above and Beyond''A small number of big corporations have reported that they have more money in their pension funds than needed to meet current and future obligations. Here are the largest dollar amounts and how much the pension is overfunded.General ElectricAmount of pension surplus
in millions -- $6,052Percent funded -- 116%BellSouthAmount of pension surplus
in millions -- 2,985Percent funded -- 126VerizonAmount of pension surplus
in millions -- 1,798Percent funded -- 104AT&TAmount of pension surplus
in millions -- 1,596Percent funded -- 110FPL GroupAmount of pension surplus
in millions -- 1,198Percent funded -- 180Prudential FinancialAmount of pension surplus
in millions -- 942Percent funded -- 112MeadWestvacoAmount of pension surplus
in millions -- 630Percent funded -- 125Dominion ResourcesAmount of pension surplus
in millions -- 624Percent funded -- 120SouthernAmount of pension surplus
in millions -- 586Percent funded -- 113SBC CommunicationsAmount of pension surplus
 in millions -- 537Percent funded -- 102(Source by David Zion, Credit SuisseFirst Boston)(pg. C17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); EXCISE TAX (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Law and Legislation; Excise Taxes; Tax Deductions; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Pensions and Retirement Plans

PERSON: Mary Williams Walsh; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



48 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Circuits; ONLINE SHOPPER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Trouble Lurks Amid the Roses

BYLINE: By Michelle Slatalla. 
E-mail: Slatalla@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IT was our neighbor Bruce who first noticed the trellis trouble.
 One evening while he was walking his dog, Buster, he saw us sitting on the front porch with our gin and tonics. ''You'd better get that dangerous thing fixed,'' he called to us over the hedge.
 ''What dangerous thing?'' my husband said in the tone of someone who was used to having the neighbors interrupt the twilight with complaints. 
 Bruce stopped, walked under the rose-covered arbor at the edge of our property and gestured upward. Then he looked down and said, ''Buster, stay back.''
 Obediently, the dog waited on the sidewalk, outside the danger zone. 
 ''This thing,'' Bruce called from beneath the arbor. ''Don't you realize it's about to collapse?''
 Well, no. That's not the sort of problem we'd spot, especially not in our little Northern California town, where the design aesthetic leans heavily toward the charmingly ramshackle. Part of what attracted us to the house in the first place was the obviously homemade quality of the arbor, with its gently listing trellises and the heavy weight of old-fashioned climbing roses.
 But what we had failed to realize in the two years since we bought the house was that the arbor had gradually shifted its loyalties away from charming, more fully embracing ramshackle. Was the sagging roof really a danger? Buster seemed to think so.
 Now is the time to fix the bones of a garden. It's too early to plant annuals, far too late to plant daffodils and therefore entirely appropriate to repair a nagging, sagging problem that has been keeping the neighbors awake at night. Whether it's an arbor, a gazebo, a pond or a pergola, March is the month to consider an upgrade.
 ''The timing is good, and the best gardens are very clearly and consciously thought through,'' said Philip N. Pregill, chairman of the landscape architecture program at California State Polytechnic University, Pomona. ''That means approaching them like they're a piece of architecture.'' 
 A wide variety of architectural elements is available on the Internet. From sites like woodclassics.com (which will ship teak trellises and arbors assembled or in kits) to gazebodepot.com (where you can design a gazebo online for prices starting at $2,950), gardeners can have almost any bulky item delivered to the front door.
 Academyfence.com will ship nine styles of decorative wrought iron fence in seven heights (swing gates available in five widths). Pondmarket.com sells an Economy Pond Kit ($275) that comes with ''everything needed to build a basic pond,'' including a liner, a pump, tubing, hose clamps and a dechlorinator. Mrdeck.com sells customized spiral staircases to connect your deck to your yard. (''You must first communicate your physical situation to us'' before ordering.) Geckostone.com sells concrete pavers in interlocking lizard shapes; orders must be placed through a toll-free number. The salvaged cobblestones at historicalbricks.com can be shipped nationwide (in minimum orders of 10 tons; phone to order).
 Some gardeners want to build from scratch. Others, like me, want to replace existing structures in a piecemeal fashion. (Another neighbor had in the meantime brought to our attention a wilting section of our backyard fence.) Armed with the phone number of Tony, a carpenter who has worked wonders with other fences on the block, I wondered how far to go in renovating the landscape.
 ''Think about the scale of your space and use materials in that scale,'' Professor Pregill said in a phone interview. ''That's critical. The second thing is, given that there's an inherent interrelationship between exterior and interior space, think about how the two will relate. Build the garden in response to the interior of your architectural component.''
 Build decks that naturally extend living space. Plan meandering walkways to lure visitors to hidden parts of the garden. Use an arbor or an archway as a doorway to an outdoor room.
 ''Decide how you intend people to enter the space, which will determine your lines of sight and circulation pattern,'' Professor Pregill said. ''How do you want people to move through the garden?''
 I wanted people to move through the arbor without fear of head injuries. 
 ''An arbor says entry,'' he said. ''It is a connection between the interior and exterior space. It scales down the sky, eliminating the openness of the sky to make for an effective transition into the house.''
 This was a concept the ancient Greeks understood far better than I did. In Athens, the Stoics parsed the finer points of philosophy in the open air, sitting beneath a roofed colonnade in the marketplace. Later, Roman arcades shielded walkways throughout the city.
 ''Primarily it was a Mediterranean affectation because it was a response to trying to deal with good strong sunlight, and to connect a bright, warm exterior with an interior,'' Professor Pregill said.
 All I had to do was fast-forward a few centuries to recognize that a similar impulse propelled a do-it-yourself homeowner to build a fanciful trellised arch to welcome visitors to my house.
 ''It's a mess, architecturally, but there's something about the arbor that I like,'' I said.
 ''That tells you something,'' Professor Pregill said. ''Take a good look at it and understand what it is you like.''
 Armed with a tape measure, paper and a pencil, I went outside. Careful not to stand beneath the arbor for too long, I determined that the size of the opening (with a width of 88 inches and a height of 74 inches) was unusual.
 One choice was to change the size of the opening and order a standard size suggested at sites like outdooraccents.com. But since my arbor also had been installed in a manner suggesting that the builder was suffering a fever dream -- metal bolts attached the trellis's sides to brick columns flanking the walkway -- it wasn't feasible to change the size without demolishing the columns.
 A second option was to order a custom-size arbor from a site like trellisstructures.com, a company in Massachusetts that will design a wooden garden structure from scratch and, if necessary, ship it fully assembled to your door.
 Either might turn into an expensive solution.
 I ran into Bruce and Buster the other night and told them I was considering my options.
 Bruce gazed across the road at the arbor (he and Buster have taken to walking on the sidewalk across the street, perhaps for safety reasons) and suggested another option. ''I bet Tony can fix that after he's done with the fence,'' he said.
 I felt a quick leap of hope, followed by a megalomaniacal rush. Maybe next, Tony could dig a pond.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Angela Valle) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARDENING (89%); DOGS (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (72%); INTERNET & WWW (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



49 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: White House May Accept Benefits Shift

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON; Edmund L. Andrews, David D. Kirkpatrick and Steven Greenhouse contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 2 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said Wednesday that the Bush administration would not rule out consideration of a very different approach to private investment accounts for Social Security from the one advocated so far by the White House. 
 Mr. Snow said the administration wanted to encourage the development of as many ideas as possible and that it was open to looking at personal accounts that would supplement Social Security rather than, as in the plan President Bush has proposed, replace a portion of the traditional government-paid benefit.
 Mr. Snow made it clear that Mr. Bush would prefer his approach, which is built on diverting a portion of a worker's payroll tax into a private investment account, and he predicted that the president's plan would win out in the end. And Mr. Snow cited what he said were shortcomings with the supplemental approach, which would require workers to make contributions into private accounts in addition to paying the existing payroll tax. 
 But his willingness to consider the alternative, known as an add-on account, suggested that the administration was intent on retaining as much flexibility as possible to overcome the political and substantive obstacles that have slowed Mr. Bush's drive to overhaul Social Security. 
 Republicans on Capitol Hill have been skittish about taking on Social Security, Democrats have put up a solid wall of opposition to the White House and a number of recent polls have shown support for Mr. Bush's approach to be ebbing.
 ''Right now, the more ideas the better,'' Mr. Snow said when asked whether the administration was open to an add-on account.
 Many Democrats and a few Republicans have signaled that they consider an add-on account far more appealing than Mr. Bush's approach, under which the money going into the accounts would be carved out of the payroll tax paid by workers and their employers. Democrats say that carve-out accounts are a step toward dismantling Social Security and undermining the idea of a government-provided social safety net.
 Mr. Snow, speaking at a briefing for a group of reporters, also said that he, Mr. Bush and other administration officials would spend much of the next two months traveling the nation in a campaign called ''60 Stops in 60 Days'' to convince Americans that Social Security's projected financial problems require acting now and that the solution should include individual investment accounts.
 A day after Republican leaders in Congress suggested that they might not be able to bring Social Security legislation to a vote this year, the administration's case for fast action won backing on Wednesday from Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman. Mr. Greenspan told the House Budget Committee that the imminent retirement of the baby boom generation required that Congress move quickly to avoid leaving the federal government overwhelmed by the costs of Social Security and Medicare benefits.
 ''I fear that we may have already committed more fiscal resources to the baby-boom generation in its retirement years than our economy has the capacity to deliver,'' Mr. Greenspan said. ''If existing promises need to be changed, those changes should be made sooner rather than later.''
 House Republicans gathered Wednesday for a private meeting at the Capitol Hill Club. Their leaders exhorted them to do a better job of promoting the need to overhaul Social Security. Some who attended said the meeting was more a rally to regroup behind Mr. Bush on the issue than a chance to talk about the feedback from their districts.
 Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., Republican of Florida, said his party faced two problems. ''The Congress is too far out in front of the public,'' Mr. Shaw said, ''And the second thing is there is a lot of disinformation out there being put out by the Democrats that is scaring the public.'' 
 Interest groups on both sides are rolling out expensive campaigns to influence public opinion. At their winter meeting in Las Vegas, labor leaders said they would mount a huge effort to block Mr. Bush's plans. 
 Gerald McEntee, president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, said, ''If we are able to stop George Bush in terms of this privatization effort, it probably means the day after it is voted down or withdrawn, that's the day he becomes a lame duck president for the rest of his time in the White House.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (79%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); BABY BOOMERS (60%) Social Security (US); Privatization; Social Security (US)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%) Edmund L Andrews; David D Kirkpatrick; Steven Greenhouse; Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush; John W (Sec) Snow

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



50 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; On Gritty Sidewalks, Pampered Feet; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: Spas and Hucksters Are a Funky Mix on 14th Street

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
As unlikely as it seemed, Amy Pollock -- and her feet -- found peace along 14th Street, somewhere between the dollar-bin motor oil, the bulging futons spilling into the street, and the odoriferous flow of fried chicken and burgers from every corner.
 From her perch at Acqua Beauty Bar, air blowing on her freshly painted toenails, Ms. Pollock said she felt transported from the blare of horns and hucksters just outside. ''You don't hear the traffic, you don't feel the bustle, you just relax,'' she said.
 After several decades as an outpost of $4 nightgowns, rolling suitcases and junky little wind-up toys that darted around the ankles of passing pedestrians, 14th Street is now dotted with upscale day spas, drawing in the sort of women (and occasionally men) who believe that life lived without walnut and apricot pedicures is not worth entertaining. 
 The proliferation of spas on 14th Street, as is almost always the case in New York's ever-transforming neighborhoods, is due to the convergence of several economic trends. 
 First is the overall growth of personal care industry in New York, which has provided a growing plethora of workers to knead, wax, pluck, rub and paint its residents, even during economic downturns. The number of people who received esthetician licenses from the state increased 75 percent in New York City from 2001 to 2004. 
 Since 2001, five spas have opened on 14th Street alone, joined by nearly a dozen others on surrounding streets and along Union Square. 
 There is a spa for fellows only -- Nickel Spa for Men -- and a tiny little spot, Sole, which just offers foot reflexology. There is Clay, which is attached to a giant, second-floor gym, and Simply Spa, which offers clients the chance to zoom through multiple treatments at once. Graceful Spa and Acqua Beauty Bar offer services in an environment that feels distinctly uptown.
 The owners of the spas say they were drawn by the presence of college students -- flowing from the New York University dorms that were erected on the street at the end of the 1990's, and buildings that serve the New School University, Pratt Institute and Parsons School of Design -- as well the metamorphosis of the meatpacking district.
 The street's proximity to the third-largest subway station in Manhattan, the ever-improving Union Square Park and an explosion of residential conversions around the area have combined to make the area more attractive to expensive retailers.
 ''We chose to open our spa at 14th Street because we believe it's a very trendy area,'' said Li Huang, who opened Graceful Spa late last year at 14th Street and Seventh Avenue. ''Bordering both Chelsea and the West Village with Union Square to the east and the meatpacking district to the west, the neighborhood has attracted many of the young and affluent crowds that our services are targeted toward.''
 In many ways, 14th Street remains stubbornly -- or charmingly, depending on one's point of view -- anchored in yesteryear. It was once described by the architecture writer Paul Goldberger as a street ''teeming with the sort of vulgar energy that seems so often to be the very force behind New York itself.'' The street still teems with discount stores, union halls, gritty doughnut shops and takeout places. 
 But those businesses are increasingly joined by three key signs of gentrification: expensive food, flecks of good style and rising rents.
 ''The epicenter of 14th Street is the part from University Place going west,'' said Benjamin Fox, an executive vice president of Newmark Retail LLC, a leasing agent. (Mr. Fox was reached, quite coincidentally, as he was getting a foot massage at Sole.) 
 In that area, he said, retail rents have been $200 to $300 per square foot, double the prices of three years ago. The prices shrink to less than $100 per square foot going east of Third Avenue, Mr. Fox said, but are still far above a few years ago. ''More entrepreneurial tenants are moving in and replacing tenants that have been there for years,'' he said. ''And that has been going on in New York since Peter Stuyvesant.'' 
 There are other signs of the future of 14th Street: Guitar Center and Diesel Jeans, a seller of expensive clothing, arrived a few years ago. Filene's Basement, DSW and Forever 21 have parked themselves in the once-blighted and long-empty building at the southwest corner of 14th Street and University Place, former home to Bradlees, and the final (Jimmy Choo) shoe will drop when Whole Foods opens in the spot this spring.
 Jamie Ahn, a former banker who now owns Acqua Beauty Bar, one of the first spas to open along the street, discovered the neighborhood while driving through it on her way to dinner. 
 ''I was in the final negotiations on a lease on 57th Street when I drove by and saw a 'for rent' sign,'' she said, referring to the store at 7 East 14th Street, a former Off-Track Betting parlor. ''I thought, 'Wow, the space looks amazing. You can really envision what it would be.' So I decided that instead of being saturated with other spas uptown, I thought it would be nice to be a pioneer. I really changed my mind overnight. I wanted to offer the services in an area that didn't have them.'' 
 Her neighbors in the Victoria, the apartment building above Acqua Beauty Bar, could not have been happier. 
 The building's board had labored for years to get OTB out of the building, said Robert Myrstad, a board member of Victoria Owners Corporation. Ms. Ahn opened in 2001.
 The smell of cigar smoke and urine that once assaulted residents has been replaced with the redolent wafts of ylang-ylang and cassis. Obstreperous horse bettors were out. Soignee women in pointy-toed boots in need of a purifying botanical facial came in their stead. 
 ''Acqua Beauty Bar was the first really 'designed' store on the north side of 14th Street,'' Mr. Myrstad said. ''It had brushed stainless steel, and tiles. It is beautiful looking. One thing it must mean is that there is money in this neighborhood.'' 
 The future and the past of 14th Street exist together in a curious union of inequality, with newcomers raising the prices for the old, and the old keeping the aesthetic vision of the newcomers gently but firmly arrested.
 Sole, the foot spa, rests between Second and Third Avenues, separated from the ancient Russian souvenir shop next door -- its window filled with random earrings and dusty, hand-painted nesting dolls -- by an old wrought-iron gate that stands in stark contrast to Sole's modern orange walls.
 Across the street is a check-cashing business and a tarot card reader. One must walk far to the west before chic coffee shops and bistros begin to outnumber Taco Bell and its fast-food siblings. 
 But the street, with its low-slung buildings and cast-iron facades, has enjoyed a dynamic history for centuries. Just as trendy restaurants now line Union Square Park, oyster parlors and lager beer saloons once peppered the area, leading Junius Browne, a reporter for The New York Tribune, to lament in 1869 the high costs of the food in the neighborhood which gave diners ''dyspepsia withal unless you have the stomach of an ostrich,'' according to the book ''Manhattan Manners,'' by M. Christine Boyer.
 The food has improved. But some of the rough edges remain. ''This street will never be Madison Avenue,'' said Karen H. Shaw, the executive director of the Union Square Partnership, during a walk along 14th Street last week. The partnership is largely credited with helping to revitalize the park and surrounding streets. ''But there will always be a place in the city for a funky street like this one. I think people like it. It belongs in the city.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The foot spa Sole, on the left, set up shop next to a Russian souvenir store on East 14th Street, east of Third Avenue.
Jalkin Idris, a licensed esthetician at Clay, a spa on West 14th Street, applying a facial mask for Michael Kowalski. At left, the women's locker room at Clay. (Photographs by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Jessica Higgins, a reflexologist, works on the feet of Benjamin Fox at Sole on East 14th Street. (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MASSAGE SERVICES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (74%); STUDENT HOUSING (70%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (69%); TRENDS (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (63%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (61%); TOILETRIES MFG (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



51 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1630 words

HEADLINE: Sharpening Plasma's Image

BYLINE: By ERIC A. TAUB

 BODY:
IF ever a product evoked lust in the heart, it is a plasma television. Like radial tires in the 1970's, a big flat plasma set is today's must-have technology.
 But whispers about the plasma set's shortcomings -- some old, some new -- have increased recently. Critics have focused on the technology's warts, comparing its performance unfavorably with that of liquid-crystal displays, another flat-screen technology.
 If the negatives stick, it may mean trouble for LG Electronics, Panasonic, Philips, Samsung and Sony, all companies that continue to invest billions of dollars to produce plasma and L.C.D. sets. 
 To address questions about plasma's image quality, life span, power consumption and other characteristics, several of these companies have started campaigns to change public opinion.
 ''The early versions of plasma had some issues, like product life and image burn-in,'' said Jeff Cove, vice president and general manager for Panasonic's consumer electronics group. ''But old news is coloring how people perceive the product. It was absolutely not affecting the business, but it could affect it.''
 Samsung is hearing the whispers as well. ''We have significant stakes in both businesses, and plasma is getting the short shrift,'' said Jim Sanduski, vice president for marketing of the company's visual display products group. 
 Larry Weber, one of the inventors of plasma technology, said that recent publicity, right or wrong, about how L.C.D. sets would eventually take over the large-screen market could only hurt plasma sales. ''It makes sense that plasma companies should speak out,'' he said.
 And so they are. At the Consumer Electronics Show in January in Las Vegas, Panasonic executives conducted side-by-side demonstrations of the two technologies, in which criticism of the plasma set's performance was systematically rebutted. 
 In casual conversations, the presidents of Panasonic, the world's top-selling plasma brand, and Samsung, which ranks third, promoted their strong commitment to plasma, even though no one was actually asking. 
 The problem is that once a product's reputation falls in a hole, it is not so easy to get it out. ''You hear blatant lies about plasma,'' said Danielle Levitas, a senior analyst at IDC, a research firm. 
 Faced with whispers of plasma's faults on one hand and a vigorous defense by manufacturers on the other, what is a consumer to do? 
 A potential flat-screen buyer could look at two sets, side by side, and decide which one is better: plasma, which has thousands of tiny gas tubes that light up to create pixels, or L.C.D., which has a constant light source and uses the crystals to let varying amounts of light through for each pixel.
 But a video picture that looks great in the showroom may look terrible at home, or vice versa. ''TV's are shipped with the brightness and contrast maxed out,'' said Gerard Catapano, manager of testing in the electronics division for Consumer Reports. ''The manufacturers want you to be wowed by it, so the visual characteristics are peaked.''
 There are objective ways to compare the performance of L.C.D. and plasma sets. Here are some of the differences between the two.

Screen Size
 Plasma sets are not made in sizes smaller than about 37 inches because it is too difficult to squeeze a large number of plasma pixels into a smaller screen. Making L.C.D. sets in sizes larger than about 32 inches has not been economical because factories have not been able to create several larger viewing panels from one piece of glass.
 But new plants, which can produce multiple L.C.D. screens from a single sheet of glass, are starting to operate. As part of a venture between Samsung and Sony, a new plant will be able to produce 40-inch L.C.D. sets in the spring. In October 2006, Sharp will open a plant designed to produce 45- and 50-inch L.C.D. sets, sizes that plasma offers. 
 All the new production capability should mean a continuing drop in prices for L.C.D. sets. A 42-inch L.C.D. set that cost $4,500 last year will fall to $1,700 by 2008, said Ross Young, president of DisplaySearch, a company that researches flat panel sets. 
 Prices for plasma sets should decline as well. Last year a typical 42-inch high-definition model cost about $4,200. By 2008 it should cost about $1,800, not much more than an L.C.D. of the same size.
 ''The challenge for plasma is that it has a fairly narrow sweet spot,'' said Greg Gudorf, vice president for television marketing for Sony Electronics. Above 50 inches, rear-projection sets that use Digital Light Processing or other technologies can be more attractive to consumers because they are less expensive without much of a difference in picture quality, Mr. Gudorf said.

Resolution
 To keep plasma prices down, some manufacturers have been selling what they call enhanced definition sets rather than true high-definition models. Each receives a high-definition television signal, but the enhanced definition model has fewer pixels, and thus lower resolution.
 But even most high-definition plasma sets have a lower resolution than an L.C.D. set. The image may look as sharp, however, depending on distance from the set. From an average viewing distance of 10 feet, Mr. Weber said, the eye cannot distinguish pixels that are smaller than about a millimeter. So making them smaller to squeeze more into a given area will not necessarily improve the picture quality. At 10 feet, a 42-inch high-definition plasma display has an adequate resolution, Mr. Weber said. 
 But as with high-powered cars, people want performance whether they need it or not. So some people opt for the higher resolution numbers of L.C.D. sets, even if it is hard to tell the difference.

Contrast
 To look good, a television image needs to display a true white and a deep black. Manufacturers claim plasma displays have a contrast ratio of 3,000 to 1, while L.C.D. specifications are lower, around 800 to 1.
 But numbers do not tell the entire story. In brightly lighted rooms, L.C.D. panels will appear to have much higher contrast; room light hitting a plasma set bounces off the screen's phosphors. As a result, its blacks will appear to be gray and muddied. Less light is reflected off an L.C.D. screen because of its polarizers and color filters.
 The situation will be reversed when the lights are off. Without any ambient room light, the plasma set's picture contrast looks to be equal or better than the L.C.D.'s. 
 To create black in a plasma set, Mr. Weber points out, the gas discharge activity in the pixels is decreased. But in an L.C.D. set, black is created by blocking light. And liquid crystals have a difficult time blocking light at all angles.
 Some believe there is little difference between L.C.D. and plasma sets once the lights are down. ''In a dimly lit room, L.C.D. and plasma TV's perform equally well,'' Mr. Catapano of Consumer Reports said.

Color Reproduction
 Plasma sets can display a wider range, or gamut, of colors, than L.C.D sets. But that gap will soon narrow. Sony recently announced the Qualia 005, an L.C.D. set that uses light-emitting diodes rather than a fluorescent backlight, raising the L.C.D. color gamut above that of plasma's. 
 But this new L.C.D. technology is still very expensive: when introduced in the spring, the 46-inch Qualia model will sell for $12,000. Samsung will introduce a 40-inch L.E.D.-based L.C.D. set for $9,000, a premium of $5,000 compared with its standard model. ''But prices for this technology should come down pretty quickly,'' Mr. Sanduski said.

Brightness
 Plasma creates a brighter pixel by increasing the charge applied to the gas. When very bright scenes are displayed, the electrical charge is lowered to prevent the display from overheating; but this also cuts overall brightness.
 An L.C.D. screen, with its constant backlight, may be perceived by some people as producing livelier images. 
 ''The L.C.D. image seems punchier than the plasma,'' Mr. Catapano said.

Burn-In and Panel Life
 L.C.D. monitors are not subject to burn-in, or the tendency of static images to leave a ghostlike image on the screen. And while L.C.D. backlight bulbs can be replaced, when a plasma set's image decreases sufficiently, it is time to buy a new set.
 Plasma's advocates say the burn-in problem is gone. And while early plasma displays lasted about 10,000 hours before the panel's brightness decreased by half, today's sets have a brightness half-life of about 60,000 hours.
 Some manufacturers like Panasonic incorporate technology to reduce plasma burn-in by slightly shifting the image. And manufacturers caution users that the first 100 hours are especially critical to avoiding image burn-in.

Power Consumption
 Plasma sets are said to use considerably more power than similarly sized L.C.D. models. But Mr. Weber argues that because L.C.D. panels have a constant backlight, while plasma uses power only when a pixel is lighted, power consumption is almost the same.
 But not everyone agrees. When Consumer Reports tested power consumption, it found that a 30-inch L.C.D. consumed 133.5 watts, while a 42-inch plasma used 346.5 watts.
 Some of the difference is attributable to the larger size of the plasma set, Mr. Catapano said. But not most of it. ''A plasma TV has three power supplies for one set. That's pretty significant,'' he said.

When the Novelty Ends
 So, who wins? Judging picture quality is not like keeping score at a ballgame.
 Mr. Gudorf of Sony says brightness, contrast, color and viewing angle must be examined in concert. ''If you focus on just one without examining the others, you won't be happy,'' he said.
 Whether one buys a plasma or an L.C.D. set, the novelty of having either will eventually wear off. ''At first, you're enamored with it, and after a while you see the imperfections,'' Mr. Catapano said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: PICTURE THESE -- Philips offered an extensive display of plasma television sets at the Consumer Electronics Show in January in Las Vegas. (Photo by Mike Blake/Reuters)(pg. G1)
 IN FULL VIEW -- Above, plasma and liquid-crystal-display sets side by side at a store in Manhattan. Left, a worker at the Samsung booth at the Las Vegas electronics show displayed an L.C.D. monitor next to the company's largest plasma set. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. G6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLASMA TELEVISIONS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); TIRES (73%); TRADE SHOWS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LG ELECTRONICS INC (57%); PANASONIC CORP (57%)

TICKER: LGLD (LSE) (57%); 066570 (KSE) (57%); PC (NYSE) (57%); 6752 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



52 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: A Tale of Connections, Tiny Ones Made And Far Greater Ones Lost Forever

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
A deadpan comedy shot through with a vein of despair, the Uruguayan film ''Whisky'' is a pint-size pleasure. The story of two souls seemingly stuck in neutral (with a third in relentless drive), the film is a model of both fiscal and narrative economy, and the kind of work -- gleaned from the mysteries of consciousness, telling quotidian details and a sense of aesthetic proportion -- that is too often missing from American independent cinema.
 On the first anniversary of his mother's death, Jacobo Koller (Andres Pazos), the owner of a small, struggling sock factory, asks his most attentive employee, Marta Acuna (Mirella Pascual), to spend a few days at his home for a little subterfuge because his brother, Herman (Jorge Bolani), is arriving for a visit. It takes some time to realize that Jacobo asks because there is no one else to ask; why Marta agrees is another matter. 
 An exemplary employee, Marta is inevitably the first at the factory gate and the last to leave; out of loyalty, routine or character, she is faithful. The question of whether that faithfulness has anything to do with Jacobo is what makes ''Whisky'' somewhat of a mystery, though one of the human heart.
 The film's directors, Juan Pablo Rebella and Pablo Stoll, who wrote the screenplay with Gonzalo Delgado Galiana, build the story through minor gestures, shards of conversation and a modestly beautiful mise-en-scene. No one in the film explains how or why he or she arrived at this moment in time (we do learn that Herman arrives by plane); the important thing is that they are in the here and now. Gray and taciturn, at once recognizable and opaque, Jacobo sags as if burdened by his deteriorating factory, but he might have just been born sullen. Like Marta, with her creased face and fondness for stealing an occasional cigarette, Jacobo is a question mark of a character, one the filmmakers are in no hurry to explain.
 Something happens in ''Whisky''; indeed, several things happen, none really significant, but nevertheless profound. Marta and Jacobo have their photograph taken, thereby explaining the title of the film: ''Say whisky,'' demands the photographer, coaxing smiles as rare and precious as jewels. Along with Herman, the couple travel to a resort town where they stir up memories, test loyalties and make the acquaintance of a pair of newlyweds whose intimacy is a reminder of what might have been -- or not. In a series of shabby rooms, in nighttime rambles and awkward meals, Marta, Jacobo and Herman navigate around one another through silences and lurching conversation. Sometimes they connect, often they do not, and such is the story of ordinary life artfully and touchingly told. 

'Whisky'
Opens today in Manhattan.

Directed by Juan Pablo Rebella and Pablo Stoll; written (in Spanish, with English subtitles) by Mr. Rebella, Mr. Stoll and Gonzalo Delgado Galiana; director of photography, Barbara Alvarez; edited by Fernando Epstein; music by Pequena Orquesta Reincidentes; art director, Mr. Delgado Galiana; produced by Mr. Epstein; released by the Global Film Initiative. At the MoMA Roy and Niuta Titus Theater 1, 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan. Running time: 94 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Andres Pazos (Jacobo Koller), Mirella Pascual (Marta Acuna), Jorge Bolani (Herman Koller) and Ana Katz and Daniel Hendler (young married couple).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andres Pazos and Mirella Pascual in Juan Pablo Rebella's ''Whisky.'' (Photo by Global Film Initiative)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); HOSIERY & SOCK MILLS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



53 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Shoppers: What's the Real Price?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Don't Blame Wal-Mart,'' by Robert B. Reich (Op-Ed, Feb. 28), suggests that the best way to forestall the substantial economic and social problems associated with Wal-Mart is to change federal labor and offshoring laws. 
 That's a good idea, but since we don't all have a finger on those legislative buttons, our best alternative is to exercise the consumer-citizen choice he describes in favor of the citizen -- and say ''no'' to Wal-Mart in New York. 
 Mr. Reich says that he loves a deal but bemoans the negative effects that come with it. Some of us prefer not to be tempted. 
 Now Wal-Mart knows that if it wants to do business here, it does it our way or not at all. And we don't have to rely on the creaky legislative process to accomplish this.

Mark Solomon
New York, Feb. 28, 2005


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Aaron Meshon) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (93%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (93%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



54 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Shoppers: What's the Real Price?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Robert B. Reich makes a good argument about the Faustian bargain we make as both consumers and workers. 
 But he does not mention the other side of the equation, that Wal-Mart is also engaged in such a bargain. After all, the natural result of the Wal-Mart strategy would be to eliminate the ability of American workers to afford to shop at these stores. 
 As a corporation -- and as a major economic force -- Wal-Mart has a duty to act in a socially responsible manner. I'm sure that if Wal-Mart were to provide the benefits Mr. Reich recommends, its shoppers would be more than happy to pay a few cents more for their purchases.

Tim Brill
Ithaca, N.Y., March 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (93%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (93%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



55 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Shoppers: What's the Real Price?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Robert B. Reich misses a critical point. Wal-Mart puts pressure on its suppliers to cut costs to ensure that its customers' needs are filled most ''economically.'' 
 Consequently, even more of our products and services are declining in quality, poor quality has become acceptable and we've become a throw-away society. 
 Indeed, small suppliers have been ''thrown away'' by Wal-Mart when they could cut costs no further.
 Waste and low quality, then, join the low wages of most of Wal-Mart's 1.2 million American employees. All three negatively affect our society and economy. 
 Wal-Mart contributes hugely to the substandard quality of life of millions of our citizens. 
 Yes, I blame Wal-Mart.

Linda Nottingham
Statesboro, Ga., Feb. 28, 2005

The writer is an assistant professor of management at Georgia Southern University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGIA SOUTHERN UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (94%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



56 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Fed Chairman Says Deficits Must Be Reduced Soon
Alan Greenspan warned that the federal budget deficits are ''unsustainable,'' and urged Congress to consider both spending cuts and tax increases as possible solutions.
 He also warned that the costs of the baby boom generation as it ages, particularly as they will play out in Social Security and Medicare, were potent forces threatening to drive the deficits even higher. [Page A1.]

Cablevision Names 4 Directors
In a sign of the escalating battle between Charles F. Dolan, Cablevision's founder, and James L. Dolan, his son and the company's chief executive, Charles Dolan named four new directors to Cablevision's board. [C6.]

Chiron Allowed to Make Flu Vaccine
Shares of Chiron rose more than 6 percent after the company received permission to resume production of flu vaccine in time to avoid another shortage next winter. The action was taken by health regulators in Britain, who last October suspended Chiron's manufacturing license because of bacterial contamination and quality-control problems at its plant in Liverpool, where much of the United States' supply is made. [A26.]

Hedge Fund Managers Buying Art
Steven A. Cohen, who runs SAC Capital, is typical of several young billionaire hedge fund managers using their money to invest in some of the world's most recognizable art. [A1.]

US Airways Is Called Vulnerable
US Airways may be vulnerable to another service collapse like the one that stranded 50,000 people at Christmas because it plans to force flight attendants to work more hours in busy periods, a government report said. [C2.]

Citi Settles Global Crossing Suit
Citigroup said that it would pay $75 million to settle a lawsuit brought by investors over its role in the collapse of Global Crossing. [C2.]

E.D.S. in Talks for British Contract
Britain is negotiating exclusively with a team led by Electronic Data Systems for a $4 billion communications systems overhaul, a sign that fortunes may be shifting for the beleaguered company. Market Place. [C9.]

Verizon Gives MCI Two Weeks
Verizon, which had been set to buy MCI for $6.75 billion, granted MCI two weeks to further consider an $8 billion offer from Qwest. [C6.]

An Entrepreneurial Boot Camp
Izhar Shay, left, the chief executive of V-Secure Technologies, which helps companies prevent attacks on their computer systems, is a veteran of the Israeli Army. He says a disproportionate number of Israeli veterans begin their own businesses, often in highly competitive technical fields, because the Israeli military trains its soldiers to think quickly and act nimbly, adjusting to circumstances as they arise. Small Business. [C7.]

Yukos Not Part of Big Merger
The Yukos oil company will be run as a stand-alone company when the Russian government merges Gazprom and Rosneft. [C8.]

A Second Union Effort in Canada
Workers at a Wal-Mart store in Windsor, Ontario, that employs 200 will try to form a union for a second time. [C8.]

Higher Oil Prices Send Stocks Down
Stocks fell as the price of oil rose 2.7 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 18.03 points, to 10,811.97; the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.33 of a point, to 1,210.08; and the Nasdaq composite index decreased 3.75 points, to 2,067.50. [C9.]

Roadblock for Social Security Plan
Disability insurance poses a major obstacle for President Bush's plan for personal accounts under the Social Security program. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,811.97 down 18.03Nasdaq composite -- 2,067.50 down 3.7510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.38 up 0.01The euro -- $1.3129 down 0.0054The dollar -- 104.67 yen up 0.41Graph tracks Chiron's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ARMIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); VACCINES (75%); VETERANS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); MERGERS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (70%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (69%); INFLUENZA (69%); ANTIVIRALS (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); CHRISTMAS (68%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); MILITARY TRAINING (64%); LITIGATION (63%); ARMED FORCES (60%); MEDICARE (58%); QUALITY CONTROL (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (82%); OAO NK YUKOS (80%); OAO GAZPROM (60%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (55%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (53%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (50%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (82%); VZ (NYSE) (82%); OGZD (LSE) (60%); GAZP (RTS) (60%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); LCC (NYSE) (55%); ROSN (RTS) (50%); ROSN (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (80%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (60%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (60%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (60%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (60%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (53%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: CHARLES DOLAN (88%); JAMES L DOLAN (78%); ALAN GREENSPAN (74%); STEVEN COHEN (55%); STEVEN A COHEN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ONTARIO, CANADA (50%) ISRAEL (93%); CANADA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



57 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Shares Decline as Oil Prices Push Past $53 a Barrel

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday as spiking oil prices reawakened concerns about increased corporate costs, but investors took reassurance from remarks by the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, that signaled no change in interest rate policy.
 Crude oil futures surged above $53 a barrel, a four-month high, after a series of refinery problems in Texas spurred fresh buying.
 Rising oil prices reduce the stock market in general as they raise costs for companies and consumers, although they bolster energy companies. Exxon Mobil rose nearly 1 percent, or 58 cents, to $62.68, while ChevronTexaco rose 1 percent, or 63 cents, to $61.57. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average declined 18.03 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,811.97. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.33 of a point, or 0.03 percent, to 1,210.08. The Nasdaq composite index decreased 3.75 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,067.50.
 Earlier, the Dow touched an intraday high not seen in three and a half years and the S.&P. hit a two-month intraday high after investors were reassured by remarks from Mr. Greenspan.
 He said the economy was growing at a ''reasonably good pace,'' which strategists took to mean that the Fed would maintain the status quo of steady interest rate increases rather than aggressive ones. That aided financial stocks like Citigroup, which ended up 25 cents, at $48.13.
 ''I didn't think there was anything surprising'' in the Greenspan comments, said Owen Fitzpatrick, head of the United States Equity Group at Deutsche Bank Private Wealth Management. ''Everything's been pretty well telegraphed.''
 ''And I think there was a lack of anything to worry the market,'' he said. ''The market has definitely priced in quite a few rate hikes, and while it's not being ignored, it's definitely priced in.''
 Some strategists noted that the market was struggling to break through peaks made in December.
 ''Every time we try to take out the prior peak we fail,'' said Elliot Spar, market strategist with Ryan Beck & Company. ''Crude up over $53 a barrel will be bothering some people.''
 The April contract for crude oil settled up $1.37, or 2.7 percent, at $53.05 a barrel. Stocks sensitive to high oil prices fell.
 FedEx was down nearly 1 percent, or 94 cents, to $97.16. United Parcel Service fell 51 cents, to $76.91.
 Insurers fell after The Wall Street Journal reported that federal and New York regulators were considering expanding their investigations of the insurance industry, saying tipsters had urged the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, to reopen an inquiry into the American International Group's past ties to Coral Reinsurance, a reinsurer based in Barbados.
 Shares of A.I.G. fell 2 percent, or $1.36, to $65.06. The stock also went ex-dividend; after yesterday, investors who buy the stock will not be entitled to the latest dividend.
 William Blair, an analyst with Mark Lane, said the Journal article was ''more of the same'' bad news about the company and was helping pull its shares lower.
 Chiron increased 6 percent, or $2.27, to $37.69. British regulators gave approval for Chiron's flu vaccine plant in Liverpool to start production again, which should help ensure supplies for the next flu season.
 Earnings at Costco Wholesale, a warehouse club, rose nearly 35 percent, but profit missed analysts' expectations. Shares of Costco fell 3.6 percent, or $1.69, to $45.02.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note fell 2/32, to a price of 97. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.38 percent, from 4.37 percent on Tuesday.
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond dropped 10/32, to 10916/32. The bond's yield edged up to 4.73 percent, from 4.71 percent.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FUTURES (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); REINSURANCE (62%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); CHEVRON CORP (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (51%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%); XOM (NYSE) (57%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); CVX (NYSE) (57%); DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%); UPS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (51%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); ELIOT SPITZER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); BARBADOS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



58 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Syria Under Pressure: Worse Trouble May Lie Ahead

BYLINE: By HASSAN M. FATTAH; Katherine Zoepf contributed reporting from Damascus for this article.

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, March 2 

 BODY:
After decades of controlling Lebanon's political and economic life, Syria is facing the prospect of political and economic tumult as its hold over Lebanon grows weaker. 
 Under increasing pressure to withdraw its troops from Lebanon, the Syrian government of Bashar al-Assad is showing signs of a siege mentality, many opposition figures say. On Wednesday, President Bush, in his bluntest terms yet, insisted that Syria leave Lebanon. 
 In recent weeks, the Syrian government has cracked down on hard-won freedoms, censoring publications more heavily and increasing pressure on opposition figures. Last week, professors at some Syrian universities were given directives not to discuss subjects like Lebanon, the Kurdish minority or Rafik Hariri, the former Lebanese prime minister who was assassinated in Beirut two weeks ago. And people in Damascus expect worse to come. 
 Like his father before him, Mr. Assad has tried to deal with his problems by closing ranks within his government while scrambling to buy time. Last week, for example, he announced that Syria would pull out of Lebanon, and in an interview with Time magazine published Tuesday, he said he expected the job to be done in a matter of months. But so far, many Syrians say, Mr. Assad has proved less adept than his father at playing political cat-and-mouse. 
 ''We are in the corner now,'' said Youssef Marish, publisher of Al Mobky, a weekly review of culture whose most recent issue was blocked by Syrian censors for being too critical regarding current events. ''The problem is that pressure will never stop, not even when we leave Lebanon.''
 In an interview with the Italian newspaper La Repubblica published Monday, Mr. Assad said he thought that the United States might be preparing for military action against Syria. ''Washington has imposed sanctions on us and isolated us in the past, but each time the circle hasn't closed around us,'' he said. ''If, however, you ask me if I'm expecting an armed attack, well, I've seen it coming since the end of the war in Iraq.'' 
 A Syrian official subsequently denied that Mr. Assad had made the comments. 
 Mr. Bush, referring Wednesday to a joint news conference held Tuesday in London by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Foreign Minister Michel Barnier of France, said, ''I applauded the press conference she held with the foreign minister from France, where both of them stood up and said loud and clear to Syria, you get your troops and your secret services out of Lebanon so that good democracy has a chance to flourish.''
 The Damascus government's lose-lose choices are exemplified by conflicting reports over the weekend that Iraqi officials had credited Syria with help in handing over 30 members of Saddam Hussein's government, including Sabawi Ibrahim al-Hassan al-Tikriti, Mr. Hussein's half brother. Rather than seize the opportunity to appear to be cooperating with the Iraqi and American authorities, however, Syrian officials denied the reports, fearing that it would amount to an admission that Syria does in fact harbor Hussein loyalists. The Bush administration's contention that Syria has been aiding Iraq's insurgency is a primary source of cool relations between the nations.
 ''The circulation of such false news is part of the pressure campaign launched by the United States,'' said Ahmad al-Haj Ali, an adviser to Syria's Ministry of Information. ''They want to say that Syria had always been harboring insurgents but never admitted it. And they want to say that pressure should therefore be kept on Syria.''
 Nonetheless, other Syrian officials emphasized that if Mr. Hassan had been seized in Syria, it could have happened only with the government's help. 
 ''If they found Sabawi Ibrahim in Syria, they found him through the efforts of Syrian intelligence,'' said Muhammad Habash, a member of Syria's Parliament.
 Lingering accusations that Syria was behind a terrorist suicide bombing in Tel Aviv late Friday night are proving even more damaging. Islamic Jihad took responsibility for the bombing, but six hours later, denied the initial claim, apparently under pressure from the government. The Syrian reporter who first wrote of Islamic Jihad's acknowledgement was said to have received phone calls from Syrian officials who criticized him for his lack of ''patriotism.'' 
 That only served to highlight the weakening grip Syria has over political groups and militias that it has supported and that in the past would have worked in close cooperation with the government. Instead, say opposition figures, many now appear to be pursuing their own interests. 
 ''The problem is everything is being done against their will,'' Michel Kilo, a prominent Syrian opposition member, said of the government. ''But politics as usual simply can't provide the diplomacy needed now.''
 Yet even as the government in Damascus shows signs of strain, years of one-party rule have left no viable opposition capable of filling its shoes. 
 For several years, Syria's leaders have looked to China as a model for survival, encouraging economic and judicial change in hopes of increasing economic growth, while avoiding political reform. But with the threat of more economic sanctions, that plan risks collapsing.
 The fundamental problem, said Mr. Kilo, the opposition member, is that the government will not seek change unless it gets something in return. ''They are open to reform only if they get international assurances that at the end of the reform, the regime will survive,'' he said.
 But change, Mr. Kilo said, would ultimately mean the end of the government, and ''they see that if they fix themselves, they will die.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 5, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A news analysis article on Thursday about the possibility of political and economic tumult in Syria because of recent events in the Middle East referred incorrectly in some copies to the day of the most recent terrorist suicide bombing in Tel Aviv, for which Israel has blamed Syria. It was Feb. 25, not 26.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (84%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); PUBLISHING (75%); CENSORSHIP (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (67%); IRAQ WAR (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%) Freedom and Human Rights

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%) Hassan M Fattah; Bashar Al- (Pres) Assad

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) SYRIA (98%); LEBANON (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); FRANCE (90%) Syria; Syria

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



59 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: GREENSPAN SAYS BUDGET DEFICITS CAN'T CONTINUE

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 2 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, warned on Wednesday that the federal budget deficits were ''unsustainable,'' and he urged Congress to scrutinize both spending and taxes to solve the problem. 
 Mr. Greenspan also warned that the deficits could be driven sharply higher by costs connected to the aging of the baby boom generation, particularly entitlement programs like Social Security and Medicare. While reiterating his support for President Bush's plan to offer private accounts as part of overhauling Social Security, Mr. Greenspan urged lawmakers to tackle the program's problems now, rather than later. 
 The assessment was Mr. Greenspan's gloomiest to date about the government's budget straits. Unless Congress takes major action to reduce the deficits, preferably, he said, by deep cuts in spending, annual budgetary shortfalls will continue and closing those gaps will become even more difficult. 
 Though Mr. Greenspan has made similar pleas in the past, he spoke more urgently on Wednesday and disagreed more adamantly with Republican lawmakers and Mr. Bush, who have steadfastly refused to put restrictions on new tax cuts.
 ''Addressing the government's own imbalances will require scrutiny of both spending and taxes,'' Mr. Greenspan told members of the House Budget Committee. ''However, tax increases of sufficient dimension to deal with our looming fiscal problems arguably pose significant risks to economic growth and the revenue base.''
 The Fed chairman emphasized that his own preference was to reduce deficits by cutting spending rather than raising taxes. But he said the ''overriding principle'' was to reduce the deficit, making compromise essential.
 ''It's the principle that I think is involved here, namely that you cannot continuously introduce legislation which tends to expand the budget deficit,'' Mr. Greenspan said.
 The Fed chairman's tone, as he addressed the House Budget Committee on Wednesday, was noticeably more urgent than it was last year or even in Congressional hearings just a few weeks ago. 
 ''When you begin to do the arithmetic of what the rising debt level implied by the deficits tells you, and you add interest costs to that ever-rising debt, at ever-higher interest rates, the system becomes fiscally destabilizing,'' he told lawmakers. ''Unless we do something to ameliorate it in a very significant manner,'' he added, ''we will be in a state of stagnation.'' 
 White House officials played down Mr. Greenspan's remarks, noting that he had placed top priority on reduced government spending and that Mr. Bush had vowed to reduce the budget deficit by half by 2009.
 ''The president does have a substantial deficit-reduction package,'' said Trent Duffy, a White House spokesman. ''His budget is a continuation of that policy, and he looks forward to working with Congress in cutting that spending down. Likewise, the president agrees that the long-term budget is the issue, which is why he's trying to lead a national discussion and reform movement to save and strengthen Social Security.''
 Mr. Greenspan's comments deepened a long-running disagreement between the Federal Reserve and the White House, and they come at a moment when House and Senate leaders are trying to hammer out a budget resolution or blueprint for tax and spending bills this year. 
 Mr. Greenspan, a Republican, has long argued that Congress should reinstate rules that would require lawmakers to offset the cost of tax cuts and new spending programs with savings in other areas.
 Mr. Bush and his Republican allies in Congress have insisted that any such ''pay as you go'' restrictions, which existed in the 1990's, apply only to new spending and not to new tax cuts. 
 Reinstating the previous budget rules would make it far more difficult, if not almost impossible, for Congress to extend permanently Mr. Bush's tax cuts of 2001 and 2003.
 Extending all of the expiring tax cuts add about $1.8 trillion to the federal debt over 10 years, according to the Congressional Budget Office. That would come on top of a rapid escalation in the federal debt from $3.4 trillion to $4.3 trillion as a result of soaring annual deficits since 2001.
 House and Senate lawmakers are hoping to unveil a budget resolution as early as next week, and many Republicans want to include provisions that would allow the Senate to approve tax cuts this year with a simple majority of 51 votes. Without a budget resolution, Senate rules effectively require that such tax cuts be approved by a two-thirds majority.
 None of Mr. Bush's big tax cuts are scheduled to expire this year, but the 2003 tax cuts on stock dividends and capital gains are to expire in 2008, and the other big tax cuts are all to expire by the end of 2011.
 Making all of those tax cuts permanent, as Mr. Bush wants, would add about $1.8 trillion to the federal debt over 10 years, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office says.
 In addition to calling for a return to the tough budget rules of the 1990's, the last of which expired in 2002, Mr. Greenspan urged Congress to adopt a mechanism that would allow for a ''midcourse correction'' in the event that budget deficits turn out to be sharply higher than expected.
 That is another idea that the White House and Republican legislators have previously rejected, and it is one that is unlikely to be embraced this year.
 Representative Jim Nussle, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the House Budget Committee, immediately took issue with Mr. Greenspan on the need for restrictions on future tax cuts.
 ''I would hate to see an arbitrary rule,'' Mr. Nussle said, noting that Democrats had bitterly opposed Mr. Bush's proposal to reduce taxes on dividends and capital gains -- a tax cut that Mr. Greenspan endorsed in 2003 and said on Wednesday should be made permanent.
 But Mr. Greenspan stood firm, contending that the ''overriding'' principle was to reduce the deficit and that Congress should find ways to pay for the cost of making the tax cuts permanent.
 ''Differing people hold differing views, and compromise is essential in getting a functioning legislature to work its will,'' Mr. Greenspan said.
 In his testimony on Wednesday, Mr. Greenspan repeated his strong support for a crucial element of Mr. Bush's plan to replace part of Social Security with a system of private savings accounts.
 Indeed, Mr. Greenspan implied the need for much bigger cuts than Mr. Bush has suggested in the government's full array of old-age entitlement programs, including Medicare as well as Social Security.
 ''I fear that we may have already committed more fiscal resources to the baby boom generation in its retirement years than our economy has the capacity to deliver,'' he told lawmakers. ''If existing promises need to be changed, those changes should be made sooner rather than later.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Addressing the government's own imbalances will require scrutiny of both spending and taxes,'' Alan Greenspan said yesterday. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET DEFICITS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MEDICARE (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Taxation

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Edmund L Andrews; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



60 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: Taking Down the 'No Foreign Cars' Signs in Michigan

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 2 

 BODY:
At many union halls in Michigan, signs on parking lots still warn that foreign-made cars ''will be towed away at owner's expense.'' 
 So why is Michigan's Democratic governor, Jennifer M. Granholm, pushing so hard to close a sweetheart land deal with Toyota Motor?
 The answer: Because the domestic auto industry, the engine of the state's economy in the 20th century, is sputtering in the 21st. With 7 of Michigan's 10 largest employers either domestic automakers or parts suppliers, Michigan's unemployment hit 7.3 percent in December. That tied with Alaska's as worst in the nation, according to the most recent report from the Labor Department; numbers released by Michigan on Wednesday adjusted December's unemployment down to 7.5 percent, but showed some improvement in January. 
 General Motors and the Ford Motor Company, two of the state's three largest employers, said Tuesday that their sales continued to fall last month. With both company's shares trading near annual lows, they are cutting the number of cars and trucks they plan to produce. G.M.'s production cuts are particularly deep, spreading economic distress across the region. That has left Ms. Granholm little choice but to redouble the efforts to diversify, both beyond cars and towards other carmakers. 
 ''Clearly our fortune has been tied to the Big Three and, if they're declining in market share, then our employment situation declines,'' said Ms. Granholm in a recent interview. ''If we are to succeed we must diversify and diversify in a big way.'' 
 That includes wooing Toyota, the company that has taken more business away from the Big Three -- G.M., Ford and the Chrysler division of DaimlerChrysler -- than any other. Michigan is currently fighting in court to push through a deal to sell public land to Toyota that would allow the company to expand a technical center near the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. A developer who outbid Toyota by $16 million has sued to block the deal, but courts have sided with the state. 
 ''If we want to further our position as the automotive capital of the world, if we want to have international investment here, whether it's Toyota or Hyundai or Mitsubishi, you name it, the German auto manufacturers, we're going to be aggressive,'' Ms. Granholm said.
 Ms. Granholm, 46, is a Canadian-born governor with a common touch and a knack for managing policy minutia -- like a Hillary Clinton with a dollop of Oprah. At a recent speech in Kalamazoo, Mich., she strolled, microphone in hand, through an audience gathered near the entrance to the local chamber of commerce. She was cajoling promises from children to go to college, pitching her plan to turn the state around and cheerleading. ''We have a huge inferiority complex,'' she told the crowd. ''We don't want our motto to be 'Michigan, no worse than the rest!'''
 Some Democrats think that if efforts to let foreign-born politicians like Arnold Schwarzenegger run for president succeed, Ms. Granholm could make a viable candidate. 
 First, though, she has to overcome a tremendous challenge on the home front. Two years into her four-year term, her cash-strapped state is being squeezed from all directions. 
 On Tuesday, G.M. said its February sales fell 12.6 percent and it would produce 10 percent fewer vehicles in the second quarter than a year before. On Wednesday, in a note to investors titled ''G.M. Meltdown,'' a Merrill Lynch analyst, John Casesa, said the company's production cuts put earnings of major domestic suppliers of auto parts ''at risk.'' The two largest American suppliers, the Delphi Corporation and the Visteon Corporation, already have junk bond ratings and are wading through red ink. The Lear Corporation, which makes auto seats and interiors, sharply scaled back its earnings projections on Tuesday. All three suppliers are larger employers in Michigan than Chrysler.
 To survive, many suppliers are shifting jobs to countries like China, where a typical parts worker costs less than a tenth of what such a worker in the United States costs. And while Toyota and other foreign automakers are increasingly assembling cars in North America, they are generally either building their plants far to the south in Mexico or in antiunion states like Alabama and Mississippi. Or they are building them to the north. Last year, Ontario became the largest auto-producing state or province on the continent, knocking Michigan from a perch it has held since the dawn of the industry. 
 As if all that were not bad enough for Michigan, the city of Detroit, a year away from hosting the Super Bowl, is facing such a severe financial crisis that Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick recently said there was some risk of the state eventually taking financial control of the city. 
 What to do? Last month, Ms. Granholm proposed a $2 billion bond to bolster emerging industries, like biotechnology and homeland security, and to encourage automotive innovations, like development of the hydrogen fuel cell. 
 But facing a projected deficit of $773 million in the state's budget for the fiscal year starting in October, she is also proposing a range of cuts that include arts programs and financial assistance to thousands of private college students. She plans to close three state police posts and a fire investigation unit and wants to overhaul the state's tax code. 
 ''We have cut and cut and yet we still have the unemployment rate we have,'' she said. Her plan would sharply cut taxes for most businesses, including manufacturers, though Republicans have criticized it because it would offset cuts with tax increases for insurers and the financial services industry.
 ''Insurance and financial services are segments of the economy that are growing, so does it make sense to raise taxes on those industries to lower them on manufacturing?'' said Ken Sikkema, the Republican majority leader of the state Senate, who added that more details of the governor's plan needed to emerge before he could pass judgment. 
 Speaking generally, he said there was blame to go around. ''In the mid to late 90's, four years in a row we were the No.1 state in the nation for business growth and investment,'' he said. ''The economy was booming and manufacturing was doing well and we continued to get lulled into complacency.''
 John Engler, a lobbyist who was the state's Republican governor for a dozen years before Ms. Granholm, said, ''I think when Michigan's unemployment rate was consistently under the national average and we were consistently adding new plants and investment, that showed we were taking the right steps.'' 
 Michigan's economy was chugging along in the middle to late 1990's, but the growth had more to do with the dynamics of the auto industry than government policy. The emergence of the sport utility vehicle and rising sales of big pickups boosted the Big Three's profits but masked fundamental problems. They lagged Japanese carmakers in manufacturing prowess and quality, and years of up-and-down performance had eroded their reputations. 
 In the last few years, Japanese and European automakers have introduced their own S.U.V.'s and made inroads into the pickup market. Making matters worse, the Big Three have tens of billions of dollars worth of pension and health care obligations for retirees, far more than competitors based in nations with more socialized health care systems. 
 Michigan has scored some success in attracting foreign investment. Last year, Hyundai, the fast-growing Korean automaker, broke ground on a technical center in the Ann Arbor area. Denso, a supplier partly owned by Toyota, has a large presence in the state. Ms. Granholm plans to visit Japan in the summer as part of a long-shot bid for Toyota's seventh assembly plant in North America. Her aggressive pursuit of the company has been noticed. 
 ''We would be open to Michigan,'' said Dennis Cuneo, senior vice president of Toyota North America. ''If you had asked me that question 10 years ago, I would have answered very doubtfully, but in the past year we have sensed a change in atmosphere. Governor Granholm has been very aggressive in courting Toyota.''
 And what do the Big Three think?
 ''This is in the tradition of America,'' said James J. Padilla, the president and chief operating officer of Ford. ''We open our doors and make things open and accessible. My only concern is that I wish everywhere in the world we went we got the same reception.'' 


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Making Inroads''Japanese automakers have opened factories in 13 states and employ more than 56,000 workers.Plants in Michigan and California are joint ventures with U.S. companiesMap of the United States highlight the states in which Japanese automakers have opened factories.(Source by Japanese Automobile Manufacturers Association)(pg. C1)Graph: ''Worsening Job Picture''Michigan's unemployment rate has risen rapidly in recent years and is now among the worst in the nation.Graph tracks Michigan's jobless rate and Michigan's jobless rate state ranking since 1990.(Source by Global Insight)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); MARKET SHARE (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (67%); LITIGATION (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%) Automobiles; Land Use Policies; Labor; Unemployment; Suits and Litigation; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (59%) Toyota Motor Corp; General Motors Corp; Daimlerchrysler Ag; Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: JENNIFER GRANHOLM (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%) Jennifer M (Gov) Granholm; Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (79%) Michigan

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



61 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: A Timeout From Hip-Hop Tough Talk to Purr Come-Ons

BYLINE: By KELEFA SANNEH

 BODY:
In his book ''What's the Matter With Kansas?'' the liberal writer Thomas Frank argues that conservative politicians have come to rely on a brazen bait-and-switch strategy. He says that they often champion ''old-fashioned values'' while campaigning, only to turn their attention to economic issues once elected. 
 ''The trick never ages, the illusion never wears off,'' he writes, contending that voters who say they care about, for example, abortion often wind up electing representatives who seem more interested in reducing the capital-gains tax. He's mystified -- or, more accurately, horrified -- by this seemingly paradoxical system: ''Vote to strike a blow against elitism; receive a social order in which wealth is more concentrated than ever before in our lifetimes.'' 
 Despite the book's widespread success, there is no evidence to suggest that the rapper 50 Cent is among the armchair political scientists who have bought it. Still, its central argument might sound familiar to anyone following his career. His new album, ''The Massacre,'' arrives in stores today. Perhaps not coincidentally, it arrives just as headlines are confirming 50 Cent's reputation as hip-hop's leading troublemaker. Long-running tension within his group, G Unit, boiled over on Monday as 50 Cent and his proteges gathered at the New York radio station Hot 97, WQHT-FM (97.1) , to denounce the Game, a former G Unit affiliate who was defrocked for demonstrating insufficient loyalty and gratitude. The interview was cut short when shots were fired outside the station, seemingly the result of a fight between members of 50 Cent's entourage and members of the Game's entourage, the police said. One man, who a police official said was affiliated with the Game, was shot in the leg. The incident is not likely to keep fans away from the record store.
 50 Cent had already been signed (to Columbia Records), shot (nine times, as he's not shy about reminding people) and cut loose from the music industry by 2002, when he began his astonishing comeback. On a series of mixtapes and underground singles he portrayed himself as a mischievous antihero with nothing to lose; he took particular delight in poking fun at Ja Rule, another Queens rapper, who was known for his sugary (but growly) pop hits. Listening to 50 Cent's mumbled wisecracks (''I'm back in the game, shorty, to Rule and conquer/You sing for hos and sound like the Cookie Monster''), you could almost imagine him as a crusader, striking blows against the hip-hop elite.
 Then, in early 2003, came his ''Get Rich or Die Tryin,''' one of the most successful hip-hop debut albums of all time, and success meant that 50 Cent had to stray from the ''old-fashioned values'' that got him elected. No rapper can sell millions of records without making love songs, and 50 Cent mastered the thug-love subgenre, topping the charts with singalong hits about flirting (''In da Club''), sex (''P.I.M.P.'') and even romance (''21 Questions''). His success was a bait-and-switch: 50 Cent had come not to praise Ja Rule but to bury him -- and then, sneakily, to replace him.
 ''The Massacre'' (Shady/Aftermath/Interscope) is predestined to be another smash: it is a collection of stark but sly threats and come-ons, nearly as addictive as its predecessor.
 The shooting on Monday may seem to fit with 50 Cent's image, but if you turn on the radio right now you'll probably hear a slightly different character. As of last week 50 Cent was behind three of America's six favorite songs, and all three are full of dancefloor pickup lines. There's the simple and sinuous club track ''Disco Inferno'' (in which 50 Cent rhymes, ''Li'l mama, show me how you move it/Better yet, put your back into it'') and ''Candy Shop'' (a duet with 50 Cent's R&B protegee Olivia), which both come from ''The Massacre.'' The third is ''How We Do,'' a collaboration with 50 Cent's newest enemy, the Game, in which 50 Cent takes a break from tough talk to purr, ''Touch me, tease me, kiss me, please me/I give it to you just how you like it, girl.'' Threats may have gotten him elected, but it's come-ons that keep him in office.
 Some rappers dazzle with wildly adventurous beats or instantly quotable lyrics, but 50 Cent's style has always been both more and less subtle: he's a crafty songwriter, specializing in obvious but nearly irresistible tracks that sound better the more you hear them. On ''Get Rich or Die Tryin','' 50 Cent often sounded more convincing when he was sneering at men than when he was leering at women. But now the situation is reversed. His singsong voice sounds best at its quietest, and his behind-the-beat flow sounds best at its laziest.
 For ''Get in My Car,'' the producer Hi-Tek contributes a sluggish backbeat and a sprightly five-note guitar lick while 50 Cent shows off his perverse charm, bragging, ''I got no pickup lines'' -- because, of course, he doesn't need any. For ''So Amazing,'' 50 Cent delivers thug-love boilerplate while Olivia sings an R&B refrain. And ''A Baltimore Love Thing'' takes this thug-love formula in a clever and unexpected direction: the pledges of devotion might sound surprisingly sweet (''If you give birth, I'll already be in love with your kids''), until you realize that the protagonist is heroin personified, serenading a junkie.
 Like the best politicians, 50 Cent has a knack for uniting disparate, even seemingly incompatible, notions into an appealing package. He delivers his taunts and his pleas with the same not-quite-harmless grin, which helps persuade listeners to ignore the seeming contradictions. (For starters: hard-knock tales of life on the streets of Queens sound a bit less convincing coming from a man living in Farmington, Conn.) 
 And so while 50 Cent is a long way removed from being the mixtape hero he was in 2002, he still finds time to pick fights with some unlikely foes. ''Piggy Bank'' includes insults aimed at Fat Joe and Jadakiss, who both have tougher reputations than 50 Cent, and have promised to respond. But what's really memorable about the song isn't the fighting words but the hypnotic chorus, delivered like a schoolyard taunt: ''Clickety-clank, clickety-clank/The money goes into my piggy bank.'' His foes can respond however they want, but for rappers and politicians and many others, ''old-fashioned values'' (hip-hop and otherwise) are no match for economic issues.
 If ''The Massacre'' isn't quite as exciting as ''Get Rich or Die Tryin','' that is partly because it's not as surprising: we already know who 50 Cent is and how his strategy works. But on a track like ''Ski Mask Way,'' a criminal-minded rhyme with a velvety beat by Disco D, it's clear that none of this really matters: like many a hustler before him, 50 Cent has found out that giving people what they want isn't always the same as giving them what they're asking for. Like all the best scams, this one has no end in sight: the trick never ages, the illusion never wears off.


GRAPHIC: Photo: 50 Cent's CD ''The Massacre'' delivers threats and flirtations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); SHOOTINGS (86%); WRITERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); POP & ROCK (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); MUSIC STORES (71%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (69%); RECORD RELEASES (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (64%); POLICE FORCES (62%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (55%); STRIKES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: 50 CENT (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



62 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: Bush Doesn't Share Public's Priorities, New Poll Indicates

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JANET ELDER; Fred Backus contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Americans say President Bush does not share the priorities of most of the country on either domestic or foreign issues, are increasingly resistant to his proposal to revamp Social Security and say they are uneasy with Mr. Bush's ability to make the right decisions about the retirement program, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
 The poll underscores just how little headway Mr. Bush has made in his effort to build popular support as his proposal for overhauling Social Security struggles to gain footing in Congress. At the same time, there has been an increase in respondents who say that efforts to restore order in Iraq are going well, even as an overwhelming number of Americans say Mr. Bush has no clear plan for getting out of Iraq.
 On Social Security, 51 percent said permitting individuals to invest part of their Social Security taxes in private accounts, the centerpiece of Mr. Bush's plan, was a bad idea, even as a majority said they agreed with Mr. Bush that the program would become insolvent near the middle of the century if nothing was done. The number who thought private accounts were a bad idea jumped to 69 percent if respondents were told that the private accounts would result in a reduction in guaranteed benefits. And 45 percent said Mr. Bush's private account plan would actually weaken the economic underpinnings of the nation's retirement system. 
 In a sign of the political obstacles confronting the White House, a majority of those surveyed said they would support raising the amount of income subject to Social Security payroll tax above its current ceiling of $90,000, an idea floated by Mr. Bush but shot down by Republican Congressional leaders. Yet there is strong resistance to other options available to Mr. Bush and lawmakers to repair the system, in particular to raising the retirement age or making participation voluntary.
 Notwithstanding Mr. Bush's argument that citizens should be given more control over their retirement savings, almost four out of five respondents said it was the government's responsibility to assure a decent standard of living for the elderly.
 The poll was the first conducted by The Times and CBS News since the president's inauguration. It comes after six hectic weeks for the administration, in which Mr. Bush has witnessed successful elections in Iraq -- which he hailed as validation of his decision to remove Saddam Hussein -- but also the toughest period he has encountered on Capitol Hill, as he has struggled to win support for the signature proposal of his second term.
 In an apparent reflection of the success of the Iraq elections, 53 percent of those surveyed said that efforts to bring order to Iraq were going very or somewhat well, up from 41 percent a month ago. That is the highest rating on that score since the capture of Mr. Hussein.
 Still, 42 percent now say that Mr. Bush would have been better off trying to counter the threat of North Korea before invading Iraq, compared with 45 percent who think Mr. Bush was correct to focus first on Iraq.
 More broadly, the poll suggests that Mr. Bush is in a problematic position as he enters a second term intent on pushing an extraordinarily assertive agenda through Congress. 
 Four months after Mr. Bush won a solid re-election over Senator John Kerry, 63 percent of respondents say the president has different priorities on domestic issues than most Americans. Asked to choose among five domestic issues facing the country, respondents rated Social Security third, behind jobs and health care. And nearly 50 percent said Democrats were more likely to make the right decisions about Social Security, compared with 31 percent who said the same thing about Republicans.
 ''There are so many other things that seem to me to be more critical and immediate: I think the national debt is absolutely an immediate thing to address,'' said Irv Packer, 66, a Missouri Republican. He added, ''Another one that I'd really like to see people working on is the environment.'' 
 Lisa Delaune, 37, a student from Houston and a member of the Green Party, said in a follow-up interview, ''My opinion is that the president favors big business over the health and well-being and overall stability of the entire American population.''
 And Mr. Bush does not appear to be much more in step with the nation on what the White House has long viewed as his strong suit: 58 percent of respondents said the White House did not share the foreign affairs priorities of most Americans. 
 For all that, Mr. Bush's approval rating remains unchanged, at 49 percent, from a month ago, suggesting that the disagreement with Mr. Bush's ideas has yet to take a toll on America's view of him.
 The poll was conducted by telephone with 1,111 adults from Thursday through Monday. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
 If Americans are ambivalent about the need for Washington to grapple with Social Security, the poll found abundant concern with the budget deficit, with much of the blame attributed to Mr. Bush. Sixty percent of respondents -- including 48 percent of self-described conservatives -- said they disapproved of how Mr. Bush was managing the deficit. And 90 percent of respondents described the deficit as a very or somewhat serious problem.
 The focus on Social Security has, if anything, aggravated concern about the deficit. About 30 percent said that the cost of Mr. Bush's proposal to create private accounts would increase the deficit. And on another question, about 40 percent said that Mr. Bush's budget proposal, made last month, would also result in increasing the deficit, notwithstanding the deep cuts Mr. Bush proposed to try to pull back the deficit.
 The poll underlines the difficulty of the task Mr. Bush faces in trying to overhaul Social Security, given that the heart of the White House strategy has been to sell the public on the need for repairing the system, in the calculation that would corral Congress behind Mr. Bush. So far, at least, the evidence suggests that campaign has not succeeded.
 Indeed, the percentage of respondents who think it is a good idea to permit people to invest in private accounts is as low as it has been since the question was first asked in May 2000.
 ''I don't think he's listening to the people concerning Social Security,'' said Beverly Workman, a West Virginia Democrat who said she voted for Mr. Bush. ''I think the public wants him to leave it alone.'' 
 Jim Choi, 34, an unemployed biotechnology worker from California, said: ''The way the system is set up, it's not going to go bankrupt. People will get by; we all adapt.''
 Still, Mr. Bush's argument that the system is approaching bankruptcy -- a contention disputed by Democrats and independent analysts -- seems to be taking hold. Two-thirds of respondents say the system will be bankrupt by 2042 if nothing is done to repair it. Sixty-one percent said the program has worked well until now, but the next generation will need a different kind of program to assure that they receive benefits.
 And 55 percent said the problems with Social Security were serious enough that they should be fixed now, compared to 35 percent who said they did not need to be addressed for another 10 or 15 years. 
 The elections in Iraq have contributed to some improvement in the perception of Mr. Bush's policy there, though it remains far from popular. In this poll, 50 percent of those surveyed said they disapproved of his Iraq policy, down from 55 percent a month ago, while 45 percent approved, up from 40 percent. 
 On North Korea, 81 percent said that that nation does indeed now have nuclear weapons, and 7 in 10 said it poses a serious threat to the United States. Still, a majority of Americans said they opposed taking pre-emptive action against North Korea if diplomatic efforts failed -- a shift from before the war in Iraq, when a majority said they would support military action if diplomatic efforts failed.

How the Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Thursday through Monday with 1,111 adults throughout the United States.
 The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country. Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
 The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, Hispanic origin, marital status, age and education.
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, overall results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults. For smaller subgroups the margin of sampling error is larger.
 In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.
 Complete questions and results are at nytimes.com/politics.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Public Unsure About Bush's Priorities''On prioritiesDoes the Bush administration have the same priorities as most Americans on . . .. . . domestic issues?SAME: 31%DIFFERENT: 63NO OPINION: 6. . . foreign policy issues?SAME: 37%DIFFERENT: 58NO OPINION: 5Which is the most important domestic issue right now?Jobs: 32%Health care: 29Social Security: 19Deficit: 14Prescription drugs: 5No opinion: 2Which is the most important foreign policy issue right now?Iraq: 54%North Korea: 18Israel: 10Iran: 8China: 4No opinion: 6Do you have confidence in President Bush's ability to make the right decisions about Social Security, or are you uneasy about his approach? On Social SecurityCONFIDENT: 31%UNEASY: 63NO OPINION: 6Should it be the government's responsibility to provide a decent standard of living for the elderly?SHOULD: 79%SHOULD NOT: 17NO OPINION: 4Is it a good idea or a bad idea to . . .. . . allow individuals to invest part of their Social Security taxes on their own?GOOD IDEA: 43%BAD IDEA: 51NO OPINION: 6. . . establish personal accounts if that meant the guaranteed benefit paid would be reduced by as much as aGOOD IDEA: 22%BAD IDEA: 69NO OPINION: 9What effect would allowing individuals to invest part of their Social Security taxes on their own have on the financial situation of the Social Security program?BETTER: 19%WORSE: 45NOT MUCH: 24NO OPINION: 12Would you favor or oppose . . .. . . raising the amount of income that is subject to Social Security taxes from the current $90,000?FAVOR: 61%OPPOSE: 31NO OPINION: 7. . . increasing Social Security taxes if that were necessary to keep the Social Security program going?FAVOR: 49%OPPOSE: 46NO OPINION: 6. . . making the system voluntary so that people can choose not to pay Social Security taxes and not to get benefits?FAVOR: 37%OPPOSE: 59NO OPINION: 4. . . raising the age at which a person can retire and receive Social Security benefits?FAVOR: 19%OPPOSE: 77NO OPINION: 4Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted Feb. 24-28 with 1,111 adults.Numbers may not add up to 100 because of rounding. (pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AGING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TAX LAW (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); RETIREMENT AGE (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); CORPORATE TAX (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (59%) United States Politics and Government; New York Times/cbs News Poll; Public Opinion; Social Security (US); United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; United States Politics and Government; Elections; United States Politics and Government

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Adam Nagourney; Janet Elder; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) Iraq; North Korea 

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



63 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Obstacle Rises for Bloomberg On West Side Stadium Plan

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU and CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
With the Far West Side stadium emerging as a central issue in the mayoral race, Council Speaker Gifford Miller yesterday sought to take the lead in opposing the Bloomberg administration by introducing legislation to require a public review of any taxpayer money used for the stadium.
 The proposal, which is expected to pass the City Council in the coming weeks, would pose a significant new obstacle to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plans for a football stadium for the Jets. And for Mr. Miller, who has been criticized for his lukewarm opposition to the stadium, it would be a new weapon to wield against the mayor's plans at a time when the other Democratic candidates for mayor are pounding away on the issue. 
 ''The bottom line is this is the people's money, not the mayor's money,'' Mr. Miller said. ''This is not a slush fund that he gets to divide up for favorite pet projects.''
 Mr. Bloomberg wants to use $600 million in city and state money to help build the stadium, which would also bolster New York City's bid for the 2012 Olympics and anchor overall development of the Far West Side. The mayor has proposed diverting tens of millions of dollars in real estate payments that normally flow into the city budget to pay for the city's investment in the stadium.
 The mayor's Democratic challengers, though, have sought to portray Mr. Bloomberg as more interested in helping out wealthy friends like Woody Johnson, the owner of the Jets, than the average New Yorker.
 It may be having an effect. In a poll released yesterday by Quinnipiac University, most of the respondents said that the mayor did not care about their needs and problems while Fernando Ferrer did. 
 The poll found that Mr. Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president and an ardent stadium opponent, received support from 47 percent of those polled compared with 39 percent for Mr. Bloomberg. But Mr. Bloomberg continued to place ahead of Mr. Miller and two other Democrats, Representative Anthony D. Weiner and C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president.
 As opposition to the stadium has grown, fueled by negative television ads from Cablevision, the mayor has increasingly found himself on the defensive as he seeks to gain political traction for his re-election bid. Yesterday, his aides dismissed Mr. Miller's attempt to insert the Council into the stadium fight as illegal. And during a breakfast forum with business leaders this week, Mr. Bloomberg sought to dismiss the political wrangling over the stadium. 
 ''I'm 63 years old and I'm not going to spend my life pandering to anybody,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''I'm going to do what I think is right for this city and I'm going to lead from the front and not the back.''
 But the mayor's potential challengers, sensing political opportunity, have intensified their attacks against the mayor and the stadium. Mr. Ferrer has called for a public referendum on the stadium, while Mr. Weiner has suggested moving it to Queens.
 Mr. Miller, in contrast, has only recently evolved into a forceful critic. For months, he remained conspicuously silent on the stadium despite being asked repeatedly by reporters for his position. When Mr. Miller finally opposed the stadium in November, it was such a carefully worded statement that at least some stadium supporters believed that Mr. Miller would pose no obstacle.
 Since then, Mr. Miller appears to have recalibrated his position, hardening his opposition and his language in an apparent attempt to keep up with his Democratic rivals. Mr. Miller called for a public referendum on the stadium, but only after Mr. Ferrer did. Mr. Miller also advocated moving the stadium to Queens after Mr. Weiner did.
 ''I'm thrilled that the speaker has evolved in his views the way he has,'' Mr. Weiner said in response to Mr. Miller's proposed legislation. ''It's regrettable that he hasn't done more up until now, but I welcome him as an ally in this fight.''
 At City Hall, Mr. Miller joined stadium supporters like David I. Weprin, chairman of the Council's finance committee, and Joel Rivera, the majority leader, to sponsor legislation that they say would prevent the mayor from unilaterally spending public funds without the Council's approval during the city's budget process.
 The Bloomberg administration has said it would use annual payments in lieu of taxes, known as Pilots, which are made by developers, to pay for its $300 million investment in the stadium. The payments are typically negotiated with corporations or institutions that are building projects on city-owned land, with most of the money routinely flowing into the city's operating budget.
 Last year, 261 projects overseen by the Industrial Development Agency or the Economic Development Corporation brought in $47.6 million in Pilots. The administration plans to divert some of that money from the city budget to make the annual payments on $300 million in bonds for the stadium. It estimates that the Pilot money will swell to about $70 million a year by 2009, when the first payment would be due, while the actual debt service would be about $21 million.
 Council leaders contend that both the city charter and state law prohibit Mayor Bloomberg from using the money without the Council's approval. ''If this affects the $300 million, so be it,'' said Mr. Weprin, who reaffirmed his support of the stadium. ''That doesn't mean they can't come up with the money some other way.''
 But the Bloomberg administration insisted yesterday that the mayor had the power to redirect the Pilot money as he sees fit under state legislation governing the city's economic development agency and the City Charter.
 ''Any proposed limitation on the mayor's powers by Council action would be illegal,'' said Kate O'Brien Ahlers, a spokeswoman for the city's Law Department.
 In the next day or two, Mr. Miller also plans to introduce his own plan for rezoning the railyards where the Jets want to build a stadium. His plan would encourage residential development instead. Stadium opponents hope that the rezoning would encourage developers to bid for the property. Some developers have said privately that the development rights are potentially valuable, but they worry that the Bloomberg administration will be unwilling to provide the zoning necessary for residential development.
 ''This is a tremendous opportunity to build the housing that will jump-start the rest of the plans'' for the Far West Side, Mr. Miller said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Council Speaker Gifford Miller, who plans anti-stadium legislation. (pg. B1)
 Fernando Ferrer, appearing in East Harlem yesterday, and other Democrats running for mayor are looking to capitalize on the stadium issue. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); ANTHONY D WEINER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005



64 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; On Baseball; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Fretting Over a Payroll Gap Doesn't Help Managers Win

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla. 

 BODY:
THIS exhibition opener between the Yankees and the Pittsburgh Pirates was not a rematch of the 1960 World Series. Nor will the regular-season games these teams play in June be a rematch. Despite the habit of some people to label them that way, games played between the same teams subsequent to a World Series or any playoff series are never a rematch because the teams and the circumstances are different.
 In this instance, oh, are the circumstances different. Forty-five years after Bill Mazeroski beat the Yankees with a ninth-inning home run at Forbes Field in Game 7, the Yankees and the Pirates play on different planets. That they will play games that count in June only emphasizes the absurdity of the path baseball has taken in the last couple of decades. 
 Not even a stash of steroids could level the playing field for these teams. The Yankees will open this season with a payroll a shade under $200 million, $198.5 million to be precise. The Pirates' payroll will be no more than $40 million, one-fifth of the Yankees' total.
 The Yankees will pay Derek Jeter and Mike Mussina about as much as the Pirates' entire 25-man major league roster earns.
 ''Pretty mind-boggling,'' Randy Johnson said yesterday, ''pretty mind-boggling. It really is.''
 Kevin McClatchy, the Pirates' owner, offered a different perspective. ''I think we could beat the two of them,'' he said, laughing at his joke. ''It's the other 200 that might be tough.''
 Major League Baseball is afflicted with payroll disparity, and nothing will soon alleviate the problem. In a recent rant, McClatchy told The Associated Press there would have to be ''some sort of constraint put on because these other guys can't control themselves.'' 
 ''These other guys'' he referred to in that interview were owners who splurged this winter in signing players. But McClatchy's proposed solution is not new. Many before him have said the players would have to save the owners from themselves.
 The players, however, should not be put in position to give the owners the kind of help they need. The owners have to be intelligent and clever enough to figure it out for themselves. They would love to establish a cap on payrolls, the desire that is killing the National Hockey League, but the players will never agree to it. 
 Increased revenue sharing and a luxury tax on excessive portions of payrolls have helped. Besides a $188 million payroll, the Yankees spent an additional $85 million last year on revenue sharing and the tax. This year, the tax deterred the Yankees from pursuing Carlos Beltran.
 ''I'm glad there's a limit,'' McClatchy said as he prepared to watch his team's game at Legends Field. ''You hope there is a point where there is some restraint, and obviously there was in that particular case. We just need to move forward and work toward improving the system down the road.''
 Although they did not sign Beltran, the Yankees committed $109 million to three new pitchers. The Pirates signed pitchers, too, but to inexpensive minor-league contracts. Their biggest off-season commitment was to their shortstop, Jack Wilson, whom they signed to a two-year contract worth $8 million. 
 A dozen players, or virtually half, on the Yankees' roster will earn that much or more this year alone.
 ''It's clear that we have a little bit more of a challenge than a team with a $200 million payroll,'' McClatchy said. ''Our room for error is just about zero. We can't make any mistakes. We understand that's where we are at this point. That's not going to change.''
 With the Minnesota Twins and the Oakland Athletics as role models, McClatchy said, the Pirates would try to overcome their economic disadvantage by building through their minor league system. 
 ''Our general manager, Dave Littlefield, has done a good job in trying to get this minor league system where it needs to be,'' he said. ''We did not have a good system for a while.''
 Along with other low-revenue teams, like the Tampa Bay Devil Rays and the Milwaukee Brewers, the Pirates have hurt themselves with ineffective and inefficient management. The Twins and the Athletics have succeeded with small payrolls because of good management.
 Before the game, in which the Pirates held the Yankees to a 2-2 stalemate, the two managers spoke on the field for a few minutes -- Joe Torre, the manager of the rich guys, and Lloyd McClendon, the manager of their poor cousins. The topic of conversation: payroll disparity. 
 ''That's exactly what we were talking about,'' Torre said, then went on to explain how a manager of any team, whatever its limitations, cannot make an issue of the shortcomings.
 ''The team you have is the team you're going to war with,'' he said. ''I've always heard managers bemoaning the fact that somebody has something they don't. The players sense that. It's hard to get players to trust you if you don't believe in them.''
 That, Torre added, was the essence of what he told McClendon.
 ''I don't argue our limitations,'' McClendon said later. ''I don't allow my players to argue their limitations. If we start doing that, that's what they become -- limitations. My job is to make sure the players go out there and play to the best of their ability every day. I don't worry about who's in the other dugout. As a result, we get better. We get better year in and year out. We'll be better this year.''
 But they will still be the Yankees' poor cousins.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Pirates Manager Lloyd McClendon says dwelling on salaries will not win games. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); STEROIDS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (94%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



65 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Loses Final Ruling On Subsidies For Cotton

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER; Todd Benson contributed reporting from Sao Paulo, Brazil, for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3 

 BODY:
The United States suffered a final defeat Thursday in its dispute with Brazil over cotton subsidies at the World Trade Organization.
 The organization's appellate body upheld a ruling last year by trade judges who said American subsidies to cotton farmers broke international trade rules by depressing world prices and harming cotton farmers in Brazil and elsewhere.
 The decision on Thursday could force the United States to lower the subsidies it pays farmers to grow cotton and, eventually, other crops. 
 Representative Clay Shaw, the Florida Republican who leads the trade subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee, said: ''If we want to keep exporting American cotton, we're going to have to abide by the W.T.O. ruling. It certainly gives you cover to make some of the corrections needed.''
 The administration was more cautious. Richard Mills, the spokesman for the United States trade representative, said, ''We will study the report carefully and work closely with Congress and our farm community on our next steps.''
 Brazil declared victory for itself and poor African nations that have complained about the subsidies.
 Roberto Azevedo, the official in charge of trade disputes at Brazil's Foreign Ministry, said on Thursday that ''this decision ratifies what is just and what is legal.''
 As the first successful challenge of a wealthy nation's domestic agricultural subsidies, the ruling in the cotton case could propel Europe and other industrialized nations to offer new compromises at global trade talks that are centered on this agriculture issue. 
 Brazilian officials used data from the United States Department of Agriculture to argue that the United States broke trade rules that limit to $1.6 billion the subsidies that it can pay cotton growers every year. Washington defended the additional financing as domestic subsidies that do no harm to global markets.
 But Brazil said the subsidies increased American cotton production, which, in turn, helped destroy Brazil's export markets and undermine the livelihood of its farmers. 
 Argentina, Australia, Benin, Canada, Chad, China, the European Community, India, New Zealand, Pakistan, Paraguay, Taiwan and Venezuela joined Brazil in the case.
 Complaints over subsidies for American cotton farmers -- $10 billion over seven years -- have been a heated issue in global trade talks.
 The world's wealthiest nations have been paying $300 billion in annual farm subsidies and supports to their farmers.
 The United Nations, the World Bank and charities like Oxfam have said that eliminating or reducing the supports would do more than any other single step for the economies of poor countries with subsistence farmers.
 Ken Cook, the president of the Environmental Working Group, a nonprofit research group opposed to some subsidies, said the ruling strengthened the W.T.O.
 ''It opens the door for other farmers in poorer countries to challenge unfair subsidies,'' Mr. Cook said, ''and it puts American farmers on subsidies on notice that important aspects of their payments have been challenged.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); COTTON FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); AGRICULTURE (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); CHARITIES (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: WILLIAM LACY CLAY JR (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (97%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); INDIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



66 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: PRISONERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: American Jails In Iraq Bursting With Detainees

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: ABU GHRAIB, Iraq, March 2 

 BODY:
The American military's major detention centers in Iraq have swelled to capacity and are holding more people than ever, senior military officials say.
 The growing detainee population reflects recent changes in how the military has been waging the war and in its policies toward detainees, the officials say. 
 The military swept up many Iraqis before the Jan. 30 elections in an attempt to curb violence and halted all releases before the vote. Other detainees have been captured in ambitious recent offensives across the Sunni Triangle, from Samarra to Falluja to the Euphrates River valley south of Baghdad. 
 The Abu Ghraib abuse scandal also forced changes in the system, with the military working quickly last summer to try and weed out detainees who obviously did not belong in prison. Many of the ones remaining are more likely to be denied release by review boards, military officials say. 
 As of this week, the military is holding at least 8,900 detainees in the three major prisons, 1,000 more than in late January. Here in Abu Ghraib, where eight American soldiers were charged last year with abusing detainees, 3,160 people are being kept, well above the 2,500 level considered ideal, said Lt. Col. Barry Johnson, a spokesman for the detainee system. The largest center, Camp Bucca in the south, has at least 5,640 detainees.
 One hundred so-called high-value detainees, including Saddam Hussein and his closest aides, are being held at Camp Cropper, near the Baghdad airport.
 ''We're very close to capacity now,'' Colonel Johnson said. 
 The surging numbers of prisoners pose important challenges for the military. The Abu Ghraib scandal revealed that the military was using poorly trained interrogators even as more detainees were swept into prison in the fall of 2003. 
 The military must hire enough effective interrogators and military intelligence officers to process detainees quickly, said Bruce Hoffman, an analyst at the RAND Corporation who has worked in Iraq with American policy makers. Otherwise, innocent people will languish in the prisons, a fertile recruiting ground for the insurgents, and could take up arms when they are freed.
 Throughout the war, the American military has struggled to construct a detainee system that can handle a widespread and sophisticated insurgency, but never before has the system had to grapple with so many detainees. 
 On a recent morning here, military policemen marched 50 handcuffed men off a convoy that had just arrived from Tikrit, Mr. Hussein's hometown. Old and young, the detainees wore thin shirts or robes. Some were barefoot.
 A sign on a concrete blast wall read, ''No Parking: Detainee Drop Off Zone.'' Guards stood watch in towers along walls laced with razor wire. The detainees huddled quietly on the ground outside a squat building where they would be processed. Soon they would be asked to put on orange jumpsuits.
 At the main gate, minibuses brought in family members for a visit, many of them solemn young children and unsmiling women in black robes. 
 Some military policemen complain of understaffing and of being overworked. One policeman based in Tikrit said field artillery soldiers were being assigned to policing duties. 
 While the military has turned to such soldiers to perform police work, Colonel Johnson said they had been trained for the job. 
 A senior American commander said there was little danger of ''serious overcrowding'' in the system. At Abu Ghraib, 15 miles west of Baghdad, the military has erected additional quarters for detainees and has increased troop levels. To increase the number of soldiers on guard duty, commanders have sometimes had to make unpopular decisions like temporarily shutting down family visits, Colonel Johnson said.
 Since last May, when news reports first emerged of the grim conditions at Abu Ghraib, formerly Mr. Hussein's main torture center, the military has opened new compounds at the prison that ''are much better situated for both the detainees and for custody and control,'' Colonel Johnson said.
 Though this reporter arrived at Abu Ghraib on the military police convoy from Tikrit, soldiers at the prison did not allow him to look inside any of the compounds. The colonel later apologized and said he would eventually arrange a tour. 
 The military is considering moving the detainees from Abu Ghraib to a more secure location around Baghdad International Airport, the same area where Camp Cropper is situated. The new center would hold about 2,500 people at most, though ideally the inmate population would stay under 2,000, Colonel Johnson said. 
 Last summer, after the Abu Ghraib scandal became public, President Bush promised to raze the prison, but a military judge later ordered that it be preserved as a crime scene. 
 In the south, the Americans are working to expand Camp Bucca to accommodate a total of 6,000 detainees by the end of March, officials say.
 It was an incident at Camp Bucca on Jan. 31 that most recently exposed the potential hazards of the detainee system: Four detainees were killed and six wounded when guards fired shots to quell a well-organized uprising. The guards had replaced their nonlethal weapons with lethal ones after realizing that detainees had armed themselves with slingshots that could hurl stones for long distances. Since then, the military has bought guns that fire ''plasticized projectiles'' at a greater range, Colonel Johnson said.
 Commanders say the uprising at Camp Bucca was not a result of overcrowding, but of skillful organization on the part of imprisoned insurgents. The detainee system has become more efficient at quickly screening people who do not pose a threat, so the prison population is likely more dangerous than before, officials say.
 ''We're getting more of the right people in,'' Colonel Johnson said. ''So there is certainly an element of the hard-core population.''
 A very small percentage of detainees are released shortly after being brought to Abu Ghraib, where all detainees bound for the three major centers are first processed. About 1,300 have been turned over to the Iraqi criminal courts to prosecute. Most, though, wait an average of three to four months -- and sometimes six months, the limit set by the Geneva Conventions in cases of prisoners of war -- before their files go to a review board, Colonel Johnson said. 
 Mr. Hoffman, the RAND analyst, said using the six-month limit as a standard was ridiculous, since many of the detainees were not soldiers and should have had their cases reviewed much faster.
 ''Many of them are innocent civilians swept up,'' he said. ''Prisons are the main incubators for terrorists and insurgents. So you've got to have good intelligence in the prisons to process the prisoners quickly and efficiently.''
 Investigations into the Abu Ghraib scandal last May found that there had been a shortage of professional interrogators to handle the detainee flow, and so units inside Abu Ghraib had turned to untrained military policemen and policewomen to help with interrogations. Colonel Johnson declined to give the number of interrogators now working in the system's main intelligence gathering center inside Abu Ghraib. But he said ''there is sufficient personnel to accomplish'' the center's mission.
 Outside of the three major prisons, about 1,300 detainees are being held at the division or brigade level around the country. Of those, about a third -- people deemed to be security threats or of high intelligence value -- will eventually be brought to Abu Ghraib for processing and sent onward to a major center. Convoys bring an average of 20 to 100 detainees a day to the prison.
 On the recent run from Tikrit, some members of the Third Platoon of the 42nd Military Police Company, a National Guard unit, complained of how the company was overworked and its resources stretched too thin.
 Of the company's three platoons, one was guarding the 42nd Infantry Division's prison in Tikrit, another was assigned to protect the division's generals, and the third transported detainees.
 In the three weeks after company arrived in Iraq on Feb. 1, the Third Platoon made 25 convoy runs all across the hostile Sunni Triangle, with a dozen of those to Abu Ghraib.
 ''We've got just enough people to do this'' said Specialist Chris DiModica, 23, the driver of the command Humvee. ''If anyone gets sick, that's it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Hundreds of Iraqis waited in line on Wednesday to visit family members who are detained in Abu Ghraib prison outside Baghdad. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)(pg. A12)
 An American M.P. stood guard as detainees watched a comrade, not shown in photo, receive medical treatment at a base in Tikrit. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ARMED FORCES (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (70%); SCANDALS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RAND CORP (64%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



67 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Max Fisher, 96, Philanthropist And Adviser to Presidents, Dies

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 3 

 BODY:
Max M. Fisher, the Detroit oil and real estate magnate known for his philanthropy and for the advice he gave Republican presidents on the Middle East and Jewish issues, died on Thursday at his home in Franklin, a Detroit suburb. He was 96.
 The death was announced by David Techner, funeral director at the Ira Kaufman Chapel.
 Mr. Fisher's fortune was estimated at $775 million last year in Forbes magazine's annual ranking of the nation's 400 wealthiest individuals. 
 Mr. Fisher was particularly active in Jewish affairs, orchestrating an international campaign of support for Israel after the 1967 Arab-Israeli war.
 Republican presidents starting with Dwight D. Eisenhower sought his advice on Middle Eastern affairs and Jewish issues.
 Former Gov. John Engler, a Republican, said on Thursday that Mr. Fisher wielded his greatest influence behind the scenes.
 In ''Quiet Diplomat: A Biography of Max M. Fisher'' (Cornwall Books, 1992), Peter Golden described how President Gerald R. Ford and his secretary of state, Henry A. Kissinger, asked Mr. Fisher in 1975 to help heal a diplomatic rift between the United States and Israel over relations with Egypt.
 ''My fundamental responsibility was as an American,'' the book quoted Mr. Fisher as saying. ''Then as an American Jewish leader. And finally, I had my love for Israel.''
 Max Martin Fisher was born on July 15, 1908, in Pittsburgh to immigrants from Russia. He grew up in Salem, Ohio, and attended Ohio State University on a football scholarship. He moved to Detroit in 1933 to join his father's oil reclamation business as a $15-a-week salesman, then formed his own gasoline company with two partners in 1933.
 The company, Aurora Gasoline, became one of the largest independent oil companies in the Midwest, with nearly 700 Speedway gas stations. He served as chairman until 1959, when the Marathon Oil Company bought out Aurora.
 Mr. Fisher retired from business in 1963, allowing him to devote his time, energy and money to a spectrum of causes.
 He served as an adviser or board member of more than a dozen corporations, including Comerica Inc., and Sotheby's, the London auction house once led by his friend A. Alfred Taubman.
 Mr. Fisher headed several Jewish-American organizations including the United Jewish Appeal, the Council of Jewish Federations and the American Jewish Committee.
 He also founded the National Jewish Coalition, an organization of Jewish Republicans, and was one of the top donors to the Foundation for Florida's Future, created in 1995 by Gov. Jeb Bush to promote conservative ideas.
 But Mr. Fisher's activities extended far beyond Jewish and Republican causes. He was committed to the city of Detroit, working to rebuild the urban core and mend race relations in the wake of the 1967 riots. That work earned him admirers across party lines. He helped found Detroit Renaissance, a nonprofit business group that sought to improve conditions in the city and region, and New Detroit, an organization that works to improve public education and race relations in the region.
 Mr. Fisher was a major benefactor of the Detroit Symphony Orchestra. The orchestra's new home, dedicated in October 2003, is called the Max M. Fisher Music Center, or, more simply the Max.
 His name is also on the business school at Ohio State, to which he contributed $20 million.
 Mr. Fisher's first wife, Sylvia Krell Fisher, died in 1952. He is survived by his wife, Marjorie Switow Fisher, whom he married in 1953; a daughter from his first marriage, Jane Fisher Sherman; two stepchildren, Mary and Phillip, and two children from his second marriage, Marjorie Fisher Aronow and Julie Fisher Cummings. 
 Mary Fisher became an advocate for AIDS patients after announcing in 1992 that she had contracted H.I.V. from her former husband; she spoke at the Republican National Conventions in 1992 and 1996.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Max Fisher (Photo by Carlos Osorio/Associated Press, 2003) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); IMMIGRATION (70%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); RACE & RACISM (64%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MARATHON OIL CORP (82%); COMERICA INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (82%); CMA (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (63%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (63%)

PERSON: A ALFRED TAUBMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



68 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Oil Briefly Rises Above $55 and Seems Likely to Stay High

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Oil prices briefly rose above $55 a barrel yesterday as investors bet that rising demand and tight supplies would keep prices high this year. 
 On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude-oil contracts for April delivery closed at $53.57 a barrel, up 52 cents, paring some of their gains after falling short of the record $55.67 a barrel reached in October. Gasoline futures rose 1.6 percent to close at a record $1.5075 a gallon.
 Oil prices have doubled in the last two years as producers struggle to meet rising demand from Asia and the United States. Traders worry that there is not enough spare capacity to make up for sudden shortages. 
 Oil analysts said the likelihood of production interruptions and higher prices this year had prompted speculative traders to increase investments in commodities like crude oil and gasoline.
 Investors were encouraged by recent comments from major oil producers saying that prices would remain high this year. The strongest declaration came from Ali al-Naimi, Saudi Arabia's oil minister, who recently indicated that he expected that prices would range from $40 to $50 a barrel throughout the year.
 And yesterday, Adnan Shihab-Eldin, acting secretary general of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, told a Kuwaiti newspaper that he could not rule out the possibility that prices could spike to $80 a barrel in the event of a sudden interruption in production.
 ''It's a brave new world in the energy markets,'' said Thomas Bentz, an oil broker with BNP Paribas in New York. ''Demand continues to be strong, and traders are looking at whether it will outstrip supplies later this year. That's why you've had this huge capital influx and why hedge funds are coming into the market.''
 For example, production from Iraq has not recovered since the end of the war because it is the target of attacks from insurgents; in Russia, the government's intervention has hurt production growth.
 ''With low inventory levels plus very little spare crude oil production or refining capacity, the market's ability to absorb supply-side shocks is at its lowest,'' Kevin Norrish, an analyst at Barclays Capital, wrote in a note to investors. ''Even $80 a barrel could look modest'' if there was major interruption in crude supplies, he said.
 OPEC ministers are scheduled to meet on March 16 in Iran to determine the group's output levels for the second quarter. A few weeks ago, representatives from OPEC countries raised the prospect of a cut in production to anticipate a slowdown in demand in the second quarter. In recent days, some oil ministers said that a cut in production was unlikely with prices at current levels.
 Still, there has not been much pressure on OPEC to increase production at a time when the American economy, which consumes a quarter of the world's oil, does not seem to have been hurt by the current prices. 
 Samuel W. Bodman, the secretary of energy, told a Senate panel yesterday that there was not much he could do to press OPEC. ''The capability of any representative of this government to influence the members of OPEC is limited,'' he told the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
 Mr. Bodman, who was asked why he did not take a more aggressive stance, said: ''I do expect to play a role and continue to play a role. But I have to tell you I do not control what OPEC does.''
 Still, it is not clear what OPEC would do even if pressed to act. OPEC countries have been increasing their output to push prices down in recent weeks and are now producing close to their maximum capacity of 30 million barrels a day.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (79%); FUTURES (79%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); INVENTORIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); BNP PARIBAS SA (54%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); BNP (PAR) (54%); BNP (BIT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KUWAIT (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



69 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Army Officials Voice Concern Over Shortfall In Recruitment

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3 

 BODY:
The Army is so short of new recruits that for first time in nearly five years it failed in February to fill its monthly quota of volunteers sent to boot camp. Army officials called it the latest ominous sign of the Iraq war's impact on the military's ability to enlist fresh troops. 
 ''We're very concerned about it,'' Army Secretary Francis J. Harvey told the Senate Armed Services Committee on Thursday when asked about recruiting shortfalls in the active-duty Army and Army Reserve. ''When people ask you what you worry about the most, I say there's just two words: people and money.'' 
 In February, the active-duty Army shipped 5,114 recruits to boot camp, 27 percent below its goal of 7,050; it was the first time since May 2000 that the Army missed a monthly goal. For the first five months of the current fiscal year, the Army has met 94 percent of its goal of 29,185 new soldiers in basic training. Over all, the Army plans to bring in 80,000 new recruits this year -- 3,000 more than last year -- to replace soldiers who retire or do not re-enlist.
 S. Douglas Smith, a spokesman for the Army Recruiting Command, attributed the decline in February to an improving economy that siphoned off potential soldiers and the news coverage of the violence in Iraq, which so far has claimed about 1,500 American lives. The Army's February drop-off was reported on Thursday by USA Today. 
 Army officials insisted on Thursday that increased recruiting efforts, including hundreds of additional recruiters and re-enlistment bonuses of up to $20,000, would help the Army meet its overall annual recruiting targets.
 ''We're not pushing the panic button yet,'' Col. Joseph Curtin, an Army spokesman, said. ''The Army is banking on the traditional summer surge of new recruits.'' 
 But some independent military personnel specialists warned that the traditional kinds of incentives that have cured recruiting woes in peacetime had never been tested in a prolonged war with large overseas combat deployments. 
 ''What we don't know is if the old tools -- more recruiters, bonuses and education benefits -- will work in the same way as they have in the past,'' said Beth J. Asch, a senior economist specializing in military personnel issues at the RAND Corporation, a military-financed research organization. 
 The Army's problem has been developing for several months as the pool of volunteers who have agreed to enter service after a specified delay has shrunk and as the Army pushes new volunteers into service as fast as possible. Recruits signing up now typically wait about 50 days before shipping out to boot camp, compared with 110 days last year. 
 The Marine Corps, the main provider of ground troops in Iraq, is also facing unexpected recruiting strains. The Marine Recruiting Command said on Thursday that in February it narrowly missed its contracting goal, the number of recruits signed up but not yet shipped to basic training, for the second straight month. 
 But the Marine Corps actually exceeded its target for new recruits shipped to boot camp in February, and is slightly ahead of its overall goal for the year. 
 In another sign of the strain, five of the six military reserve components failed to meet their recruiting goals for the first four months of the current fiscal year. 
 Marine and Army officials expressed confidence that they would meet their overall recruiting needs for the year, but acknowledged that the contract numbers could be a sign of trouble ahead.
 ''Does that mean in the future we won't have as many to ship? You bet,'' Lt. Gen. Jan C. Huly, the Marines' deputy commandant for plans, police and operations, and a former top Marine recruiter, said in an interview. ''If we don't pick up that contracting, it will.'' 
 Top Pentagon officials acknowledged that the graphic images of casualties from Iraq and the obvious danger of serving there had caused many parents to advise their children to avoid joining the military now. 
 ''That's a factor, that we're a nation at war,'' Lawrence Di Rita, the chief Pentagon spokesman, told reporters on Thursday. ''If it's a young kid who's in high school and contemplating his future, what are his parents advising him?'' 
 Mr. Di Rita added, ''I mean, without question, when there's the kind of coverage that there has been about casualties -- and we certainly mourn all the casualties, but they are covered, there's prominent media coverage of casualties in Iraq -- parents factor those kinds of things in to what they want their children doing.'' 
 General Huly and other top Pentagon officials said that while recruiting efforts might be faltering at the moment, re-enlistment rates, especially among combat-hardened units, remained exceedingly strong. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 8, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the Army's failure to meet its monthly quota of recruits in February for basic training misidentified the branch of the service that is the main provider of forces in Iraq. It is the Army, not the Marine Corps.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (97%); ARMED FORCES (93%); MILITARY RECRUITING (89%); VOLUNTEERS (89%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RAND CORP (61%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



70 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 342 words

PERSON: Sidney I. Roberts

HEADLINE: Sidney I. Roberts, 91, an Expert On U.S. and International Tax Law

BYLINE: By JENNIFER BAYOT

 BODY:
Sidney I. Roberts, a lawyer whose voluminous work in tax law is considered an authoritative source on how United States taxes apply to people and businesses from other countries, died on Saturday at home in Manhattan. He was 91.
 The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Arlene. 
 As early as the 1940's, Mr. Roberts recognized the growing importance of tax law and worked to clarify and classify its growing provisions, especially those that affected foreign corporations. 
 He edited or helped write at least 10 books on taxation and produced dozens of scholarly articles on the tax implications of dual residences, international stock holdings and other offshoots of a global economy. Roberts & Holland, which he helped start in 1957, became the country's largest law firm devoted to taxation. 
 In 1967, he and William C. Warren wrote their influential work, ''U.S. Income Taxation of Foreign Corporations and Nonresident Aliens.'' 
 As a testament to his influence on the practice of international tax law, more than 30 tax specialists worldwide collaborated to produce ''Essays on International Taxation: In Honor of Sidney I. Roberts'' (Kluwer, 1993), a book published on the occasion of his 80th birthday. 
 Mr. Roberts was born in Brooklyn on Nov. 29, 1913. He received his bachelor's degree from City College and law degree from Harvard, where he was editor of the Harvard Law Review. 
 From 1938 to 1949, he practiced tax law at accounting firms. He then helped develop the tax practice at Roosevelt, Freidin & Littauer, a law firm. He retired from Roberts & Holland as a partner in 1986 and remained involved with the firm until 1994.
 In the 1970's, he was president of the United States branch of the International Fiscal Association and helped start a worldwide network of tax lawyers who cooperated on studies of international tax issues. He also taught at Columbia Law School as an adjunct professor.
 In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Russell, of Cambridge, Mass., and a sister, Florence Schulman-Roth, of Tamarac, Fla. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (96%); TAXES & TAXATION (95%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Law

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



71 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Blue Chips Manage a Gain As Inflation Worries Ease

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks rose yesterday as crude oil prices retreated from their session's peak and positive economic data eased concerns over inflation.
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 21.06 points, or 0.2 percent, to end regular trading at 10,833.03. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose just 0.39 of a point, or 0.03 percent, to 1,210.47. The Nasdaq composite index declined 9.10 points, or 0.4 percent, to 2,058.40. 
 Shares of Boeing jumped 4 percent, or $2.12, to $57.42, bolstered by optimism about strong demand for its commercial jets from airlines worldwide. 
 The Nasdaq composite was weighed down by Apple Computer, which fell 5.3 percent, or $2.33, to $41.79. Its smaller rival Napster increased its revenue outlook on its new music subscription service, suggesting Apple's iTunes could face growing competition. Napster rose 7 percent, or 47 cents, to $7.27. 
 ''The market is staying within a trading range,'' said Peter Cardillo, chief market analyst and chief strategist at SW Bach & Company. ''The economic news today was good, and the market responded quite nicely to that. But it's also eyeing the oil price and that capped the market somewhat.''
 High oil prices weighed on Wall Street during the day's trading, as they increased concerns about consumer spending and corporate profits. Lofty prices for crude oil have contributed to indexes struggling to break out of their ranges -- the Dow keeps bumping up against a three-and-a-half-year closing high of 10,854.54, reached on Dec. 28. But investors took some comfort that crude oil futures ended well below the day's peak of more than $55, as a Nigerian official said OPEC would discuss whether to raise supply because of high prices when the group meets on March 16. 
 The April contract for crude oil settled at $53.57 a barrel, up 52 cents.
 Earlier, a report showed business productivity rose at a brisk 2.1 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter. 
 In another report, the number of Americans filing initial jobless claims declined last week to 310,000, suggesting continued improvement in the nation's labor market. 
 Among stocks gaining was Wal-Mart Stores, up 1.8 percent, or 91 cents, to $52.86, after the company reported a better-than-expected increase in February sales and raised its dividend. 
 Oil stocks nudged ahead as crude oil rose, with Exxon Mobil up 37 cents at $63.05. 
 The insurer Marsh & McLennan fell 28 cents, to $31.72, after its Putnam Investments unit said it would pay an additional $83.5 million to compensate current and former shareholders for losses sustained in an improper trading scandal.
 Boston Scientific hit an 18-month low in advance of clinical trial reports on various stents, which are metal mesh cylinders that prop open arteries after blockages have been cleared. The reports are to be issued Sunday at the American College of Cardiology meeting in Orlando. 
 Analysts are watching closely to see if Johnson & Johnson discloses data showing performance or safety advantages for its Cypher stent, which could erode the 65 percent market share in the United States that is controlled by Boston Scientific's Taxus stent. Trading of Boston Scientific yesterday was about six times the average daily volume in the last three months; shares closed at $30.90, down 66 cents. 
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note fell 1/32, to a price of 96 31/32. The note's yield remained unchanged from Wednesday, at 4.38 percent.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since November 2004. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); CARTELS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); FUTURES (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (75%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); AIRLINES (69%); PRODUCTIVITY (61%); SCANDALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BOEING CO (71%); APPLE INC (56%); WAL-MART STORES INC (51%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (50%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (50%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (71%); BAB (BRU) (71%); BA (NYSE) (71%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (56%); WMT (NYSE) (51%); XOM (NYSE) (51%); BSX (NYSE) (50%); MMC (NYSE) (50%); MHM (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (71%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (56%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (50%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (50%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (50%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



72 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 15454 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:

Theater

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy Broadway, Off Broadway and Off Off Broadway shows this weekend. Approximate running times are in parentheses. * denotes a highly recommended show.
+ means discounted tickets were available at the Theater Development Fund's TKTS booth for performances last Friday and Saturday nights.
Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.

Broadway

+'GOOD VIBRATIONS' Even those who believe that everything in this planet has a purpose may at first have trouble justifying the existence of ''Good Vibrations,'' the singing headache that manages to purge all catchiness from the surpassingly catchy hits of the Beach Boys. But audience members strong enough to sit through this rickety jukebox of a show will discover that the production, directed and choreographed by John Carrafa, does have a reason to be. ''Good Vibrations'' sacrifices itself to make all other musicals on Broadway look good. As the show's washboard-stomached performers smile, wriggle and squeak with the desperation of wet young things hung out to dry, you feel their pain. It is unlikely, however, to be more acute than yours (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $76 to $101; a limited number of $25 student rush tickets are available at the box office on the day of the show.
BENB RANTLEY

+'LITTLE WOMEN' Sutton Foster never merely walks when she can scamper in this perky, sketchy adaptation of Louisa May Alcott's classic novel of a Civil War-era New England girlhood. Portraying Jo the tomboy, Ms. Foster creates a dizzyingly hyperkinetic creature who, were she living in the 21st century, would probably be on Ritalin. Ms. Foster (a Tony winner for ''Thoroughly Modern Millie'') shows a gift for fresh, comic line readings. But her energy is often less infectious than exhausting. The same can be said of the show, directed by Susan H. Schulman and featuring a book by Allan Knee, with songs by Jason Howland and Mindi Dickstein. Watching the production is rather like speed-reading Alcott's novel. And the cast members, who include the mellow-voiced Maureen McGovern, mostly bring to mind 1860's-themed editions of the American Girl series of dolls (2:20). Virginia Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $60 to $100.
BRANTLEY

Off Broadway

'AFTER ASHLEY' If the last two hours of Gina Gionfriddo's play were as fine as the first 15 minutes, we'd have something to cheer. But the spark of interest ignited by the fresh first scene, a disarming and funny heart-to-heart between a confused mother and her teenage son, is all but extinguished by the time this finger-wagging satire has concluded. Ms. Gionfriddo has set out to diagnose social ills, and nuanced characters are not required. Her target is America's taste for blood, and its tabloid-tinged, sex-crime-addicted popular media. Despite some fine work from Anna Paquin and particularly Kieran Culkin, the director Terry Kinney's production is sabotaged by the conflicting impulses in the writing (2:15). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212)353-0303. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $50.
CHARLES ISHERWOOD

'THE CONTROVERSY OF VALLADOLID' The historical drama makes an unexpected return with this academic exercise in forensics. Written by Jean-Claude Carriere, the play, in an English version by Richard Nelson and directed by David Jones, is a fictionalized re-creation of an actual debate that took place in a monastery in 16th-century Spain. The topic: whether the Indians under Spanish rule in the New World were to be classified as human beings, with full rights as Christians, or a lesser species entitled to a more limited benefits package. The play has clearly been mounted for reasons of current resonance, touching as it does on the morality of dominant world powers imposing their ideologies on other cultures, and the destructive effects thereof. But its rigid dynamics are ponderous (1:45). Public Theater/Newman Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $50.
ISHERWOOD

'COUNSELLOR-AT-LAW' Entertainment in abundance radiates from the Peccadillo Theater Company's new production of this old Elmer Rice drama. Starring the Tony Award-winning John Rubinstein, ''Counsellor-at-Law'' is a drama that throbs with New York life and brims with touchstones of another time, like ''George White's Scandals'' and the Court of General Sessions. But it also retains relevance to ambition and success in the 21st century. It has a hero worth rooting for, a healthy dose of sacred and profane love, some sharp jabs at class difference, villains who merit a hearty hiss and plenty of New York attitude and humor (2:45). Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212)868-4444. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $55; $20 student rush tickets available at the box office 15 minutes before the show.
LAWRENCE VAN GELDER

'ENDGAME' Tony Roberts, the actor often used by Woody Allen to epitomize suave charm in contrast to his own hapless shlubbery, moves into new territory as Hamm in this middling revival of Samuel Beckett's caustic comedy about man's fumbling reckoning with extinction. Mr. Roberts's urbanity is naturally translated into Hamm's imperiousness, and his polished tones lend richly funny colorations to Hamm's more high-minded monologues. But this production is sharper at etching the play's mordant humor than outlining the heaving shoals of dread on which it should rest. Nevertheless, it's also notable for the performance of Alvin Epstein, a superlative Beckett interpreter, as Nagg (1:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, (212)727-2737. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $45 to $50.
ISHERWOOD

'THE LAST DAYS OF JUDAS ISCARIOT' This latest work from the author of "Jesus Hopped the 'A' Train" brings to mind an unusually lively senior class project. Thank heaven -- a subject much discussed in this debate of a drama about the Bible's most famous betrayal -- that at least the person in charge is the class cutup. And that he is popular enough to recruit some really cool friends (including Eric Bogosian, Sam Rockwell and the show's director, Philip Seymour Hoffman). Still, the colorful vernacular speech and flashy performances can't disguise the impression that the play is a heavily footnoted position paper on a big, big subject (2:40) . Public Theater/Martinson Hall, 425 Lafayette Street, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $50.
BRANTLEY

+ 'ON THE MOUNTAIN' Christopher Shinn, an up-and-coming playwright of exceptional talent, trains his focus squarely on the unexceptional in this gentle wisp of a play. Inspired by Henry James's ''Aspern Papers,'' the play tells a similar story of a determined collector on the trail of the jealously guarded secret work of a celebrated artist, now dead. The dialogue is impeccably true to the jagged rhythms and syntactical aberrations of real speech. But Mr. Shinn seems so enamored of how his people talk that he forgets to notice what it is they're actually saying. In ''On the Mountain,'' nobody says anything of much interest, and it's possible to admire Mr. Shinn's sharp ear while still being bored (1:15). Playwrights Horizons, Mainstage Theater, 416 West 42nd Street, (212)279-4200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2:30 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets: $55, with a limited number of $15 student rush tickets available at the box office one hour before the curtain.
ISHERWOOD

'ROMANCE' Listen up, you mugs. Nobody makes fun of David Mamet, see, because David Mamet can take care of that all by hisself. In the latest work from this most imitated and parodied of living American playwrights, Mr. Mamet knocks the four-letter stuffing out of his own staccato style. He then proceeds to beat up on the courtoom drama, the classic farce, ethnic and sexual stereotypes and his audience. It's a take-no-prisoners approach that, unfortunately, doesn't take any laughs either. Neil Pepe directs an irreproachable but ineffective cast that includes Larry Bryggman and Bob Balaban (1:35). Atlantic Theater Company, 336 West 20th Street, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m. Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets: $55. BRANTLEY

+ * 'SHOCKHEADED PETER' A gorgeous ''nasty picture book'' of a musical, in which badly behaved Victorian tots come to ghastly ends. Inspired by Heinrich Hoffmann's droll collection of grisly bedtime stories from the mid-19th century, ''Shockheaded Peter'' is both the silliest and most sinister show in town. It is also one of the smartest. Directed by Julian Crouch and Phelim McDermott, and featuring bizarrely beautiful songs by Martyn Jacques, ''Shockheaded Peter'' manages to wallow in and tear apart our enduring appetite for scaring ourselves. Though styled as a Victorian peep show, this British import makes contemporary self-spoofing horror exercises (like Wes Craven's ''Scream'' movies) look like, well, child's play (1:40). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Thursdays at 10 p.m.; Saturdays at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $21.25 to $66.24.
BRANTLEY

'SHYLOCK' Deconstructing Shakespeare is a dangerous sport; it's impossible to be more imaginative or clever than the playwright himself, even if you are Harold Bloom. Gareth Armstrong gives it a game try, but ''Shylock,'' his 80-minute dissertation on the evolution of one of Shakespeare's most memorable characters, although deftly performed, is no exception. While his pocket synopses of anti-Semitism, Elizabethan England, Marlowe's ''Jew of Malta'' and even a Baedeker of famous actors' renditions of Shylock are edifying, they are not sufficiently enlightening or entertaining. The most riveting lines of Mr. Armstrong's monologue belong to Shakespeare himself (1:35). Perry Street Theater, 31 Perry Street, Greenwich Village, (212)868-4444. Wednesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $55; a limited number of $20 student/senior rush tickets available at the box office 30 minutes before the performance.
PHOEBE HOBAN

* 'THOM PAIN (BASED ON NOTHING)' Is there such a thing as stand-up existentialism? If not, Will Eno has just invented it. This monologue, which runs just over an hour and requires minimal stagecraft, is as unassuming in its means as it is astonishing in its impact. It's one of those treasured nights in the theater -- treasured nights anywhere, for that matter -- that can leave you both breathless with exhilaration and, depending on your sensitivity to meditations on the bleak and beautiful mysteries of human experience, in a puddle of tears. Also in stitches, here and there. Mr. Eno and his performer, the actor James Urbaniak, reinvent that seemingly moribund theatrical genre, the solo show. They are immeasurably aided by the work of the director Hal Brooks. Mr. Eno's voice, or the voice of the narrator/protagonist/master of ceremonies played by Mr. Urbaniak, is alternately lyrical and affectless, ecstatic and flat, sardonic and sincere. Stand-up-style comic riffs and deadpan hipster banter keep interrupting the corrosively bleak narrative: Mr. Eno is a Samuel Beckett for the Jon Stewart generation (1:10). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 6 and 9 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7 p.m. Tickets; $45.
ISHERWOOD

+'THE MUSICAL OF MUSICALS!' The musical is the happy narcissist of theater. It is always paying homage to itself. Parody is the best form of narcissism. All it needs is smart writers and winning performers. That's what we get in the case of ''The Musical of Musicals!'' Two of the performers are also the creators: Joanne Bogart (lyrics) and Eric Rockwell (music). Aided by Lovette George and Craig Fols, they offer spoofs in the styles of Rodgers and Hammerstein, Stephen Sondheim, Jerry Herman, Andrew Lloyd Webber, and Kander and Ebb. The best parodists don't sneer, they tease, and share the form's joie de vivre. Aficionados will get every joke and neophytes will laugh, too. ''The Musical of Musicals!'' creates its own lightly absurd world (90 minutes). Dodger Stages, 340 West 5oth Street, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 4 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $55 to $59.50.
MARGO JEFFERSON

Off Off Broadway

'HIDING BEHIND COMETS' The dynamics of the guy-walks-into-a-bar play are tricky. Inject a set of twins into the mix, as Brian Dykstra does in his play, and you've pretty much doomed the venture. In fiction they too often seem like a cheap gimmick. The twins here are a male-female pair, 20-somethings named Troy (Robert Mollohan) and Honey (Moira MacDonald). They mind their father's dingy bar. The stranger who intrudes is Cole (Dan Moran), an elliptical older fellow with a temper. After much verbal sparring, the point emerges: Cole was supposedly at Jonestown during the mass suicide there in 1978, and he has dropped by the bar to force Honey and Troy to rethink their parentage. Mr. Dykstra's script sounds as if it's banking on the shock value of Jonestown, hoping that the audience, like the idiot twins on the stage, will not have heard of it. Way too early for that (1:45). 29th Street Rep, 212 West 29th Street, (212)868-4444. Thursdays through Mondays at 8 p.m. Tickets: $19.
NEIL GENZLINGER

Last Chance

'SHAKIN' THE MESS OUTTA MISERY' These days the stories that most shape young minds often come from a television set. Too bad, because, as ''Shakin''' reminds us, a parent with a knack for storytelling can pass on more valuable truths and history than any sitcom can. The young black woman at the center of this compact play by Shay Youngblood is fortunate in that she has a half-dozen parents to fill the storytelling role, all women. Her real mother, though, is not among them; she disappeared when the girl -- known only as Daughter -- was young. Daughter has been raised by a boisterous collection of women in her Southern community, and each has a story to impart. Men receive a one-sided treatment: those who turn up in the women's tales are racists, rapists and philanderers. The play also often seems disjointed; it's rarely clear when the various tales are taking place. But the cast is nicely in sync, and Ms. Youngblood conceals her platitudes well (1:30). Vital Theater Company, at the McGinn/Cazale Theater, above the Promenade Theater, 2162 Broadway, fourth floor, at 76th Street, (212)352-3101. Tonight and tomorrow at 8; Sunday at 7. Tickets $15, $10 for students.
GENZLINGER

Movies

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy movies playing this weekend in the New York metropolitan region. * denotes a highly recommended film. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'THE AVIATOR' Starring Leonardo DiCaprio. Directed by Martin Scorsese (PG-13, 169 minutes). The famously eccentric and reclusive empire builder Howard Hughes was born alone and died alone -- two times when he was no different from anyone else. For the rest of his life, the high-flying Hughes seemed to have drifted in from some distant aerie, where exotic birds hatch far from everyday worries. At the age of 18, he was both an orphan and a millionaire, and while he could never be called ordinary, in the following two decades his wealth and all that it afforded brought him a very American kind of celebrity. It is that celebrity, fueled by money, stoked by matinee looks and playboy style, that preoccupies ''The Aviator,'' Mr. Scorsese's visually sumptuous if disappointingly hollow account of Hughes's early life. (It won five Oscars, including best supporting actress for Cate Blanchett.) Written by John Logan, the story principally covers the late 1920's through the 40's, when Hughes, played by Mr. DiCaprio, was gadding about both Hollywood and the aviation world.
MANOHLA DARGIS

'BEAUTIFUL BOXER' Starring Asanee Suwan. Directed by Ekachai Uekrongtham. (No rating, 118 minutes; in Thai and English, with English subtitles). ''Beautiful Boxer'' tells the true story of Parinya Charoenphol, nicknamed Nong Toom (played by Mr. Suwan), a cross-dressing kickboxer from a poor family who saved his championship winnings to undergo a sex-change operation at the age of 19. The teenage Nong Toom enrolls in an elite training camp run by a tough coach and soon begins winning local matches across the country. When Nong Toom's trainer catches his young charge playing with makeup, he matter-of-factly decides to mine the boy's eccentricity as a publicity stunt, and soon Nong Toom is winning matches dressed in drag, greeting his opponents with a lipsticked kiss on the cheek. ''Beautiful Boxer'' at times feels repetitive and haltingly paced, but its blazing emotional core is the real-life kickboxer Mr. Suwan's joyously physical performance as Nong Toom.
DANA STEVENS

'BECAUSE OF WINN-DIXIE' Starring AnnaSophia Robb and Jeff Daniels. Directed by Wayne Wang. (PG, 97 minutes) Were it not for a couple of cars, a little girl's pink poodle backpack and a reference to e-Bay, Mr. Wang's ''Because of Winn-Dixie'' could easily be mistaken for a film set in the 1950's. It has old-fashioned and heartwarming written all over it, in heavy black Magic Marker. Adapted from Kate DiCamillo's best-selling children's novel, this is the story of Opal Buloni (Ms. Robb), a very lonely 10-year-old since she and her father (Mr. Daniels), a minister, have moved to Naomi, Fla., a town so small (or odd) that church services are held in a convenience store. So when Opal sees a scruffy dog loose in a Winn-Dixie supermarket one day, she claims him, names him for the place they met and takes him home. Once Opal has Winn-Dixie at her side, she makes new friends easily. This is a harmless, pleasant comic drama, but elements that may have seemed delightfully eccentric in print take on unfortunate new tones when translated to film. Sometimes you can't tell the magic realism from the corn.
ANITA GATES

'BOOGEYMAN' Starring Barry Watson. Directed by Stephen Kay (PG-13, 86 minutes). There are a lot of close-ups of doorknobs and water faucets in Mr. Kay's would-be horror film. There is a supernaturally speedy killing accomplished with heavy-duty plastic wrap. There is frequent whooshing and rapid camera movement. Despite all of that, it isn't scary. Mr. Watson, of ''Seventh Heaven,'' plays Tim, a grown man who has been afraid of the boogeyman ever since he was 8, when something creepy sucked his father into a closet and out of this life. After his mother's death, Tim vows to spend a night in his childhood home to allay his fears, but, sure enough, the boogeyman is back and after him and everyone he cares about (well, an uncle and two girlfriends). The house is very creaky; so is the movie.
GATES

'BRIDE AND PREJUDICE' Starring Martin Henderson and Aishwarya Rai. Directed by Gurinder Chadha (PG-13, 111 minutes). Because Ms. Chadha knows how to sell multiplex multiculturalism -- her last feature was ''Bend It Like Beckham'' -- the pitch for her new film probably ran something along the lines of: ''Jane Austen's 'Pride and Prejudice' recontextualized as a Bollywood musical (only shorter) and set against the backdrop of the new global economy.'' Whatever the case, the new film -- which transposes Austen's 1813 novel to 21st-century India, with layovers in swinging London and sunny Los Angeles -- is as high concept and rife with cliche as anything churned out by Hollywood, but with worse production values and a load of sanctimony. Think ''My Big Fat Sari Wedding'' tricked out with clumsy song-and-dance numbers and delivered with much finger-wagging about cultural tolerance. The kicker here being that the wagging finger belongs to the story's heroine, here called Lalita (Ms. Rai, radiantly beautiful but inert), and the object of her high-mindedness is none other than a wealthy American, Will Darcy (Mr. Henderson, just inert).
DARGIS

'CONSTANTINE' Starring Keanu Reeves. Directed by Francis Lawrence. (R, 122 minutes). Hell's bells! Sprung from the Matrix, Mr. Reeves glowers his way through another effect-heavy, convoluted journey between worlds, in this case defined by theology rather than technology. He is John Constantine, who travels back and forth between our world and the one below, working as a kind of freelance border guard, sending stray demons back into the fiery depths (where they appear to have cars). But something big is brewing, involving rebel angels, the son of Satan, and a whole lot of pseudo-biblical mumbo-jumbo. Assisting Mr. Reeves are Rachel Weisz, as a Los Angeles police detective whose sister has jumped off a roof, and Shia LeBoeuf as an eager dabbler in the occult. Tilda Swinton is the angel Gabriel, doing a bit of slumming after boffo work in Milton's ''Paradise Lost.''
A.O. SCOTT

'DIARY OF A MAD BLACK WOMAN' Starring Kimberly Elise, Tyler Perry and Cicely Tyson. Directed by Darren Grant. (PG-13, 116 minutes). This movie is so oblivious to genre that it occupies its own special stylistic niche, if you can imagine such a thing as a romantic revenge farce. As the story of a cruelly abandoned wife's reascendance zigzags from soap opera to slapstick to church sermon and back, it goes from A to Z on the all-things-to-all-people meter: Cinderella meets Amos 'n' Andy in Sunday school, so to speak.
STEPHEN HOLDEN

'DOWNFALL' Starring Bruno Ganz. Directed by Oliver Hirschbiegel. (No rating, 155 minutes; in German, with English subtitles). Mr. Ganz plays Hitler, palsied and furious, as his Reich collapses around him, and the Red Army closes in. Surrounding him are his followers, some fanatically loyal, others wavering in the face of defeat, who must all play out the endgame of their ghastly world-historical project. Mr. Hirschsbiegel's film, taking place at the moment when the energies of Nazism turned from murder to suicide, is engrossing and well made, but it does not generate much feeling beyond a queasy, prurient fascination. Its most daring gambit -- to treat Germany's monsters as human -- is also the source of its greatest failure, which is that it uses the conventions of wartime melodrama to elicit sympathy for people who hardly deserve it. Those who turn away from Hitler at the bitter end are restored to innocence, when in fact they were loyal Nazis whose convenient disillusionment -- coming as Russian soldiers appeared over the horizon -- is treated as a heroic exercise of conscience.
SCOTT

'HITCH' Starring Will Smith, Eva Mendes, Kevin James and Amber Valletta. Directed by Andy Tennant (PG-13, 115 minutes). As soft and sweet as a marshmallow, and about as interesting, this genial romantic comedy features the ever-charming Mr. Smith as a dating coach who helps hapless Manhattan men snag women much better looking than they are. His own head is turned by Ms. Mendes, playing surely the most kindly gossip columnist ever to grace the pages of a New York tabloid. Complications, as always, ensue, but nothing too challenging or painful, either for the central couple or for the audience. Mr. James, best known as the portly King of Queens on television, is around for comic relief as an especially needy client, who is smitten with the willowy Ms. Valletta.
SCOTT

'INSIDE DEEP THROAT' Written and directed by Fenton Bailey and Randy Barbato (NC-17, 90 minutes). It was the image seen -- cheered and jeered, canonized and demonized -- around the world. In 1972 Linda Lovelace, nee Linda Boreman, star of the notorious hard-core movie ''Deep Throat,'' played the role that would bequeath her a tawdry and lasting celebrity. With a single act of extreme fellatio, this dazed and often confused 23-year-old became a pinup for the party animal's sexual revolution and, in time, a martyr in the crusade against pornography. But as is clear from this lively, if maddeningly reductive documentary, Ms. Boreman was also little more than a pawn, an empty vessel for opportunists from both sides of the pornography divide. The documentary is a ''slam, bam, thank you, ma'am'' trifle of an entertainment, one strategically packaged for Generation A.D.D.
DARGIS

* 'MILLION DOLLAR BABY' Starring Clint Eastwood, Hilary Swank and Morgan Freeman. Directed by Mr. Eastwood (PG-13, 135 minutes). Mr. Eastwood takes what appears to be a conventional boxing-melodrama plot about a crusty old trainer whose heart is melted by a spirited young fighter and turns it into a glowing, somber meditation on friendship, ambition and death. The picture's scale is small, and its pacing leisurely, which gives you a chance to savor three lovely performances: from Ms. Swank as the young boxer, Mr. Freeman as a world-weary former contender and Mr. Eastwood as the trainer, Frankie Dunn. At 74, Mr. Eastwood has achieved a level of mastery that leaves him with nothing to prove, and so, unafraid of sentiment and willing to risk cliche, he has made a graceful, lyrical, devastating masterpiece -- the best film released by a major Hollywood studio in 2004. (It won Oscars for best picture, best director for Mr. Eastwood, best actress for Ms. Swank and best supporting actor for Mr. Freeman.)
SCOTT

* 'NOBODY KNOWS' Starring Yuya Yagira. . Directed by Hirokazu Kore-eda (PG-13, 141 minutes; in Japanese, with English subtitles). Based on the true story of four children abandoned by their mother in a small Tokyo apartment, Mr. Kore-eda's fourth film is at once harrowing and tender, an urban horror story with overtones of fairy tale. Restricting himself to the children's point of view, the director creates an almost unbearable sense of dread in the audience; you can't help suspecting that, at every moment, something terrible is about to happen. But at the same time, because the children themselves do not perceive the full terribleness of their situation, the terror is mitigated by a sense of wonder and adventure. The keys to this meticulous and deeply humane film are Mr. Kore-eda's deft camera sense and the remarkable performance of the 12-year-old Mr. Yagira as Akira, the oldest of the four siblings, who must somehow preserve his own innocence while protecting his more vulnerable brother and sisters.
SCOTT

'ONG BAK: THE THAI WARRIOR' Starring Tony Jaa. Directed by Prachya Pinkaew (R, 101 minutes; in Thai, with English subtitles). Martial arts for purists who disdain wirework, computer-generated imagery and digital tweaking. Ting (Mr. Jaa) a country bumpkin trained in the deadly art of Thai Muay, travels to Bangkok to retrieve the stolen head of his village Buddha. Once there, his peaceful disposition is challenged by all manner of thugs and lowlifes. The story is beside the point: like the low-budget Hong Kong action pictures of the 1970's, this movie offers scrappy, ingenious fight choreography. The director is so enamored of some sequences that he treats himself -- and the audience -- to instant replays.
SCOTT

'POOH'S HEFFALUMP MOVIE' With the voices of Jim Cummings, John Fiedler and Kyle Stanger. Directed by Frank Nissen. (G, 63 minutes). In A.A. Milne's Winnie the Pooh stories, Piglet once thought he had seen a heffalump, but it was really just Pooh with a honey jar stuck on his head. In this adorable animated film, he and the other animals finally encounter the real thing. And it (Lumpy, the baby heffalump) is too cute for words, largely thanks to the endearing voice and infectious laugh of 8-year-old Kyle Stanger. The plot involves Roo capturing Lumpy (who thinks a visit to the Roo's part of Hundred Acre Wood sounds like a fine game) and Pooh, Tigger, Eeyore and company learning that Heffalumps aren't scary at all. There is a dash of child-pleasing animated slapstick, a few nice Carly Simon songs and a crucial lesson about the dangers of misjudging people just because they are different from you.
GATES

'SON OF THE MASK' Starring Jamie Kennedy. Directed by Lawrence Guterman. (PG, 86 minutes) Tim Avery (Mr. Kennedy) is a would-be cartoonist and full-time schlemiel, stuck at a low-level job at a cutting-edge animation company. Tim chances upon a wooden mask that his dog, Otis, dragged home. As viewers of the original 1994 film ''The Mask'' will know, this artifact is the property of Loki, the Norse god of mischief. Whoever dons it immediately becomes a computer-animated whirlwind of obnoxious egotism and untrammeled desire. In short order, Tim has gotten himself promoted at the company and impregnated his wife (Traylor Howard). But alas, their son, Alvy, is ''born of the Mask'' -- he's a semi-digitized superbaby, capable of shape-shifting, tap-dancing and feats of superhuman strength. When Loki (Alan Cumming) decides to come back for his mask, Tim is in for a roller-coaster ride of manic chase scenes and computer-assisted mayhem. Youngsters will suffer no lasting harm from this frantic, grating spectacle, but their less resilient parents may not be so lucky.
STEVENS

*'SUNSET STORY' With Irja Lloyd and Lucille Alpert. Directed by Laura Gabbert. (No rating, 73 minutes). I hesitate to describe the pocket-size documentary ''Sunset Story'' as a gem of a film. Lovingly directed by Ms. Gabbert, it is certainly a gem, small and, in its very modest way, perfect of its kind. But there is every reason to believe that the film's subjects -- an elderly twosome named Lucille and Irja -- would find the word gem overly precious, perhaps insulting. These are women, after all, who regularly participate in protests and union rallies, and whose home is adorned with a sign reading ''Free Mumia,'' on behalf of the death row celebrity Mumia Abu-Jamal. The Mumia sign hangs off a metal railing overlooking the courtyard of a residence called Sunset Hall, which advertises itself as ''a nonprofit retirement home for free-thinking elders.'' No kidding! Founded in Los Angeles more than 80 years ago, Sunset Hall was established as a home for religious liberals. As the filmmakers soon make apparent, however, the current residents tend to lean rather more left.
DARGIS

'UP AND DOWN' Starring Petr Forman and Emilia Vasaryova. Directed by Jan Hrebejk. (R, 108 minutes; in Czech, with English subtitles). This engaging, unruly mix of comedy and melodrama follows the mood swings suggested by its title. Tracing the generally unhappy doings of a dozen or so loosely connected people in contemporary Prague, it skips from buoyant satire to domestic melodrama, leaving behind a curious mix of emotions. It is not often you see a movie so bracingly pessimistic about the human condition that dispenses its dose of bad news with such good cheer. A baby is illegally adopted by a former soccer hooligan; an emigre returns for a reunion with his broken family -- all in an atmosphere of petty crime, anxiety about immigration and general puzzlement at the state of the world (or at least the Czech Republic) -- 15 years after the end of Communism.
SCOTT

Pop

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy rock and pop concerts in the New York metropolitan region this weekend. * denotes a highly recommended concert. Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

* BAD BOY BILL, DERRICK CARTER, Avalon, 662 Avenue of the Americas, at 20th Street, Chelsea, (212)807-7780. The popular house DJ Bad Boy Bill (who packs dance floors by using brute rhythmic force) is the headliner, but don't be surprised if Mr. Carter spins a more exciting, unpredictable set. Mr. Carter loves to enliven his thwacking house beats with squiggles and squelches; on ''Live at Om'' (Om), an appealing double-CD that also includes a set by Mark Farina, Mr. Carter gravitates toward robotic bass lines, disembodied voices and scrambled snippets of disco and jazz. Tomorrow night after 10, with Steve Smooth, DJ Dalton and Christine Renee; tickets are $30.
KELEFA SANNEH

LOU BARLOW, Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201)653-1703. Mr. Barlow, best known as the prime mover behind the indie-rock band Sebadoh, inspired many of the punk-influenced confessionalists who went on to find success (more success, perhaps, than he himself ever found) by pouring their hearts out in emo bands. The title of Mr. Barlow's new solo album, ''Emoh'' (Merge) is both an acknowledgment of this unpaid debt and a backward reference to one of the album's main themes. It's a rather baggy, sometimes meandering album, but Mr. Barlow's best love songs still find unexpected links between sentimentality and cynicism. Sunday night at 8:30, with Graham Smith and Mike Ferraro; tickets are $10.
SANNEH

* BONNIE (PRINCE) BILLY & MATT SWEENEY, Sound Fix, 110 Bedford Avenue, at North 11th Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718)388-8090; Kim's Mediapolis, 2906 Broadway, at 113th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 864-5321; Built By Wendy, 7 Centre Market Place, near Broome Street, NoLita, (212)925-6538; Mondo Kim's, 6 St. Mark's Place, near the Bowery, East Village, (212) 598-9985. Other Music, 15 East 4th Street, East Village, (212) 477-8150. Bonnie (Prince) Billy is the indie-rock mainstay Will Oldham (aka Palace, among other things), who writes eerie, country-influenced songs. For a new collaborative CD, ''Superwolf'' (Drag City), Mr. Sweeney, an inventive guitarist, composed songs around a set of lyrics Mr. Oldham sent him; the two recorded the results together, and the album they made is a glimmering minor masterpiece. The two are to play New York City tomorrow, but no proper concerts are on the rather perverse itinerary: instead, city residents can take their pick from no fewer than five in-store appearances, which should get progressively stranger and more unraveled. Tomorrow at 1 p.m. (Sound Fix), 3 p.m. (Kim's Mediapolis), 5 p.m. (Built by Wendy), 7 p.m. (Mondo Kim's), and 9 p.m. (Other Music); admission to all appearances is free.
SANNEH

BREAKING BENJAMIN, Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place at 15th Street, Union Square, (212) 777-6800. This grim-faced metal-grunge band sings about betrayal and alienation over bruising, down-tuned guitar riffs on its way to pop choruses. Like many other current bands, it owes a lot to Tool, but its edge comes from its collaborator in songwriting: Billy Corgan of Smashing Pumpkins. Tonight at 8, with Theory of a Deadman and the Exies opening; tickets are $20.
JON PARELES

* SOLOMON BURKE, B.B. King Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212)997-4144. Solomon Burke is a larger-than-life, gospel-rooted 1960's soul man whose vocal jabs taught Mick Jagger, among others, a few things about singing. He is still a vocal powerhouse, full of dramatic whims, who earns the right to perform from a throne. Tonight at 8; tickets are $35.
PARELES

CALLA/PALOMAR, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212)260-4700. Calla makes its musical home in the after-hours New York of the Velvet Underground, the haggard despair of Joy Division and the California retreats of Neil Young. Its songs brood amid tolling, inexorable guitar riffs haunted by the blues. Whimsy and sinew coexist nicely in the lean, peppy pop-rock of Palomar, a three-woman, one-man band whose songs jump from blithe choruses to wiry guitar patterns to hefty distortion, all at the service of the lyrics' articulate ambivalence. Tonight at 8:30, with the Stands and Eastern Conference Champions opening; admission is $10.
PARELES

VINICIUS CANTUARIA AND MARC RIBOT, Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212)358-7503. Vinicius Cantuaria, a Brazilian songwriter who has lived in New York since the mid-1990's, is steeped in the bossa nova: its gently brushed guitar chords, its quietly elaborate melodies, its shades of sensuality and melancholy. He knows the style well enough to stretch the form without losing its essence, and tonight he's performing with Marc Ribot, a guitarist who's equally at home with old Cuban tunes or the clanky, twangy sounds he brought to Tom Waits's band. Sunday night at 9, admission is $15.
PARELES

CHEVELLE/HELMET, Starland Ballroom, 570 Jernee Mill Road, Sayreville, N.J., (732)238-5500 and the Chance Theater, 6 Crannell Street, Poughkeepsie, (845) 471-1966; the show was formerly scheduled at the Mid-Hudson Civic Center, 14 Civic Center Plaza, Poughkeepsie, N.Y., (845)454-5800. The muscular despair of grunge and the desolate, sinewy ballads of Tool live on in the grim, down-tuned, power-chorded dirges of Chevelle. Sharing the bill is the long-running New York band Helmet, a 1990's pioneer of sparse, deliberate, misanthropic hard rock. They're headlining the Snocore tour, which also includes the hard-rock bands Crossfade, Future Leaders of the World and Strata. At Starland Ballroom tonight at 7; tickets are $18. At the Chance Theater Sunday at 5; tickets are $23.50.
PARELES

CLEM SNIDE, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212)533-2111. This formerly local band (leader Eef Barzelay recently moved from Brooklyn to Nashville) just released ''End of Love'' (spinART), another CD full of wistful indie-rock songs that are sometimes clever and sometimes merely jokey -- the countryish ''Jews for Jesus Blues'' is barely better than its title. Tomorrow night at 9, with Marbles (aka. Robert Schneider from the Apples in Stereo) and Archer Prewitt; tickets are $13 in advance, $15 at the door.
SANNEH

* DR. DOG, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212)260-4700. This emerging Philadelphia band, enamored of light-headed riff-rock and off-kilter ballads, canceled a January appearance at this club because of a snowstorm. The members are to try again tomorrow night, in front of their small (but growing) cult of fans. On March 15, the group is to reissue its charming recent album ''East Beat,'' through National Parking Records. The album includes nine songs filled with breezy vocal harmonies and unexpected digressions, but the group's live show is much louder and more exuberant, especially when Scott McMicken unleashes one of his wailing, shape-shifting guitar solos. Tomorrow night at 9 (get there early -- Dr. Dog is the opening act), with the Centro-matic and the Baptist Generals; tickets are $10.
SANNEH

JOHN EDDIE, Stone Pony, 913 Ocean Avenue, Asbury Park, N.J., (732)502-0600. John Eddie followed Bruce Springsteen up from the Jersey Shore in the mid-1980's, but never reached the arenas. Instead, he has settled into a career of steady performing at clubs, and his 2003 album, ''Who the Hell Is John Eddie?'' (Lost Eddie), shows he has a sense of humor about it, along with plenty of empathy for life's also-rans. Tonight, one ticket covers two sets at 8:30 and 11:30; admission is $15.
PARELES

* MASTERS OF PERSIAN MUSIC: MOHAMMED REZA SHAJARIAN, HOSSEIN ALIZADEH, KAYHAN KALHOR, Jazz at Lincoln Center, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Time Warner Center, Broadway at 60th Street, (212)545-7536. The singer Mohammed Reza Shajarian is one of Iran's most celebrated classical singers, and he is joined on their third United States tour together by Hossein Alizadeh on tar (lute) and Kayhan Kalhor on kemancheh (spike fiddle) in new pieces rooted in the improvisations of Persian classical music and mystical Sufi poetry. Sunday night at 7; tickets are $30 to $50, or $26 to $45 for World Music Institute members.
PARELES

MIN XIAO-FEN, SUSIE IBARRA AND OKKYUNG LEE, BAM Cafe, 30 Lafayette Avenue at Ashland Place, Brooklyn, (718)636-4139. Min Xiao-Fen has brought the pipa, the Chinese lute tradtionally used for dramatic, virtuosic evocations of nature, into new music as well as the traditional repertory. She's joined by the improvising percussionist Susie Ibarra, a mainstay of the downtown avant-garde, and the cellist Okkyung Lee, in a concert of solos, duos and trios. Tonight at 9; admission is free with a $10 minimum.
PARELES

MICK MOLONEY'S IRISH-AMERICAN MUSIC AND DANCE FESTIVAL, Skirball Center, 566 LaGuardia Place, (212)992-8484. Mick Moloney has been a linchpin of traditional Irish music in New York City: not just singing it and playing it on tenor banjo and mandolin, but producing albums, documenting traditional musicians and encouraging younger generations. This program is devoted to Irish musicians in America. It includes the singer and songwriter Tommy Sands; an All-Ireland harp and concertina champion, Michelle Mulcahy; the fiddler and banjo player Bruce Molsky; the button accordionist Billy Comiskey playing music of his mentor, Sean McGlynn, the uilleann piper Jerry O'Sullivan, the fiddlers Athena O Lochlainn and Dana Lyn, the guitarist Eamon O'Leary and the stepdancer Niall O'Leary. Tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $25 to $40, $22.50 to $36 for those 65+.
PARELES

MAURA O'CONNELL, the Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212)219-3006. An Irish singer whose voice is suffused with melancholy warmth, Maura O'Connell chooses songs from the most heartfelt songwriters on both sides of the Atlantic and fills them with kindly empathy. Tomorrow night at 7; tickets are $20 in advance, $25 tomorrow.
PARELES

SASHA, Crobar, 530 West 28th Street, Chelsea, (212)629-9000. Sasha, the wildly popular progressive-house D.J., comes to town for his monthly residency at Crobar. He has a knack for pleasing huge crowds without (for the most part) pandering to them: eschewing both the obvious and the unusual, he tops his steady, thumping beats with complicated electronic patterns that slowly decay and mutate. Tonight after 10, with James Zabiela; tickets are $30.
SANNEH

* JILL SCOTT, Radio City Music Hall, 1260 Avenue of the Americas, at 50th Street, (212)632-4000. Jill Scott spills out words, spoken like hip-hop poetry or sung with jazzy timing, to detail the aspirations and loves of a sensual, intelligent and self-assured woman. Fresh from winning a Grammy award, she should have plenty of exuberant insights. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $40 to $67.50
PARELES

* SECRET MACHINES, Irving Plaza, 7 Irving Place at 15th Street, Union Square, (212) 777-6800. The slowly unfolding, keyboard-driven compositions of Secret Machines have a stark minimalist side, a glimmer of country, some pulsating and a streak of Pink Floyd grandeur that swells to fill the room. There's a haunted undercurrent amid the pomp. Show tomorrow night at 8 is sold out. Sunday night at 8, with Corecraft (including J Mascis of Dinosaur Jr.) and Autolux opening; tickets are $18.50 in advance, $20 Sunday.
PARELES

THE SHIRELLES, Town Hall, 123 West 43d Street, Manhattan, (212)840-2824 or (212)545-7536. Girl groups from the Supremes to Destiny's Child owe something to the Shirelles, who wrote their first hit, ''I Met Him on a Sunday,'' and had a string of hits in the early 1960's including ''Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow'' and ''Dedicated to the One I Love.'' This trio is led by Beverly Lee, the original Shirelle member who holds the trademark to the group name. Tonight at 8; tickets are $30 and $35.
PARELES

SHONEN KNIFE, the Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212)219-3006. The female Japanese band Shonen Knife has been blasting out its primitive, cheerful punk squall for 20 years, and it hasn't gotten slick yet. Tomorrow night at 11, with Visqueen and Int'l Shades opening; tickets are $15 in advance, $17 tomorrow.
PARELES

SLIPKNOT, Continental Airlines Arena, the Meadowlands, Route 120, East Rutherford, N.J., (201)935-3900. Slipknot's music is a barrage of high-speed drumbeats and howling vocals, combining the pandemonium of Slayer and the turntable cacophony of Public Enemy with infrequent melodic interludes akin to Nine Inch Nails; lately, it has tried to raise the melody quotient enough to suit radio programmers, with mixed results. But its anthems of adolescent resentment can still draw arena crowds, particularly when it shares the bill with the up-and-coming, virtuosically whipsawing metal bands Lamb of God and Shadows Fall. Sunday night at 7; tickets are $33.
PARELES

* TRIPLE R, 107 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, lower level; information, www.klever.org/thebunkernyc/#upcoming. Triple R is Riley Reinhold, the German D.J. (and music critic) behind ''Friends'' (Kompakt), an excellent mix CD from 2002 that stitched together minimal but warm electronic tracks to evoke the outline of a single day, starting and ending with peaceful sleep. His latest mix CD is ''Selection 3'' (www.traumschallplatten.de), a hazy but propulsive compilation of tracks from his record label Trapez. The basement of this beleaguered downtown nightclub Tonic (visit tonicnyc.com to learn more about its struggle to survive) is no one's idea of an ideal dance-music venue, but expect Triple R to spin an ecstatic, immersive set, regardless. Tonight after 9, with Smartypants, Marcos Cabral and more; admission is $5.
SANNEH

DAVID WILCOX/RAY BONNEVILLE, Satalla, 37 West 26th Street, (212) 576-1155. David Wilcox has a handful of sterling folk-pop songs, a genial voice and enough guitar virtuosity to make even his lesser material sound convincing. He shares the bill with Ray Bonneville, who picks ragtimey blues on electric guitar. Sunday night at 7; tickets are $20 in advance, $23 Sunday.
PARELES

* YERBA BUENA, Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)230-0236. Yerba Buena meshes traditional rumba rhythms, and other African-diaspora styles from boogaloo to Afrobeat to jazz, with gutsy, distorted guitars to create pan-American and pan-African party music that has both sly intelligence and deep roots. Tonight at 8, with the Pacha Sound System and L'Negro; admission is $15.
PARELES

Cabaret

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy cabaret shows in Manhattan this weekend. * denotes a highly recommended show. Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

* BLOSSOM DEARIE, Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212)265-8133. To watch this singer and pianist is to appreciate the power of a carefully deployed pop-jazz minimalism combined with a highly discriminating taste in songs. She remains the definitive interpreter, at once fey and tough, of the pop-jazz satirist Dave Frishberg, as astute and unforgiving a social critic as exists. The songs -- her own and other people's -- date from all periods of a career remarkable for its longevity and for Ms. Dearie's stubborn independence and sly wit, which have never gone stale. Tomorrow night at 7; Sunday night at 6:15. Cover: $25, with a $15 minimum; a $54.50 dinner-and-show package is available.
STEPHEN HOLDEN

CHITA RIVERA, Feinstein's at the Regency, 540 Park Avenue, at 61st Street, (212)339-4095. Broadway's ageless gypsy queen has a voice so lived-in that its cardboard tatters often seem patched together with chewing gum, scotch tape and paste, but that doesn't mean that she can't sing up a dramatic storm if the song demands it. Except for a silly gender-reversed his-hers medley of show tune fragments swapped with her pianist Mark Hummel, her show, ''And Now I Sing'' finds a likable mixture of sass and sentiment that reaches its height with a shimmying ''All That Jazz,'' a song from ''Chicago'' that she owns now and forever. Tonight and tomorrow at 8:30 and 11 p.m. Cover: $60; $40 minimum early shows, $30 late shows.
HOLDEN

* 'SINGING ASTAIRE,' Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212)581-3080. With Eric Comstock, Hilary Kole and Christopher Gines. The vocal trio that created the smart revue ''Our Sinatra''' has outdone itself with this lightly swinging 70-minute compendium of songs and lore associated with Fred Astaire. Suave and dry, and fleet on the piano, Mr. Comstock is a close stylistic relative of his idol, while Ms. Kole's pop-jazz singing has a Ginger Rogers-esque edge. Mr. Gines fills in the difference with creamy vocal custard: witty, informative and fast-paced. Tomorrow and Sunday at 2:30 and 5:30 p.m. Cover: $30; $20 at the bar; $10 minimum.
HOLDEN

Jazz

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy jazz concerts in the New York metropolitan region this weekend. * denotes a highly recommended concert. Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

WESSELL ANDERSON QUARTET, Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212)255-4037. A longtime member of Wynton Marsalis's Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra, the alto saxophonist Wessell Anderson has a warm, sweet tone; his playing can be radiant with soul and happiness. Sets through Sunday night are at 9 and 11; cover charge is $30.
BEN RATLIFF

* RAVI COLTRANE QUINTET, Iridium, 1650 Broadway at 51st Street, Manhattan, (212)582-2121. The saxophonist Ravi Coltrane has taken his time to warm up, and his new album new ''In Flux'' (Savoy Jazz) shows that he's gotten somewhere good. He enlists different approaches: mysterious, moving ballads; short free-jazz scrimmages; free improvisation within tight rhythmic structures; rubato, layered time signatures, and the rhythmic complexities of the new Latin jazz, negotiated with the pianist Luis Perdomo, the bassist Drew Gress and the drummer E.J. Strickland. It's a good representation of what jazz in New York sounds like right now. Sets through Sunday night are at 8 and 10, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow; cover charge is $30 tonight and Sunday night, $32.50 tomorrow night, with a $10 minimum at the tables, $5 at the bar.
RATLIFF

DON FRIEDMAN TRIO, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212)576-2232. The pianist Don Friedman has been leading his own groups since the early 60's, when he was a West-Coaster, soon to move to New York and collaborate with Booker Little, Jimmy Giuffre and others. More recently he's been a permanent part of Clark Terry's band, finessing standards. Sets through Sunday night are at 7:30 and 9:30, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow; cover, $25 tonight and tomorrow night, $20 on Sunday.
RATLIFF

ROSARIO GIULIANI QUARTET, Smoke, 2751 Broadway at 106th Street, Manhattan, (212)864-6662. An Italian alto saxophonist with a long-standing group, Rosario Giuliani's rare appearance in New York is part of ''Jazzitaliano,'' a citywide arrival of Italian jazz in New York. Sets through Sunday night are at 9, 11 and 12:30; no cover charge.
RATLIFF

BENNY GREEN TRIO, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street and Broadway, Manhattan, (212)258-9595. A strong mainstream pianist with a dominant Oscar Peterson influence, Benny Green is keeping the glories of mid-century jazz at the surface of his music; he'll play this weekend with Ray Drummond on bass and Rodney Green on drums. Sets through Sunday night are at 7:30 and 9:30, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow; cover charge is $30, with a $10 minimum at the tables, $5 at the bar.
RATLIFF

CHRISTIAN McBRIDE BAND, Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212)581-3080. One of the most virtuosic jazz musicians to emerge during the 1990's, the bassist Christian McBride indulges his interests in straight-ahead jazz as much as funk and pop and other areas. Sets are tonight and tomorrow at 9 and 11; cover charge is $30, and there is a $10 minimum.
RATLIFF

BEN MONDER, Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)965-9177. A regular with bands led by musicians like Paul Motian and Lee Konitz, as well as a powerfully inventive guitarist in his own material, Mr. Monder plays widespread chords you've never heard, frequently going into a kind of gentle outer-space music. Tonight at 9; cover charge is $5.
RATLIFF

MADELEINE PEYROUX, Town Hall, 123 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-1003. A vocalist who emerged in the mid-90's from singing in the New Orleans streets, Ms. Peyroux could inhabit Billie Holiday and Edith Piaf, doing the tragic, pinched-voice thing perfectly. She still can and does -- that little voice remains somehow central to her -- but on ''Careless Love,'' her recent album and her first in eight years, she enlarges and updates the repertory, wading into the Elliott Smith and Jesse Harris catalogs. Tomorrow night at 8 pm; tickets are $35 and $50.
RATLIFF

* PLANET JAZZ, Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, (212)675-7369. It's the first weekend of the reappearance of Smalls -- the little jazz club that nurtured talents through the 90's including Kurt Rosenwinkel, Mark Turner, Peter Bernstein, Avishai Cohen and Jason Lindner. (It has a liquor license now, but you're still invited to stay all night once you arrive.) Planet jazz is a cooperative band including Smalls regulars like Mr. Bernstein, Joe Magnarelli, Grant Stewart, Spike Wilner and Neal Miner. Tonight and tomorrow night beginning at 10 p.m., with sets running until 5 a.m.; cover charge is $10, with a two-drink minimum.
RATLIFF

ANDREW RATHBUN LARGE ENSEMBLE, Smith's Jazz Bar, 701 Eighth Avenue, at 44th Street, Manhattan, (212)246-3268. The saxophonist and composer Andrew Rathbun is using some of the better musicians in the New York scene for his smart, harmony-rich big-band music; he is also working with literary texts. Here he'll be playing all new music for large ensemble including the premiere performance of an extended work with text by Margaret Atwood, ''The Two Islands Suite''; the excellent Claudia Acuna will be singing. Sunday at 9 pm; $10 cover, with a one-drink minimum.
RATLIFF

BENNY POWELL 75th BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063. The trombonist Benny Powell, a longtime associate of Randy Weston and a carver of strong melody, is a local favorite; he spreads good will through a club. Musicians include T.K. Blue on saxophone and flute, Earl May on bass, and Vinnie Johnson on drums. Tomorrow at 9 and 10:30; admission is $15 per set, $10 for members.
RATLIFF

* NED ROTHENBERG, Location One, 20-26 Greene Street, SoHo, (212)334-3347. Over the last 25 years the improviser Ned Rothenberg has been developing his solo performances on saxophone, bass clarinet, shakuhachi and other wind instruments; they are elegant, diverse, full of strong ideas in tone and texture, to the point where his impressive technique almost becomes a side-issue. Tomorrow at 8:30; admission is $12; students and 62+, $8.
RATLIFF

ARTURO SANDOVAL, Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212)475-8592. Mr. Sandoval, the expressive Cuban trumpeter, always looks as if he's having fun onstage; he's in love with his own virtuosity. Sets are tonight and tomorrow at 8 and 10:30; cover charge is $30 at the tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum at the tables and a one-drink minimum at the bar.
RATLIFF

Classical

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy opera and classical music events this weekend in the New York metropolitan region. * denotes a highly recommended event. Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

Opera

'IL BARBIERE DI SIVIGLIA' Several of the singers singing in tonight's performance of Rossini's ''Barbiere di Siviglia'' appeared in their roles earlier this season when the Metropolitan Opera brought back its charming production by John Cox. So, you can depend on the appealing tenor Matthew Polenzani, singing Count Almaviva, and the rich-voiced mezzo-soprano Katarina Karneus to deliver the goods. The big news of the night was going to be the Met debut of the young Italian baritone Franco Vassallo as the barber, Figaro. But Mr. Vassallo is ill, and will be replaced by Earle Patriarco. Carlos Chausson sings Dr. Bartolo, Ferruccio Furlanetto sings Don Basilio, and the conductor Maurizio Benini will be in the pit. Tonight at 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000. Tickets: $40 to $210.
ANTHONY TOMMASINI

'CANDIDE' There's a lot of Lenny going around: a recent fine radio series about his life and work, the DVD release of some of the Young People's Concerts, and now, following more or less on the heels of the New York Philharmonic last season, another ''Candide.'' City Opera is devoting most of the next two weeks to a revival of its own Hal Prince production of Bernstein's flawed but tenacious classic, with some good young voices including William Ferguson, an admirable tenor, in the title role. Tonight and tomorrow at 8, tomorrow afternoon and Sunday afternoon at 1:30, New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212)870-5570. Remaining tickets: $27 to $105.
ANNE MIDGETTE

'SAMSON ET DALILA' The portrayal of Samson by the Argentine tenor Jose Cura is the main reason to see the Metropolitan Opera's revival of its 1998 production by Elijah Moshinsky. Mr. Cura had not been back to the Met since his 1999 debut, and in the years since he has maximized his strengths and minimized his shortcomings as a singer. Though purists will still fault his vocal rawness and sometimes rough legato, he gives his all in this role, singing with passion, burnished sound, fearless attack and energy. And with his hunky physique and bold physicality, he commands the stage. Though the mezzo-soprano Denyce Graves is a gorgeous and alluring Dalila, and her rich and warm voice is ideal for the role, her singing on opening nights was sometimes shaky and insecure. Bertrand de Billy was the impressive conductor. Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000. Sold out; returned tickets may be available before the performance.
TOMMASINI

Classical

BALTIMORE CONSORT This ensemble, best known for its many fine recordings for the Dorian label (which recently folded), is performing ''Cancionero!,'' a program of Spanish songs and dances from around 1500, as well as improvisations on popular themes from the time. Sunday at 1 and 3 p.m., the Cloisters, Fort Tryon Park, Washington Heights, (212)650-2290. Tickets: $35.
ALLAN KOZINN

BARGEMUSIC If the one-voice-to-a-part performance of Bach's St. Matthew Passion by the New York Collegium isn't sufficiently minimalist for you, a competing Bach concert tonight at this floating concert hall on the East River offers all six of Bach's Suites for Unaccompanied Cello. It's a lot of music for a single cellist to play at one sitting (although it's been done), so Bargemusic is splitting the set between two, Amy Sue Barston and Amir Eldan. A more varied program is offered tomorrow and Sunday, when the violinsts Yuval Waldman and Robin Zeh are joined by Kathleen Foster, a violist, and David Calhoun, a cellist, in a program that includes Gershwin's Lullaby for String Quartet, Janacek's ''Intimate Letters'' Quartet and works for solo violin by Biber and Bartok. The Bach Cello Suites are tonight at 7:30; the quartet program is tomorrow at 7:30 and Sunday at 4. Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718)624-2083. Tickets: $35; $20 for students.
KOZINN

'DOUBLES AND TRIPLES' The title refers not to Manny Ramirez's hits in the post-season but rather to a program this evening in Miller Theater featuring multiple string quartets piled together on a single stage. Mendelssohn's Octet is the quintessential example of a work for double quartet, but Darius Milhaud also had the ingenious idea of writing his Quartets Nos. 14 and 15 such that they could be played independently or at the same time. Steve Reich's ''Triple Quartet'' has a title that says it all. The piece often requires a single quartet to pre-record the other two parts, but Mr. Reich also permits three separate ensembles to tackle his score at once. That's just what will happen tonight as the Ying, the Pacifica and the Chiara String Quartets perform these works by Mendelssohn, Mihaud and Mr. Reich. Quartet traffic of this volume apparently requires something extra: a conductor, who will be Alan Pierson. Tonight at 8, Miller Theater, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212)854-7799. Tickets: $25; students $15.
JEREMY EICHLER

'THE END OF THE MOON' Billed as a departure, Laurie Anderson's latest evening-length performance piece actually uses new technology to traverse familiar terrain. In a sing-song lilt that smooths off the rough edges of what she's saying, the artist talks about a wide range of topics, some of them touching on her recent stint as NASA's first-ever artist-in-residence. The grab-bag includes anecdotes, aphorisms, stretches of self-consciously poetic meditation, and simple tunes on Ms. Anderson's electric viola, sampled into digital importance. Ms. Anderson celebrates the way that technology has shrunk, enabling her to fit all of her equipment into a couple of suitcases; unfortunately her content seems to have shrunk along with it. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday afternoon at 3, BAM Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718)636-4100. Tickets: $20 to $50.
MIDGETTE

LOUIS LORTIE This Canadian pianist comes to Carnegie Hall tomorrow night with waltzing on his mind. His fascinating program has at heart Schubert's two sets of waltzes and their French mirror image, Ravel's ''Valses Nobles et Sentimentales.'' Liszt and Berlioz will do some three-in-a-measure dancing as well, and to add a more recent touch Mr. Lortie plays Helmut Lachenmann's Five Variations on a Theme of Franz Schubert. ''La Valse'' by Ravel also appears in its fiercely difficult reduction from orchestra to solo piano. Tomorrow night at 8, Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800. Tickets: $24 to $79.
BERNARD HOLLAND

NEW YORK COLLEGIUM It's been more than two decades since Joshua Rifkin published his groundbreaking study of Bach's choral music, in which he demonstrated that Bach's choruses were not the huge assemblies many of us grew up hearing, or even the comparatively trim groups favored by period instrument ensembles, but a mere one singer to a part. Given the music's heft, to say nothing of its difficulty, this is difficult to imagine. The compensation for the loss of big-chorus grandeur is clarity of texture and line, always essential and illuminating in Bach. One musician who sides with Mr. Rifkin is Andrew Parrott, the English conductor who directs New York Collegium. With his orchestra and eight singers, Mr. Parrott is performing the St. Matthew Passion tonight, giving listeners a chance to decide whether they prefer their Bach towering or intimate -- or whether Mr. Parrott's performance offers some of both. Tonight at 8, Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, 980 Park Avenue, at 84th Street, (212)717-9246. There is a pre-concert lecture by Daniel R. Melamed, a musicologist from the Indiana University School of Music, at 7. Tickets: $30 to $50.
KOZINN

NEW YORK YOUTH SYMPHONY One of the best ways to reconnect with the adventure and excitement of works that have long been repertory staples is to hear them performed by eager and unjaded young musicians who are truly thrilled to be playing them. This always happens at the concerts by the excellent, highly skilled and hard-working New York Youth Symphony. So you expect Sunday afternoon's performances of two Tchaikovsky war horses, the Fifth Symphony and the Piano Concerto No. 1, conducted by Paul Maas, to be deeply rewarding. The soloist in the concerto is the brilliant Italian pianist Antonio Pompa-Baldi, winner of the Silver Medal at the 2001 Van Cliburn Competition. The orchestra also assures adventure by playing the premiere of short work by a young composer at every concert. Sunday's offering is ''The Nostalgia of the Infinite'' by Thomas Osborne. Sunday at 2 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800. Tickets: $7 to $55.
TOMMASINI

PETER SERKIN AND BRAD LUBMAN The composer Oliver Knussen, who wrote ''Where the Wild Things Are,'' is a bit of a wild thing himself: hirsute and unpredictable, with a tendency to blow deadlines. Not only did he not manage to finish his latest new work for the pianist Peter Serkin and the Zankel Band; at the last minute illness prevented him from conducting the concert. Brad Lubman will step in to lead the wild and woolly program, which includes pieces by everyone from Mark-Anthony Turnage (''Snapshots'') to Charles Wuorinen (''Cyclops'') to the absent Mr. Knussen, still represented by two pieces, ''Two Organa'' and ''A Fragment of Ophelia's Last Dance.'' Never mind: Mr. Serkin is a fine pianist; the Zankel Band, a pack of crack soloists. Tomorrow night at 7:30, Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800. Tickets: $20 to $32.
MIDGETTE

RUSSIAN CHAMBER CHORUS OF NEW YORK This group, directed by Nikolai Kachanov, has performed an invaluable service by focusing New Yorkers' attention on the great works written for the Russian Orthodox Church, especially those by the familiar masters Tchaikovsky and Rachmaninoff. Here it presents mostly nonliturgical music: a celebration of the friendship of the great Russian bass Feodor Chaliapin and Rachmaninoff, including Rachmaninoff's cantata ''Spring,'' which had its premiere a century ago, with Chaliapin as soloist. In addition to more Rachmaninoff, the program offers music from Chaliapin's repertory, including works by Rossini, Gounod, Mussorgsky and Gretchaninoff. Tonight at 8, St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue at 54th Street; tomorrow at 4 p.m., Broadway Presbyterian Church, at 114th Street, Morningside Heights, (212)928-1402. Tickets: $25; $15 for students and 65+.
JAMES R. OESTREICH

SILESIAN STRING QUARTET Contrary to popular belief, there is a Henryk Gorecki beyond that single work. This Polish composer's elegiac Third Symphony enjoyed overwhelming popularity and commercial success after the release of a now famous 1992 recording. This symphony, however, had been written back in 1976, and Mr. Gorecki has stayed active since then. His String Quartet No. 2 appears on this all-Polish program along with works by Karol Szymanowski and Andrzej Panufnik. Steeped in its native Polish repertory, the Silesian Quartet would seem up to the task. Tonight at 8, Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800. Tickets: $20 to $40.
EICHLER

Dance

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy dance events this weekend in the New York metropolitan region. * denotes a highly recommended event. Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

ACFDANCE The company, which features collaborative dance and visual arts work, will perform choreography by company director Adrienne Celeste Fadjo and her collaborators in light, set and costume design. Tonight and tomorrow at 7:30 p.m., the Puffin Room, 435 Broome Street at Broadway, SoHo, (212)343-2881. Tickets: $10.
JENNIFER DUNNING

ALEXANDROV RED ARMY CHORUS AND DANCE ENSEMBLE This august troupe, which returns to the United States after a 15-year absence, is known for performing everything from traditional and modern Russian folk songs and dance to ballet-influenced hoofing and the Beatles. Sunday at 2 and 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212)721-6500. Tickets: $38 to $120.
DUNNING

* ASPEN SANTA FE BALLET This fresh young classical ballet troupe will perform dances from a repertory that includes ballet by George Balanchine and new choreographers and modern dance. Tonight and tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 p.m.,New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888)466-5722 or www.njpac.org. Tickets: $38.
DUNNING

DANCE AT THE 92ND STREET Y Two informal programs that explore dance are offered this weekend. In the free ''Fridays @ Noon'' series, four newish choreographers will present work that explores dance as metaphor in a program called ''Poetry in Motion,'' with discussion following. Today at noon. In the ''Sundays @ Three'' series, three choreographers and a performance group will show work in ''Drastic Action and Friends.'' Sunday at 3 p.m. 92nd Street Y Harkness Dance Center, Lexington Avenue at 92nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 415-5500 or www.92ndsty.org. Tickets: $10.
DUNNING

DANCE BRAZIL The company director Jelon Veiera's new ''Retratos de Bahia,'' set to music by Tote Gira, draws from the work of Pierre Verge, the French photographer and anthropologist, and from the Capoeira, the Brazilian martial arts form that is a main ingredient in the dancing of this troupe. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212)242-0800. Tickets: $40.
DUNNING

DANCEMOPOLITAN This intimate, playful series continues with a program of work by 13 dance artists and groups and two surprise guests, including the trio of Stuart Hodes, Gus Solomons Jr. and Alice Teirstein (tonight only) and Paul Matteson and Brian Brooks (tomorrow only). Sybil Bruncheon is the host. Tonight and tomorrow at 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, The Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212)239-6200. Tickets: $15; $12 minimum food charge or two drinks.
DUNNING

* LEVI GONZALEZ AND RICHARD SIEGAL Mr. Gonzalez, who has worked with the New York choreographers Donna Uchizono, Chamecki/Lerner and John Jasperse, will present ''the whole world has suddenly disappeared,'' a group of solos performed simultaneously. Mr. Siegal, who danced with William Forsythe's Ballett Frankfurt, will present a duet called ''If/Then,'' performed by Janis Brenner and Jeanine Durning, that records the changing relationship between a dying mother and her daughter. Tonight through Sunday at 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212)674-8194 or www.danspaceproject.org. Tickets: $15; TDF vouchers accepted.
DUNNING

RENNIE HARRIS This program is billed as ''an evening with Rennie Harris,'' the hot solo performer and hip-hop choreographer. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888) 466-5733 or www.njpac.org. Tickets: $20.
DUNNING

* INTRODANS ENSEMBLE FOR YOUTH The accent is decidedly on youth in the presentations of this Dutch company from Arnhem. Freewheeling dances by such choreographers as Hans van Manen, Robert Battle, Ton Wiggers, David Parsons, Patrick Delcroix and Jiri Kylian feature deliberately mismatched ballroom dance partners, Mozart maniacs who glide about on wheels, a collision between a fuzzy torso and a some furry legs and games of hopscotch and tag for dancers in nightshirts. Tonight at 7, tomorrow at 2 and 7 p.m., Sunday at 12 and 5 p.m., New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212)239-6200. Tickets: $10 to $30.
JACK ANDERSON

LKB DANCE Leah Kreutzer Barber's new ''excavations'' uses video to provide what Ms. Barber describes as a voyeuristic toll to isolate and elaborate her gestural vocabulary and women's experience. Tomorrow at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 3 p.m., Clark Studio Theater, 70 Lincoln Center Plaza, (732) 742-1523. Tickets: $25; $15 for students and 65+.
DUNNING

* AMANDA LOULAKI AND SHORT MEAN LADY Who needs to know anything about a company called Short Mean Lady? But for the literal-minded in the house, the four-member troupe performs dances by its director, Ms. Loulaki, that promise chaos, irony, sarcasm and political commentary, with video on the side in the new ''La la la la, Resistance (The Island of Breezes).'' Tonight and tomorrow at 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212)924-0077. Tickets: $20.
DUNNING

PERU NEGRO A troupe from Lima dedicated to preserving Peru's rich black cultural traditions offers earthy music and soulful dancing. The vibrant accompaniment features many unusual percussion instruments. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Jazz at Lincoln Center, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Broadway at 60th Street, (212) 545-7536. Tickets: $25 to $48.
ANDERSON

NEW GENERATION DANCE COMPANY Directed by Dardo Galletto, who has performed with Julio Bocca's Ballet Argentino, the company will present ''Aires de Tango,'' a program of traditional tango and fusion choreography. Discussion (tonight), wine-tasting (tomorrow night) and tango classes (Sunday afternoon) will follow the performances. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 3 p.m., Harry De Jur Playhouse, Henry Street Settlement, 466 Grand Street, Lower East Side, (917)370-4628. Tickets: $25 to $45.
DUNNING

'92 ON 42': BRIDGMAN/PACKER DANCE Art Bridgman and Myrna Packer have collaborated as choreographers and performers for 27 years. In their new ''Under the Skin,'' the two bodies serve as screens and partners for electronic images with the aid of a ''live'' camera and prerecorded video. Live music will be provided by the composer and saxophonist Ken Field. Tomorrow at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 2 and 7 p.m., the Dukeon 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200. Tickets: $20; $15 for students and 65+ with identification.
DUNNING

PRINTZ DANCE PROJECT The company director Stacey Printz will present new dances in a multimedia program that also includes beat boxing and rap by Felonious, a hip-hop collective from the Bay Area. Tonight through Sunday at 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212)334-7479. Tickets: $15; $12 for students and 65+.
DUNNING

BETH SOLL AND COMPANY A choreographer known for expressive, and occasionally enigmatic, works offers dances inspired by recent developments in American political life (including the invasion of Iraq), the deaths of friends and the struggles of immigrants to America. Tonight and tomorrow at 8:30, Merce Cunningham Studio, 55 Bethune Street, West Village, (212) 304-1845. Tickets: $12.
ANDERSON

* PEGGY SPINA TAP COMPANY A genial tapper calls her programs ''Tap Sprees.'' They're certainly not quite like ordinary tap concerts. In fact, they rather resemble house parties. The setting is informal and relaxed. The dancers radiate good cheer. And the musicians, led by Joel Forrester, play with a minimum of amplification. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 6 and 8:30 p.m., Spina Loft, 115 Prince Street, SoHo, (212)674-8885. Tickets: $20.
ANDERSON

REFRACTIONS DANCE COLLECTIVE The company's resident choreographers will present ''Beloved -- An Evening of Dance and Sufi Poetry.'' Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m., CRS, 123 Fourth Avenue, between 12th and 13th Streets, East Village, (212)677-8621. Tickets: $13.
DUNNING

'TANGO PASION' Tango dancers and singers will do their stuff to instrumental music provided live by the Latin Grammy Award-winning orchestra Sexteto Major. Sunday at 7 p.m., Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, Long Island University, C.W. Post campus, Route 25A, Brookville, N.Y., (516) 299-3100 or www.tillescenter.org. Tickets: $38 and $50; $35 and $47 for 65+.
DUNNING

* PAUL TAYLOR DANCE COMPANY Two premieres and some golden oldies and near-oldies will be performed in this first weekend of the company's three-week 50th anniversary season. Mr. Taylor's new ''Dante Variations,'' a dark-sounding work set to music by Ligeti, will have its New York premiere tonight. The more cheerful new ''Klezmerbluegrass'' will be performed tomorrow at both performances. Other highlights include Taylor classics ''Aureole'' and ''3 Epitaphs'' (tonight) and ''Company B,'' a bittersweet evocation of the World War II songs of the Andrews Sisters to which the piece is set. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m. and Sunday at 3 p.m., City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212. Tickets: $15 to $75.
DUNNING

NAMI YAMAMOTO Ms. Yamamoto, a resident artist this year at the Brooklyn Arts Exchange, will present ''the last word was PAPIREPOSE'' -- oh, these titles -- in which, the choreographer promises, small details, subtle emotional shifts and abrupt movement deviations will create understated landscapes. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m., Brooklyn Arts Exchange (BAX), 421 Fifth Avenue, at Eighth Street, Park Slope, (718)832-0018. Tickets: $8 to $15.
DUNNING

Art

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy art, design and photography shows at New York museums and galleries this weekend. At many museums, children under 12 and members are admitted free. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free unless noted. * denotes a highly recommended show. Full reviews of recent shows: nytimes.com/art.

Museums

'CONTEMPORARY VOICES: WORKS FROM THE UBS ART COLLECTION.' Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400, through April 25. What's wrong with this picture? The Museum of Modern Art, the most visionary museum of the 20th century, is inaugurating the temporary-exhibition galleries in its 21st-century home with an exhibition of gifts from a corporate collection. It is an ambitious, carefully selected corporate collection, but that doesn't keep the ensemble from feeling corporate, monotonous and by the book. The 40 (of 64) works given or promised to the Modern are nearly all by white male artists, and they are all already represented in the collection. There's nothing wrong with the individual works by artists like Philip Guston, Jasper Johns and Vija Celmins that won't be cured by integrating them into the Modern's collection, but the ensemble effect is dispiriting. With an emphasis on a narrow swath of the 1980's mainstream, the show feels like an excessively edited letter in a bottle from an art world that no longer exists. Hours: Saturdays through Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; closed Tuesdays. Admission: $20; $16 for 65+; $12 for students; children 16 and under and accompanied by an adult, free. Free on Fridays from 4 to 8 p.m.
ROBERTA SMITH

'RUTH DUCKWORTH, MODERNIST SCULPTOR,' Museum of Arts and Design, 40 West 53rd Street, (212)956-3535, through April 3. A sculptor whose basic medium is clay, Ms. Duckworth makes everything from tiny, delicate vessels to monumental outdoor sculptures. Though her work fits in -- but not too neatly -- with the modernist tradition, her eye has roamed everywhere, resulting in a bewildering variety of styles and influences, from Brancusi to a beef bone found in her soup. Sometimes the influences combine awkwardly, making her work seem a little strained and quirky, but often enough her venturesomeness pays off, producing images of eloquence and power. Hours: Daily 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Thursdays: 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $9; $6 for 65+ and students. Thursdays from 6 to 8 p.m. is pay what you wish.
GRACE GLUECK

'FIRST SEEN: PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE WORLD'S PEOPLES, 1840-1880,' Dahesh Museum of Art, 580 Madison Avenue, at 56th Street, (212)759-0606, through May 1. Mothers nursing babies, vignettes of the Crimean War, high life under the British Raj, exploited child workers, holy men, Chinese women with bound feet, bare-breasted tribal women, Kirghiz tribesmen, Cossack hunters, American Indians and on and on, not to mention a snappy picture of the novelist George Sand in her accustomed male drag, wielding a cigarette. These are some of the 250 photographs taken all over the world by early lensmen. The idea of the show, chosen from the vast archives of the Wilson Center for Photography in London, was to focus on ''first'' glimpses of people rather than the more usual views of landscapes, mountains or relics that were easier subjects for the ponderous pioneer camera to handle. The profusion of images may cause the viewer's mind to boggle, but it gives a good idea of the worldwide sweep of the early camera's lens. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $9; $4 for 65+, students and educators.
GLUECK

* 'FROM FILIPPO LIPPI TO PIERO DELLA FRANCESCA: FRA CARNEVALE AND THE MAKING OF A RENAISSANCE MASTER,' Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212)535-7710, through May 1. The Italian Renaissance artist-priest known as Fra Carnevale was an art-world somebody in his day but a shadowy figure to modern historians, known primarily for two extraordinary paintings of tiny figures in fantastic architectural settings. Both paintings are in this intricate think-piece of a show that tries to reconstruct his career by bringing his known paintings together. At the same time, it uses his work, along with that of major figures like Filippo Lippi and Piero della Francesca, to explore larger ideas about self-created professional identity in a cultural epoch far more diverse than it is sometimes thought to have been. A few of the paintings mustered as evidence are pretty strange; many are glorious. Hours: Sundays, Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $15; 65+, $10; students, $7.
HOLLAND COTTER

Galleries: Uptown

RICHARD HICKAM: 'BEYOND THE SURFACE,' Allan Stone Gallery, 113 East 90th Street, (212)987-4997, through March 26. The faces in this group of quirky Expressionist portraits slip and slide into grotesque masks under the artist's loose brushstrokes, rich textures and bold manipulations of color. But they hint at universals, like ''The Teacher,'' a particularly haunting welter of features that includes a strained toothy smile under a beaky nose, an unkempt thatch of straight, straw-colored hair and a dark scraggle of beard. The dyspeptic-looking ''Night Reader,'' with a yellowish head the shape of an Idaho potato held at a slight angle, a twisted gash of mouth and a pair of glasses that sit crookedly on the suggestion of a nose, evokes an aged and bedeviled aesthete (as well as the Wizard of Oz). At their peak, his faces seem to bare the souls of their wearers.
GLUECK

JOHN WALKER: 'COLLAGE,' Knoedler, 19 East 70th Street, (212)794-0550, through March 19. This English artist who now lives in Maine produced the six powerfully imposing Cubist collages featured here while living and teaching in New York in the mid-70's. Each measures 10 by 8 feet and has leathery surfaces of painted, irregularly cut-up pieces of canvas. Today they seem old fashioned, even a little academic. Still, the rumbling, viscerally physical energy they exude remains exciting.
KEN JOHNSON

Galleries: 57th Street

'FACE TO FACE: DAN MASKS FROM THE IVORY COAST AND AQUATINTS BY HENRI MATISSE,' Pace Primitive/Pace Master Prints, 32 East 57th Street, (212)421-3237, through March 19. This first collaboration between the Primitive and the Print departments of this wide-ranging gallery, this show brings together Matisse's ultrasimplified female faces in aquatints from the 1940's and the refined, stylized late 19th-century and early 20th-century face masks from the Dan people of the Ivory Coast. While it can't be said that Matisse's aquatints here were directly influenced by them, his spare faces drawn with a hand so practiced it could conjure up an image with a few strokes, seem to owe something to the often subtle stylizations of African art. Of all African masks, those by the Dan, with their minimal but expressively carved features, and smooth modulation of facial planes, seem to go particularly well with his less-is-more renderings.
GLUECK

Galleries: SoHo

JOHN ALTOON: 'PAINTINGS AND DRAWINGS, 1961-67,' Luise Ross Gallery, 568 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212)343-22161, through April 16. In the last years of his short life, Altoon (1925-1969) broke out of the free-wheeling West Coast mode of Abstract Expressionism to zero in on more personal images that floated through his fantasy. One of the most amusing -- and accessible -- of these works is ''Untitled (Bathtub)'' of 1967, which could refer to Bonnard's endless renditions of his wife in the tub. It depicts a woman bathing as poodle bearing her shoe awaits her emergence. But her attention is riveted, hands clenching the tub in horror, on a small demonic man who has set fire to her bath water. Altoon's deft, light touch mates well with his fine sense of the silly.
GLUECK

ELEANOR ANTIN: 'ROMAN ALLEGORIES,' Ronald Feldman Fine Arts, 31 Mercer Street, (212)226-3232, through March 12. The role-playing Ms. Antin has brilliantly assumed identities from Nurse Eleanor, a take-off on Florence Nightingale, to Yevgeny Antinov, an exiled Russian moviemaker of the 1920's, in films, videos, photographs, performance and installation art. But for this sequence of 12 large-scale color photographs, she directs a cast of other performers who play a troupe of traveling actors, in ancient garb, wandering through landscapes dotted with picturesque ruins. Their various tableaus send up painters from Poussin to Bouguereau. The work may not reflect Ms. Antin at her most obsessively focused; sometimes it looks like a college dramatic society on its own without a director. But it doesn't detract from her reputation as one of the wittiest Conceptual artists going.
GLUECK

Galleries: Chelsea

TRICIA CLINE: 'SAINT AND EXILES FROM STORIES NEVER WRITTEN,' Ricco/Maresca, 529 West 20th Street, (212)627-4819, through March 19. This Woodstock, N.Y-based sculptor is self-taught, which shows in her otherworldly narratives but not in her remarkable technique, which looks like that of a well-trained but slightly eccentric Beaux Arts revivalist. Her pedestal-scale, unglazed porcelain sculpture features different versions of a young Everywoman in antique clothing with a totemic animal strapped to her back -- a bird, a giant mouse, a fox -- who seems to be embarked on some kind of supernatural pilgrimage.
JOHNSON

LLYN FOULKES: 'THE LOST FRONTIER,' Kent, 541 West 25th Street, (212)627-3680, through March 19. The main attraction of this maverick Californian's first New York show since 1990 is a big, vehemently satiric multimedia picture about genocide, environmental destruction and the moral idiocy of mainstream American culture. A vast dump made of little toys and wood chips spills between cliffs made of mounds of dark paint inhabited by a mummified Indian and a dried hairless cat. A stupefied man watches television in the foreground and a gun-toting Mickey Mouse in a Victorian dress stands triumphantly at the summit of one rocky prominence.
JOHNSON

JAMES LITTLE: 'REACHING FOR THE SKY,' G.R. N'Namdi, 526 West 26th Street, (212)929-6645, through March 26. Mr. Little infuses 60's-style geometric abstraction with an expansive, sensuous new life. Using a mix of oil and wax on canvases as wide as nine feet, he creates hard-edged designs of diagonal and vertical bands and long triangles pointing up and down. The finely textured surfaces and pulsating colors effect visual and tactile seduction while the kinetic compositions project restless energies.
JOHNSON

SARAH LUCAS: 'GOD IS DEAD,' Barbara Gladstone Gallery, 515 West 24th Street, (212) 206-9300., through March 14. In her brilliantly titled third solo show in New York, the most persistently grating talent of the original Y.B.A. (young British artists) generation adds religious and parental authority to her acidic depictions of male dominance. Her latest efforts, mobile-like figures made from pantyhose, wire hangers, bare light bulbs and buckets, dare you to accept them as art while managing to evoke dirty old men, vulnerable young women or both. The intimation of abuse is hard to miss, although too often what seems intended as subtlety turns into obscurity.
SMITH

CHRISTIAN MOELLER: 'HEAVEN,' Frederieke Taylor, 535 West 22nd Street, (646)230-0992, through March 12. A professor of design/media arts at the University of California, Los Angeles, Mr. Moeller is known internationally for interactive sound, light and architectural installations. Here he presents a comparatively simple installation of fluorescent light works in which shadowy words like heaven, goat, lick, tryst and vodka emerge mysteriously from banks of thin, white parallel tubes. It is literally the brightest show in town.
JOHNSON

Other Galleries

DONNA CHUNG AND LIZ LUISADA: '2 KOOL FOR MYSTERY SKOOL,' Klaus von Nichtssagend Gallery, 438 Union Avenue, near Metropolitan Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (917)912-5482, through March 20. In a moment when dazzling drawing and collage skills are the norm, the double debut of these two Los Angeles artists and recent graduates of the Rhode Island School of Design still stands out. Ms. Chung, a creative materialist, favors collage, eccentric lettering, unusual found paper and additions or sparkle or tape. Ms. Luisada likes to work on wet paper, creating blurred patterns and images with a festive, lighted-from-within ephemeralness. Both borrow from popular cultures, whether Eastern or Western, past or present, and proceed with a freewheeling purposefulness that brings to mind Sigmar Polke. The gallery is new and named for a fictional person. ''Nichtssangend'' is German for ''It says nothing.''
SMITH

MICHAEL ZANSKY: ''AMERICAN PANOPTICON,' GAS, 59 Franklin Street, TriBeCa, (212)226-6762, through March 12. Mr. Zansky assembles large plastic magnifying lenses, electronic motors, lights, mirrors, pipes, clamps and videos of busy microorganisms into kinetic sculptures that altogether tend not toward the comprehensive overview of the Enlightment idea of the ''panopticon'' but toward a dizzying, futuristic fragmentation of vision and consciousness.
JOHNSON

Last Chance

PAT ADAMS: 'PAINTINGS 1954 - 2004,' Zabriskie, 41 East 57th Street, (212)752-1223, closing tomorrow. Celebrating the 50th anniversary of her first solo show at this gallery, Ms. Adams's exhibition of small paintings takes an abbreviated look back over her long and distinguished career. Works from the last four decades typically feature richly textured fields punctuated by sharply defined abstract elements that seem to cavort like Platonic archetypes through the space of a universal collective consciousness.
JOHNSON

'BLUE,' American Folk Art Museum, 45 West 53rd Street, (212)265-1040, closing on Sunday. This cool, offbeat little show is made up of all-blue or mostly blue objects from the permanent collection, including, ceramics, quilts, Shaker ''gift drawings'' and some attractive portraits. In one, a chap named Jonathan Knight cuts a Romantic figure in an indigo dress coat and yellow striped pants, an outfit identified with the hero of Goethe's ''Sorrows of Young Werther.'' An 1830 watercolor of a boy named Frederick Buxton was done on the cheap. But while his blue suit has faded with time, his big, candid eyes are as blue as the day they were painted. They make a perfect conclusion to this chromatic take on American social history. Hours: Today, 10:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.; Tomorrow and Sunday, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Admission: $9; students, 62+, $7.
COTTER

SANTE D'ORAZIO: 'PAM: AMERICAN ICON,' Stellan Holm, 524 West 24th Street, (212) 627-7444, closing tomorrow. Pamela Anderson -- yes, that Pamela Anderson -- in all her pneumatic, mostly unclothed glory is the subject of large and surrealistically vivid photographs that were originally commissioned but not published by Playboy magazine. Students: discuss criteria for judging the value -- aesthetic and otherwise -- of these artworks.
JOHNSON

PETER HUJAR: 'NIGHT,' Matthew Marks, 523 West 24th Street, (212)243-0200, through tomorrow. A mythic aura surrounds the bohemian artist's life -- cut short by AIDS in 1987 -- of the influential Mr. Hujar, but the 43 nocturnal photographs presented by this exhibition are formally conventional. The many architectural studies are expertly made but anonymous and only the subject matter of other pictures -- cruisers in the park, partying drag queens and ruined buildings -- hints at what kind of artist he might have become had he had more time to develop.
JOHNSON

LOREN MADSEN: 'GODS AND DEMONS: AN INSTALLATION,' McKee, 745 Fifth Avenue, (212)688-5951, closing tomorrow . Mr. Madsen is a sculptor who has invented ingenious ways to combine formalist abstraction and socially motivated conceptualism. A wooden sculpture is a kind of three-dimensional chart illustrating the statistical ages at which people are killed by handguns. The main installation, an oblique commentary on the global impact of organized religions, consists of strings of glass beads hung from the ceiling, with beads of different colors representing quantities of key religious words inventoried in a search of three million book titles.
JOHNSON

ALEKSANDRA MIR: 'NEW DESIGNS,' Roth Gallery, 160A East 70th Street, (212)717-9067, closing tomorrow. The ever-resourceful Aleksandra Mir designs her own antiwar pro-abortion campaign with posters proclaiming ''Be Gentle in Fallujah'' and ''Keep Abortion Legal,'' as well as small, slogan-bearing goody-bag items. But she takes a more ambivalent viewpoint with a series of drinking glasses printed with the faces of newborns that are identified as the reincarnations of various recently deceased celebrities. Mass culture has long borrowed the strategies of Conceptual Art; it is always nice to see artists borrow back.
SMITH


GRAPHIC: Photos: ART, DANCE AND MOVIES -- ''Time to Plant Tears,'' a recent work by Sarah Lucas, is on view at the Gladstone Gallery in Chelsea through March 14. Page 29. Art Bridgman and Myrna Packer will perform their ''Under the Skin'' this weekend at the Duke on 42nd Street in Manhattan. Page 29. Tyler Perry stars in Darren Grant's romantic revenge farce (if you can imagine such a thing) ''Diary of a Mad Black Woman.'' Page 26. (Photos by Gladstone Gallery [''Time to Plant Tears'']
Kelly Gottesman [Bridgman/Packer Dance]
 Alfeo Dixon/Lions Gate Films) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (86%); THEATER & DRAMA (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MUSICAL THEATER (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); MUSIC (75%); CHOREOGRAPHY (74%); FILM DIRECTORS (73%); THEATER (59%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: TYLER PERRY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



73 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Art in Review; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Meschac Gaba

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:

'Tresses'
Studio Museum in Harlem
144 West 125th Street
Through March 27
 When she came to the Studio Museum in Harlem as curator, Thelma Golden, now its director, promised to put contemporary African art on the exhibition schedule, and she has done so. Yinka Shonibare had a solo; Chris Ofili will have one this spring. And the first solo show in the United States of new work by Meschac Gaba, born in Benin in 1961 and now living in the Netherlands, is on view now, organized by the museum's associate curator, Christine Y. Kim.
 Mr. Gaba contributed installations to Documenta XI and to the 2003 Venice Biennale, and has one in the exhibition ''Africa Remix'' in London now. The slippery power of globalism is his theme, this time embodied in a series of modest-size sculptures resembling architectural models. Most depict New York City landmarks of general or local renown, from the World Financial Center in Lower Manhattan and the Guggenheim Museum to the Harlem branch of the Y.M.C.A., along with some buildings in Benin.
 From a distance the work looks like soft sculpture, which in a sense it is. Apart from an invisible metal armature, each is made entirely from braided artificial hair extensions of a kind popular in African-American coiffures. Braiding of this kind originated in West Africa -- some of the busiest 125th Street stylists are Senegalese -- and thanks to the near-universal impact of African-American pop stars on fashion, it has renewed cachet in Africa itself. Mr. Gaba commissioned a professional hair braider in Benin, Delphine Bonou, to make the Studio Museum sculptures, working from his photographs.
 The results are delightful: not quite architectural portraits, but also not caricatures. The World Financial Center is recognizable for what it is, but also looks absurd as a bastion of economic might. The Guggenheim has gone from all white to all black, a transformation to ponder. By far the most distinctive forms, though, are the ones of official buildings in Benin. At once Modernist and African, they also look futuristic, like a set of spacecraft, no two alike.
 So, many strands of ''global'' -- West African, American, African-American -- weave together in this show. And what a good idea to turn monuments to masculine ambition into gravity-defying female 'dos: wigs, actually, which you can put on and take off as suits your mood. HOLLAND COTTER


GRAPHIC: Photo: Meschac Gaba's ''Harlem Branch, Y.M.C.A.,'' of braided artificial hair and mixed media, in his solo show at the Studio Museum in Harlem. (Photo by Meschac Gaba/Lumen Travo Gallery, Amsterdam, and Arta Gallery, Milan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); SPACE EXPLORATION (64%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Studio Museum (Harlem)

PERSON: Holland Cotter; Meschac Gaba

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); NETHERLANDS (88%); SENEGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



74 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Surprising Vigor For Retail Sales In February

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
America's consumers extended their bargain shopping spree for another month in February. 
 Reflecting an improving economy, consumers took advantage of stores' final clearance sales and stocked up on the newest fashions for spring.
 Sales increased 4.2 percent at retail stores open at least a year, according to the Goldman, Sachs & Company retail composite index, released yesterday. That exceeded the expectations of Wall Street analysts, who had predicted a rise of 3.3 percent. 
 ''Clearly, the consumer is faring better than myself or a lot of analysts on the Street expected,'' said Kennard Perkins, the president and chief statistician at Retail Metrics, a research firm that compiles analysts' estimates. ''Certainly, in the first quarter the economic picture improved, and weekly employment results were better; they broke out of a sideways trend they had been in for roughly a year.'' 
 Tax refunds, running a little more than 9 percent higher than a year earlier, also fattened consumers' pocketbooks and wallets last month, adding to the surprising strength in spending.
 Merchants who cater to teenagers -- a fickle group of customers -- got it right in February, analysts said, racking up sales numbers that surprised even the most optimistic. 
 Abercrombie & Fitch, with its scantily clad male models, continued its turnaround with a 19 percent increase over February 2004. American Eagle Outfitters, heavily into color and denim, kept roaring with a 32.4 percent increase from a year ago.
 ''Teen apparel retailers turned in a tremendous month and were the clear-cut standouts,'' Mr. Perkins said. Comparable-store sales figures for the group rose 17.3 percent, he said, ''an incredible 11.3 percentage points above expectations.''
 Even department stores did better than analysts -- and some of their own executives -- had thought they would: sales were up 2.7 percent from a year earlier, a full two percentage points more than expected.
 Federated Department Stores, in the news this week because of its announced $11 billion acquisition of May Department Stores, was up 1.8 percent for February. While that did not come close to American Eagle's result, Federated's chairman, Terry J. Lundgren, had predicted that sales would be flat or slightly down for the month. At May, sales were down 4.2 percent. 
 J.C. Penney reported a 6.1 percent increase; it had estimated flat sales.
 On a seemingly never-ending roll, the luxury emporiums struck it rich again, with Saks Fifth Avenue, a division of Saks, reporting a 7.1 percent increase for February. Results at Nordstrom were 7 percent higher than last February's. At Neiman Marcus they were up 6.6 percent, though in February 2004, Neiman gained 24.9 percent.
 The discounters also did surprisingly well. Wal-Mart Stores, the country's largest retailer, reported an unexpectedly strong 4.1 percent rise for the month, exceeding its own 2 percent to 4 percent guidance. Costco beat expectations with a 7 percent rise.
 February recorded healthy selling at full price, analysts said. During the holiday season, fall and winter fashions did not fare as well; merchants started marking them down even before Thanksgiving.
 Rachel Schechter, a retail analyst at Thomson Financial, said some of the overall rise could be attributed to those holiday clearance sales, and also the continuing redemption of gift cards. There were other reasons, too, enumerated in reports issued yesterday by analysts.
 ''The Super Bowl boosted sales, particularly in the discount sector,'' said Ms. Schechter, who said customers stocked up on party goods and football paraphernalia. Because of the late Super Bowl, she explained, these sales were not recorded until February. (Other analysts said the game lifted Target's numbers, in particular, by 9 percent, past a 6.4 percent estimate.) 
 As good as February's overall 4.2 percent increase was, not everybody was a winner. The Gap stores reported a 3 percent decline, and its Banana Republic stores fell 6 percent. Limited Brands' Limited stores were flat, and its youth-oriented Express division declined 20 percent.
 There were a few other notes of caution. Last year's overall February gain was even higher, the analysts pointed out: sales increased 7 percent from February 2003.
 Still, that does not explain why American Eagle Outfitters, a chain of casual clothing shops for young people, keeps climbing. Executives there were not available for comment yesterday.
 Todd D. Slater, a retail analyst for Lazard, said the momentum could not last forever. ''Teen concepts, brands, they tend to rise and fall when they catch a wave,'' Mr. Slater said. ''We haven't seen performance like this since the dot-com era -- not that this is a dot-com.'' 
 American Eagle Outfitters closed yesterday at $57.90, down 97 cents.
 The company, he said, has been helped by greatly improved execution. In addition, he said, the clothes are ''more on target and the deliveries, the inventory management, the way they are sourcing, all have become more efficient.''
 Yet he cautioned that the preppy trend, which American Eagle mined so richly, may be nearing its end. And how high, he asked, can the operating margins go? Performance at youth-apparel chains, he said, rarely exceeds the mid-teens, ''and these guys are already at 19.3 percent.''
 ''You'd have to go back to 1999, when they had 18.0 operating margins -- and that was a stronger period, economically, for consumer spending.''
 Mr. Slater cautioned that American Eagle's strength may well wane in the second half, because the comparison with past performance will be much more difficult.
 ''It's not just 'tougher,' it's record levels of profits and same-store sales growth,'' he said. ''Two years ago, the executives were all going to be thrown out. It shows you specialty retailers can refocus very quickly. Nothing's easy in retailing, but its easier to turn around a specialty chain than a giant department store chain.'' 


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Retail Sales in February''Goldman, Sachs retail composite indexYear-to-year changes based on monthly sales at stores open at least a yearChart shows sales results for retail department stores ... Data are for the four weeks ended Feb. 26, 2005, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier. Companies are in order of 2003 sales.(Source by Goldman, Sachs & Company, based on company reports)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); TEENS MARKET (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); TRENDS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (91%); AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (68%); MACY'S INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (51%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (91%); AFT (FRA) (91%); AEO (NYSE) (68%); M (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); WMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

PERSON: TERRY J LUNDGREN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



75 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Federal Reserve Chief Supports Tax on Spending
Alan Greenspan endorsed a shift in the tax system from one that primarily taxes what people earn to one that taxes what they spend.
 Testifying before a presidential advisory panel, Mr. Greenspan steered away from sweeping proposals to replace the income tax with a national sales tax. But he supported what many of President Bush's advisers see as a backdoor version of a consumption tax: expanding the role of tax-free savings accounts so people could shield their income from taxes until they spend it. [Page A1.]

Mad Cow and Border Conflict
The closing of the American border to Canadian cattle because of mad cow disease has wreaked havoc on what used to be a model of cross-border cooperation. [A1.]

Aon Said to Be Close to Settlement
Aon is close to a settlement with the attorneys general of New York, Connecticut and Illinois that would end inquiries into hidden incentive payments from insurance companies. [C4.]

Cablevision Delays Closing Voom
Cablevision Systems delayed shutting down the Voom satellite television service to give Charles F. Dolan more time to assemble a deal to buy it. The reprieve came one day after Mr. Dolan, who holds shares that represent 75 percent of Cablevision's vote, named four directors in a move that seemed intended to shore up his support on the board. [C12.]

Senate Keeps Loopholes
The Senate rejected several amendments to the bankruptcy legislation, including one that would have closed a loophole that lets wealthy people protect assets from creditors even after filing for bankruptcy. [C4.]

Argentina Wins Debt Agreement
The Argentine government said that 76 percent of its creditors had accepted a proposal that will pay them at most 30 cents on each dollar, ending the country's default. [C3.]

Brazil Permits Modified Crops
Brazil's lower house of Congress approved legislation paving the way for the legalization of genetically modified crops. [C3.]

Japanese Rail Tycoon Arrested
Yoshiaki Tsutsumi, left, the Japanese railroad and resort magnate who was once the richest man in the world, was arrested on suspicion of insider trading and filing false financial statements. The arrest of Mr. Tsutsumi, 70, came as part of a broad investigation into suspected fraud at the Seibu Railway and its major shareholder, the Kokudo Corporation, companies in Mr. Tsutsumi's empire. [C3.]

U.S. Loses Cotton Ruling
The World Trade Organization's appellate body upheld a ruling last year by trade judges who said American subsidies to cotton farmers broke international trade rules by depressing world prices and harming cotton farmers in Brazil and elsewhere. [C2.]

Oil Prices Continue to Climb
Oil prices briefly rose above $55 a barrel as investors bet that rising demand and tight supplies would keep prices high. The April contract closed at $53.57 a barrel. [C6.]

The Dow Jones industrial average gained 21.06 points, to 10,833.03, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.39 of a point, to 1,210.47, after oil prices fell from intraday highs. The Nasdaq composite index declined 9.10 points, to 2,058.40. [C6.]



Graph: ''TODAY'' shows factory orders figures since July 2004.
January figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.
Expected: -0.1%

Graph shows Cablevision share prices for the week.

GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,833.03 up 21.06Nasdaq composite -- 2,058.40 down 9.1010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.38% Unch.The euro -- $1.3108 down 0.0021The dollar -- 105.31 yen up 0.64Graph: ''TODAY'' shows unemployment figures since August 2004.February figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +5.2%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); SHAREHOLDERS (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (86%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (86%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (85%); ARRESTS (85%); COTTON FARMING (85%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); EXCISE TAX (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (70%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (70%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); INSURANCE (67%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (67%); INSIDER TRADING (66%); APPROVALS (65%); AGRICULTURE (62%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (62%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); CHARLES DOLAN (66%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



76 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Larger Surplus in City's Budget Is Predicted

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
New York City will end the current fiscal year with the largest budget surplus since 2001, according to a report released yesterday by the city's Independent Budget Office.
 The surplus, estimated at $2.5 billion, represents a substantial increase over the agency's previous estimate of a $1 billion surplus, issued in December, and is about $500 million more than the Bloomberg administration's estimate.
 The higher estimate assumes a continuing rise in tax revenues, driven largely by the surging local real estate market and by increased profits on Wall Street. Total city tax revenue for 2005 is projected to be $29 billion. 
 ''It doesn't allow us to count on anything,'' said Ronnie Lowenstein, the director of the Independent Budget Office, the city's nonpartisan fiscal monitor. ''It just means there are more resources available to determine what's best to do. Do you spend more on programs, and if so, which? Do you think about cutting some taxes, and if so, which? It just means that there are some additional resources to work with.''
 The new estimate was announced yesterday during the first day of hearings on Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposed $48.3 billion city budget for the next fiscal year, at which members of the City Council repeatedly clashed with Mark Page, the director of the city's Office of Management and Budget, over amounts earmarked for education, school construction, law enforcement and other programs. 
 Citing an array of what he called ''hidden cuts'' in the mayor's budget -- including reductions in spending for libraries and summer jobs for youths -- David I. Weprin, chairman of the Finance Committee, asked Mr. Page whether he agreed that the mayor's proposal included spending cuts. Mr. Page would not answer directly, saying only, ''We could all think of things to spend money on for which there are not sufficient resources.''
 When Councilman Weprin repeated his query, Mr. Page answered, ''I think I've answered the question.''
 Later in the day, William C. Thompson Jr., the city comptroller, delivered his own assessment of the city's financial situation, saying that it ''appears to have stabilized for the current fiscal year and fiscal year 2006.''
 But he singled out one program, the Payments in Lieu of Taxes, or Pilot, for closer scrutiny, saying that he had ''serious concerns regarding the transparency and accountability in the process by which these revenues'' -- often payments made by developers building projects on city-owned land -- ''flow in and out of the city's general fund.''
 Mr. Thompson said his office would conduct an audit of the program to ensure that the city was capturing all the revenue to which it was entitled.
 Several council members questioned Mr. Page about the amounts budgeted for school construction and repairs, which are partly dependent on resolution of a court case over how much money the state must spend on city schools.
 Councilwoman Letitia James cited the $1.3 billion the city expects the state to contribute and asked whether the mayor would agree to make up any shortfall.
 ''The State of New York has not managed to come up with its share of capital financing for New York City's schools,'' Mr. Page replied. ''The implication that this is a reduction by this administration in contributions to capital funding is wrong.''
 Noting that the mayor had proposed $100 million in city financing for a new Brooklyn arena for the Nets, Councilwoman James shot back, ''How come there's capital money for an arena and no money for my schools?''
 The point of capital outlays for the new arena, Mr. Page insisted, was to increase revenue down the road.
 ''The Nets' contribution will eventually allow us to spend the kind of money we would all like to spend on education,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg received good economic news, as the Independent Budget Commission predicted a $2.5 billion budget surplus. (Photo by Marvi Lacar for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (94%); BUDGETS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



77 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: China Worries About Economic Surge That Skips the Poor

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN; Chris Buckley contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: BEIJING, March 3 

 BODY:
Chinese leaders open their annual legislative session this weekend trying to resolve a vexing pair of problems: the economy is growing too fast, and most people feel left out of the boom. 
 China's bubbly economy, which expanded 9.5 percent last year despite efforts to cool it down, has produced a yawning wealth gap and fueled a surge of social unrest that top leaders worry could undermine Communist rule. 
 Although the leadership has focused on social inequality and wealth distribution for over a year -- it was also the theme of the 2004 legislative session of the National People's Congress -- there have been several mass riots and thousands of small protests over land seizures, corruption and unpaid wages. 
 In a series of top-level meetings ahead of this session, including a secretive conclave of senior economists and government officials at the Diaoyutai State Guest House a few weeks ago, policy makers bemoaned the severity of the country's social ills and pondered economic changes to assuage the growing impatience evident in rural communities, according to people briefed on the session. 
 President Hu Jintao, who will consolidate his position as China's top political and military leader during the meeting of the legislature, has ordered Communist Party members nationwide to study his thoughts on building a ''harmonious society'' through ''scientific development.'' The ideological campaign emphasizes the need to reduce social conflict and take a step back from the pro-growth orientation of previous leadership.
 ''At past meetings, the stress was on fast growth -- how many bridges were built, how tall the new buildings are,'' said Hu Jinguang, a legal scholar at People's University in Beijing who follows the workings of the legislature. ''Now the main emphasis is on social well-being and spreading the wealth.'' 
 Delegates to the congress, which is controlled by the Communist Party, have put forward dozens of proposals to reduce rural taxation, extend pensions and welfare to peasants, and provide better education and health care in rural areas, reflecting an emphasis on populist themes.
 The legislature, which has only one full session a year, each lasting about 10 days, has little practical authority and is generally used to ratify decisions made by party leaders. But delegates occasionally raise contentious local issues that the leadership has ignored. 
 Aside from economic matters, President Hu has promoted a measure to ban secession by any Chinese territory. The legislation would probably lead to military action if Taiwan tried to solidify its independence from mainland China.
 The text of the measure remains a secret and may simply restate China's vow to fight Taiwanese independence with force. But American officials have criticized the effort, saying it risks upsetting recent progress in calming cross-strait tensions. 
 Also on the congress's agenda is formal approval of Mr. Hu's accession to the chairmanship of the Central Military Commission, a post he inherited when Jiang Zemin, the former top leader, retired last fall. The move will complete a leadership transition that began in 2002.
 Though China's fast economic growth has made it the envy of the developing world, the leadership is preoccupied with trying to rein in lending by state banks that some fear could cause high inflation or lead to a sharp correction.
 Ma Kai, a top economic planning official, told state news media this week that excesses in business and government investment, strains on natural resources, shortages of electricity and oil, transportation bottlenecks and rising production costs threatened economic stability.
 ''At present, macro-adjustment remains at a crucial stage,'' he said, alluding to the government's efforts to cool the economy. ''The slightest slackening may lead to a reversal, wasting our previous efforts.''
 The government is expected to budget a smaller deficit this year, reduce issuance of state bonds for development, and impose limits on lending to industries, including real estate, steel and automobiles, that are viewed as saturated or bubbly.
 On social issues, officials are promoting tax relief for peasants and subsidies to increase grain output as a way to raise rural incomes. With rural incomes averaging less than one-third the incomes in urban areas, China has one of the largest wealth gaps in the world.
 Delegates will also discuss changing land development laws to make it harder for local governments to seize farmland to build factories, offices, hotels or shopping malls. China now has millions of landless peasants, and their circumstances and growing discontent are not entirely unlike the conditions the Communists exploited to rise to power in 1949.
 Mr. Hu has made some headway refocusing economic policies to help those left behind, and officials are promising to do more. But many experts say the changes are administrative rather than structural.
 ''This new leadership is much more concerned with disadvantaged groups,'' said Hu Xingdou, a management expert at the Beijing Institute of Technology and an outspoken critic of the government. ''But they have to consider institutionalizing this stream of thought so it is not just the idea of a benevolent leader.''
 The government has yet to overhaul land ownership rules in rural areas, or to eliminate discrimination in admission to top schools that favor urban residents, or to ease population controls that classify 800 million people as rural residents with limited access to urban services.
 Moreover, President Hu has kept a tight lid on public discourse. Since becoming party chief, he has increased censorship of the media. 
 A wide range of important topics, from the wealth gap to large corruption cases, are effectively off limits for state media even as they take center stage in the mostly private proceedings of the congress.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tea service was arranged yesterday in the assembly hall in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, where the National People's Congress will begin its annual session this weekend. The wealth gap is high on the agenda. (Photo by Claro Cortes IV/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); FARM LABOR (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); RIOTS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); CORRUPTION (69%); APPROVALS (68%); RURAL HEALTH (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HU JINTAO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



78 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Talks Tax Increases

 BODY:
It's a sad thing, really, that it has taken this long for the chairman of the Federal Reserve to finally suggest that Congress consider tax increases to close the nation's gargantuan budget deficit. That should be a no-brainer, especially since the deficit -- now at $412 billion -- is largely due to tax cuts that President Bush and Congress have lavished on the most affluent over the past four years.
 The recognition of the obvious by the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, followed much waffling and was accompanied by oracular talk of spending cuts and his familiar act of fealty to Mr. Bush: a vague endorsement of private accounts in Social Security. In the end, all the huffing and puffing is testament to the strength of the anti-tax fixation of the White House and the Republican-controlled Congress, which has produced reckless tax cuts during wartime and a weak dollar in place of budgetary discipline. But as Mr. Greenspan has now made clear, the profligacy must end. ''Unless we do something to ameliorate'' rising debt levels, he told the House Budget Committee on Wednesday, ''we will be in a state of stagnation.'' 
 It's not Mr. Greenspan's place to be too specific about what lawmakers need to do, and not do. But a couple of things should now be clear to anyone who is concerned about healing the economy: there can be no new life for old tax cuts -- and no new tax cuts. 
 Though they're not scheduled to start expiring until 2008, Mr. Bush is insisting that Congress make permanent his huge tax cuts from 2001 and 2003. These are the same tax cuts that have already contributed so mightily to the deficit. Making them permanent would add an additional $1.8 trillion of red ink over 10 years, according to a Congressional estimate widely believed to be low. But Mr. Bush is not stopping there. His latest budget includes new tax breaks, like provisions to let people who make more than $100,000 take bigger write-offs for dependents and to allow wealthy investors to shelter more investments. The nation can't afford this, financially or morally: we cannot balance the budget on the backs of workers, the elderly and our children.
 What makes the situation even more dangerous is that in a push to help Mr. Bush rescue his plan to privatize Social Security, Congress may well do the right thing by raising taxes, and then do the wrong thing with the money.
 One of the many problems with Mr. Bush's plan for private accounts in Social Security is that it would require either immense government borrowing or huge tax increases. To get around that, his allies are now seizing on polls showing that most Americans favor the idea of safeguarding their retirement insurance by raising the cap on the amount of income -- currently $90,000 -- that is subject to Social Security payroll taxes. If lawmakers raise the cap and use the money to help pay for private accounts, that's when you'll know for sure that fiscal discipline is dead. 
 Using the money for private accounts would do nothing in itself to reduce the deficit or preserve programs threatened with extinction -- or strengthen Social Security's finances. It might help the president save face, as he barnstorms for a plan that the public isn't buying. And it might make some members of Congress feel as if they're biting the tax bullet. But it would be more posturing, the opposite of heeding Mr. Greenspan's urgent call to make deficit reduction the ''overriding principle.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); US DOLLAR (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



79 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Lebanon for the Lebanese

 BODY:
With international pressure mounting on Syria to end its 29-year occupation of Lebanon, President Bashar al-Assad should now recognize reality and organize a prompt and orderly retreat. Withdrawal will hurt Syria's pride and could increase Lebanese leverage in the close economic relationship between the two countries. But any further attempt to hang on risks destabilizing Lebanon and deepening Damascus's already dangerous international isolation. 
 Saudi Arabia, Russia and Germany have now lined up with the United States, France and, most crucially, the Lebanese people in demanding that Syria stop putting off compliance with the clear order of the United Nations Security Council to withdraw its 14,000 troops. That resolution might not have been necessary if Syria had fully honored the 1989 peace agreement ending the Lebanese civil war, a pact that called for Syrian forces to withdraw to a border region. So it's little wonder that other countries remain skeptical of Syria's latest promises to withdraw after just a few more months.
 Syria's dynastic dictatorship has run Lebanon as a profitable fief, twisting the arms of Lebanese politicians, and the language of Lebanon's Constitution, to serve its own interests. Military control of Lebanon has also given Damascus effective control over the terrorist activities of the Hezbollah militia, which is backed by Iran, along Lebanon's border with Israel. More than once, Syria has used Hezbollah to put military pressure on Israel without exposing its own forces and territory to direct retaliation. These despicable tactics have cost Israeli and Lebanese lives and hugely complicated efforts to negotiate a peace agreement between Syria and Israel. 
 Russia, Syria's main big-power ally, abstained in last year's Security Council vote and has hedged its withdrawal call in diplomatic phrasing. Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, whose pronouncements carry great weight throughout the Arab world, was considerably more blunt. Either way, President Assad can no longer afford to ignore the world's growing impatience. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); TERRORISM (70%); CIVIL WAR (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%) LEBANON (98%); SYRIA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); GERMANY (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



80 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Horse Trading for a Venture in China; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1932 words

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Shortly after a SARS crisis scared many people off the streets of this city, Henry M. Paulson Jr., the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, flew here for a quiet dinner on June 4, 2003, with two of China's most influential power brokers.
 They worked out a remarkable deal, approved last year by President Hu Jintao, that marks a triumph for Goldman -- the creation of a joint venture that gives the firm greater access than any other foreign investment bank to China's increasingly lucrative financial services market. 
 But to gain that access, Goldman engaged in an unusual horse trade. In exchange for making a $67 million ''donation'' to cover investor losses at a failed Chinese brokerage firm, Goldman won government approval to set up its own joint-venture investment bank in Beijing. 
 And to jump-start the venture, Goldman also agreed to lend $100 million to one of the men Mr. Paulson met that evening at the marble-columned Noble Court restaurant in the Grand Hyatt: a 52-year-old Chinese banker named Fang Feng Lei. 
 The Goldman deal, which the company hopes will mean millions of dollars in profits in the coming years, offers a rare glimpse into the maneuvers that many foreign companies undertake to get a leg up in the rough-and-tumble race to establish business in China. And like others before it, the joint venture was years in the making, involving frequent huddles with high Communist Party officials. 
 What was so unusual about the Goldman deal is that a blueblood American firm was willing to pay $67 million to help the government dissolve an entirely unrelated state-owned enterprise, Hainan Securities, whose officials have been accused in lawsuits of embezzling millions of dollars from investor accounts.
 Why the Chinese government chose Hainan Securities remains unclear. But Mr. Fang and another power broker at the dinner table that evening, Wang Qishan, the mayor of Beijing, had ties in Hainan Province -- Mr. Wang had been Hainan's party secretary from 2002 to 2003. And Mr. Fang had overseen a real estate investment with Hainan Securities in the mid-90's. 
 Goldman officials declined to comment on any aspect of the Hainan Securities money or the joint-venture loan, including what kind of collateral Mr. Fang pledged to back the loan.
 But there is no evidence that Mr. Fang or Mr. Wang was involved in fraud at Hainan Securities, or that Goldman's donation money will benefit them in any way.
 Analysts say major investment banks like Goldman are expecting a growing number of Chinese companies to tap the capital markets and they expect increasingly wealthy Chinese to start investing.
 ''There's a lot of talk now about a dysfunctional stock market,'' said Li Jin, an assistant professor at Harvard Business School, ''but in the future China's capital markets will be huge.'' 
 Carson Wen, a Hong Kong securities lawyer, added: ''Everyone wants to be in China because it's a market that holds a lot of potential for the long term. And Goldman wants to be one of the first with control over their own venture.''
 Until now, most foreign investment banks have largely taken Chinese companies public in Hong Kong or New York, or married Chinese companies with Western counterparts. Goldman will have greater control over a venture that will be able to take companies public in China and sell shares directly to Chinese investors -- a level of control that neither its rival Morgan Stanley nor any other foreign investment bank can yet claim.
 Goldman is paying an additional $30 million for its one-third stake in the joint venture, to be called Goldman Sachs Gaohua Securities, bringing the cost of its ticket to China to nearly $200 million. And that just gets Goldman a foot in the door; it does not cover the cost of buying equipment, renting office space or hiring staff members. 
 Most foreign investment banks operate profitably out of Hong Kong. Goldman already employs about 1,000 people there. The new Beijing investment bank, whose chairman will be Mr. Fang, has not yet begun operations. Goldman's push into China comes a decade after Morgan Stanley and the China Construction Bank won government approval to form the nation's first joint venture investment bank, the China International Capital Corporation, or C.I.C.C.
 The bank, which had a $35 million investment from Morgan, ran into trouble almost immediately. Cultural clashes and disputes over who controlled the new company rattled Morgan executives in the first few years. In 1997, for instance, when China Mobile was preparing a $4 billion stock offering, C.I.C.C. did not underwrite the deal with Morgan Stanley; it worked with Goldman Sachs instead.
 According to former bankers, an important player in pushing the deals to Goldman was C.I.C.C.'s deputy chief executive, Mr. Fang, who had sparred with Morgan executives over how to operate in China.
 For his role in the China Mobile offering, Mr. Fang earned a reputation as a visionary who knew how to move deals through the Chinese bureaucracy. ''He's a big deal maker,'' said Cao Yuanzheng, chief economist at Bank of China International and a former colleague of Mr. Fang. ''This isn't like the U.S. Here in China, you have to know about reforms and state-owned companies. You need a special guy and that's him.''
 Early in 2000, Mr. Fang left C.I.C.C. to join a rival state-owned bank. Morgan Stanley, which operates out of Hong Kong with about 700 employees, mended relations with C.I.C.C. Since then, Morgan Stanley has bounced back with some huge initial public offerings of Chinese companies in Hong Kong and New York, including a state-owned oil giant, Sinopec, and China Unicom.
 And C.I.C.C., which operates independently but is 34 percent owned by Morgan, has grown into a powerhouse, pulling ahead of both Morgan and Goldman with more than $18 billion in mainland equity deals in the last four years. Morgan shares in the firm's profit. 
 That may explain why, a few years ago, Goldman executives began talking to the man many say has the inside track on stock deals in China: Mr. Fang.
 The son of a midlevel government official, Mr. Fang grew up in Beijing and was a farmer, soldier and factory worker before attending Zhongshan University, where he discovered a passion for economics. 
 Mr. Fang also worked on his connections, particularly with two officials who are important figures in the Goldman deal: Mr. Wang and Zhou Xiaochuan, the head of China's central bank. In 2003, Mr. Zhou was China's top securities official when regulators seized Hainan Securities. 
 Such relationships run deep. In 1991, after a trip to the United States, Mr. Fang broached the idea of creating a Western-style investment bank to Mr. Wang, then vice governor of the China Construction Bank. Mr. Wang, a protege of former Prime Minister Zhu Rongji, is a Mr. Fix-It in Chinese government circles. 
 Four years later, in 1995, Beijing approved Morgan Stanley's joint venture with China Construction Bank. Mr. Fang became a top executive in the new venture, C.I.C.C., and Mr. Wang was named chairman, later succeeded by Mr. Zhou.
 At C.I.C.C., Mr. Fang was called the rainmaker for his behind-the-scenes work on two landmark deals: China Mobile's 1997 stock offering; and the restructuring of PetroChina, another big state-owned oil company, which went public in 2000.
 After leaving the Morgan venture in 2000, Mr. Fang worked for the Bank of China International and then seemed to drift for several years, former colleagues said, taking time to study in the United States. Then late in 2002 or early 2003, he got involved in government discussions on what to do with Hainan Securities.
 In the early 1990's, Hainan Securities was considered a pioneering retail brokerage firm. But by 2003, it had become a symbol of the country's troubled brokerage industry. Mounting debt and a series of lawsuits accusing company officials of embezzling millions of dollars from investors had led regulators to seize control of the firm.
 That was when Mr. Zhou, who was China's top securities regulator, turned to Mr. Paulson of Goldman Sachs. According to people involved in the talks, Mr. Zhou asked if Goldman was interested in paying an entrance fee to acquire a stake in a troubled state-owned brokerage house. 
 Goldman officials were reluctant to invest in any brokerage firm with a checkered past. But by June 2003, Mr. Fang and Mr. Wang stepped into the negotiations and helped Goldman massage the deal, the people involved in the talks said.
 The result was that Goldman would pay off some of Hainan Securities' debt and then start a joint-venture bank with Mr. Fang. Goldman Sachs, people involved in the talks say, will have no future relation to Hainan Securities, which the government is expected to shut down once investors are repaid. And Goldman structured the agreement so that it could eventually get majority control, something Morgan Stanley never won with C.I.C.C.
 But why Hainan Securities?
 It had a prominent presence on the freewheeling island of Hainan, which turns out to have been fertile ground for cementing relationships with Chinese officials who would in time have leading positions in the economy.
 ''It was a very small circle of people in the finance sector at that time and even fewer people in Hainan,'' said Zhang Gaobo, a former top executive at Hainan Securities, which was founded by former central bank employees. ''So everyone knew and saw each other frequently.''
 Mr. Fang had met often with the founders of Hainan Securities in the early to mid-90's. He set up a real estate subsidiary in Hainan for China Construction Bank at the request of Mr. Wang, then the bank's head, in 1992. That company, Intime Holdings, invested more than $1 million in a beachfront real estate project with Hainan Securities, according to company documents. That real estate project now includes a hotel that Mr. Fang's brother operates. The property on which the hotel sits was later acquired by a conglomerate that Mr. Fang and Mr. Zhou, the central banker, helped prepare for a public offering when they were with C.I.C.C. 
 Lu Tao, one of the Chinese officials overseeing the $67 million payout, said safeguards were in place to ensure that none of the donation money went to any related parties, including friends or relatives of Mr. Fang or government officials. 
 In many ways, Mr. Fang's ties to Hainan are just the kind of connections Goldman is banking on. After all, in financial circles here, Mr. Fang is considered the ultimate relationship man. ''Whenever anyone needs a chop, they go to Fang,'' said a former C.I.C.C. colleague, referring to the highly sought-after government approval stamp.
 Yet Victor Shih, who teaches political science at Northwestern University, said there are dangers in relying too heavily on the politically connected in China. ''When you get someone well connected,'' he said, ''you get all the connections, but it's also volatile. If they fall out of favor, or get involved in some corruption case, you're in trouble.'' 
 Still, people close to Goldman's deal said that after the firm did its due diligence, it decided to bet on Mr. Fang and his connections, including agreeing to lend him and his partners $100 million. At a banquet in November to celebrate the deal, Mr. Fang and Richard Gnodde, Goldman's Asia president, dined with Wei Liucheng, Hainan's governor.
 Mr. Wei is the former chief executive of Cnooc, a state oil company that Mr. Fang helped take public in 2001 when he worked for Bank of China International. Such old ties help explain why Goldman sees Mr. Fang as the ideal Chinese partner.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Fang Feng Lei, a man who knows Hainan, will be chairman of the banking venture, Goldman Sachs Gaohua Securities. (Photo by Chien-min Chung for The New York Times)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Courting the East''Goldman Sachs has won government approval from China to set up a joint-venture investment bank, Goldman Sachs Gaohua Securities, which will give the firm greater access to the country's increasingly lucrative financial services market.KEY FIGURESPower brokers, East and WestHENRY M. PAULSONGoldman Sachs chief executiveFANG FENG LEIFuture chairman of Goldman Sachs Gaohua SecuritiesWANG QISHANMayor of BeijingZHOU XIAOCHUANHead of China's central bankTHE DEALGaining access to a lucrative marketTo win Chinese government approval for the investment bank in Beijing, Goldman agreed to:Cover $67 million in investor losses at an unrelated retail brokerage firm, Hainan Securities.Lend $100 million to the banker who will lead the venture and . . .. . . put up $30 million to jumpstart the bank.THE CONNECTIONSLongstanding ties lead to important alliesMr. Fang, Mr. Wang and Mr. Zhou all worked at China International Capital Corporation, a joint-venture investment bank of China Construction Bank and Morgan Stanley.Mr. Wang and Mr. Fang each worked for China Construction Bank in the 1990's when a subsidiary of the bank entered into a real estate deal with Hainan Securities.Mr. Wang was Communist Party secretary for Hainan Province from 2002 to 2003. He is known as a Mr. Fix-It in government circles.Mr. Zhou led China's securities agency when it seized Hainan Securities amid allegations of embezzlement.As the top securities enforcer, Mr. Zhou approached Mr. Paulson to bail out a failed state-owned brokerage firm as a means of entering the Chinese market.Mr. Fang's brother now operates a hotel that is part of a 1990's real estate project that Mr. Fang directed a subsidiary of China Construction Bank to invest in. Mr. Wang asked Mr. Fang to set up that subsidiary.(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); JOINT VENTURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BONDS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); LITIGATION (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); REAL ESTATE (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); EMBEZZLEMENT (63%) Stocks and Bonds; Brokers and Brokerage Firms; Gifts; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); HYATT HOTELS CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group; Hainan Securities; Goldman Sachs Gaohua Securities

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); H (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (55%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (55%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%); HU JINTAO (72%) Fang Feng Lei; David Barboza

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) SOUTH CHINA (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); HAINAN, CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



81 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Deficits And Deceit

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN; Bob Herbert is on vacation.. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Four years ago, Alan Greenspan urged Congress to cut taxes, asserting that the federal government was in imminent danger of paying off too much debt.
 On Wednesday the Fed chairman warned Congress of the opposite fiscal danger: he asserted that there would be large budget deficits for the foreseeable future, leading to an unsustainable rise in federal debt. But he counseled against reversing the tax cuts, calling instead for cuts in Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid.
 Does anyone still take Mr. Greenspan's pose as a nonpartisan font of wisdom seriously? 
 When Mr. Greenspan made his contorted argument for tax cuts back in 2001, his reputation made it hard for many observers to admit the obvious: he was mainly looking for some way to do the Bush administration a political favor. But there's no reason to be taken in by his equally weak, contorted argument against reversing those cuts today. 
 To put Mr. Greenspan's game of fiscal three-card monte in perspective, remember that the push for Social Security privatization is only part of the right's strategy for dismantling the New Deal and the Great Society. The other big piece of that strategy is the use of tax cuts to ''starve the beast.'' 
 Until the 1970's conservatives tended to be open about their disdain for Social Security and Medicare. But honesty was bad politics, because voters value those programs. 
 So conservative intellectuals proposed a bait-and-switch strategy: First, advocate tax cuts, using whatever tactics you think may work -- supply-side economics, inflated budget projections, whatever. Then use the resulting deficits to argue for slashing government spending.
 And that's the story of the last four years. In 2001, President Bush and Mr. Greenspan justified tax cuts with sunny predictions that the budget would remain comfortably in surplus. But Mr. Bush's advisers knew that the tax cuts would probably cause budget problems, and welcomed the prospect.
 In fact, Mr. Bush celebrated the budget's initial slide into deficit. In the summer of 2001 he called plunging federal revenue ''incredibly positive news'' because it would ''put a straitjacket'' on federal spending.
 To keep that straitjacket on, however, those who sold tax cuts with the assurance that they were easily affordable must convince the public that the cuts can't be reversed now that those assurances have proved false. And Mr. Greenspan has once again tried to come to the president's aid, insisting this week that we should deal with deficits ''primarily, if not wholly,'' by slashing Social Security and Medicare because tax increases would ''pose significant risks to economic growth.''
 Really? America prospered for half a century under a level of federal taxes higher than the one we face today. According to the administration's own estimates, Mr. Bush's second term will see the lowest tax take as a percentage of G.D.P. since the Truman administration. And don't forget that President Clinton's 1993 tax increase ushered in an economic boom. Why, exactly, are tax increases out of the question?
 O.K., enough about Mr. Greenspan. The real news is the growing evidence that the political theory behind the Bush tax cuts was as wrong as the economic theory. 
 According to starve-the-beast doctrine, right-wing politicians can use the big deficits generated by tax cuts as an excuse to slash social insurance programs. Mr. Bush's advisers thought that it would prove especially easy to sell benefit cuts in the context of Social Security privatization because the president could pretend that a plan that sharply cut benefits would actually be good for workers. 
 But the theory isn't working. As soon as voters heard that privatization would involve benefit cuts, support for Social Security ''reform'' plunged. Another sign of the theory's falsity: across the nation, Republican governors, finding that voters really want adequate public services, are talking about tax increases.
 The best bet now is that Mr. Bush will manage to make the poor suffer, but fail to make a dent in the great middle-class entitlement programs.
 And the consequence of the failure of the starve-the-beast theory is a looming fiscal crisis -- Mr. Greenspan isn't wrong about that. The middle class won't give up programs that are essential to its financial security; the right won't give up tax cuts that it sold on false pretenses. The only question now is when foreign investors, who have financed our deficits so far, will decide to pull the plug. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); POLITICS (74%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); MEDICAID (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



82 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: European Central Bank Holds Interest Rate Steady

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, March 3 

 BODY:
Europe's economic recovery, fragile from the start, has fizzled out in recent months, fanning fears of a relapse into recession in Germany and other countries, and forcing the European Central Bank to put off a widely signaled rise in interest rates.
 The bank said on Thursday that it would leave rates unchanged at 2 percent, the 22nd month that it has not budged.
 Yielding to a wave of poor economic reports in Germany, Italy, and elsewhere, the bank also revised downward its projections for growth in the 12-nation monetary union this year, to 1.6 percent from 1.9 percent. 
 ''I am not an optimist; I am not a pessimist; I am a realist,'' said Jean-Claude Trichet, the bank's president, as he announced the more downbeat forecast at a news conference here.
 While Mr. Trichet said that 2004 ended on a disappointing note, he was not prepared to write off this year, noting that European consumers appeared ready to start spending, and that the global economy remained buoyant, which would provide a market for European exports.
 Nor has the bank given up its intention to raise interest rates from their current level, a record low in the post-World War II period. Mr. Trichet worries that over time, the loose monetary policy will fuel inflation, though he acknowledged there is no evidence of that so far. 
 ''Everybody knows that at a time, we will have to raise rates,'' he said. ''That is anticipated by all observers.''
 That time, however, now seems likely to slip into the second half of this year, according to economists who watch the bank. They say the bank will need to sift through another set of economic reports to determine whether the setback is a temporary dip or something more serious.
 On the face of it, the numbers are bleak. Germany's economy shrank 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter, and Italy's was down 0.3 percent. 
 France and Spain, on the other hand, grew 0.8 percent each, nearly matching the growth in the United States. As a whole, the euro zone grew just 0.2 percent.
 Despite the generally bad news, most economists are reluctant to declare Europe's recovery dead. There are a handful of contrary signs, most notably a positive January retail sales report in Germany.
 ''The bottom line is that we just have to wait for more information,'' said Thomas Mayer, the chief European economist at Deutsche Bank in London. ''It's far too early to call this a new downturn.''
 Among the biggest risks to Europe's prospects, Mr. Trichet said, is the price of oil, which settled at $53.57 a barrel, a four-month high, on Thursday. The bank's growth and inflation forecasts are predicated on lower average oil prices.
 The divergence in the performance of the two largest euro economies, Germany and France, also troubles some economists. They say it may hamstring the bank, which sets monetary policy through a governing board comprising the central bank directors from each of the member states. 
 ''This means it takes much longer for a consensus-driven club like the E.C.B. to come to a decision,'' said Jorg Kramer, a senior economist at the HVB Group in Munich. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); WORLD WAR II (51%); RETAIL SALES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); ITALY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



83 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: SAUDIS JOIN CALL FOR SYRIAN FORCE TO QUIT LEBANON

BYLINE: By HASSAN M. FATTAH

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, March 3 

 BODY:
Saudi Arabia told Syria on Thursday to withdraw its troops from Lebanon, adding substantially to Syria's international isolation just a day after Russia joined Western nations in making a similar call. 
 Bashar al-Assad, the Syrian president, went Thursday to Riyadh, the Saudi capital, hoping to secure Saudi support before a coming Arab summit meeting. But Saudi officials told Reuters and The Associated Press that Crown Prince Abdullah had delivered an unusually blunt rebuff. Egypt, the other key Arab player, has also called for the withdrawal of Syria from Lebanon. 
 ''The Arabs have taken a stand and the international community have taken a stand,'' said Joseph Samaha, editor in chief of As Safir, a Lebanese daily. ''This means there is no ally left for Syria.'' 
 President Assad promised the Saudi leader he would study the idea of a partial withdrawal before the end of the month, the Saudi officials were quoted as saying. 
 Until last month's assassination of Rafik Hariri, the former Lebanese prime minister, the Saudis served as behind-the-scenes players in the cooling relations between the United States and Syria. They backed efforts by Mr. Hariri to mend relations between the two countries, while helping to maintain Arab support for Syria with the Arab league, said Hazem el-Amine, a columnist with a pan-Arab daily, Al Hayat.
 ''As long as the Saudis had organized to protect Syria, Syria could survive this,'' Mr. Amine said. ''That's what makes this so important.''
 As key figures in the Arab League, Saudi Arabia and Egypt largely define the Arab line. 
 Mr. Assad has been seeking a face-saving solution by withdrawing most Syrian soldiers while maintaining a low-level presence as a bargaining chip. But foreign ministers at an Arab League meeting in Cairo on Thursday urged Syria to follow through on a 1989 accord that ended the Lebanese civil war and called for a Syrian redeployment to eastern Lebanon, near the border, and eventually to a full pullout. 
 ''Assad needs the Arabs to support him in keeping troops behind,'' said Joshua Landis, a professor of history at the University of Oklahoma and editor of the Web site Syria Comment. ''The Syrians think they have maneuvering room, and they're bargaining.''
 Saudi Arabia's rebuke follows a similar stand by Russia on Wednesday. ''Syria should withdraw from Lebanon,'' Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told the BBC late Wednesday. ''But we all have to make sure that this withdrawal does not violate the very fragile balance which we still have in Lebanon, which is a very difficult country ethnically.'' 
 On Thursday, President Bush reiterated calls on Syria to leave Lebanon. ''The United States of America strongly supports democracy around the world, including Lebanon,'' he said on a visit to the headquarters of the Central Intelligence Agency in Langley, Va. ''And it cannot flourish so long as Syrian troops are there. It's time for Syria to get out.''
 Analysts say the confluence of global powers turning their backs on Syria will make the imposition of sanctions more likely. The United States imposed sanctions on Syria in 2004, but Europe is Syria's largest trading partner, and sanctions by the European Union would strike at the core of Syria's economy.
 European powers have resisted efforts to impose sanctions, fearing a repeat of Iraq, where, in their view, 14 years of sanctions destroyed the social fabric of the country and only served to empower Saddam Hussein. With the cat-and-mouse game growing more heated with Syria, however, Europeans may be forced to join a sanctions regime with the United States, Mr. Landis said.
 Russia's announcement was in effect a message to Syria that Moscow would not exercise its veto against sanctions in the United Nations Security Council, he added. 
 Syria announced last week that it would begin redeploying troops from Lebanese highlands into Bekaa, the central valley. In separate interviews with the Italian newspaper La Repubblica and Time magazine, Mr. Assad pledged that he would be pulling troops out soon. 
 By Thursday, there had been no notable movement by Syrian troops. Press reports linked to the opposition reported that Syria was in fact reinforcing its positions in the mountains, but an official at the Syrian Foreign Ministry said the soldiers were ''digging trenches in preparation for a withdrawal.''
 The mounting pressure from abroad continued even as Lebanese opposition figures struggled to maintain their momentum after Monday's resignation of Prime Minister Omar Karami. 
 President Emile Lahoud, who is linked with Syria, has not yet opened parliamentary consultations to assign a caretaker government. Opposition figures, who blame Syria for Mr. Hariri's assassination, dropped calls for Mr. Lahoud's resignation Wednesday and called instead for the resignation of Lebanon's public prosecutor and six top security officials. 
 Yet as the negotiations continue, and a waning crowd of primarily young Maronite Christian and Sunni Muslim protestors continue to camp out in Martyrs' Square and parade throughout the city waving Lebanese flags in protest, the absence of Shiite Muslim parties from the opposition has grown increasingly notable. Opposition members say Shiites have taken part, but acknowledge that the absence of Hezbollah and the other main Shiite party, Amal, has limited their reach. 
 There has not been a census in Lebanon in decades and no one knows the precise breakdown of population. But it is widely believed that Shiites, who are among the poorest members of society, make up about 40 percent of the country.
 The opposition has struggled to woo Hezbollah, a Shiite party labeled a terrorist band by Washington, with little success. Hezbollah is perhaps the best organized party in Lebanon and derives much prestige from having fought Israeli occupation there during the 1980's and 90's. 
 On Wednesday, opposition leaders met with Hezbollah officials to coax the group to join their effort, but to little avail. While not openly advocating continued Syrian dominance of Lebanon, Hezbollah, which relies on Syria and Iran for its support, says it is trying to maintain a dialogue between the Syrian-backed government and the opposition. 
 During deliberations in Parliament on Monday on a no-confidence measure, Hezbollah members maintained a neutral tone, pragmatically studying where their interests lie. 
 ''We have not announced how we will vote, but we are discussing things and waiting to see what comes out,'' said Hussein Haj Hassan, who is part of Hezbollah's bloc of 13 M.P.'s among the 128 representatives. ''Everything is possible.'' 
 Hezbollah's reticence underscores its deep ties with Syria. Despite what has been called a cold friendship between Syria and Hezbollah, each sees itself in the same boat: if Syria pulls out, analysts say, Hezbollah will be vulnerable.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, left, was greeted yesterday in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, by Crown Prince Abdullah, whose aides said President Assad was warned about keeping troops in Lebanon. (Pool Photo by Syrian Arab News Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); WRITERS (69%); HISTORY (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (82%) Arab League

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Hassan M Fattah; Bashar Al- (Pres) Assad; Abdullah (Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (90%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (58%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); SYRIA (99%); LEBANON (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EGYPT (93%); UNITED STATES (93%) Lebanon; Syria; Egypt; Saudi Arabia; Russia; Lebanon

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



84 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: 'Gates' Spurred Economy

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
A total of $254 million was spent by visitors to ''The Gates,'' the enormous art project by Christo and Jeanne-Claude, in Central Park, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday, adding that the project ''showed the world that New York is safe and exciting.'' City officials estimated that ''The Gates'' drew four million visitors to Central Park, up from roughly 750,000 during the same period in a typical February. 
That included 1.5 million out-of-towners who saw ''The Gates'' from Feb. 12 to Feb. 27, including about 300,000 international visitors, representing a 20 percent increase in the number of foreigners typically in Central Park in February, officials said. The $254 million figure, derived from surveys of Central Park visitors and city tourism data, reflects the impact on revenue for hotels, restaurants and cultural institutions; use of subways, buses and taxis; and money spent on shopping and general entertainment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (88%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (84%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); RESTAURANTS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



85 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: MILITARY SPENDING; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: House Republicans Give a Little And Take a Little on Bush Bill

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3 

 BODY:
After what one called a thorough ''scrubbing'' of President Bush's $81.9 billion emergency spending request, House Republicans on Thursday proposed adding $1.8 billion in spending for military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq to the measure while cutting the amount of foreign aid roughly in half.
 Parts of the so-called supplemental spending bill have been criticized by some Republicans in Congress, who say it contains extraneous spending for projects that are not urgent, like construction of an embassy in Baghdad and aid to the Palestinian Authority. The bill drafted by House Republicans would retain the aid to the Palestinians -- paying for it through cuts from an earlier emergency spending bill -- and would reduce the amount spent on building the embassy. 
 ''Supporting our troops is the No. 1 reason for the supplemental,'' Representative Jerry Lewis, Republican of California and the new chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, said Wednesday in releasing the House version of the bill. He said he hoped the House would take up the measure later this month.
 Representative Jim Kolbe, the Arizona Republican who is chairman of the appropriations subcommittee that oversees spending on foreign aid, said lawmakers were concerned about the politics of approving such assistance at a time when domestic programs are facing deep budget cuts. Asked if the White House supported the committee's decisions, Mr. Kolbe said, ''The White House is not unaware of the political pressure we face up here.''
 Over all, the bill would reduce the White House request from $81.9 billion to $81.1 billion. Spending on military operations would increase from the $75 billion Mr. Bush requested to $76.9 billion. At a time when troops in Iraq have complained of inadequate equipment, the House measure would spend more than Mr. Bush requested on armored vehicles and night-vision goggles.
 But the $5.6 billion the White House requested for ''international affairs,'' including peacekeeping missions and economic assistance to foreign countries and organizations, would be cut back to $3 billion. The appropriations committee recommended spending $656 million on tsunami disaster relief, $45 million less than what Mr. Bush had requested. It also recommended cutting $570 million requested by the White House for reconstruction projects in Afghanistan, including the refurbishment of the airport in Kabul, the Afghan capital.
 Despite those cuts, the measure drew complaints from Taxpayers for Common Sense, a spending watchdog group, which said the House bill pays for defense projects that were cut from this year's defense spending bill to make room for special interest projects.
 ''They have been robbing Peter to pay for pork,'' said Keith Ashdown, the group's vice president for policy. ''The end result is that we end up paying billions more for this mammoth emergency spending bill that creates a crater-sized hole in the budget deficit.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROPRIATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); DISASTER RELIEF (72%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (72%); TSUNAMIS (60%) United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JERRY LEWIS (58%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) United States; Iraq; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



86 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: FED'S CHIEF GIVES CONSUMPTION TAX CAUTIOUS BACKING

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, cautiously endorsed a shift in the nation's tax system on Thursday from one that primarily taxes what people earn to one that taxes what they spend.
 Testifying before a presidential advisory panel on overhauling the tax code, Mr. Greenspan steered away from sweeping plans to replace the income tax with a national sales tax.
 But he supported what many of President Bush's advisers see as a backdoor version of a consumption tax: expanding the role of tax-free savings accounts so that people could shield their income from taxes until they actually spend it. 
 ''Many economists believe that a consumption tax would be best from the perspective of promoting economic growth -- particularly if one were designing a system from scratch -- because a consumption tax is likely to favor saving and capital formation,'' Mr. Greenspan said.
 But the Fed chairman warned that shifting to a new system would raise difficult ''transition issues,'' and he cautioned against ''going for purity'' in any kind of tax overhaul.
 President Bush, struggling to sell a reluctant Congress on his ideas for partly privatizing Social Security, said he would wait to see what the panel proposes at the end of July.
 ''I've told the American people I want to work to simplify the tax code to make it easier to understand so that people are spending less time filing paper,'' Mr. Bush said Thursday afternoon. ''I'm looking forward to what the commission has to say.''
 But many lawmakers in his own party would like to combine Mr. Bush's goals for Social Security with his goal of transforming the tax code. Republican analysts say the two efforts could dovetail in Congress around the idea of private retirement accounts. 
 The centerpiece of Mr. Bush's Social Security plan is to let people divert part of their payroll taxes to individual investment accounts. Similarly, the kind of ''consumed income tax'' implied by Mr. Greenspan would be based on a major expansion of tax-free savings accounts like Individual Retirement Accounts. People could put in as much money as they wanted, withdraw it any time and not pay any tax on the investment. 
 Supporters say that kind of a system might resemble a traditional income tax. But by letting people shield savings and investment income, supporters say, the system could in practice leave only a tax on consumption.
 The president's advisory panel, which is bipartisan, is to develop at least one recommendation that alters the basic structure of today's income tax, though the expectation is it will produce more than one proposal. Its recommendations are to be submitted by July 31 to the Treasury Department, which will then devise its own recommendation and present it to Mr. Bush.
 Mr. Bush has refused to endorse a particular approach to tax overhaul, but White House officials have made it clear they favor some sort of consumption tax.
 The Economic Report of the President, published last month, argued that consumption taxes could increase personal savings by as much as 43 percent in the first year and ultimately lead to higher output and higher wages.
 ''By removing the tax on the return to savings and investment, a consumption tax would increase savings and investment,'' the report contended. ''With a larger stock of capital, workers would be more productive and output and wages would rise.''
 Representative Bill Thomas, the California Republican who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, has argued since early January that tax overhaul and Social Security should be part of the same agenda. John B. Breaux, the former Democratic senator from Louisiana who is co-chairman of the advisory panel, said recently that he saw merit in combining the issues as well.
 ''I just think they want to deal with these simultaneously,'' said Bruce Bartlett, a senior fellow at the National Center for Policy Analysis, a conservative research group. ''It opens up a lot of options for them to put together a package. That's what I've been hearing for weeks. The problem is the president -- he doesn't want to do it.''
 In contrast to the partisan divide over Social Security, where Congressional Democrats are almost uniformly opposed to Mr. Bush's plans, the issue of tax overhaul has attracted some Democrats.
 Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the House Democratic whip, vowed on Thursday to ''make progress'' on tax overhaul this year and echoed Mr. Bush's rhetoric about the need to make the system ''simpler'' and ''fairer.''
 But Mr. Hoyer and many other Democrats say they oppose any form of a consumption tax, contending that it would primarily benefit the wealthy, who would escape taxes on investment income.
 Some Democrats are also furious with Mr. Greenspan, who they say contributed to the record budget deficits incurred under President Bush by condoning the tax cuts he pushed.
 ''I'm not a big Greenspan fan,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate Democratic leader, in an interview with CNN on Thursday. ''I think he's one of the biggest political hacks we have in Washington.''
 Mr. Greenspan tried to avoid specific recommendations about taxes, but told the panel that a consumption tax could raise savings and still place more of the tax burden on higher-income households.
 A report by the Treasury Department in 2002, though, concluded that almost any form of consumption tax or flat tax would shift some taxes from upper-income to middle-income households.
 Mr. Bush also faces a potential contradiction between his own goals. In initiating the advisory panel, Mr. Bush insisted that any new system would have to protect tax breaks for homeowners, the biggest of which is the deduction for mortgage interest.
 But William Gale, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, a Democratic-leaning research group, said that the mortgage-interest deduction would allow rampant tax avoidance in a system where people did not have to pay taxes on their savings.
 ''If interest income isn't being taxed and interest payments are deductible, you and I could just lend each other $1 million,'' Mr. Gale said. ''Neither of us could be taxed on our income, and both of us could deduct the interest payments.''
 James A. Baker III, who was treasury secretary when President Ronald Reagan pushed through a tax overhaul in 1986, warned the panel of the political minefields.
 Mr. Baker noted that the Reagan administration originally proposed a sharp limit on the mortgage-interest deduction to reduce tax rates as much as possible.
 But that provoked a storm of protest from the real estate, construction and home-finance industries. Only by capitulating, Mr. Baker said, was it possible to pass a bill that sharply lowered tax rates and eliminated scores of special tax breaks.
 ''This is a political exercise as much as it is an economic exercise,'' Mr. Baker noted. ''A basic recognition of political reality will help you shape recommendations that can survive the legislative process.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A presidential advisory panel on overhauling the tax code listened to testimony by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, yesterday endorsing a shift in the tax system. (Photo by Kevin Wolf/Associated Press)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (98%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TAX LAW (91%); SALES TAX (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); TAX REFORM (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); CORPORATE TAX (73%) Taxation; Sales Tax; Taxation; Taxation

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Edmund L Andrews; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005



87 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: A U.N. Report Takes a Hard Look at Fighting AIDS in Africa

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

 BODY:
Billions more dollars will be needed to curb the spread of AIDS in Africa, but as countries increase their donations, the amounts will be less important than how well they are spent and in what context, a new report from the United Nations AIDS program said yesterday.
 Pouring more money into programs to combat AIDS could do more harm than good unless they are effectively coordinated, the report, ''AIDS in Africa,'' said.
 Otherwise, the report said, major financing increases could serve to drive an ''AIDS industry rather than to drive a massively improved response.'' The report was released at a meeting in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. 
 As H.I.V., the AIDS virus, spreads further, Africa will face ''an unprecedented crisis and a challenge never before seen since the advent of slavery,'' Dr. Peter Piot, the executive director of the Geneva-based United Nations AIDS program, said at a news conference in Addis Ababa, according to Reuters.
 The United Nations said the report was intended to improve decision-making and deepen public understanding of the possible course of the AIDS epidemic in Africa by 2025, when ''no one under the age of 50 in Africa will be able to remember a world without AIDS.''
 By then, 89 million more people in Africa could be infected with H.I.V., under the worst circumstances, the United Nations said. An estimated 25.4 million people in Africa are infected now.
 ''The death toll will continue to rise, no matter what is done,'' the United Nations report said. ''There is no single policy prescription that will change the outcome of the epidemic.''
 The report describes three plausible situations in which the AIDS pandemic could play out across Africa by 2025. The situations were told as stories that were prepared over the last two years and intended to be provocative, not to provide all the solutions.
 In one outline, African countries adopt tough long-term measures in which leaders exert the discipline to equate action with rhetoric and focus on prevention. By 2025, the numbers would grow but then fall to today's levels and continue to fall. But the number of orphans would double. This plan would cost an estimated $100 billion with the United States spending $5 billion a year to 2015 and then $6 billion a year.
 In a second situation, which would be medically focused, prevention measures would not be stepped up, so anti-retroviral drugs would be easier to obtain than good nutrition and clean water. In this approach, government leaders would fail to get ahead of the AIDS epidemic, and Africa's poverty and underdevelopment would deepen. Keeping such services at today's level would cost $4 billion a year by 2025.
 A third outline envisioned investments in health systems, agriculture, education, electrification, water and roads to change fundamentally the ways donors provide aid and recipient countries deal with the donations, to avoid inflation and not promote dependency. Such a situation would provide anti-retroviral drugs to 70 percent of people needing them by 2025.
 That effort would be expected to halve the number of people living with H.I.V. and AIDS despite an anticipated growth in population of 50 percent. The cost would be $200 billion, with the United States increasing its contribution to $10 billion a year by 2014 and sustaining that amount until 2025, when it would begin to decrease.
 The United Nations prepared the report with support from the African Development Bank, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Royal Dutch Shell, the World Bank and a number of government agencies and drug companies. The report is available online at www.unaids.org. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (97%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); AIDS POLICY (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ANTIVIRALS (74%); VIRUSES (74%); EXECUTIVES (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%); NUTRITION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (92%) AFRICA (96%); ETHIOPIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005



88 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Whose Patent Is It, Anyway?

BYLINE: By HOWARD FRENCH

DATELINE: GUIYANG, China 

 BODY:
Each shift, 200 workers, most of them women in smocks and bibs, labor in a factory tucked away in hilly farmland outside this city assembling a single product, one-inch hard drives.
 As China's emerging industrial centers go, Guiyang is an obscure outpost, bearing little resemblance to the booming factory towns of the east coast. And yet, as much as any other place in China this hard drive assembly may be at the front line of an intense global struggle to dominate high-tech manufacturing.
 The tiny storage device this factory churns out is the heart of one of the world's hottest consumer electronics items, the mini version of Apple Computer's iPod. Sales to Apple represent a huge triumph for GS Magic Stor, an offshoot of a struggling state-owned carmaker that is so obscure that even in China few are familiar with the name. The problem with this ringing success story, according to a better-established rival, Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, which has factories in China and also supplies miniaturized drives to Apple, is that the Chinese company stole crucial elements of the design. 
 GS Magic Stor denies this charge, which Hitachi has made in a suit filed in Federal District Court in Northern California. In a recent online forum the company's president ridiculed Hitachi's claim, likening it to someone's asking carmakers to pay design rights to the inventors of the horse and buggy. A Hitachi official, who refused to comment further, said that GS Magic Stor could characterize the Hitachi patents however it wished, ''but the plain and simple matter is they haven't expired.'' Hitachi's highly technical complaint specifies several areas where it says its designs were infringed by Magic Stor.
 Apple, which was not named in Hitachi's suit, would not comment. Even if Hitachi wins the suit, that would do nothing to stop Magic Stor from continuing to produce its miniature hard drives in China, although some analysts say that Apple would be forced for image reasons, if nothing else, to drop Magic Stor as a supplier.
 For Western companies competing with China as well as those doing business here, the issue goes well beyond the fate of one obscure company or of a single technology, however valuable. In one sector after another, companies warn that China's swift industrial rise is being greased by brazen and increasingly sophisticated theft of intellectual property.
 The issue of intellectual property theft has been a fixture on the trade agenda between the United States and China for years, with visiting American officials routinely stopping at the famous Silk Market in Beijing to highlight the sale there, like all over China, of cheap knockoffs of toys, clothing, software and DVD's. 
 The Chinese government has recently razed the market, but the counterfeit activity has been moving relentlessly upscale, with General Motors, Cisco, Sony and Pfizer, just to name the most high-profile companies, complaining that their designs or formulas for everything from cars and PlayStations to routers and Viagra, have been violated.
 ''Until recently, when China began putting intellectual property laws in place, for the past 40 years, all patents were owned by the government, and could be shared by any company that was willing to use them,'' said Paul Gao, a Shanghai-based expert on consumer electronics and automotives at McKinsey & Company. ''The Chinese government actually encouraged this, and that has left a deep impression on companies that intellectual property is there for anyone to use it.''
 Experts say the practice of copycat production is also fueled by the fierce competition among Chinese companies and provinces to join the global economy. ''With the extreme fragmentation of industry, you see a lot of subscale players that are trying to survive in the market on their own,'' Mr. Gao added. ''They don't have the budget for research and development or the scale to compete. If they pay a licensing fee, they consider they are essentially imposing a death penalty on themselves.''
 Like many people on the receiving end of accusations of intellectual property theft here, GS Magic Stor's president, Zhu Baolin, fiercely denies his company has done anything wrong, and goes so far as to say that the lawsuit is an act of desperation by a foreign enterprise unable to compete with his Chinese company.
 ''We don't blame Hitachi for what they are doing,'' said Mr. Zhu, a 25-year electronics industry veteran. ''We just want Chinese people to know we created our own product, and that we face a lot of pressure. This will happen a lot in the future in the knowledge industry, but we will still work hard to grow.''
 Beyond the case of Hitachi versus Magic Stor, many Chinese legal experts simply deny there is any special problem with theft of intellectual property in China. ''It may look like it's a China problem, but it's a worldwide problem, just like piracy on the Internet, and it exists in America as well,'' said Zhang Ping, a law professor at Beijing University, and one of China's leading experts on intellectual property rights. ''There are many problems with fake products, with low levels of technology. These can't be counted as intellectual property violations. They are just cheap fakes.''
 Like many people professionally involved with this issue here, Ms. Zhang denied that China was a leading violator of intellectual property rights, which she acknowledged was still a relatively new concept in China. She also said that the country's efforts at improving enforcement, though steady, would require more time to reach the standards of intellectual property rights in many advanced industrialized countries.
 Lawyers who represent Western companies embroiled in intellectual property disputes in China, however, point to major loopholes in Chinese law and in the country's trademark and patent system as parts of the problem. Many Chinese patents, for example, are granted without any examination of their originality, making it easy for local companies to claim others' innovations as their own. 
 While foreign experts also point to progress in the country's courts and especially in the richer provinces along the country's east coast, they say that local and provincial governments, eager to bolster their economies, sometimes subsidize patent filings for local companies and provide pointers to them on how to beat foreign claims of infringement. Even the Shanghai government speaks of building a ''great wall of patents'' to protect local companies.
 ''Once upon a time, the counterfeiters in China ran away when you came after them,'' said Xiang Wang, a lawyer specializing in intellectual property rights at White & Case in Shanghai. ''Today, they don't run away. Indeed, they stay put and they sue us. More and more Chinese companies are taking a so-called legal approach, taking advantage of serious weakness in the Chinese legal system.''
 One of the most problematic areas, experts say, are joint ventures between foreign and Chinese companies, which are legion. When the joint venture dissolves, or sometimes even while it remains active, the Chinese party makes use of the technology or manufacturing processes illegally. A perennially told war story in business circles here involves the foreign factory owner who makes a wrong turn while driving to his plant only to discover an exact copy of his factory on the other side of the mountain.
 Although this story might be apocryphal, Mr. Wang said he saw cases all the time that are not so different in their details. ''We have a client in the power business who found that one of his key employees had quit and joined a competitor, revealing confidential information to him straight away, and filing patents of these materials which were literal copies of the original technology,'' he said. ''When our client warned he would sue over patent infringement, the Chinese company said it was also planning to sue. 'And by the way,' they asked, 'what patent are you talking about? This is our patent now.'''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 12, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day last Saturday about the production of small hard drives by GS Magic Stor referred incorrectly to a lawsuit filed by a rival, Hitachi Global Storage Technologies. The suit accused Magic Stor of patent infringement based on similarities in hard drive design -- not of stealing the technology. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: A rival says that GS Magic Stor stole some design elements of the hard drives it sells to Apple Computer for the mini iPod. (pg. C1)
 Employees of GS Magic Stor at work on microdrive products at the company's factory in Guiyang, China. (Photo by Peng Nian/Imaginechina for The New York Times)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); PATENTS (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (86%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); LITIGATION (66%); COUNTERFEITING (60%); LARCENY & THEFT (60%); PROPERTY CRIMES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HITACHI GLOBAL STORAGE TECHNOLOGIES INC (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334613 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (78%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (91%); GUIZHOU, CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005



89 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Confidence Fell Slightly in February

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Consumer confidence slipped in February as energy prices rose and the debate over Social Security intensified, a report yesterday showed.
 The University of Michigan's final index of consumer sentiment for February dropped to 94.1, from 95.5 in January. 
The number compares with a preliminary reading of 94.2 on Feb. 18. The index has ranged from 90.2 to 97.1 since February 2004.
 In a separate report, the Commerce Department said orders placed with factories unexpectedly rose 0.2 percent in January on demand for paper, petroleum and electrical equipment.
 The increase to $380.5 billion came after a revised 0.5 percent gain in December that was higher than first reported. Excluding transportation equipment, January orders climbed 1.1 percent.
 Economists had expected factory orders to fall 0.1 percent.
 Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft, a proxy for future business investment, rose 2.9 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); DURABLE GOODS (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); PAPER & PACKAGING (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005



90 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Enough About 'Gates' as Art; Let's Talk About That Price Tag

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
One million square feet of nylon fabric. Five thousand tons of steel. Sixty miles of vinyl tubing. Lots of nuts and bolts.
 And a $21 million price tag.
 Along with the lofty questions posed by ''The Gates'' (Is it art? What is art? And haven't we heard enough of this project?), another query has flitted through the minds of some visitors to Central Park in recent weeks. How did the artists Christo and Jeanne-Claude manage to spend that much money on their tangerine dream? 
 To pose the question out loud smacks of ingratitude, particularly given what is widely viewed as the project's benefit to the city: drawing thousands of foreign tourists and pumping an estimated $254 million into New York's economy. And the artists have paid for the project entirely on their own, using no public or corporate money, and therefore do not need to justify their expenses. They financed ''The Gates'' by selling other pieces of their own artwork, which their associates say increased in value over the past year as anticipation for the Central Park project grew. 
 On the other hand, it is that unique financing system, of relying on the promise of ''The Gates'' to maximize the profits needed to pay its $21 million bill, that poses the question of how the bill was determined. And while Christo and Jeanne-Claude have freely volunteered the project's high cost, they steadfastly refuse to explain how they came to that figure.
 Despite their reticence, or perhaps because of it, the question has taken root in the usual places. On the Internet, bloggers have calculated the probable prices of extruded vinyl and rip-stop nylon, but have come up millions of dollars short. Journalists have pestered the artists' representatives to break down the costs, to no avail.
 A New York filmmaker who dared to dissect the $21 million figure on his Web site was savaged in an anonymous e-mail message, which included a suspiciously European-sounding putdown: ''You ridiculous apprentice of nothing!''
 Searching for anything that would explain the project's costs, a New York Times reporter set out on a quest that included visits to drab municipal offices, calls to zipper-mouthed contractors and a climactic confrontation with Christo in Central Park. In the end, it appears that at least some of the grand price tag for ''The Gates'' may be as conceptual as the work itself, and the effort to assess its cost ultimately proved futile, particularly given the vagaries of the marketplace and the singularity of such an artistic enterprise.
 ''Considering that this work of art went on for over 26 years, it would be difficult to itemize every aspect of design, planning and other expenses associated with it,'' said Jonita Davenport, the project director for ''The Gates.'' Of the $21 million estimate, which the artists put forth shortly before the project was completed, she said, ''This is the best-guess estimate that they've decided to release.''
 The first stop was the city Parks and Recreation Department, which oversees Central Park. Megan Sheekey, a spokeswoman there, said that the city never asked for details of what Christo and Jeanne-Claude spent, and that the artists had made clear they did not want to divulge that information.
 ''I know that with public projects, you're used to getting it,'' Ms. Sheekey said. ''But this was paid for with private money, so''
 The department did have a 50-page ''art installation agreement'' that provided a few clues about costs. It showed, for example, that the artists agreed to donate $3 million to the Central Park Conservancy, and pay $70,000 to the city for park patrols and up to $250,000 for incidental expenses. They also obtained a $1 million letter of credit from Deutsche Bank to cover cleanup costs and purchased liability and workers' compensation insurance policies.
 What about those insurance policies? Scott Hodes, a Chicago lawyer who has represented Christo and Jeanne-Claude for 40 years, said insurance was ''a factor, but certainly not a material factor'' in the total cost of the project. He said he did not know how the $21 million figure was determined, but that it probably reflected expenses dating back to 1979, when the artists first proposed ''The Gates.''
 ''A lot of people are asking the same question that you are,'' Mr. Hodes said. ''That number has been bandied about, and I suspect the actual number is somewhere in that range, I would guess.''
 Useful as it was, the parks department paperwork shed no light on construction costs. For ''The Gates,'' the artists and their project managers, the husband-and-wife team of Vince and Jonita Davenport, mostly used manufacturers in the Northeastern United States to save money on trucking, although the nylon fabric was woven at a factory in Germany. The companies involved would not disclose cost information.
 Another approach was tried. What if a general contractor not involved in the project was given the specifications and asked to provide a quote?
 Calls to a half-dozen New York area contractors found none willing to take the plunge. Typical was the response of an executive at Regele Builders in Manhattan.
 ''You want an estimate for what?'' she said.
 Fortunately, Christo and Jeanne-Claude have provided a detailed list of ingredients for ''The Gates.'' Certain materials -- the steel footings, vinyl frames and nylon panels -- are easier to put a price on than others.
 Based on wholesale prices during the last two years and depending on when it was purchased, 5,290 tons of steel -- equal to two-thirds the amount used in the Eiffel Tower -- could have cost between $2 million and $5 million.
 The hollow vinyl frames were essentially the same material used for fence posts. The retail cost -- usually much higher than wholesale -- of 5-inch square vinyl fence post is about $2.50 per foot, or $790,000 for the amount used in ''The Gates.''
 The rip-stop nylon is a little more complicated to calculate, but several wholesalers would sell the basic material for between $500,000 and $1 million, although it would still need to be sewed together.
 None of these back-of-the-napkin numbers include the cost of fabrication; labor to deliver, store and assemble the finished products; smaller components, like aluminum corner reinforcements, leveling plates and 165,000 nuts and bolts; and engineering and materials testing.
 Greg Allen, an art collector and former private equity investor in New York who says he has an early work of Christo's, did his own analysis of ''The Gates,'' which he posted on a Web log he operates.
 He estimated that the fabrication, labor and ancillary materials, together, cost a little more than $3 million, and he said he had a hard time believing that the total project cost exceeded $10 million.
 ''I can't help but think that the $21 million figure reflects their sense of their own generosity,'' Mr. Allen said. ''But just because you've spent a lot of time and money on something doesn't mean it's very good.''
 Whatever the final price tag, the artists expect to recoup the cost of the project. In addition to selling drawings and mock-ups of earlier projects, Christo has already created many renderings of ''The Gates,'' which he signs and sells to collectors and museums for as much as $1 million.
 The artists said they sold $15.1 million worth of art last year to help pay for ''The Gates,'' again raising the question of the project's cost.
 Perhaps a visit to ''The Gates,'' most of which were still standing last Tuesday, would provide inspiration for finding the elusive explanation.
 Somewhere between the skating rink and the boathouse in Central Park, Christo appeared, made easy to spot by the white winter hat perched on his head like a large marshmallow. He was scrambling around a snow-covered ledge, directing his photographer to snap the last pictures of his orange masterpiece.
 Approached by a reporter who offered his hand in greeting, Christo hesitated before slowly reciprocating with a gloved hand, palm down, in the manner of royalty. Asked how he calculated the total cost of the project, Christo's eyes narrowed and he stepped back, waving his hand dismissively.
 ''How do you calculate 26 years of meetings, negotiations, planning, design?'' he said.
 Well how do you?
 ''There is enough money to pay for it, that is the important thing,'' he said, moving away. ''Now please, let us continue with our photographs.''
 The reporter slinked away, empty-handed, feeling much like an apprentice of nothing.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers in Central Park began to dismantle ''The Gates'' on Monday and loaded the pieces onto trucks. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)
(Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)
(Photo by Getty Images)
(Photo by Gary Gunderson for The New York Times)(pg. B4)Chart/Photos: ''Wildly Guessing the Price of 'The Gates''Christo's estimate for the cost of 'The Gates' was $21 million, but how he arrived at that figure is somewhat mysterious. Here are ballpark estimates for some of the main components:STEEL5,290 tons or 10,580,000 pounds of steel were used in 'The Gates,' equal to two-thirds the amount used in the Eiffel Tower.POSSIBLE STEEL $2COST MILLION to $5 MILLIONBased on the wholesale price of steel during the last two years.VINYL TUBINGThe 5-by-5-inch vinyl tube frame has two poles, 16 feet high, and one horizontal, between 6 and 18 feet long.POSSIBLE TUBING $1COST MILLIONBased on retail price of vinyl fence posts.FABRICThe cost of ripstop nylon fabric is difficult to quantify
 panels are different sizes, although each descended to about seven feet above the ground.POSSIBLE FABRIC $1COST MILLIONBased on retail price for fabric, about $1.00 per square foot.(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); WRITERS (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005



91 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: German Court Awards Jewish Heirs of Nazi-Seized Emporium

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: BERLIN, March 4 

 BODY:
A German court ruled Friday that the heirs of a once prominent Jewish-owned department store chain were entitled to compensation for what has in recent years become one of Berlin's most valuable pieces of real estate. The decision resolved one of the biggest and most bitterly disputed claims for restitution of property seized by the Nazis. 
 The German Administrative Court awarded $17 million to Barbara Principe and her nephew, Martin Wortham. They are the main surviving heirs of a family of German Jews that, until World War II, owned and operated the Wertheim department store chain, which even today is to Berlin what Macy's or Bloomingdale's is to New York. 
 The money awarded to Mrs. Principe and Mr. Wortham, who live in New Jersey, came from the sale of a piece of property that was once part of the Wertheim empire. The property was seized by the Nazis in the late 1930's, and after the war, it was nationalized by East Germany. After East Germany collapsed in 1990, the land was sold by the German government to the developers of what is now one of Berlin's main showcases, the office, hotel and theater complex known as Potsdamer Platz.
 But the property was also claimed by what is now Germany's largest department store chain, KarstadtQuelle, which bought all of the former Wertheim family businesses in 1994. Karstadt argued, in a case that has been in litigation for well over a decade, that it was the legitimate successor company to Wertheim and therefore the rightful owner of all the Wertheim land in the former East Germany. In its decision on Friday, the German court rejected Karstadt's argument.
 The decision involved only one of several properties whose ownership is claimed by both the Wertheim heirs and KarstadtQuelle. Another piece of land, now at the heart of the Potsdamer Platz redevelopment and believed to be worth up to $170 million, is still in litigation. But Friday's court decision, in awarding ownership to the group that was expropriated by the Nazis, rather than to a group that acquired the property later, was seen as a favorable sign by representatives of Jewish claimants.
 ''This case is as much about morality as it is about legality,'' said Gideon Taylor, executive vice president of the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany, which filed suit on behalf of the Wertheim heirs 13 years ago. ''We hope now that this will lead to the quick resolution of the remaining Wertheim claims, and we hope that Karstadt will stop standing in the way of a just resolution of a historical injustice.''
 A spokesman for KarstadtQuelle, Jorg Howe, said the company would appeal Friday's decision, the German Press Agency reported.
 The Wertheim company, founded in the 19th century, owned seven large stores in Berlin before the war, all of them appropriated by the Nazis in 1937 as part of the process by which Jews were squeezed out of German economic life and their holdings turned over to ''Aryans.'' The Wertheim brothers arrived in the United States penniless in the 1940's. Gunther Wertheim, Mrs. Principe's father, ran a chicken farm in southern New Jersey.
 In 1951, as they began the process of claiming back their former properties, the brothers were persuaded by a family adviser, Arthur Lindgens, that the business was worth almost nothing. Mr. Lindgens, who has since died, paid each brother $9,200 for the rights to all the Wertheim property.
 Mr. Lindgens then merged Wertheim with another former Jewish-owned department store, Hertie. In 1994, KarstadtQuelle bought the merged company, and that purchase was the basis of Karstadt's claim to be the rightful owner of the former Wertheim holdings in East Germany.
 Because of the sale of the property to Mr. Lindgens, the Wertheim brothers never pursued a claim to be compensated for property in West Berlin, which includes a large, fashionable store bearing the original Wertheim name, now owned by KarstadtQuelle, that is on the busiest and most valuable stretch of the Kurfurstendamm, the Fifth Avenue of West Berlin.
 The statute of limitations for claims in West Germany ran out in the 1960's, but when East Germany fell, the newly reunited German government passed a law allowing claims for former Jewish property that had been nationalized by East Germany. This is the category of property involved in Friday's court decision. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (92%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); RETAILERS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); NATIONALIZATION (72%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ARCANDOR AG (84%)

TICKER: ARO (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005



92 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Job Growth Rises, to Delight Of Investors

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
Job growth surged in February, the government reported yesterday, providing fresh evidence that the economy remained on a path of robust and sustained growth.
 The Labor Department reported that employment grew by 262,000 jobs last month, twice as many as in January and the biggest increase since last October. 
 The job gains make clear that ''the U.S. economy is growing solidly,'' said Mickey Levy, chief economist at Banc of America Securities. ''Businesses are disciplined but obviously confident in the sustainability of product demand.'' 
 Investors were delighted by the data, which buttressed the view that inflation pressures remained relatively subdued even as output grew at a substantial pace. The stock market, by some measures, returned to levels not seen since before the 9/11 terrorist attacks in 2001. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 11.65 points, about 1 percent, to 1,222.12, while the Treasury market responded positively to the economic report, with rates falling. 
 Yet even as payrolls swelled, optimism was tempered by an increase in the unemployment rate to 5.4 percent in February from 5.2 percent in January. This is because the survey of households used to measure unemployment -- which is different from the survey of employers commonly used to measure job growth -- indicated an unexpected loss of 97,000 jobs and an increase of 153,000 people seeking work last month.
 ''It was a pretty solid headline number,'' said David Wolf, senior economist at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto. ''The details, however, were disappointing.''
 Beyond the rise in unemployment, the Labor Department indicated that hourly wages of typical wage earners -- what it calls production and nonsupervisory workers -- remained stagnant in February at $15.90 an hour, which translates into a decline after accounting for inflation.
 Moreover, the length of the average workweek was unchanged at 33 hours and 42 minutes. The average manufacturing workweek actually declined by 12 minutes, to 40 hours and 30 minutes, which muted somewhat the addition of 20,000 manufacturing jobs, the first increase in six months.
 More workers seemed to be struggling to make ends meet: 7.7 million workers, nearly half a million more than in February of 2004, had more than one job. 
 Still, after relatively weak employment growth in December and January, job growth in February put the labor market back on the upward path it had been following for over a year, averaging slightly more than 180,000 new jobs a month. 
 The number is enough to absorb long-term work force growth of about 140,000 a month and start to eliminate the slack left after more than three years of stagnation.
 And despite the weak points, the growth in payrolls presented a bright picture across most economic sectors. Professional and business services, which includes everything from janitors to temporary workers, added 80,000 positions. Retail jobs grew by 30,000, the biggest gain since last April. Construction snapped back from a stagnant January, adding 30,000 jobs as better weather across much of the country stimulated construction activity.
 Investors were heartened by the absence of wage growth, which reassured them that inflation would remain tame and reinforced their expectations that the Federal Reserve would stay its present course of gradual and moderate increases in interest rates. 
 ''From the Fed's point of view,'' Mr. Wolf said, ''the strength in hiring is welcome because it doesn't seem to be coupled with pressures on wages and inflation.'' 
 Richard J. DeKaser, chief economist of the National City Corporation in Cleveland, argued that the economy seemed to be sliding into the Fed's sweet spot. 
 ''The Fed is clearly targeting a scenario where the economy is pulling into the turnpike at just the right speed with inflation under control but at full employment,'' he said.
 Several economists played down the disappointing unemployment data, noting that the household survey of employment is a volatile measure, which provides a less accurate measure of monthly changes in employment, unemployment and the size of the work force.
 Mr. DeKaser noted that the median duration of unemployment had actually decreased to 9.3 weeks -- its lowest level since November 2002.
 The new employment report is in line with a general economic tableau in which businesses have overcome three years of shocks from terrorism, high oil prices and a spate of corporate malfeasance scandals, and are again willing to spend money investing and hiring. 
 Even as businesses have finally started to invest their growing profits, the surge in employment should provide the income growth needed to maintain brisk consumer spending, which has provided the main pillar of economic growth in recent years. 
 David Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities, noted that despite monthly ups and downs, the current long-term trend of about 1.5 percent employment growth was consistent with economic growth of about 4 percent coupled with a slowdown of productivity growth to 2.5 percent or so. 
 ''What we're seeing is the ebb and flow of monthly activity,'' Mr. Resler said. ''But the underlying trend eventually exerts itself.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Housing starts, which hit a 21-year high in January, have been a mainstay of the recovery. (Photo by Barry Sweet/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4)Chart: ''The Labor Picture in February''UNEMPLOYMENT(BY DEMOGRAPHIC)WhiteJan.: 4.4%Feb.: 4.6%BlackJan.: 10.6Feb.: 10.9Hispanic*Jan.: 6.1Feb.: 6.4Asian+Jan.: 4.2Feb.: 4.5Men 20 and overJan.: 4.7Feb.: 4.9Women 20 and overJan.: 4.6Feb.: 4.7Teenagers (16-19)Jan.: 16.3Feb.: 17.5OUT OF WORK (millions)TotalJan.: 7.7Feb.: 8.0Lost jobJan.: 4.0Feb.: 4.0Left jobJan.: 0.8Feb.: 1.0Returning to labor marketJan.: 2.3Feb.: 2.4New to labor marketJan.: 0.6Feb.: 0.7HIDDEN UNEMPLOYMENT (millions)Working part time, but want full-time workJan.: 4.4Feb.: 4.3''Marginally attached'' workers++Jan.: 1.8Feb.: 1.7Graph tracks unemployment since March 2004. Civilian unemployment (Feb. 2005) -- 5.4 percentEMPLOYMENTBY TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmJan.: 132.6Feb.: 132.8GoodsJan.: 22.0Feb.: 22.0ServicesJan.: 110.6Feb.: 110.8AgricultureJan.: 2.1Feb.: 2.1SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedJan.: 62.4%Feb.: 62.3%Labor force workers and unemployed)Jan.: 65.8Feb.: 65.8Graph tracks employment since March 2004.February 2005Nonfarm payroll survey: 132.8 millionHousehold survey: 140.1 millionFigures are seasonally adjusted except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Not seasonally adjusted.++People not working but not counted as unemployed because they are not currently looking for work
 must have searched in the last 12 months and been available for work when surveyed. Includes discouraged workers. Not seasonally adjusted.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); INFLATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (89%); WORK WEEK (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); LAYOFFS (79%); JOB CREATION (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (74%); TERRORISM (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (54%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005



93 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: AIDS Drugs Threatened

 BODY:
India's Parliament is about to take up a bill that could affect sick people the world over. India is the leading supplier of low-cost generic AIDS medicine. The country's huge generic industry has been able to copy antiretrovirals and other medicines because India grants patents for the process of making drugs, rather than for the medicines themselves. But the Patents Bill that India is considering, at the behest of the World Trade Organization, would change that. 
 Parliament must make sure that it protects India's ability to make these crucial drugs. While the W.T.O. requires its members to respect product patents, it allows them to put public health first. Unfortunately, the Patents Bill would fail to do this; some of its provisions would go far beyond what the trade organization requires. The bill bears the heavy footprint of multinational and Indian pharmaceutical companies that are eager to sell high-priced drugs to India's middle class, which is larger than the population of the United States.
 Lobbying by these companies has produced a bill that would sacrifice public health. For example, as current AIDS drugs become ineffective, India will be asked to make cheap, easy-to-take combination versions of newer antiretrovirals. To do so as a W.T.O. member, the government will have to issue something called a compulsory license, which allows a generic manufacturer to copy a patented drug. The patent holder gets a reasonable royalty, but does not have to consent. But India's compulsory license process is very slow and lets pharmaceutical companies tie up such licenses in court for years. Moreover, India's laws do not allow it to export medicines made under these rules to countries where they aren't patented, which includes most of Africa.
 Indian lawmakers must reform the Patents Bill to cut the red tape that can block compulsory licenses. They should also eliminate the loophole that prevents medicines from going to the poorest countries. India needs to allow challenges to patents before they take effect, and to remove a provision that could allow a company to extend a patent by simply finding a new use for a drug.
 Instead of passing the flawed government bill, lawmakers should refer the bill to a committee for public testimony about possible reforms. Seldom has India's Parliament considered anything of such global import. If Parliament can preserve India's ability to provide generic versions of these medicines, it will make the difference between life and death for millions of people at home and abroad. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (91%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (91%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); LOBBYING (74%); DRUG PRICES (72%); EXPORT CONTROLS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005



94 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: China Leader Mixes Rhetoric on Taiwan

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Saturday, March 5 

 BODY:
Hu Jintao, China's Communist Party chief, took a militant stance on Friday against what he called ''secessionist forces'' in Taiwan, but also cited ''new and positive factors'' that could reduce cross-strait tensions.
 His comments came as China's national legislature prepared to consider a measure that would likely mandate a military response if Taiwan, which is governed independently, formally seceded from mainland China. The measure is the culmination of a show of resolve by Mr. Hu after he became China's military leader late last year. 
 Delivering the main opening address to the legislature, called the National People's Congress, on Saturday morning, Prime Minister Wen Jiabao set an economic growth target of 8 percent, down from the 9.5 percent growth recorded in 2004. He also vowed to eliminate the main tax imposed on China's peasantry for the first time in two millenniums.
 The government also announced that it would raise spending on China's rapidly modernizing military by 12.6 percent in 2005, continuing a long streak of double-digit increases in outlays for military personnel and arms.
 Mr. Hu, making rare extended comments about Taiwan to delegates at the Congress on Friday, reiterated a hard line on Taiwanese independence, which he said China would ''never tolerate.'' The comments appeared to underscore his plan to pass a so-called anti-secession law. But he did not mention the legislation, describe its contents, or discuss the merits of enacting it.
 Instead, he struck a relatively moderate tone, perhaps reflecting the fact that Taiwan and China, under heavy American pressure, have softened their rivalry since Mr. Hu first broached the idea of an anti-secession law in December.
 Mr. Hu said that there were ''certain signs of relaxation'' in Taiwan's approach to the mainland. While he did not specify the developments, he appeared to be referring to a shift in tone by Taiwan's president, Chen Shui-bian, whom China has long condemned as a hardened advocate of independence.
 Mr. Chen's party failed to gain a majority of seats in Taiwanese legislative elections in December. Since then, Taiwan and China have agreed to expand holiday charter flights between Taiwan and the mainland. Mr. Chen also made a political pact with James Soong, who heads an opposition party that favors reunification with China.
 Mr. Hu seemed to signal that he was willing to open a dialogue with Mr. Chen, though only under the strict conditions China has set for talks for many years -- that Taiwan accept the ''one China'' formula under which Beijing claims sovereignty over Taiwan. Mr. Chen has rejected that formula in the past.
 ''No matter who he is and which political party it is, and no matter what they said and did in the past, we're willing to talk with them on issues of developing cross-strait relations and promoting peaceful reunification as long as they recognize the one-China principle,'' Mr. Hu said.
 The comments do not amount to a substantive concession and may be overshadowed by passage of an anti-secession law, which both Taiwan and the United States have called a provocation. But the tone of the comments suggest that Mr. Hu is probing for an improvement in relations.
 Taiwan is one focus of the Congress, the Communist Party-controlled legislature that convenes in full session once each year to review and invariably approve the main personnel appointments and policy decisions of party leaders.
 Mr. Wen, the prime minister, delivering the government's equivalent of the State of the Union address on Saturday morning, emphasized continuing a campaign to cool China's economy and narrow the growing urban-rural wealth gap, which has led to severe social tensions. 
 He raised the official growth target from 7 percent in 2004 to 8 percent in 2005. But the target is usually treated as a floor, not a ceiling. With growth turning out to be a raging 9.5 percent last year, Mr. Wen now seems determined to slow it to 8 percent this year.
 The central government is concerned about wasteful investment and reckless lending by state banks, practices that have powered growth but risk high inflation or even a financial collapse. 
 Mr. Wen said the government would tame fixed-asset investment, reducing the growth rate of investment to 16 percent in 2005 from nearly 28 percent in 2004. He also promised to trim the government budget deficit and issue fewer state bonds.
 Mr. Wen also vowed to address divisive social issues that have threatened to tear apart Chinese society. There were thousands of large protests and several mass riots last year, many of them over land seizures, unpaid wages and corruption.
 ''We still need to solve quite a few problems in education, health and culture in rural areas,'' Mr. Wen said. ''Some low-income people lead difficult lives and there are more than a few factors threatening social stability.''
 He said he would abolish the main taxes on farmers, a majority of China's 1.3 billion people, for the first time in modern Chinese history. The main tax will disappear by 2006, two years faster than earlier promised, he said.
 He also outlined new programs to extend aid and reduce education fees for rural students.
 Mr. Wen said he would work to curtail the conversion of farmland to commercial development, the major source of discontent for peasants, who have little control over the land they farm. But he did not address fundamental land reform, which many analysts say is required to limit corruption and ease discontent.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Hu Jintao, left, and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao this morning at the annual session of China's national legislature. (Photo by Adrian Bradshaw/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HU JINTAO (91%); WEN JIABAO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005



95 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: Citgo's Status Is Giving Houston the Jitters

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Brian Ellsworth, in Caracas, Venezuela, and Erin E. Arvedlund, in Moscow, contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: HOUSTON, March 4 

 BODY:
Few places are as jittery as this city when it comes to the future of Citgo Petroleum, the oil refining giant owned by the government of Venezuela and based here. 
 Popular sentiment in Venezuela is critical of Citgo's rich links to the United States, and the administration of Hugo Chavez has recently signaled its intent to exert greater control over Citgo and perhaps even dismember it. 
 So, Rafael Ramirez, the president of Venezuela's national oil company, tried to dispel uncertainty in energy markets when asked about the recent turmoil at Citgo, which is the main conduit for Venezuelan oil exports to the United States. Citgo lends its brand to 14,000 independently owned gas stations in this country. It also accounts for almost 15 percent of oil refining output in the United States. 
 ''Houston has nothing to fear,'' Mr. Ramirez, who is also Venezuela's energy minister, said in an interview in Caracas. To be sure, at Citgo's headquarters in Houston, the view is somewhat different.
 Next week, a group of Venezuelan lawmakers will come to the headquarters to interview officials as part of a recently expanded investigation by Venezuela's National Assembly into reports of corruption at Citgo and PDVSA Services, the Houston-based purchasing arm of Petroleos de Venezuela. 
 Citgo officials declined requests for interviews. 
 About a month ago, the administration of President Chavez quietly but abruptly ousted Citgo's chief executive, Luis Marin, only the second Venezuelan to run the company since Petroleos de Venezuela bought control of Citgo in 1990. 
 Petroleos de Venezuela replaced Mr. Marin, who had overseen the recent transfer of Citgo's headquarters to Houston from Tulsa, Okla., with Felix Rodriguez, a senior executive at Petroleos de Venezuela and a vocal supporter of Mr. Chavez.
 Then, last week, Petroleos de Venezuela took the unusual step of purging Citgo's entire board, replacing longtime directors with people who are explicitly loyal to Mr. Chavez and who support increasingly activist policies intended to diversify Venezuela's oil exports to markets other than the United States. 
 ''It's not unusual for our C.E.O.'s to serve a relatively short term and then be replaced by another executive,'' said David McCollum, a Citgo spokesman. Mr. McCollum declined to comment further on the recent management upheaval at Citgo.
 Venezuela's ambitions for Citgo have recently come under greater scrutiny, amid statements from Caracas about the politically charged energy relationship with the United States. Though Mr. Rodriguez, Citgo's new chief executive, has insisted that a sale of Citgo's refining assets is not imminent, Mr. Ramirez, the president of Petroleos de Venezuela, acknowledged that Venezuela was actively considering the sale of parts of Citgo. Lukoil, a major Russian oil company, has said publicly that it is in discussions with Citgo about possibly refining Russian oil for export to the United States. 
 ''We are in conversations with several interested companies, and are reviewing which refineries are beneficial for the country and which aren't,'' Mr. Ramirez said. ''People keep asking us about the sale of Citgo as if it were as simple as selling a pair of shoes.''
 Of course, the reliance of the United States on Venezuelan oil imports is not so simple. Oil from the Middle East, West Africa or Central Asia could potentially be redirected to American ports if Venezuela were to curtail oil exports to the United States through severing commercial ties with Citgo. But doing so could help drive up global crude prices.
 Energy officials in Venezuela are aware of the benefits of selling oil to the United States; the country's total oil export revenues soared 47 percent in 2004, to $29.1 billion. Yet during a time of elevated oil prices, clarity from Caracas in relation to Citgo seems in short supply in its new home city. Less than a year ago, city officials celebrated the arrival of Citgo, which is transferring 700 jobs to the Houston headquarters out of a total work force of 4,000.
 Now the mood has changed amid doubts over the company's future. In an editorial entitled ''Our Chavez Problem,'' The Houston Chronicle recently criticized the handling of Mr. Marin's ouster as Citgo's chief executive and the Venezuelan government's positioning of Citgo as a bargaining tool in relations with the United States.
 Citgo, of course, remains an essential pillar of Venezuela's economy as the nation's principal outlet for foreign crude oil sales and one of the most important operators of oil refineries in the United States, with interests in eight installations in this country that process crude oil into gasoline and asphalt. Those refining assets, analysts say, are among the most coveted in the energy industry.
 The growing profitability of Citgo's refineries is the main reason many energy executives in Houston are puzzled as to why Venezuela might consider selling them. Citgo's revenue has more than doubled, to $29.9 billion in the year that ended last Sept. 30, compared with $13.3 billion for the period in 1999, the year Mr. Chavez was elected president of Venezuela, said Bryan Caviness, an analyst at Fitch Ratings who follows bonds issued by Citgo. 
 Citgo's net income also soared during those five years, to $499.2 million in 2004 from $146.5 million in 1999, a trend illustrated by Citgo's payment of a record $400 million dividend to the government of Venezuela last December.
 Mr. Ramirez, the president of Petroleos de Venezuela, complained that while Citgo was originally acquired with the intent of refining Venezuelan crude it now has to buy about 50 percent of the petroleum for its refineries from other countries, mainly Canada and Mexico. That fact might indicate one option Petroleos de Venezuela is considering when weighing the sale of some of Citgo's assets.
 ''For a trader this would probably be a good business but it doesn't make any sense for us,'' Mr. Ramirez said in reference to its refineries that do not use Venezuelan crude. ''Does that mean we're going to abandon our refineries and leave the American market? No.''
 Nor does that mean, of course, that Citgo will remain out of play in Venezuela's strategy of finding new markets for its oil as far afield as China. For several years it has been impossible to separate any discussion of Citgo from the whirlwind of Venezuelan politics. 
 The Chavez administration is critical of the way previous administrations opened up the oil sector to private investment and acquired foreign refining assets under Citgo's control, insisting these were attempts to hide revenue from the state.
 Many Venezuelans, particularly supporters of Mr. Chavez, remain profoundly mistrustful of Citgo and skeptical of a company that employs few Venezuelans and until recently did not return large dividends to Petroleos de Venezuela. 
 ''Citgo has never been a good business for Venezuela, and the general population knows it,'' said Rafael Quiroz, a former board member of Petroleos de Venezuela and a vocal supporter of selling Citgo. He said there were ''serious and legitimate doubts'' whether Citgo's revenue had helped ease poverty in Venezuela.
 This mistrust was evident in a hearing this week in Caracas on reports of financial irregularities at Citgo. A five-member commission questioned Mr. Marin, the former Citgo president, for more than two hours on Tuesday about issues like pension funds and crude oil contracts.
 When asked whether Citgo was in fact profitable for Venezuela, or whether it should be sold, Mr. Marin offered few clues about the ultimate fate of the company. 
 ''That evaluation must be made by the shareholder,'' he said, referring to the Venezuelan state.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rafael Ramirez, president of Venezuela's national oil company, has said that Venezuela was actively considering the sale of parts of Citgo. (Photo by David Rochkind/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); CORRUPTION (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (90%); OAO LUKOIL (50%)

TICKER: LKOH (RTS) (50%); LKOD (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (90%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (95%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (95%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005



96 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-6

Freed Italian Journalist Fired on by U.S. Soldiers
American soldiers guarding a checkpoint in Baghdad fired on a car carrying a kidnapped Italian journalist who had just been freed, wounding the journalist and killing an Italian intelligence agent. The military said the car approached the checkpoint at a high speed and soldiers tried to signal it to stop, including firing warning shots. A1

Two newly elected politicians announced they were withdrawing from the political alliance put together by Iraq's most powerful Shiite cleric, representing the first notable fracture within the alliance. The split signaled that any talks to form a new government would probably be protracted, as rivals try to take advantage of rifts in the alliance. A6

Syria to Assemble Parliament
Syria said its president, Bashar al-Assad, would convene a session of Parliament to deliver a speech, raising expectations that he would announce a partial pullout of Syrian troops from Lebanon in an effort to ease the growing international pressure on his government. A5

Ex-Ukraine Minister's Suicide
Ukraine's former interior minister, a man suspected of involvement in the abduction and murder of a prominent journalist in 2000, died in a cottage outside Kiev in what officials called a suicide. Yuri F. Kravchenko shot himself in the head hours before he was supposed to meet with prosecutors to be questioned for the first time in the case. A3

U.S. Yields to Global Opposition
The United States bowed to global opposition at a United Nations conference on women's equality and dropped its insistence on inserting an anti-abortion amendment into a document that was then adopted unanimously. A5

Restitution for Nazi Seizure
A German court ruled that the heirs of a once-prominent Jewish-owned department store chain were entitled to compensation for what has in recent years become one of Berlin's most valuable pieces of real estate. The decision resolved one of the biggest and most bitterly disputed claims for restitution of property seized by the Nazis. A6

NATIONAL A7-10, 14

Bush Tries to Reinvigorate Social Security Campaign
Stepping into a rapidly escalating battle for public support, President Bush tried to jumpstart his uphill drive for personal Social Security accounts, insisting the retirement system required a ''drastic'' change and challenging skeptics to put their own ideas forward. A1

Scientist Picked for E.P.A. Post
President Bush nominated Stephen L. Johnson, a scientist who rose through the ranks during a 24-year career at the Environmental Protection Agency, to be the agency's administrator. A1

Marijuana Violence on Border
The shooting death of four officers of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police who were searching a marijuana growing operation in Alberta highlighted the expanding and increasingly violent marijuana trade along the Canadian border. A1

Accuser Praised Jackson
In a videotape produced two years ago by aides to Michael Jackson, the boy he is charged with molesting said the singer was a ''loving, kind, humble man.'' A7

Of Democrats and Abortion
Robert P. Casey Jr., Pennsylvania's Democratic state treasurer and a strong opponent of abortion, announced that he will run for the U.S. Senate next year. Gov. Edward G. Rendell, a fellow Democrat, endorsed Mr. Casey. A14

Religion Journal A10

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Cancer Drug's Benefit Debated
A federal advisory panel began wrestling with whether to remove from the market a lung cancer drug that was approved for use by desperate patients but has failed to prolong lives in a large clinical trial. A8

F.D.A. Seizes Millions of Pills
Angered by quality-control problems it said had dragged on for more than two years, the Food and Drug Administration used armed federal marshals to seize millions of tablets from plants operated by the drug giant GlaxoSmithKline. A7

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Arrests Made in Murders Of Jersey City Family
Two former convicts were charged with binding, gagging and cutting the throats of four members of an Egyptian Christian family last January in what prosecutors called a robbery that went awry in their Jersey City home. While the brutal killings appeared to have the characteristics of a hate crime, the authorities stressed that it was a bungled robbery, not the result of religious enmity.

Jury Is Stymied in Shooting
After five days of deliberations in the trial of a police officer who killed an unarmed man, the jury said in a handwritten note to the judge that they were deadlocked. The judge is expected to order them back to deliberations. B1

Severed Hands Reattached
In a rare procedure, surgeons at Stony Brook University Medical Center simultaneously reattached both of a Long Island man's hands after they were accidentally sliced off while he was operating a vacuum form machine at a factory in North Bay Shore. B6

FASHION B6-7

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-6

OBITUARIES A11

Martin Denny
A bandleader who mingled easygoing jazz with Polynesian instrumentation and jungle sounds to exemplify the ''exotica'' sound that swept suburban America in the 1950's and 60's, he was 93. A11

ARTS B9-19

Bolshoi Theater Reconstruction
The main building of the Bolshoi Theater in Moscow will close on July 1 for a long-anticipated reconstruction, the general director of the house said. The Bolshoi, which comprises both an opera company and a ballet company, will be leaving its historic home for the first time in 150 years. B11

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Labor Market Grows
Employment grew by 262,000 jobs last month, the government reported, providing fresh evidence that the economy remained on a path of robust and sustained growth. C1

Stewart Returns Home
Martha Stewart returned to one of her homes, beginning five months of home confinement as the next part of her sentence. C1

ChoicePoint Woes Continue
ChoicePoint, the commercial data broker that inadvertently sold tens of thousands of consumer records to thieves masquerading as small-business clients, announced that it was the subject of at least two consumer lawsuits, a barrage of inquiries from state attorneys general and two federal investigations. C2

Aon Reaches Settlement
Aon, the world's second-largest insurance broker, reached settlements with New York, Connecticut and Illinois, agreeing to pay restitution of $190 million for directing transactions that helped mislead customers and and possibly increased costs, the New York attorney general Eliot Spitzer said. C3

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A12-13

Editorials: A fighting strategy for veterans; the Bush team's abortion misstep; AIDS drugs threatened; lobbyist as snapping turtle.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Bridge B17
Crossword B17
TV Listings B19
Weather B20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); CANNABIS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SUICIDE (87%); MURDER (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); POLITICS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); POLICE FORCES (70%); WOMEN (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); GENDER EQUALITY (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); RETAILERS (62%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); ABORTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) ALBERTA, CANADA (50%) CANADA (93%); SYRIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (90%); IRAQ (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005



97 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: The Crisis Last Time

BYLINE: By Paul C. Light. 
Paul C. Light, a professor of public service at New York University and a fellow at the Brookings Institution, is the author of ''The Four Pillars of High Performance.''

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IT is almost 22 years to the month since Representative Barber Conable Jr. strode to the floor of the House to defend a carefully constructed plan to save Social Security. Mr. Conable, a moderate New York Republican with whom I then worked, spoke with characteristic understatement. ''This is not a work of art,'' he told a packed chamber. ''But it is artful work.''
 He was right. The $168 billion package eased the program through a turbulent period, and 1983 marks the last time Congress cut Social Security benefits, raised taxes and lived to tell about it. Before drawing too much inspiration from this history, however, we should recognize that this rescue was anything but assured when Mr. Conable and the other members of the bipartisan National Commission on Social Security Reform began work under the leadership of Alan Greenspan in February 1982. 
 Then as now, a president was ready to invest his political capital in Social Security reform. Despite his best efforts to convince the public that Social Security was going broke, Ronald Reagan got exactly nowhere. In May 1981 his budget director, David Stockman, proposed a deep cut in the early-retirement benefit available at age 62; in July there was the suggested elimination of the $122-a-month minimum benefit for the poorest beneficiaries; and in September word leaked out that Mr. Reagan was considering a three-month freeze in the annual cost-of-living increase. 
 With his public approval sagging under opposition to all these proposals, Mr. Reagan did what any beleaguered president would do: he pulled his foot off the third rail of the political subway and proposed a bipartisan national commission to study the issue. Scheduled to report by January 1983, after the midterm elections, the 15-member commission would, with luck, give the president time to recover before the 1984 campaign. 
 Then as now, there was little agreement that the program was actually broken. Republicans used worst-case economic assumptions to paint the most draconian future imaginable -- and then best-case assumptions to sell their solutions. Democrats, in turn, used their own projections to minimize the Social Security problem, and the worst-case numbers to illustrate the impact of any benefit cuts.
 Then as now, there was intense conflict on how to fix the program. As expected, Republicans said the best way to rescue Social Security was to reduce benefits, while Democrats sought to give the program breathing room by raising taxes. 
 Finally, then as now, Republicans worried about how Social Security would affect the midterm elections. Their concern was justified. With Social Security as the centerpiece of their ''It's not fair It's Republican'' advertising campaign, Democrats added 26 seats to their already substantial majority in 1982. 
 So much for the parallels between then and now. The 1983 rescue was rooted in four conditions that do not currently prevail.
 First, there was a real and pressing deadline for action in 1983 that simply does not exist today. Without action by March or April 1983, the Social Security trust fund would have started to run a slight deficit by midsummer. Social Security would not have literally gone bankrupt, but there would have been a slight disruption in check processing until the needed revenue dribbled in. 
 Second, both sides in the 1983 debate eventually agreed on a single estimate of the size of the problem -- a consensus that seems well out of reach today. ''Everyone is entitled to their own opinions,'' Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan told his fellow commissioners as they set the targets for compromise only days after the 1982 midterm elections. ''But not to their own facts.'' 
 Third, negotiators had the political cover to form a consensus that would be hard to build in today's 24-hour news cycle. Although the commission is often credited for the 1983 Social Security rescue, the hard bargaining was done by a secret ''gang of nine'' that met irregularly during the first two weeks of January at the Foxhall Road home of James Baker, then the White House chief of staff. The members reached a final agreement one early afternoon in January 1983, then watched the Redskins defeat the Vikings in the N.F.L. playoffs as they waited for final approvals from the president and speaker of the House. 
 Fourth, both sides agreed to mutual sacrifice, a concept that has yet to surface in the current conversation. Democrats accepted a six-month delay in the annual cost-of-living adjustment and the increase in the retirement age, while Republicans accepted a faster-than-planned rise in payroll taxes and a substantial tax increase on the self-employed. The two sides closed the deal by subjecting up to half of Social Security benefits to income taxes for higher-income beneficiaries, a provision that allowed Democrats to say Republicans had passed a tax increase and Republicans to say Democrats had agreed to a benefit cut. 
 This agreement was rooted in a common willingness to solve the problem regardless of the political consequences. Republicans gave up their effort to reduce the public's dependency on Social Security, while Democrats gave up the one campaign issue that might have slowed Mr. Reagan's easy run to re-election in 1984.
 It is hard to imagine how a similar package could emerge from today's highly polarized process. Yet, as the 1983 rescue showed, Congress and presidents can take action when they are forced into up-or-down votes on urgent problems. The key is deciding just how urgent a problem is. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (77%); BUDGETS (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); TAX INCREASES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); COST OF LIVING (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005



98 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Syria to Convene Parliament Amid Lebanon Speculation

BYLINE: By HASSAN M. FATTAH; Katherine Zoepf contributed reporting from Damascus for this article.

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, March 4 

 BODY:
Syria said Friday that its president, Bashar al-Assad, would convene a session of Parliament on Saturday to deliver a speech, raising expectations here that he would announce a partial pullout of troops from Lebanon in an effort to ease the growing international pressure on his government.
 Political analysts in Damascus and Beirut said the session, announced in a terse dispatch by SANA, the official Syrian press agency, was notable for its timing and suddenness. SANA said only that ''President Assad's word will deal with standing political developments.'' 
 But even expectations that he would announce a partial troop withdrawal were greeted with skepticism from Lebanon's anti-Syrian opposition movement and were quickly rejected as insufficient by the United States, which has become increasingly vocal in its criticism of Syria. 
 Reacting to the possibility, President Bush said Friday that ''one of the things we really understand is that Syria -- Syrian troops, Syria's intelligence services -- must get out of Lebanon now.'' 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, in an interview on ''The NewsHour With Jim Lehrer,'' said, ''The Syrians need to withdraw their troops, they need to withdraw their security personnel and they simply need to realize that they don't have any support in the international system any longer to maintain their presence there.''
 Mr. Assad's speech will come at the end of a week of big diplomatic setbacks for him over Syria's prolonged presence in Lebanon, which have left him increasingly isolated. 
 On Tuesday, Ms. Rice and representatives from France and other European nations attending a Middle East conference in London called on Syria to quit Lebanon. Russia, an important Syrian ally, told Syria on Wednesday to leave Lebanon. On Thursday, during Mr. Assad's trip to Saudi Arabia to secure support from Arab countries, Crown Prince Abdullah told him directly to get out of Lebanon quickly, according to Western news accounts. 
 Political analysts and opposition figures here said they expected Mr. Assad to reiterate Syria's pledge under the agreement reached in 1989 in Taif, Saudi Arabia, which ended Lebanon's 15-year civil war and called for a Syrian redeployment to the Bekaa, the valley in eastern Lebanon near the Syrian border, and eventually for a total withdrawal of troops.
 The Arab League says it welcomes any plans to carry out the agreement. ''The Taif agreement was concluded under the auspices of the Arab League and is still valid,'' said a spokesman for the organization, which is based in Cairo. ''It has not been fully implemented and should be. Everybody agrees on that.''
 Yet many Lebanese are skeptical that Syria will make good on any new declaration that it will leave Lebanon. Mr. Assad has repeated his intention to fulfill Syria's promise to leave in several recent interviews, but Syrian officials have consistently said his remarks were misinterpreted. On Thursday, Syrian troops were seen digging trenches, in what Syria's Foreign Ministry described as ''preparation for a withdrawal.''
 ''Assad already stands accused of announcing changes but not following through with them,'' said Jihad al-Zein, the opinion editor at the opposition Lebanese daily An Nahar. ''But if he is serious, I think the opposition will grow a bit more patient.''
 Some Syrian commentators said that rather than outline a pullout, Mr. Assad might announce internal political changes intended to buttress his position in Syria. ''Perhaps he'll talk about expanding the political movement, or about reforms,'' said Ayman Abdel Nour, an economist and political analyst in Damascus. 
 For its part, SANA dismissed the Western news accounts of the Saudi meeting as ''baseless.'' But Saudi Arabia's state-run news media did nothing to refute them.
 The pressure on Syria to withdraw from Lebanon has intensified steadily since the assassination nearly three weeks ago of Rafik Hariri, the former Lebanese prime minister, who opposed Syria's domination of the country. 
 The assassination, for which many Lebanese blame Syria, and which Syria has also denounced, has helped to strengthen the opposition movement here. That movement led on Monday to the resignation of Mr. Hariri's Syrian-backed successor, Omar Karami, and calls for the resignation of Emile Lahoud, the Syrian-backed president, whose term was extended in October at Syria's behest.
 Hazem el-Amine, a columnist in Beirut with the pan-Arab daily Al Hayat, said of the Syrians: ''We said that they wouldn't extend Lahoud's term, and they did. We said they wouldn't kill Hariri, and he was. Now they're saying that they will pull out, so we have to wait and see.''

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Rice Confers With U.N. Envoy
By The New York Times
 WASHINGTON, March 4 -- Secretary Rice and Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser, held separate meetings on Friday with the United Nations special envoy to Lebanon, Terje Roed-Larsen, who is to leave for the region on Monday, to discuss how to help bring about the withdrawal of Syrian troops, an administration official said.
 Another official said the administration was resisting any role to be played by the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, which has been stationed there since 1978, in ''filling the vacuum'' left by a Syrian withdrawal. The United Nations force consists of about 2,000 troops from France and several other countries.
 Asked if the United States would back an expanded United Nations force, Ms. Rice left open the possibility but said that first Syria had to withdraw. ''First things first,'' she told the Dubai-based television network Al Arabiya. ''We need to get the Syrians to leave, and then the Lebanese people can decide their future.''
 ''I'm sure the international community will be responsive to whatever the Lebanese need,'' she added.
 The Bush administration has been working with Arab countries on the issue. Saudi Arabia's demand that Syria withdraw its troops was discussed in advance with top officials at the White House and the Saudi ambassador to the United States, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, an administration official said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); CIVIL WAR (72%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (89%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (93%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) SYRIA (99%); LEBANON (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); EGYPT (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005



99 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Syria May Announce Partial Pullout of Troops in Lebanon
Syria announced that its president, Bashar al-Assad, would convene a session of Parliament today to deliver a speech. The news raised expectations that he would announce a partial pullout of Syrian troops from Lebanon, where a soldier stood watch on a hilltop east of Beirut. PAGE A5

Arrests in Jersey City Killings
Two ex-convicts have been charged with killing four members of an Egyptian Coptic Christian family in Jersey City. The authorities stressed that a botched robbery, not religious hatred, led to the crime, which exposed rifts between Jersey City's Egyptian Muslim and Coptic Orthodox communities. PAGE B1

Push for Steroids Testimony
Baseball players and executives who were invited to testify at a Congressional hearing on steroids may be subpoenaed if they decline the invitation. SPORTSSATURDAY, PAGE D1

Strong Growth in Jobs Pushes Market Higher
Employment grew sharply in February, as the government reported that the economy added 262,000 jobs, twice as many as in January. The report provided fresh evidence that the economy remained on a path of robust and sustained growth.
 The jobs report also seemed to bolster confidence in consumer spending, and the stock market responded by rising to its highest levels since summer 2001. The gains came even as the price of oil remained above $50 a barrel. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); HOMICIDE (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); STEROIDS (74%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RELIGION (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); BASEBALL (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) LEBANON (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (94%); EGYPT (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005



100 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Calls for Miller To Return Cablevision Gift

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg yesterday called on Gifford Miller, the speaker of the City Council and a vocal opponent of the West Side stadium, to return $5,200 in campaign contributions that he has received from officials of Cablevision, a leading opponent of the stadium.
 Mr. Bloomberg singled out Mr. Miller, a Democratic candidate for mayor, on his weekly radio program on WABC-AM while addressing criticisms of his plan to help build a stadium for the Jets with $600 million in city and state money. Mr. Miller has vowed to block the stadium, and introduced legislation this week to require that the Council approve any plans to use public money for the project. 
 ''Miller is out there screaming he's going to try to stop the stadium, and he takes campaign contributions from Cablevision,'' Mr. Bloomberg told the program's listeners. ''Come on. Give it back.''
 Mr. Miller received $1,000 each from Charles F. Dolan, the chairman of Cablevision, and James Dolan, the president and chief executive, in July 2003, according to campaign finance records. Mr. Miller also raised $3,000 more in contributions at that time from six company executives, and $200 from a public affairs officer in January 2004. 
 Cablevision, which owns Madison Square Garden, views a West Side stadium as direct competition. The company has stirred up opposition to the stadium in recent months with a series of negative television ads. 
 Steve Sigmund, Mr. Miller's director of communications, said the speaker had taken the contributions long before Cablevision came out against the stadium, and did not intend to return the money. He pointed out that Mr. Miller had also had contributions from stadium supporters, including $250 from Jay Kriegel, the executive director of NYC2012, a private organization promoting the city's bid for the Olympic Games. 
 ''Gifford Miller is taking action against the mayor's stadium for one reason: because it is the wrong choice for New York's future,'' Mr. Sigmund said. ''Mike Bloomberg's absurd attack is the mark of a desperate politician, not a leader.''
 Charles Schueler, a spokesman for Cablevision, defended the donations to Mr. Miller. ''The contributions that the mayor mentions occurred before there was any stadium plan,'' he said. ''And obviously, the mayor is confused about any connection between the two matters.'' 
 Cablevision officials sought yesterday to counter the mayor's attack by questioning whether Mr. Bloomberg would apply the same standards to campaign contributions from the Jets as from Cablevision. 
 Similarly, aides to Mr. Miller and another Democratic mayoral candidate, Fernando Ferrer, an ardent stadium opponent, pointed out that the Jets owner, Woody Johnson, had given more than $1 million through his foundation to NYC2012. ''Does the mayor think that should be returned?'' Mr. Sigmund said.
 Ed Skyler, the mayor's press secretary, called Mr. Miller a ''paid shill'' for Cablevision. ''If obfuscation was an Olympic sport, Cablevision would get the gold medal," he said. ''Of course the Jets support the Olympic bid. Unlike Gifford, they see the benefits of jobs and economic development.''
 The stadium issue has become central to the mayoral race, forcing Mr. Miller to harden his opposition to keep up with his Democratic rivals, particularly Mr. Ferrer and Representative Anthony D. Weiner. Another mayoral candidate, C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president, also opposes the stadium.
 Campaign finance records show that Ms. Fields and Mr. Ferrer have also taken campaign contributions from Cablevision officials, though less than Mr. Miller. Ms. Fields received $1,000 from Charles Dolan last November. Mr. Ferrer received a total of $1,250 from a consultant for the company in January and October 2004, and $250 from a public affairs officer in January 2004.
 Aides to Ms. Fields and Mr. Ferrer said that they would not give back the money. 
 Joseph Mercurio, a spokesman for Ms. Fields, said that she had opposed the stadium long before taking money from Mr. Dolan. ''This speaks to how Cablevision feels about us, not about how we feel about Cablevision,'' Mr. Mercurio said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); OLYMPICS (65%); LEGISLATION (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); JAMES L DOLAN (72%); CHARLES DOLAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005



101 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; BEST SELLERS: March 6, 2005; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1311 words

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 1		1	HONEYMOON, by James Patterson and Howard Roughan. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) An F.B.I. agent who is investigating a beautiful and mysterious woman finds himself becoming obsessed with her.		 	 	 	 2	1	6	THE BROKER, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $27.95.) The C.I.A. arranges a presidential pardon for a power broker who may know crucial secrets, laying a trap for the foreign intelligence service that wants him dead.		 	 	 	 3	2	101	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	 4	3	74	THE FIVE PEOPLE YOU MEET IN HEAVEN, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $19.95.) An old man who died rescuing a little girl finds that all is explained in the afterlife.		 	 	 	 5	4	3	SURVIVOR IN DEATH, by J. D. Robb. (Putnam, $23.95.) In 2059, Lt. Eve Dallas has an eyewitness to the brutal murder of a family: the sole survivor, a 9-year-old girl; by Nora Roberts, writing pseudonymously. 		 	 	 	 6	5	11	STATE OF FEAR, by Michael Crichton. (HarperCollins, $27.95.) Reverse eco-terrorists create natural disasters to convince the public that global warming is real.		 	 	 	 7		1	THE FORGOTTEN MAN, by Robert Crais. (Doubleday, $24.95.) The Los Angeles private eye Elvis Cole searches for the truth about his father.		 	 	 	 8		1	BLOOD MEMORY, by Greg Iles. (Scribner, $24.95.) A forensic scientist probes recent killings as well as a decades-old crime -- the murder of her father.		 	 	 	 9	11	3	PREP, by Curtis Sittenfeld. (Random House, $21.95.) A scholarship student encounters a world of privilege at an expensive boarding school in Massachusetts.		 	 	 	 10	6	4	CONVICTION, by Richard North Patterson. (Random House, $25.95.) A lawyer comes to believe that her client -- who is on death row -- may be innocent.		 	 	 	 11	8	15	I AM CHARLOTTE SIMMONS, by Tom Wolfe. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $28.95.) A smart, innocent freshman is amazed by what she finds at a prestigious university.		 	 	 	 12	9	7	CHAINFIRE, by Terry Goodkind. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $29.95.) The 10th volume of the ''Sword of Truth'' fantasy series.		 	 	 	 13	10	12	A SALTY PIECE OF LAND, by Jimmy Buffett. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) A cowboy's life is changed when a 101-year-old woman hires him to be a lighthouse keeper. 		 	 	 	 14	7	8	BY ORDER OF THE PRESIDENT, by W. E. B. Griffin. (Putnam, $26.95.) An Army officer tries to thwart a terrorist plot to crash a stolen 727 into the Liberty Bell.		 	 	 	 15		1	A THREAD OF GRACE, by Mary Doria Russell. (Random House, $25.95.) During the final phase of World War II, a 14-year-old Jewish girl and her father cross the Alps to seek refuge in Italy.		 	 	 	 16		1	*THE KILLING CLUB, by Marcie Walsh with Michael Malone. (Hyperion, $19.95.) A police detective investigates the deaths of friends of hers from high school.			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 1		1	JUICED, by Jose Canseco. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $25.95.) The former slugger talks about his life in baseball and, especially, his use of steroids.		 	 	 	 2	1	6	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	 3	4	2	MEN IN BLACK, by Mark R. Levin. (Regnery, $27.95.) A conservative commentator enumerates ways in which ''the Supreme Court is destroying America.'' (+)		 	 	 	 4	3	22	AMERICA (The BOOK), by Jon Stewart, Ben Karlin, David Javerbaum et al. (Warner, $24.95.) ''The Daily Show'' offers an illustrated parody of a civics textbook. 		 	 	 	 5	2	8	COLLAPSE, by Jared Diamond. (Viking, $29.95.) A historical investigation, by the author of ''Guns, Germs, and Steel,'' into why some societies succeed while others fail. 		 	 	 	 6	5	6	GOD'S POLITICS, by Jim Wallis. (HarperSanFrancisco, $24.95.) An evangelical Christian argues that Democrats must ''take back the faith'' and not allow conservative Republicans to hijack the Bible. (+)		 	 	 	 7		1	DISNEYWAR, by James B. Stewart. (Simon & Schuster, $29.95.) A two-decade history of corporate infighting, by the author of ''Den of Thieves'' and ''Blood Sport.''		 	 	 	 8	6	3	SECRETS & MYSTERIES OF THE WORLD, by Sylvia Browne. (Hay House, $19.95.) The self-proclaimed psychic tries to explain the inexplicable.		 	 	 	 9	7	6	102 MINUTES, by Jim Dwyer and Kevin Flynn. (Times Books/Holt, $26.) Two journalists at The New York Times describe people's struggle to survive inside the World Trade Center on Sept. 11. 		 	 	 	 10	8	7	WITNESS, by Amber Frey. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $25.95.) A memoir by the California massage therapist who testified against Scott Peterson. 		 	 	 	 11	12	6	WINNING THE FUTURE, by Newt Gingrich. (Regnery, $27.95.) The former speaker of the House proposes a 21st-century ''Contract With America.'' (+)		 	 	 	 12		4	CONFESSIONS OF AN ECONOMIC HIT MAN, by John Perkins. (Berrett-Koehler, $24.95.) A former employee of an international consulting firm denounces the American global empire and its ''corporatocracy.''		 	 	 	 13	11	6	ANIMALS IN TRANSLATION, by Temple Grandin and Catherine Johnson. (Scribner, $25.) How autism can help lead to a better understanding of animals. 		 	 	 	 14		2	THE CASE FOR DEMOCRACY, by Natan Sharansky with Ron Dermer. (PublicAffairs, $26.95.) The former Soviet dissident and political prisoner assays ''the power of freedom to overcome tyranny and terror.''		 	 	 	 15	10	2	SMASHED, by Koren Zailckas. (Viking, $21.95.) A young woman recalls her excessive drinking throughout high school and college.		 	 	 	 16		45	*EATS, SHOOTS & LEAVES, by Lynne Truss. (Gotham, $17.50.) An Englishwoman expounds on the use and misuse of punctuation marks.	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Feb. 19, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
Other recent books of particular interest

THE ORIENTALIST: Solving the Mystery of a Strange and Dangerous Life, by Tom Reiss. (Random House, $25.95.) The bold writer and impostor Lev Nussimbaum (Kurban Said) (Essad Bey) and his lives from 1905 to 1942.

THE RISE OF THE INDIAN ROPE TRICK: How a Spectacular Hoax Became History, by Peter Lamont. (Thunder's Mouth, $22.) Delicious!

GOD LIVES IN ST. PETERSBURG: And Other Stories, by Tom Bissell. (Pantheon, $20.) Mordant short stories, mostly about Americans in Central Asia losing their cultural reflexes.

THE WHITE ROSE, by Jean Hanff Korelitz. (Miramax, $24.95.) The plot of ''Rosenkavalier,'' turned into a fable about strivers in Manhattan.

THE COURAGE CONSORT: Three Novellas, by Michel Faber. (Harcourt, $23.) Stylish, eerie fictions about baffled people in opaque situations.

JOSIE AND JACK, by Kelly Braffet. (Mariner/Houghton Mifflin, paper, $13.) A first novel set in the Rust Belt, where a brother and sister are left to their own devices by death and drink.

POL POT: Anatomy of a Nightmare, by Philip Short. (John Macrae/Holt, $30.) A journalist's searching biography of the commander of the Cambodian killing fields in the late 1970's.

MARTIN VAN BUREN, by Ted Widmer. (Times Books/Holt, $20.) The eighth president's term (1837-41) was not glorious, but he shone before and after as a creative political boss.

THE ROAD TO REALITY: A Complete Guide to the Laws of the Universe, by Roger Penrose. (Knopf, $40.) From Pythagoras to string theory, a big thinker's rendition of the big picture.

JOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH: His Life, His Politics, His Economics, by Richard Parker. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) The career of a public intellectual, ambassador and aphorist.

THE CRISIS: The President, the Prophet, and the Shah -- 1979 and the Coming of Militant Islam, by David Harris. (Little, Brown, $26.95.) The Iranian hostage mess, viewed as the first of many to come if we don't get smart about Islam.

 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); FORENSICS (77%); TERRORISM (73%); ESPIONAGE (71%); PARDONS (71%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (70%); ECOTERRORISM (70%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (68%); DEATHS (68%); MURDER (57%); GLOBAL WARMING (51%); ARMIES (50%); LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (79%); JOHN GRISHAM (58%); MITCH ALBOM (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



102 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: And Now, the Other News

BYLINE: By Isabel Hilton. 
Isabel Hilton is a London-based writer and broadcaster and the author of ''The Search for the Panchen Lama.''

 BODY:

AL-JAZEERA
The Inside Story of the Arab News Channel That Is
Challenging the West.
By Hugh Miles.
438 pp. Grove Press. $24.
 In one sense the story of Al Jazeera began in 1995, when Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani overthrew his father and became the emir of Qatar, a tiny Persian Gulf state that sits on one trillion cubic feet of natural gas. As Hugh Miles puts it in ''Al-Jazeera,'' his fascinating account of the world's most notorious television station, the new emir wanted Qatar to be like Switzerland, ''rich, neutral and secure.'' A television channel was part of the plan.
 The emir was helped by the failure of another experiment: in 1994 the BBC had agreed with a Saudi-financed station to supply a news service in Arabic; the partnership collapsed in 1996 over Saudi objections to the content. It left 250 BBC-trained journalists and auxiliary staff members out of a job; 120 of the newly unemployed signed on with the emir of Qatar and Al Jazeera was born.
 Today Al Jazeera is the bete noire of the Bush administration. Back then, it was a beacon of light in an Arab media world that was dark indeed. The station's bold reporting and provocative talk shows outraged repressive governments across the region. The State Department Human Rights Report on Qatar in 2000 commented favorably on Al Jazeera's willingness to carry criticism of Qatar's own government. 
 There was a long list of offended powers: Yasir Arafat's Palestinian Authority; the Jordanian government, which closed the Amman bureau and recalled its ambassador from Doha; the Algerian, the Moroccan, the Kuwaiti and the Israeli governments, all separately offended. The Saudi government to this day operates a crippling advertising ban against the station; a Saudi sheik started the independent, Dubai-based satellite news channel Al Arabiya in 2003 as an alternative. Al Jazeera shocked the Arab world by putting Israelis on the air, something no Arab station had done before. In Egypt, a Jazeera correspondent was denounced as an agent of Mossad and of British interests, and by 2002 Al Jazeera had had bureaus closed in six countries and had accumulated 400 official letters of complaint. In short, Al Jazeera was a welcome force in a region where governments were accustomed to think of their press as little more than dictating machines for government propaganda. Even today, of the hundreds of channels the average Arab citizen with a $100 satellite setup can tune in to, most are official government outlets.
 The story of the troubled relationship between Al Jazeera and the Bush administration makes up much of Hugh Miles's narrative. Miles is a young, Arabic-speaking British journalist, the son of a diplomat, who has spent much of his life in the Middle East. His account is both detailed and compelling, though his undisguised sympathy for Al Jazeera will doubtless annoy some readers. According to Miles, the tensions with the United States began with the war in Afghanistan when Al Jazeera, with its bureau in Kabul and its cultivated contacts with bin Laden, was well placed to monopolize coverage and to receive the exclusive bin Laden tapes. 
 Back in the United States, Condoleezza Rice was asking American networks to censor the Qaeda material they bought from Al Jazeera on the grounds that bin Laden's utterances might contain hidden messages. (Why any Qaeda operative wouldn't read the full text on the Internet or watch Al Jazeera was not clear.) The networks complied. But when Colin Powell asked the emir of Qatar to influence Al Jazeera to tone down its reporting, the emir declined. ''Parliamentary life requires you have free and credible media,'' he said, ''and that is what we are trying to do.'' The exchange played poorly for the United States in a region often criticized for its democratic failings.
 As well as putting bin Laden on the air, Al Jazeera reported from the receiving end of the Afghan war: the civilian casualties, the houses and lives destroyed. Finally, as the Northern Alliance forces advanced, the Jazeera offices in Kabul were obliterated by an American 500-pound bomb. After initial denials, a Pentagon spokesman admitted that Al Jazeera had been targeted as an alleged locus of Qaeda activity. General Tommy Franks said that a bin Laden deputy, Muhammad Atef, was among the casualties in the attack. (He was killed again a few weeks later, in a completely separate incident.)
 When the war in Iraq came, Al Jazeera was again well placed: its widely distributed correspondents all spoke Arabic and the station adopted a stance of skepticism toward all sides. It is a position that is unacceptable only if you assume that one side in a war has a monopoly on truth. Miles, who spent several weeks during the invasion of Iraq watching Al Jazeera on behalf of Sky News, argues that Al Jazeera favored neither side. ''Like most Arabs,'' he writes, ''it opposed Saddam's regime and opposed the invasion.''
 Washington has spent millions of dollars on Madison Avenue-style public diplomacy in the Middle East, selling the United States as though, as one former American ambassador put it, ''we were a brand of toothpaste.'' It has been a failure. The problem, Miles argues cogently, is not one of public relations but of policy. Rami Khouri, executive editor of The Daily Star of Beirut, agrees. Promoting American values, he observed, might merely highlight the gap between those values and the nation's policy in the Middle East.
 Shutting the station down will do nothing to change this. Today Al Jazeera commands an audience of some 40 million and, Miles argues, has ''reversed the flow of information, so that now, for the first time in hundreds of years, it passes from east to west.'' If in some Arab countries Al Jazeera is now seen as an American device for sowing dissent, it is still the biggest game in the Arab hearts-and-minds business and with a projected English language station, will extend its reach into non-Arabic-speaking Muslim countries like Pakistan and Indonesia. Washington, meanwhile, has so stepped up pressure on its ally Qatar that the Qatari government is said to be accelerating plans to put Al Jazeera, which runs at a loss, on the market. The station says it keeps its door open to views and news from all quarters. The democratic response would be to go through that door and join in the argument.


GRAPHIC: Photo: An Iraqi watching a Jazeera broadcast about the shooting in a Falluja mosque last November. Above, a still image of Osama bin Laden from undated tape shown on Al Jazeera in September 2003. (Photograph by Ali Jasim/Reuters)Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (79%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (65%); LITERATURE (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (59%) Isabel Hilton; Hugh Miles

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (73%) INDIAN OCEAN (90%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) QATAR (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); GULF STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); JORDAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



103 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Grandmothers of Invention

BYLINE: By Katha Pollitt. 
Katha Pollitt, a poet and essayist, writes the ''Subject to Debate'' column for The Nation.

 BODY:

ESTER AND RUZYA
How My Grandmothers Survived
Hitler's War and Stalin's Peace.
By Masha Gessen.
Illustrated. 371 pp. Dial Press. $24.
 Reviewers sometimes call a work of nonfiction ''as exciting as a novel,'' but that would be an understatement applied to this extraordinary family memoir. Masha Gessen, a gifted Russian-American journalist, narrates the intertwined lives of her two Soviet Jewish grandmothers, best friends for over 50 years, as they confront some of the 20th century's worst ordeals: Stalin's terror, Hitler's mass murder of the Jews, World War II, the bewildering twists and turns of the post-Stalin era. If your idea of a memoir runs to family dysfunction and authorial disgruntlement, or to people going on about their houses and travels, ''Ester and Ruzya'' will remind you how much life, history and emotional and moral complexity the genre can convey in the hands of a wonderful writer. 
 As is often the case with friends, Ester and Ruzya are a pair of contrasts. Polish-born Ester was the big, bold, confident one. Born in 1923, child of a socialist mother and Zionist father, she grew up comfortably in prewar Bialystok, a city remembered as a kind of heaven by survivors of its large and vigorous Jewish community. Yet, as Gessen reminds us, throughout the 1930's anti-Semitism was on the rise, with pogroms, a state-sponsored economic boycott and legal discrimination much like that found next door in Germany. Jewish students who survived the openly discriminatory exam system could look forward to spending their college years seated apart from their Christian classmates on the ''ghetto bench.'' In 1940, Ester escaped to Moscow and was accepted by its prestigious Institute of History, Philosophy and Literature. Almost everyone she knew back home would be killed by the Nazis, including her adored fiance and her father. 
 Ester was brave and determined. Despite a near-blind eye, she drove a truck in the defense of Moscow; evacuated to Turkmenistan, she crossed the Soviet Union to join her mother in Siberia. By the end of the war, she was married and had a son (the author's father). Despite the pervasive Soviet anti-Semitism, she remained openly committed to her Jewish identity, even though it cost her many offers of work and romance. 
 Ruzya was the quiet, introverted one who sees too much too young: her childhood is marked by school assemblies in which children denounce their parents and one another. Between them Stalin and Hitler virtually annihilate her brilliant circle of university friends. Swept like Ester to Turkmenistan, she practically starves. After her dashing husband, Samuil, a committed Communist, is killed in the war, she raises their daughter Yolochka (the author's mother) alone. Ruzya too is brave and determined, but circumstance and necessity play out differently for her. Trained as a history teacher, she had resolved never to teach because it would require her to lie. After an increasingly desperate search for work in postwar Moscow, she finds a job -- as an official government censor. Despite her secret hostility to the Soviet system she does so well that she is soon promoted. She hates her work, but she also loves it. She gets to read all the forbidden books -- ''For Whom the Bell Tolls'' is a great favorite -- and after her promotion she censors the dispatches of foreign correspondents. For almost a decade, until she is fired in an anti-Semitic purge, the invisible all-powerful tormentor of Harrison Salisbury, Daniel Schorr and other Western journalists is none other than sensitive, literary anti-Communist Ruzya. 
 Gessen organizes her complicated, sometimes confusing double narrative by following the common threads of compromise, defiance, heroism and survival. What is the right thing to do? It's not always easy to say. Ruzya's young husband, Samuil, argued his way into the army, only to be killed by shrapnel within months -- an officially heroic death that was also pointless bad luck. Ruzya is ashamed of her censorship work and contrasts herself unfavorably with gallant Ester -- even though Ester was at one low point almost ready to take a job translating for the secret police. Ester's embrace of Jewishness is brave -- but Jewishness meant something different to her, raised in a proud Jewish enclave in one of the world's most anti-Semitic countries, than it did to Ruzya and her friends, secularists raised on the Soviet promise of assimilation. 
 And there is the case of Ester's father, Jakub Goldberg. For years Ester and her mother believed he had been killed in 1941 by the Soviet secret police when the Soviet Union briefly controlled eastern Poland under the terms of the Hitler-Stalin pact. In fact, he survived until 1943, and he died -- depending on which eyewitness account you prefer -- either during the Nazi liquidation of the Bialystok ghetto or at the concentration camp to which the few survivors were shipped. Jakub was a member of the Judenrat, the Jewish council that organized ghetto life and carried out Nazi directives. Famously condemned by Hannah Arendt in ''Eichmann in Jerusalem,'' who blamed the councils for facilitating the Holocaust, the Judenrats have gone down in history as self-deluded collaborators. Yet, Gessen argues, the line between the Judenrat and the resistance was not as sharp as we like to think: some council members, apparently including Jakub, helped smuggle weapons in and fighters out of the ghetto. Besides, nobody could say for sure that the temporizings of the Judenrat would ultimately fail. ''My great-grandfather was a public official, a civic-minded man engaged in that most hopeless of pursuits, the inevitability and futility of which made me want to write this book: the search for a decent compromise,'' she writes.
 Gessen has little use for glorious pointless deaths or for the grand ideologies that have caused so many of them. What interests her is how people preserve their individuality and their humanity in deeply repressive societies, where if you want to talk openly with your best friend, it's a good idea to cross-country ski a few miles away from anyone who might overhear you. The friendship between Ester and Ruzya -- a stronger bond than marriage -- along with their children, their literary work and a talent for skepticism, helped them survive and eventually flourish through decades of fear and privation.
 As the book ends in 2002, Gessen is living in Moscow with her family and her grandmothers are in their 80's; Ester closely follows Israeli politics, Ruzya translates romance novels for the new mass-market reader. Given Gessen's doubts about the Putin government -- ''post-democratic'' is her carefully chosen description -- one suspects these two indomitable women will have more stories to tell before long.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Masha Gessen's grandmothers, Ester Gessen (left) and Ruzya Solodovnik. (Photograph by Permission of Masha Gessen)(Photograph by Svenya Generalova)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (85%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); LITERATURE GENRES (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); CHILDREN (71%); BOYCOTTS (64%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: Katha Pollitt; Masha Gessen

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); TURKMENISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); GERMANY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



104 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: Marilyn as Metaphor

BYLINE: By A. O. Scott. 
A. O. Scott is a film critic at The Times.

 BODY:

THE MANY LIVES OF MARILYN MONROE
By Sarah Churchwell.
Illustrated. 371 pp. Metropolitan Books/
Henry Holt & Company. $26.
 WHEN she died of a barbiturate overdose on the night of Aug. 4, 1962, Marilyn Monroe was 36 years old, which means that her posthumous career has by now exceeded its earthly counterpart. Or, to put it in the terms made famous by Elton John and Bernie Taupin, her candle burned out long before her legend ever did. It is this legend, more than the facts behind it -- many of which, in any case, are subject to dispute -- that is the subject of Sarah Churchwell's first book. Her intent is not, as it has been for so many biographers, scandalmongers, conspiracy theorists and litterateurs, to unveil the real Marilyn, but rather to show that it is precisely the attempts to discover such a Marilyn that have turned her from a magazine model and movie star into an icon, a myth and a metaphor.
 Those words figure prominently in Churchwell's lexicon, and they signal that ''The Many Lives of Marilyn Monroe'' is less a work of biography than a work of interpretation, one that frequently takes flight into abstraction:
 ''The story of Marilyn Monroe begins with the close unconscious association between dread and love, sex and death, that was so important to Freud; it ends having been translated into the conscious, resolved into the literal, turned into what we can see, what we can face, what we want to know. But as Monroe understood, 'you're always running into people's unconscious.' Underlying these 'factual' stories is the unruly, symbolic, figurative world of the unconscious, of deep-seated anxieties and desires. . . . The many lives of Marilyn Monroe are a talking cure for our lingering, persistent fears about sex, knowledge, the female body and death.''
 Well, maybe. But it seems more likely that the lives in question represent a way for writers of all stripes to cash in on our persistent fascination with celebrity. It isn't that Churchwell is wrong -- surely many ''deep-seated'' preoccupations about sex, death and fame circulate around the figure of Marilyn Monroe, as they do around other famous people -- but that she has a habit of subjecting her insights to a rhetorical inflation that ends up weakening them. She loses the interesting particulars of Monroe's life and afterlife in pronouncements about sexual politics, the nature of the self, the relationship of reality to appearance.
 But beneath the sweeping, unsupportable statements (''We have made Marilyn into our secular lady of sorrows''), occasional errors (placing Joseph McCarthy, a senator, in charge of the House Un-American Activities Committee) and moments of plain bad writing (''cherchez la womb''), and despite the book's excessive length and lumpy architecture, ''The Many Lives of Marilyn Monroe'' performs a useful critical function. Like Janet Malcolm's books on Sylvia Plath and Anton Chekhov, it is in large measure a sustained, strenuous critique of the lazy thinking, sloppy research and overall softheadedness that characterize so much popular biographical writing.
 The literature on Monroe presents an especially rich trove of such lapses, some of them perpetrated by writers of high reputation like Joyce Carol Oates, Norman Mailer and Arthur Miller, who was also Monroe's third husband. Their books -- a novel, a speculative biography and an overtly autobiographical play -- do not claim factual accuracy, but they nonetheless traffic in, and expand upon, dubious notions that also circulate in more empirically minded lives. The books Churchwell surveys (including reasonably respectable biographies by Donald Spoto, Carl Rollyson and Barbara Leaming) disagree on the facts of Monroe's early life and premature death, but they attain remarkable unanimity in depicting her as psychologically unstable, a creature of instinct rather than intellect and a victim -- of the studio system, of her own sexuality, of wide-ranging conspiracies.
 The aura of victimhood, a mixture of self-destructiveness and martyrdom, arises from her death, the circumstances of which remain a continual source of uncertainty and fascination. While Churchwell herself cautiously endorses the theory that Monroe's overdose was accidental (one of the few times she takes a side in a factual quarrel among biographers), she also anatomizes the competing hypotheses of suicide, murder (a scenario that always involves Robert Kennedy, who some writers believe was Monroe's lover, as his brother almost certainly was) and a bad enema administered by Monroe's doctor.
 The only thing more disputed than Monroe's death is her real name: Was it Norma Jean or Norma Jeane? Mortenson or Mortensen or Baker? Other questions trail in the wake of these basic quandaries: Was Monroe sexually insatiable or frigid? Was she molested during a childhood spent in foster homes and an orphanage? Were there three husbands or four? How many abortions? Was she guileless or conniving? Could she act?
 Rather than adjudicating such matters, Churchwell, a professor of American literature and culture at the University of East Anglia, with a Ph.D. from Princeton, picks and pokes at the rhetorical soft spots and logical inconsistencies of the answers that have been proposed. True to her cultural studies training, she takes an approach to scholarship that doesn't require knowing more than those she critiques, but only the ability to sound more knowing. Sometimes this lends her argument an unwarranted archness, and a few inconsistencies of its own, as she twits biographers at one moment for being overly credulous, at others for being too skeptical.
 But her own skepticism is, for the most part, well applied, and as she churns through acres of overwrought prose (occasionally producing some herself), a more credible account of Monroe starts to emerge, which Churchwell fleshes out in a coda called ''My Marilyn.'' While her intellectual scruples (or biases) prevent her from claiming this version as yet another real Marilyn, it does at least conform to the facts of the star's career, rather than to speculations about her split personality, her sexuality or her symbolic status. This Marilyn was a working-class girl who became a pinup model and then a contract starlet, briefly at Columbia and then at 20th Century Fox, and who went on to become one of that studio's top box-office attractions. She was a gifted comic actress who tried to extend her range, even as she devoted great care to the cultivation of her public image. The directors she worked with included Howard Hawks, Fritz Lang, John Huston and Billy Wilder, and her willingness to tangle with them hardly conforms to the picture of a vulnerable, airheaded victim. Oates, in a scene Churchwell makes much of, shows Monroe being sodomized by Darryl F. Zanuck, the head of Fox, but the history of her dealings with the studio suggests that she gave as good as she got.
 Above all, Churchwell's book is a reminder that Monroe was a complicated human being, a fact obscured by the aura of her fame -- those luminous, endlessly reproducible stills that are better known than any of her performances -- and by biographies that insist on treating her as a symbol, a myth, a case study. Churchwell's point was made, more concisely, by Pauline Kael in her review of Mailer's ''Marilyn'' in these pages more than 30 years ago. ''Who knows what to think about Marilyn Monroe or about those who turn her sickness to metaphor?'' Kael wondered. ''I wish they'd let her die.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Marilyn Monroe in 1954, leaving the press conference at which she said she would divorce Joe DiMaggio. (Photograph by Christian Blau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); SCANDALS (69%); MOVIE REVIEWS (68%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (67%) Books and Literature

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

PERSON: ELTON JOHN (56%) A O Scott; Sarah Churchwell; Marilyn (1926-62) Monroe

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



105 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Hospital's Plan for Cancer Center May Offer Union Leverage in Dispute

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, March 4 

 BODY:
In its long-running battle with Yale-New Haven Hospital, the local health care workers' union has sought ways to put the hospital on the spot, from backing lawsuits challenging the hospital's handling of charity cases to placing television advertisements depicting labor problems that ''only a union can solve.'' 
 Those tactics have turned up the pressure, but they have failed to win the union its ultimate goal: the chance to organize 1,800 of the hospital's 6,200 workers. The hospital's management has long stated its willingness to allow a union vote by its workers in a federally supervised election. But union organizers are pressing for another approach to gauge worker sentiment and want a promise from the hospital's management not to campaign against the union. Neither side has budged for seven years. 
 Now the union may have found a way to force the issue. 
 The hospital wants to build a new $430 million cancer center on its campus here, which officials say will be the most competitive, all-in-one center between Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston and Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. The union and its allies say they support the cancer center. But the project's need for approvals at the state and local levels has given the hospital's adversaries leverage to press their arguments. 
 Front and center in the debate has been Local 1199 of the Service Employees International Union, which represents 140 dietary workers at the hospital. It has been lobbying state regulators and local aldermen for greater scrutiny of the hospital before any expansion is approved. 
 Neighborhood groups, some with union ties, have withheld their endorsements until the hospital solves chronic traffic and parking problems. Union and community groups also argue that the hospital should do more to provide affordable care and housing for the region's poor. 
 New Haven's mayor, John DeStefano Jr., has been seeking to bring the sides together. A seven-term Democrat who is running for mayor again this year and for governor next year, he does not want to be seen obstructing economic growth or improved health care. At the same time, Mr. DeStefano, the son of a police officer, is reluctant to alienate his union supporters. 
 He has warned the hospital that a failure to solve labor problems and other ''collateral issues'' could lead the Democrat-controlled Board of Aldermen to put up obstacles to the project. Mr. DeStefano said that he expected a protracted fight. ''I don't want to deny the difficulty here.'' 
 While the hospital's management seems willing to address the neighbors' parking and traffic complaints, it has shown less interest in satisfying union demands. Senior managers urged critics not to keep the hospital from breaking ground this fall. 
 The showdown in New Haven has parallels in other states where hospitals have been singled out by unions, community groups and others. In California, for instance, the hospital workers' union has mobilized against expansion plans by Sutter Health, which has 40,000 mostly nonunion employees in 26 hospitals. Elsewhere, unions or community groups have challenged property tax exemptions of nonprofit hospitals that they deem stingy to the poor. 
 Yale-New Haven, who traces its roots go back to 1826, is the primary teaching hospital for Yale University's School of Medicine and has Yale University nominees on its boards. But it is otherwise independent of Yale and has long been the state's largest and most profitable hospital. 
 The planned 112-bed cancer center would combine services scattered throughout the hospital's 944-bed campus, just as the $156 million children's hospital united pediatric and maternity care in a building in 1993.
 Civic leaders said they hoped the expansion would burnish the city's reputation as an incubator for biomedical research and hospital trustees said they hoped the expansion would cement Yale-New Haven's reputation as the only place in Connecticut to make the National Cancer Institute's list of 39 comprehensive cancer centers in the nation. 
 Vin Petrini, a spokesman for the hospital, said its plan also had much to offer the hospital's adversaries. The unions, he said, should see 350 new unionized construction jobs during the three years it would take to build the center, plus 400 permanent, but nonunion, additions to the hospital staff. Neighbors, he said, should see traffic ease if the city would let the hospital move a loading dock and divert trucks from city streets. 
 He said the expansion would also ease the city's budget crunch by generating $3.5 million more in annual payments from the state under a program currently reimbursing New Haven $4.2 million for having the tax-exempt hospital in its backyard. The city, he said, would also see at least $4 million in one-time building permit fees. 
 Critics say they expect the cancer center to be built, though it may not be on the hospital's timetable if the hospital refuses to work with them. 
 Bill Meyerson, a spokesman for Connecticut's health workers' union, said his union was ''for the cancer center,'' but that any deal must come with a ''community benefits agreement.'' 
 ''We expect the hospital to sit down and negotiate affordable housing, environmental impact, youth recreation, local hiring, an end to abusive debt collection and a fair process for workers to choose unionization without management interference,'' Mr. Meyerson said. 
 He said his primary goal was convincing the hospital to allow employees to be asked if they would like union representation in a method other than the traditional secret-ballot process used in elections run by the National Labor Relations Board. 
 ''It's not a fair process,'' said Mr. Meyerson, who complained that the national labor board had not acted promptly in the past to address union complaints of management intimidation of workers who try to organize their workplaces. 
 Other unions have pushed for a system called card check, in which union organizers gather signatures of pro-union workers on cards until they obtain a majority. But Mr. Meyerson said his union would consent to a secret ballot election if other conditions were met concerning resolving disputes and if management conduct would be, he said, ''above and beyond the current National Labor Relations Board standards.'' 
 Unions win about half the time when elections are run the traditional way, but closer to 75 percent of the time when alternate methods are used, according to Jarol B. Manheim, a labor expert and a professor of media and politics at George Washington University. 
 Community groups, residents and union leaders also pressed the legislative committee of the city's aldermen last month to recommend revamping a traffic ordinance to require employers seeking to ''build or expand facilities requiring an aggregate of 1,500 or more parking spaces'' to get advance approval for their plans from the Board of Aldermen. The measure was sent to the full board, which postponed debate while hospital and community leaders met to explore alternatives. 
 Mr. Petrini, the hospital spokesman, said he knew why the hospital had been an enduring target, beyond the $29.7 million in operating profits it earned last year. ''There's a reason why the Service Employees International Union is targeting hospitals now,'' he said. ''The jobs are growing, and they don't go overseas.'' 
 Plus, he said, with the institution firmly planted near Yale University and two major highways, ''it's not going anywhere.'' 
 Mr. Meyerson said that the reason his union had concentrated on Yale-New Haven was far simpler, ''We were contacted by workers there who wanted us to help them unionize.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Some New Haven aldermen met last month to discuss a parking ordinance that would affect an expansion at Yale-New Haven Hospital. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); CANCER (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MAYORS (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); APPROVALS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (57%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DANA-FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE INC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: DANA-FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE (55%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



106 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; SundayBusiness; DataBank; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Report Starts a Rally on Wall Street

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market powered ahead last week, propelling both the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average to their highest levels since 2001.
 A Labor Department report sent stocks soaring on Friday. 
Investors were heartened by figures showing that the economy added 262,000 jobs in February, more than expected, although the unemployment rate rose to 5.4 percent from 5.2 percent in January. Some analysts said that the numbers indicated that while the economy was growing robustly, inflation was under control, a happy combination for the stock market.
 Shares of oil companies had big gains, bolstered by a jump in oil prices. For the week, Unocal shares rose almost 12 percent, making the company one of the best performers in the S.&.P. 500. Its shares have already gained more than 40 percent this year.
 For the week, the Dow rose 98.95 points, or 0.9 percent, to close at 10,940.55. The S.&.P. 500 climbed 10.75 points, or 0.9 percent, to close at 1,222.12. The Nasdaq composite index gained 5.21 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 2,070.61. In the bond market, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.31 percent from 4.27 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.UnocalNYSE: UCLShares of the nation's ninth-largest oil and gas producer, as well as a number of its peers, reached a 52-week high as crude oil futures continued to climb, briefly surpassing $55 a barrel.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $60.75WEEK'S CHANGE: +11.61%EST. '04 P/E: 14.00ChironNNM: CHIRThe biotechnology company received permission to resume production of flu vaccine. A five-month shutdown, ordered by British health regulators, led to a shortage of flu shots across the United States.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $37.72WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.74%EST. '04 P/E: 25.56LearNYSE: LEAThe automotive interior-systems supplier cut its first-quarter earnings forecast, citing production cuts. It now expects to break even in the period, instead of earning 50 cents to 70 cents a share, as it had said earlier.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $45.85WEEK'S CHANGE: -11.89%EST. '04 P/E: 10.40MonsantoNYSE: MONIndia approved cultivation of genetically modified cotton in its fertile northern region. The government is permitting six varieties of seeds that use technology from Monsanto, the American seed company.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $61.63WEEK'S CHANGE: +4.18%EST. '04 P/E: 30.00Pacific SunwearNNM: PSUNThe clothing retailer said strong sales had helped its fourth-quarter profits climb 19 percent. The company reported net income of $40.9 million in the quarter, versus $34.5 million in the period a year earlier.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $27.98WEEK'S CHANGE: +9.34%EST. '04 P/E: 17.00PetsmartNNM: PETMThe pet supply retailer's quarterly profits surged 21 percent, and the company forecast earnings growth in the first quarter. But the company said it would restate past results to change its lease accounting methods.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $28.89WEEK'S CHANGE: -5.56%EST. '04 P/E: 23.24ChoicePointNYSE: CPSThe electronic data company, which sells background information about people and businesses, announced that the Securities and Exchange Commission was investigating stock sales by its top executives.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $37.65WEEK'S CHANGE: -6.51%EST. '04 P/E: 20.23Yellow RoadwayNNM: YELLThe largest national trucking company in the United States agreed to acquire the USF Corporation, a smaller rival, for $1.47 billion in cash and stock. The deal is expected to close by summer.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $62.69WEEK'S CHANGE: +2.25%EST. '04 P/E: 12.06(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



107 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; HABITATS/East Village; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Among Friends: Buying and Rehabbing a Town House

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
IT is a toothsome New York fantasy: five friends with good taste and decent savings purchase an old building, which they gut and start to rebuild. Then two more friends, impressed with what they are seeing, buy in during the renovation. The result: a home for four and an investment for three.
 Fat chance, you say, blowing the idea away like dust. Who has so many flexible friends, that much good taste and the stomach for a brutal and lengthy renovation? 
 The seven owners of a five-story brick town house in the East Village did, and have made a collegial and pristine example of what Beth Johnson, a rental tenant on the second floor, called ''a vertical block.'' 
 In a building made porous by friendship -- the annual Christmas party last December had 300 guests -- you can see a portfolio of Manhattan taste. On the fourth floor, two of the owners, Chris Kangas, a marketing executive at Citibank, and Melanio Gomez, the home editor of Martha Stewart Living, have an airy container for Mr. Gomez's paintings and their midcentury-modern furniture, much of it rescued from the street. On the third floor, a third owner, Dan Scheffey, who has his own film and television marketing company, has gleaming ebonized floors and nine-foot-high doorways. 
 The first floor and the basement belong to Michael Bennett -- a financial consultant, contractor and the aesthetic and construction captain of this ship -- who has made a darkly sexy, vaguely Asian pad, with bamboo floors and a sunken living room. 
 Ms. Johnson, a senior reporter at Entertainment Weekly, said it is both daunting and inspiring to live in a building with such stylish neighbors. ''I feel like I'm playing catch-up with the guys,'' she said. ''My groovy blinds I took from Dan, and the sisal runner in the hall I copied from Mel,'' she said, meaning Mr. Gomez.
 Ms. Johnson's apartment, which she rents for $4,100 a month, belongs to Mr. Bennett's mother, Pat Bennett, who lives in Reston, Va., and is the building's bookkeeper. The fifth floor is owned by Tom and Ruby Rasmussen, friends of Mr. Bennett and Mr. Scheffey's, who rent it out.
 The house was bought for $2.3 million in 2001. The five original owners invested $552,000 for the down payment, and the rest of the purchase was financed. The gut and build, which cost about $300,000 per floor and took a year, was financed with cash. 
 It is a gutsy, high-end renovation. Mr. Bennett, who left finance to work full-time on the house, took the building back to a shell and then remade it with new steel beams, soundproofed floors, central air-conditioning and -- though this part was not planned -- a new brick facade and double-glazed windows. (Every renovation comes with at least one catastrophe, and this one was its crumbling facade.)
 The house was built in 1880 and reworked in 1953, judging from a newspaper with ''McCarthy Hearing'' headlines uncovered in a wall during the excavation. 
 The plan had been to do what Mr. Bennett called ''renovation light,'' to gut the place down to its beams and then rebuild. But what they found, he said, were dodgy beams, each made from two pieces of wood. 
 ''It was built by immigrants with materials they had on hand,'' he explained. ''We soon realized that there was no hope of doing something cheap and cheerful. It all had to go.''
 There were old privies in the back and, beneath the building, an underground stream. Mr. Bennett created, with input from the other owners, four 1,200-square-foot, two-bedroom, two-bath apartments and a slightly larger space for himself in what had been the worst -- dark and very poky -- apartment in the building. 
 ''Because of the economy of scale,'' he said, ''we were able to do very high-end things with the bathrooms, the kitchens and the finishes. It's what every developer realizes. It's not rocket science.''
 Mr. Bennett, whose neighbors and co-investors describe him as ''the visionary'' and who describes himself as ''the guy who did all the yelling and got the bills paid,'' was the on-site overseer. He bunked first with Mr. Kangas and Mr. Gomez, who were living in a rental nearby on Second Avenue, and then, with his sleeping bag, in each apartment as construction progressed. 
 ''The idea was to finish the investors' floors first, and then do mine,'' said Mr. Bennett, who had gone to art school and now, Ms. Johnson said admiringly, treats spaces like canvas. As the first tenant and resident in the building, she said, she watched him turn the rubble and rock of his basement area and garden into an ingenious and sophisticated space.
 ''Mike is incredibly fearless,'' Mr. Kangas said. ''He had a place in East Hampton and if he didn't like a wall he'd take a sledgehammer and pop it out.''
 Mr. Kangas and Mr. Gomez were at first just the curious observers of their friend's project. As the construction began to wind down, they realized what an inviting place Mr. Bennett was putting together and asked to buy the fourth floor, which they did, for $750,000. 
 As befits the home of an employee of Martha Stewart, their apartment is chock-a-block with ingenious decorative touches and street finds. Mr. Kangas made the Picasso-ey paint-by-numbers painting over the bed; in the living room, what looks to be a kinetic and gestural abstract painting (over a couch found on East Ninth Street) is actually an image scanned from a book of photographs of the Sahara and enlarged and mounted with Foamcore and plexiglass.
 ''Mel always has amazing ideas,'' Ms. Johnson said. ''Every time I go up, there's some incredible new project.''
 Mr. Scheffey kept a glass medicine cabinet from one of the old bathrooms and designed an entirely new glass-walled bathroom around it, with the help of Keller Henderson, an interior designer. Mr. Scheffey said he wanted his home to have the feeling that it was organic both to the neighborhood and to its building.
 ''So there are new touches, but they look like they could have been here originally,'' he said. He said the two questions he's always asked about his home are: ''How did you choose your floors?'' and ''Are you all still friends?''
 ''The answer to the first is just we all wanted different floors,'' said Mr. Scheffey, whose third-floor space is slightly taller than the others.
 Just like that, with no arguments?
 ''Just like that,'' he said. ''And the answer to the second question is a definitive 'Yes!'''
 Ms. Johnson moved in with her teenage daughter, Jaya, from a one-bedroom on the Upper West Side. Jaya, who's at college this year, had two years left at Friends Seminary on 16th Street, and her mother wanted her to be able to walk to school and to bring her friends home to a place where ''mom wasn't sleeping on a couch in the living room,'' she said. ''I wanted her last years to be really special.''
 ''It's been transforming here,'' she continued. ''I've had dinner on every floor, and my daughter saw a real sense of community. How many buildings do you know where each floor simultaneously throws a party? The central air and the heated towel racks are pretty cool, too.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A contents entry in this section last Sunday, referring to the Habitats column, about a group of friends who bought a building in the East Village, misstated the price. It was $2.3 million, not $2.1 million. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: MAKING THE OLD NEW -- The homeowners Melanio Gomez, rear left, Michael Bennett, foreground, and Dan Scheffey, rear right, and a tenant, Beth Johnson, in a town house bought for $2.3 million and renovated inside and out. Mr. Bennett created the apartments, with input from the other owners. Above left, his dining area, and below, his living area. (Photographs by Keith Bedford for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CHRISTMAS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (72%); PAINTING (66%); HVAC SYSTEMS (64%) Housing; Renting and Leasing; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Biographical Information

PERSON: Penelope Green; Michael Bennett; Beth Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



108 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/Melrose Commons, the Bronx; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1704 words

HEADLINE: The Sound of Construction

BYLINE: By NANCY BETH JACKSON

 BODY:
WHEN Paul Newman starred as John Murphy, a police officer, in ''Fort Apache, the Bronx'' in 1981, he patrolled a burned-out wasteland, a hostile landscape inhabited by junkies, winos, pimps, hookers, cop killers and killer cops.
 Today, the tourists who come to see where the movie was filmed find a far different neighborhood. In the last five years, urban decay has been replaced by new houses and apartments. 
 Melrose Commons, a 35-block area in the South Bronx, still has plenty of vacant lots, but the mixed-use, mixed-income neighborhood is abuzz with construction. Retail space, until recently limited to a handful of mom-and-pop shops, rented for $7 to $11 a square foot a year in the mid-1990's. A 1,300-square-foot C-Town supermarket in a 124-unit moderate-income rental building opening late next summer will pay $19.90. 
 According to the 2000 census, nearly 7,000 people lived in Melrose as the new housing came out of the ground. The New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development anticipates that about 3,000 housing units will have been added by the time Melrose Commons is fully developed at the end of the decade. New construction could add around 10,000 residents to the neighborhood, estimated Petr Stand, a principal at Magnusson Architecture and Planning who has been involved in the development for 13 years.
 The change was accomplished through the efforts of a local neighborhood group, Nos Quedamos/We Stay, a coalition of residents and shopkeepers who refused to be bulldozed by an urban renewal plan with no place for them. 
 The founder and executive director of the group, Yolanda Garcia, died last month. Her daughter, Yolanda Gonzalez, has been named executive director and will continue what her mother started 13 years ago.
 In an interview not long before she suffered a fatal heart attack at age 53 in her modest storefront office, Ms. Garcia recalled how the neighborhood rebirth began. 
 Ms. Garcia, whose family owned a carpet store on Third Avenue, was among the mostly Hispanics and African-Americans who stuck it out while the South Bronx burned, only to learn by chance in 1992 that the city planned to displace them to make room for 2,600 middle-income residential units. Without being consulted in the nine years the plan was under study, 78 homeowners, 400 tenants and 80 businesses were to be priced out of their own neighborhood where the median income was under $12,000.
 ''You can't fight City Hall,'' her brother German, now deceased, told her then.
 ''Yes, we can,'' she replied. 
 The mobilization that followed -- at one point meetings were held 188 times in six months and meetings are still scheduled weekly -- taught people to make themselves heard and how to navigate the system. In the end, the city's plan was scrapped, replaced by a development vision that recognized environmental and health issues, good design and community involvement.
 The real estate in question had a large concentration of city-owned property about equidistant from Midtown Manhattan and suburbs in Westchester, Connecticut, Long Island and New Jersey and good transportation by bus, train, express subways and roads. Yankee Stadium and the Bronx Courthouse are to the west. An industrial zone and Metro-North's Melrose station are on the northern edge. Third Avenue leads south to the Hub, the district's historic commercial center at 149th Street. 
 Melrose began as a German village in the 1850's. Population took off with the Third Avenue elevated train. By the 1920's the Hub bustled with shops, movie theaters and burlesque houses filled with Italian, Russian-Jewish and Irish immigrants as well as Germans. Before the white flight to the suburbs in the 1960's, Melrose Avenue was known as ''the Broadway of the Bronx'' with flower shops, delicatessens, funeral homes and at least two German bakeries. 
 By 1994, a German Methodist church, built in 1878, had succumbed to urban blight. Although stained-glass windows with memorials in German survived, the church organ had been cannibalized and the sky could be seen through the roof when the Rev. Eddie Lopez Jr. merged three small Spanish-speaking Methodist congregations. Inspired one Easter morning, he suggested the church be renamed Silesia la Resurreccion, reinaugurated after a half-million-dollar renovation.
 The neighborhood's resurrection is well under way, too, beginning with Plaza de Los Angeles, 35 three-family town houses, which sold out five years ago. First-time homeowners with annual incomes of $32,000 to $70,000 paid at an average of $320,000 with government subsidies to encourage long-term ownership. La Puerta de Vitalidad, the first affordable-housing rental building, soon followed. Other rental apartments, including a senior residence, have been added.
 Two additional rounds of subsidized town houses have been completed with more ownership projects to come. Under the city's New Foundations program, which encourages home ownership by transferring public lots to private ownership after a competitive process, private developers have begun building affordable housing on private land. Poko Partnerships, a real estate developer from Port Chester, N.Y., recently sold 10 town houses still under construction on Courtlandt Avenue. The average price of the subsidized three-family homes was $480,000. 
 The best source of housing availability is the Department of Housing Preservation and Development's Affordable Housing Hotline at 311 and at the Web site www.nyc.gov/hpd. The site notes that a 110-unit building, under construction on Melrose Avenue, is accepting applicants for rentals, from $542 for a one-bedroom to $920 for a three-bedroom. Tenants will be chosen by lottery.
 Robert Roman, who runs a small construction company, was sweeping the sidewalk one recent winter morning in front of the town house he and his wife, Diana, bought in 2003 after participating in a lottery. The block of town houses replaced a community garden, but Mr. Roman, who began renting in the neighborhood in 1987, thought it a more than fair exchange. A first-time homeowner, he is also a first-time landlord.
 The new housing will mean a better community, he said. ''We will pay more taxes and have more police protection,'' he said. Subsidy provisions prevent him and other town house owners from selling for at least five years and offer incentives for staying even longer, but he doesn't mind the restrictions. ''I have no plans to move anytime soon,'' Mr. Roman said.
 Ms. Garcia wanted more than roofs over people's heads. Mr. Stand of Magnusson Architecture recalls that she pushed good design to encourage people to identify with their buildings and insisted that owner-occupied town houses and rental apartments for the previously homeless share the same block. She encouraged everyone in the neighborhood to keep an eye out to make sure that construction was carried out as promised. 
 Environmental issues were addressed as Nos Quedamos explored reclaiming rainwater to wash down sidewalks or water landscaping. It was the local sponsor for New York State's first ''green'' affordable housing development, 30 three-family town houses called Sunflower Way I, completed in 2002.
 Designed by Danois Architects, they sold for an average of $289,000 to buyers, also chosen by lottery, earning $41,258 to $75,000. The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development recognized the project for excellence last year after buildings operated at or below energy use that had been predicted before construction. Sunflower II, completed in late 2003, added 41 town houses.
 Because her son, Ismail Gonzalez, had died at age 25 from asthma, which is more common in the South Bronx than in most other New York neighborhoods, Yolanda Garcia was committed to building healthier buildings. She encouraged designs that impede the growth of mold. 
 Nos Quedamos promotes landscaping and small neighborhood parks, but an ongoing dispute in the community is the future of nearly two dozen pocketsize community gardens established when the neighborhood was in decay. Several gardens have been replaced by affordable housing.
 After housing, education is the most important issue in the neighborhood. Mr. Roman, the construction company owner, wants ''to do a little better'' for his daughters Rose, 12, and Michelli, 5, who attend Public School 29, a few blocks down Courtlandt, but he thinks they are getting ''a not bad education.''
 Built in 1962 as an elementary school, Public School 29 now is pre-kindergarten though sixth grade with seventh and eighth scheduled to be added by 2007. The school recently was removed from the state's list of schools in need of improvement, but last year only 31 percent of the students met or exceeded the English Language Arts test standards and about 42 percent met math standards. Rhonda Ross Kendrick, an actress and the daughter of the singer Diana Ross, has helped with an after-school drama program, but Insideschools.org, an independent Web guide to New York City public schools, reports that ''academic achievement has a way to go.''
 South Bronx High, which had one of the worst reputations in the city, was replaced three years ago by the South Bronx Educational Campus, made up of three smaller schools: Mott Haven Village Prep, New Explorers and the Academy for Careers in Sports.
 While streets are not crime free, local precincts reported a 65 to 70 percent drop in crime in the last 12 years.
 One of Ms. Garcia's unrealized dreams was a town center around the 42nd Precinct station house in the northeast corner of Melrose Common that would include new schools, a green market and a pedestrian mall. Although that hasn't happened yet, Boricua College has proposed a campus there.Those who own businesses are optimistic about the changes under way. Paulo Delconte, 67, who immigrated to Melrose from Trieste, Italy, as a teenager, was among the shopkeepers who stayed, keeping his convenience store at the corner of 157th and Melrose Avenue open even in the worst of times.
 ''The housing is going to come back,'' he said. ''It's going to be good for me, good for everyone.'' He plans to add a delicatessen with his favorite recipes for eggplant, veal and meatballs.


GRAPHIC: Photos: PIONEER -- Felix Vasquez owns and lives in a three-family town house at the Plaza de Los Angeles, mixed-income housing in Melrose Commons, in the Bronx. (Photo by Phil Mansfield for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
TRANSFORMATION -- Hundreds of apartments and town houses have been built in Melrose Commons. New buildings, above, under construction on East 159th Street.
 SETTLED IN -- Alex Trinidad, left, owns a town house in Sunflower Way I. Above right, Norma Sotero, left, with her daughter Karmen Rodriguez and grandchildren Michael and Karina, owns an apartment at La Puerta de Vitalidad. A building, right, is under construction on Melrose Avenue between 156th and 157th. (Photographs by Phil Mansfield for The New York Times)(pg. 7)Map of Bronx highlighting Melrose Commons. (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); FAMILY (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); RETAILERS (75%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); MOVIE FILMING (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); FLOOR COVERING STORES (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (67%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (67%); CENSUS (54%) Geographic Profiles

PERSON: Nancy Beth Jackson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Melrose Commons (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



109 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: A Developer With TriBeCa Roots Helps Make Over a Mill Town

BYLINE: By GAY JERVEY

DATELINE: Pawtucket, R.I. 

 BODY:
IN the early 1970's, when Ranne Warner and her husband, Ray, lived in New York City, they were among the very few to call TriBeCa their home. Far from the chi-chi, coveted enclave it is today, back then the neighborhood was all but deserted -- an area of artist studios, warehouses and manufacturers.
 By the mid-1970's, the couple had moved to Boston, where Ms. Warner pursued an M.B.A. at Harvard and a career as a real estate developer. She and her husband, an architect, renovated town houses in Boston, and starting in 1980, she developed commercial property. 
 In 1995, the Warners moved from their Beacon Hill town house, where they were raising their son, to suburban Lexington, Mass. But they never gave up their dream of once again living in a loft, surrounded by a vibrant creative community. 
 ''My idea was that I would find a great building and get all of my friends, many of whom are artists of one sort or another, to come and we could all live together,'' Ms. Warner said. ''Wouldn't that be fun!''
 In 2000, she began to search for a mill in Boston to convert into residential space. But there were none to be found. So when, in November 2001, a business acquaintance suggested that she check out a 100,000-square-foot mill in Pawtucket that sits on the banks of the Blackstone River, she jumped.
 ''It was love at first sight,'' despite the fact that, she recalls, ''the windows were either boarded up or covered with plaster, and the fire escape was so rusted and unsound that it looked as if it was about to fall off.''
 ''Nonetheless,'' she said, ''it was beautiful. I call the building one large window surrounded by bricks. It was in excellent structural condition. I could just see what an amazing space it could be.'' Following her instincts, in early 2001 Ms. Warner agreed to buy the building for $550,000, and her husband helped with the redesign. She has since named it Riverfront Lofts.
 By then, she was committed not only to the mill but to the city of Pawtucket, which dates back to 1793, when John Slater built the country's first cotton processing mill. (The Slater Mill, which sits across the Blackstone River from the Riverfront Lofts, is now a museum and historic landmark.) Pawtucket flourished in the 19th and early 20th centuries, but by the 1960's the mills began to close down. 
 By the mid-1990's, Pawtucket was known as the home of the minor league team for the Boston Red Sox, the Rhode Island Department of Motor Vehicles and not much else. ''We had kind of a dormant, moribund type of city here,'' said James Doyle, the mayor of Pawtucket. 
 Ms. Warner agreed that Pawtucket had a bad reputation. ''Everybody called it 'the Bucket.''' But she saw magic in the city's raw material, which includes a prime location along the Interstate 95 corridor, 45 minutes from Boston and 10 minutes from Providence. ''This was a very wealthy city in the 19th and early 20th centuries,'' she said. ''During that time, the mill owners built very beautiful buildings -- the mills, the library, the armory, the Y.M.C.A., the City Hall, the churches and post office.''
 Ms. Warner was also attracted to Pawtucket's commitment to the arts. In 1998, the city created a 307-acre arts and entertainment district, with tax incentives for artists either living or working in downtown. 
 ''We have latched on to the artist community and embraced them and brought them in as fast as we can,'' Mayor Doyle said. ''And the best way to describe it is that it has started a kind of renaissance.''
 That may be, but in 2001 the banks that Ms. Warner approached for construction loans to finance her $15 million renovation were skittish. Before one bank would give her loans for the Riverfront Lofts, with 60 condominiums, it required that she first have commitments from buyers worth $4 million. By the time she closed on the loan, she had 18 units signed for, with a value of $4.46 million. ''Buyers had to commit to purchasing the units before any construction was started or even final finishes were selected,'' she said.
 Those buyers definitely had vision. 
 ''We arrived at Riverfront and the place was a disaster,'' says Dr. Steven Cohen, a surgeon who lived in Providence with his family for more than 30 years and was one of the early buyers to commit to Riverfront. ''There were holes in the windows, holes in the floor, pigeons flying through the building,'' he said. ''It was just disgusting. But we fell in love with it.''
 His wife, Linda Cohen, said, ''There was nothing good about it except it was a fabulous building, next to a fabulous river, next to a gorgeous stone bridge. It sounds so absurd that we are talking about depressed, blue-collar Pawtucket. Our friends were appalled that we would move to Pawtucket. They thought we had taken leave of our senses.''
 Another buyer remembers how he first heard about the lofts. ''I was having brunch with a friend who told me about the Riverfront project, and I said, 'No way am I moving to Pawtucket,''' said Brian W. Casey, an assistant provost at Brown University. ''Then I saw this absolutely beautiful building. It has this sort of gravitas about it.'' 
 Buyers like Mr. Casey and the Cohens were also attracted to the price. Units at Riverfront Lofts go for $190 to $215 a square foot, versus $265 to $300 in Providence and $500 to $600 in downtown Boston. To date, Ms. Warner has sold 51 units. The buyers are coming from all over: Boston and its suburbs; New York City; Nantucket, Mass.; Arizona; Oregon; San Francisco; Long Island; Tennessee; and St. Louis. 
 And, as Ms. Warner had envisioned, all but a few are actively involved in the arts. Owners include architects, painters, sculptors, designers and writers.
 Meanwhile, things continue to look up for Pawtucket. Currently, according to Herbert Weiss, Pawtucket's economic and cultural affairs officer, 684,027 square feet of mills and commercial buildings are being used as studios, live-work lofts and performance space. Fueled by the success of the Riverfront Lofts, another project, the Bayley Lofts, is well under way, with plans for 25 residential loft units. 
 ''Pawtucket feels a little bit like a frontier, and Ranne paved the way for us,'' said Peter Gill Case, one of the developers of the Bayley Lofts. ''We had no trouble getting the banks to finance us. At first, people had cold feet, but Ranne warmed their toes. She blazed the trail.''
 Mayor Doyle agreed. ''Ranne is kind of the Daniel Boone of the area,'' he said. ''Her project has been the watershed in major residential development here. She has improved the economic climate of the city.''
 And she can't wait to call Pawtucket her home. The Warners plan to move into their 4,700-square-foot space at the Riverfront Lofts this summer. ''We are thrilled to go back to loft living,'' she said. ''It feels like we have come full circle in our lives.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: RIVERFRONT REBIRTH -- Ranne Warner and her husband, Ray, left, transformed an old mill into affordable luxury lofts, many with views of the Blackstone River. Rich and Julie Rose, below, on the third level of their new loft. The loft above includes an artist's studio, an open kitchen and two levels of bedrooms and living space. (Photographs by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); BASEBALL (61%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (50%); HISTORIC SITES (50%) Housing; Biographical Information

PERSON: Ranne Warner; Gay Jervey

GEOGRAPHIC: PAWTUCKET, RI, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) Pawtucket (Ri)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



110 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: The Rising Cost of the State's Corruption Tax

BYLINE: By Iver Peterson. 
Iver Peterson reports from New Jersey for The New York Times.

 BODY:
YES, as the Encyclopedia of New Jersey points out, Benjamin Franklin probably never uttered the view, widely attributed to him, that New Jersey was a barrel emptied at both ends, by New York and Philadelphia.
 In his day, when New Jersey was mainly a corridor between two big port cities, it made sense. For those on the make, the cities were the place to be. 
 Since the last world war, however, very much the opposite has been more true -- New Jersey has been the low-cost alternative to the expensive cities that bracket it. For decades, New York has poured people and money into this state --both in residents who make the familiar calculations involving taxes, rents, closet space and school quality, and in the immigrants who have accounted for the scarce population growth. 
 But how long can New Jersey keep parlaying its advantages over its neighbors? The barrel is already starting to empty at the south, judging by the number of New Jerseyans fleeing the country's highest property taxes for the relative safety across the Delaware in Bucks County, for instance. 
 Now those taxes are likely to take another big bump under acting Gov. Richard J. Codey's $27.4 billion austerity budget. After a bit more of this, and Westchester, Rockland, and even Manhattan will start looking like greener pastures for New Jerseyans.
 We pay those ruinous taxes, as everyone knows by now, not only because we are a rich state and one that demands expensive services, but because we have so much government. 
 The crazy quilt of 566 municipalities, 611 school districts managed mainly by amateurs often hidden from sight -- just try to get a copy of your town's budget some time -- and 21 counties with their own patronage-laden freeholder boards has burdened the state with an antiquated governance structure that does New Jersey no favors as it competes for people and investment with the rest of the country.
 And as Senator Jon S. Corzine said in his speech on ethics at Rutgers University last month, the immense burden of hundreds of tiny governments is extracting another kind of tax as well. 
 ''Too often, the misdeeds of the few are casting a real shadow over our state,'' Mr. Corzine said . ''And, it is the people that pay for these misdeeds, by paying in effect, what is a corruption tax. It is no wonder that so many people in New Jersey don't trust government itself or government officials of either party. The history speaks for itself.''
 The state was reminded of this two weeks ago, when United States Attorney Christopher Christie charged 11 local officials in Monmouth County with extortion, bribery and money laundering. It was only the latest in a wave of corruption disclosures in recent years, some lapping right at the doors of the State House. But Mr. Christie's indictments were memorable for one phrase, spoken by one of the conspirators as a summary of the situation in New Jersey: ''Nobody watches, nobody hears, nobody sees.''
 There may be several reasons why New Jersey cannot rid itself of municipal corruption, but the multiplicity of tiny governments is surely one of the big ones. 
 ''New Jersey is the only state in the union in which every county is part of a metropolitan area, and yet its political structure is pretty much out of the 18th century,'' said Anthony Shorris, director of the Policy Research Institute for the Region at Princeton University.
 As Mr. Shorris put it: ''The truth is, as everyone knows, that the greatest form of healing to corruption and municipal mismanagement is sunshine, but you can't have sunshine where there's not an adequately open field.'' 
 He was quick to point out New Jersey was hardly alone in carrying the burden of ''multiple municipal madness,'' to quote the title of the former Assembly Speaker Alan J. Karcher's book, a scorching analysis of the state's archaic local government structure. 
 Not that New York State and Pennsylvania are immune, with their hundreds of local governments. ''If you looked under the carpet in those states you would find this going on, too,'' Mr. Shorris said. 
 Indeed, the New York State comptroller reported last week that officials of the Roslyn School District on Long Island looted at least $11.2 million over eight years.
 In all of these cases, as Ingrid Reed, director of the New Jersey Project at the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers, pointed out, an antiquated local government structure fosters both a kind of invisibility and a dangerous amateurism. 
 ''One of the ramifications of having your little fiefdoms is that you are too small to have professional government,'' Ms. Reed said. ''So you have elected officials who are fuzzing the line between policy making and administration. You don't have a cadre of people who are trained to run government effectively.''
 It was indeed ironic that State Senator Ellen Karcher -- daughter of the late Assembly speaker -- saw the corruption that Mr. Christie went after firsthand. Ms. Karcher was -- as the familiar lexicon in New Jersey goes -- wearing a wire.
 ''So often, no one's paying attention,'' she said in an interview. ''And there's such a close connection between the decision and the immediate payoff, when it only takes three votes to make a $40,000 piece of land suddenly be worth two million.''
 Ms. Reed was quick to pick up that point.
 ''So you have well-meaning people who could be seen as gullible,'' she said, ''and that leads you in the direction of self-service rather than public service.''
 Scattered local government also means that getting information -- who is paying how much to whom? -- and making meaningful comparisons is nearly impossible. ''Some towns have done a good job of creating Web sites and posting information,'' Ms. Reed said. ''But you can't go to the Department of Community Affairs, where all the budgets are filed, and look at all the budgets and make some kind of comparison.''
 To be fair, every local budget is on file at Community Affairs, D.C.A., but in separate files that are awkward to retrieve and impossible to compare on a large scale.
 In addition, Ms. Karcher pointed out, the sheer number of government entities also multiplies the effect of politics -- and the politics of money -- on every decision that passes through a town board.
 ''You've got the League of Municipalities, and all those members have signs that say mayor, and that feeds the money system, because they are all money raisers for political campaigns,'' Ms. Karcher said. ''That is why New Jersey is getting to be so overpriced -- at every stage there is this machinery that either legally or illegally extracts money from the system.''
 Every governor since Thomas Kean has tried to get the municipalities to at least share jobs and services if not totally merge. Even Mr. Codey's budget unveiled last week includes money to help the process. 
 They could have done more with the stroke of a pen, Mr. Karcher pointed out in his book, because despite what local officials may claim, New Jersey has no home rule provisions to protect local government from state interference. The point bears repeating: in New Jersey, all local powers are derived from the state, and what the state gives, it may take away.
 The next governor, if he wanted to be remembered for more than plugging the latest budget gap, could undertake mandatory consolidation of New Jersey's equivalent of rotten boroughs, the ones with scant population and less land. 
 He could also, as an interim measure and also with a simple law passed by the Legislature, require that every local budget be posted on a Web site, preferably a central one at the Department of Community Affairs. That means every salary, every contract, every pension check, every payee would be available for scrutiny.
 ''We talk a lot about trying to upgrade the physical infrastructure and even the human infrastructure, especially where our schools are concerned,'' Mr. Shorris of Princeton said. ''But we rarely talk about the need to update the political infrastructure to reflect the economic realities that we face. Those economic realities are growing increasingly large in scale right now.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (89%); CORRUPTION (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); EXTORTION (69%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); ETHICS (61%); BRIBERY (60%); MONEY LAUNDERING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



111 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; SOAPBOX; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: The High Ground Is Smoke Free

BYLINE: By ALFRED R. ASHFORD. 
Alfred R. Ashford is the chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society of New York and New Jersey.

 BODY:
THE State Senate voted by 34-0 in favor of ethics reform this past week. But our legislative leaders missed a huge opportunity to convince voters that they can't be bought by taking real ethical action and breaking ranks with Big Tobacco in favor of a ban on smoking in all workplaces.
 The New Jersey Smoke-Free Air Act was expected to be considered by the Senate Health Committee on the same day that the full Senate acted on the ethics package. There was a lot of lip service paid to changing the way Trenton does business, but, at the end of the day, the Legislature sidestepped taking comprehensive action on smoke-free workplaces in favor of a most welcome, commendable -- yet limited -- ban on smoking in college dormitories. More must be done. 
 As a champion of ethics reform, Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey is in the position to lead the charge for smoke-free workplaces and send a clear message that New Jersey's citizens will always come before special interests.
 The pressure to act on this measure has never been greater. The health benefits are indisputable; 74 percent of New Jersey voters support a smoke-free workplace law; similar measures in other states continue to show an economic upside; and the growing movement for smoke-free workplaces across the region, nation and world has even hit Cuba, which adopted smoking restrictions last month.
 Governments can no longer ignore the arguments for smoke-free legislation.
 Secondhand smoke causes lung cancer, heart disease and serious respiratory illnesses, and is responsible for thousands of deaths each year. Many scientific studies in peer-reviewed journals have established a causal link between secondhand smoke and lung cancer, heart disease, chronic lung ailments like bronchitis and asthma (particularly among children) and low birth weight.
 Exposure to secondhand smoke has been estimated to result in as many as 65,000 annual deaths in the United States and diseases in more than a million children. In New Jersey alone, secondhand smoke may claim the lives of as many as 1,790 people this year.
 But few really dispute the health consequences of secondhand smoke anymore. Much of the criticism about indoor air laws has focused on the predictions of business losses for bars and restaurants. But reliable economic data from states where clean indoor air laws have taken hold show that just the opposite is happening.
 Data from the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene one year after the ban there took effect show that businesses are not suffering: receipts are up 8.7 percent in restaurants and bars, which have added 10,600 jobs.
 In California, the bar and restaurant industries continued to grow after a workplace smoking ban. By the end of 2001, revenues from restaurants and bars in California had jumped to $36.8 billion from $25.5 billion in 1995. The number of eating and drinking establishments also grew after the smoke-free law was enacted. In fact, 140 more bars existed in 2001 than in 1997, right before the smoke-free law took effect for bars and taverns.
 Smoke-free workplace legislation has also been a boon for Delaware. Data compiled by the Delaware Division of Public Health and Division of Revenue show that the number of restaurant, tavern and taproom licenses in Delaware has increased since a smoke-free law passed. The number of restaurant licenses increased from 3,291 in November 2002 to 3,323 in October of 2003. Employment within the hospitality industry increased as well.
 If the benefits to workers and business are so compelling, what holds back our elected officials in Trenton? Could it be the ethics thing?
 The only negative effect of smoke-free air laws and policies is on the bottom line of tobacco companies. That's why the tobacco industry and its allies have spent millions of dollars to try to influence legislation and lawmakers in New Jersey.
 Trenton is so inured to tobacco influence that it doesn't even sense when the tide has turned. Even Big Tobacco appears to have thrown in the towel: in December, Philip Morris made it a corporate policy to no longer oppose bans on smoking in the workplace.
 Everyone in the State House is vying to become the redeemer who dismantles New Jersey's pay-to-play system. But real ethics reform is about more than political rhetoric and having your name on the top of a bill. It's about having the courage to implement and execute meaningful policy changes that benefit the citizenry -- in the face of deep pockets trying to persuade you to do otherwise.
 The vote on New Jersey's Smoke-Free Air Act will be an early barometer on change in Trenton. Senator Joseph Vitale, chairman of the Health Committee, has publicly pledged a commitment from Mr. Codey ensuring that this bill will be voted on the next time the committee meets, which could be as early as the middle of this month. 
 On March 14, we'll get a chance to see just how committed Mr. Codey and our legislators are to true ethics reform.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); SMOKING BANS (91%); ETHICS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CANCER (86%); LEGISLATION (78%); LUNG CANCER (77%); CARCINOGENS (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); INDOOR AIR QUALITY (76%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); ASTHMA (69%); HEART DISEASE (69%); CHILDREN (67%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (64%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (62%); STUDENT HOUSING (54%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



112 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; THEATER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1939 words

HEADLINE: 'Mister Roberts' Goes To Washington

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WORLD War II is ending, and Lt. Douglas Roberts, the cargo officer of a beleaguered ship in a backwater of the South Pacific, wants just two things: a transfer to a destroyer in the thick of the action against the Japanese, and liberty for the 167 desperate men who have been kept aboard his ship for 18 straight months by their tyrannical captain.
 In a confrontation that sums up the age-old gulf between the men who do the fighting and the men who merely send them off to fight, the captain tells Roberts that the only way he can get his second wish is to stop asking for the first. Roberts explodes: ''How did you get in the Navy? How did you get on our side? You're what I joined to fight against.'' 
 That scene is the dramatic fulcrum of ''Mister Roberts,'' Thomas Heggen and Joshua Logan's dramatization of Heggen's best-selling novel, which took Broadway by storm in 1948 with Henry Fonda in the title role. It ran for more than 1,000 performances, won the first Tony Award for best play, and in 1955 became a smash, if sanitized movie, to which a young Princeton graduate named Donald H. Rumsfeld took his future wife on one of their first dates. 
 It is almost impossible to conjure up the emotions that this half-forgotten, seldom-revived comic drama must have stirred in an original cast and audience composed of veterans of the battle front and home front, including Fonda, who wore his own battered Navy lieutenant's cap onstage.
 But Michael M. Kaiser, president of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, saw a sweetly subversive opportunity to revive ''Mister Roberts'' in the middle of an altogether different war. Seeking a play for the center's current festival celebrating the 1940's, Mr. Kaiser realized that this old warhorse could have unexpected, even provocative new meaning at a moment when overstretched supply companies find themselves in harm's way in Iraq, reservists face extended tours of duty, and the self-same Mr. Rumsfeld squabbles with the troops over a shortage of body armor. 
 Mr. Kaiser did not want a radical reinterpretation of a work first noted for its understated realism. ''This is not a lesbian version on the moon,'' he said. Instead, he said, he believed a faithful reintroduction of a play about the pain, boredom and sacrifice of even a popular war might just make audiences think, ever so gently, about a far more contentious one. 
 ''The whole notion of what is patriotism -- I think it's a subject that bears investigation,'' Mr. Kaiser said. ''What kind of military do you have, and want?'' 
 He added: ''It's a much more thoughtful play than people remember,'' both appropriate to the current climate and ''somewhat mischievous.'' When it was new, Mr. Kaiser said, the play ''spoke to people because it wasn't a gloss on war.'' The plot of ''Mister Roberts'' is practically nonexistent. It chronicles the restless crew members of the AK-601 ( also known as the Reluctant) as they journey ''from Tedium to Apathy and back again -- with an occasional side trip to Monotony.'' Their thankless work earns the captain a prize palm tree ''for delivering more toothpaste and toilet paper than any other Navy cargo ship in the safe area of the Pacific.'' 
 Roberts and his long-suffering buddies -- the wise ship's Doc and the callow, libidinous Ensign Pulver -- make Scotch from grain alcohol, iodine, Coca-Cola and hair tonic, and a firecracker from fulminate of mercury. They take care of the captain's palm tree (and how). Finally, Roberts gets his men a liberty, himself a transfer to combat duty and much more than he bargained for, including the knowledge that valor comes in many varieties and ''that at a time in the world when courage counted most, I lived among 167 brave men.'' By the end, those lessons have rubbed off even on Pulver, who is forced to grow up fast.
 Robert Longbottom, the veteran Broadway choreographer and director who directs the new production, said the point of the play ''is the bravery of these men, the grace that they live together under the worst of circumstances.'' 
 ''The most important thing about being a leader is to create more leaders,'' he said, ''and that's what I think Roberts does without ever negotiating it with himself or analyzing it.'' Though the play is ''intrinsically bipartisan,'' he added, ''the captain is, in fact, the enemy in these men's lives.''
 ''Germany is mentioned,'' he continued. ''They're on the fringes of Japan, but they're very much out of the loop of it. So it's the warfare that takes place on that boat between those men that's examined, and that becomes a metaphor for the war itself.''
 The play's conflicts, and its unvarnished profanity, would be familiar to the members of the Third Infantry Division, who endured chaos in postwar Baghdad. In 2003, one of its members told this newspaper in pungent terms to ''call Donald Rumsfeld'' and tell him they were ready to go home.
 ''Mister Roberts,'' which runs from Saturday through April 3, is part of ''A New America: The 1940's and the Arts,'' which runs through June. The festival includes performances of music, dance and a semi-staged version of ''Regina,'' Marc Blitzstein's musical version of Lillian Hellman's ''Little Foxes,'' starring Patti LuPone, next weekend.
 No one would mistake ''Mister Roberts'' for a masterpiece of the American theater. Mr. Kaiser acknowledged that it is not often revived because of the high cost of its large cast -- 24 in this production -- and because ''I think people fear it's dated.''
 But the original ran longer than either ''A Streetcar Named Desire'' or ''Death of a Salesman,'' which both overlapped it on Broadway. Together with ''South Pacific,'' which was also co-written by Logan and opened the following year, it offered a sunnier alternative to contemporaneous (and popular) war novels like ''The Naked and the Dead.'' 
 Mr. Kaiser said this revival -- with a cast of semi-knowns that includes, as Pulver, Hunter Foster, who was nominated for a Tony Award last year for his performance as Seymour in the Broadway revival of ''Little Shop of Horrors''-- offered a chance to explore a work that had a huge impact in its day, without the economic pressures that a commercial Broadway run would require.
 Even so, Mr. Longbottom said, there were challenges. Audiences accustomed to high-tech sets and special-effects wizardry would not accept painted scrims, he said, so Andrew Jackness's soaring set features real remnants from the Norfolk Naval Shipyard in Virginia. The unapologetic sexism in some lines has to float past unexplained, unexamined and unpunished. 
 Mr. Foster's Pulver remains impishness incarnate, and the comic situations he gets himself into are as old as the Greeks and as indestructible as a battleship. Nevertheless, he said, he worries that some of the play's more sentimental passages might creak a bit. ''We live in a much more cynical world,'' he said. ''The things that are successful tend to be a little darker.''
 If the play's heart-on-its-sleeve sentiment can seem quaint in the midst of a war far less popular than the one that produced it, its language pushed the envelope at the time. Before the Broadway opening, the redoubtable Lew Wasserman, who was both Fonda's and Logan's agent, demanded the excision of a line in which Roberts marvels at Pulver's resourcefulness -- ''Eighteen months at sea without liberty, where'd he get the clap?'' -- on the grounds that the police would close the show. (Warning to Alberto R. Gonzales: it has been restored.). 
 The original Broadway cast of ''Mister Roberts'' was full of young faces who would become familiar during the next 50 years, including a young unknown named Bob Keith Jr., whose father, Robert, played Doc and who later changed his name to Brian.
 ''It was a thrilling time in my life,'' recalled Steven Hill, who fresh out of the Marine Corps played the hapless sailor Stefanowski and went on to a distinguished career that culminated in 10 years as District Attorney Adam Schiff on ''Law & Order.'' ''You could almost smell it from the very first reading that took place -- this is going to be an overwhelming hit. We all felt it, and experienced it and were convinced of it, and we were riding the crest of a wave from the very first day of rehearsals.'' 
 The original production was also a family affair: Logan and Fonda had been friends since their earliest days in the theater; the producer Leland Hayward and Fonda had both been married to the same actress, Margaret Sullavan; the ship's captain was played by Logan's brother-in-law, William Harrigan; and the sole woman in the cast, a comely nurse who briefly boards the ship, was played by Jocelyn Brando, Marlon's big sister and the daughter of Fonda's first acting mentor in Omaha.
 The result was an airtight ensemble akin to those of the best contemporary sitcoms. 
 The show remained a career favorite for almost everyone involved, though Heggen, who had based his book on his Navy experience, could not cope with the success and catastrophic writer's block that came with it. He drowned in his bathtub after a drug overdose during the Broadway run. The movie, directed partly by John Ford on a major bender, then finished by Mervyn LeRoy and Logan, obliterated much of the play's subtlety in favor of yuks and a cartoonish James Cagney as the captain, though Jack Lemmon won an Oscar for his performance as Pulver.
 Recreating something of the original production's magic -- in just four weeks of rehearsal with a young cast unfamiliar with the play, military service or one another -- has been one of Mr. Longbottom's goals. On the first day of rehearsal last month, the cast received regulation Navy haircuts, uniforms, dog tags and shiny black shoes, which they were ordered to scuff up and break in by opening night. 
 ''I've tried from the beginning to connect with everybody in the cast,'' said Michael Dempsey, who plays Roberts. ''I think Mr. Roberts would be looking out for all the guys.'' Mr. Dempsey, who understudied Robert Sean Leonard in the recent Broadway revival of ''Long Day's Journey Into Night,'' had never read ''Mister Roberts,'' seen the movie or served in the military, but he was a champion lacrosse player at the University of California, Berkeley, in the mid-1990's and said the camaraderie aboard ship, and among the almost all-male cast, was a bit like that of a sports team.
 Mr. Foster, who grew up in Georgia near the Army base at Fort Gordon, agreed and said that absent the typical sexual tension and jockeying of a coed cast, ''you can really focus on the play.''
 Mr. Longbottom looks forward to introducing a new audience to ''Mister Roberts.''
 ''It's so rare in our culture today -- at least in the theater -- that there's actually something on the stage that reflects what's going on immediately in our lives,'' he said. ''It's tragic the ambivalence I think the country feels about the situation we're in right now -- not that I would say I don't agree with that ambivalence. But for the people who are serving, it must feel, 'Gosh, does anybody appreciate the line of danger we're putting ourselves in the middle of?'
 ''The men of the Reluctant put themselves nowhere,'' he added. ''They were asked to do the most menial, boring tasks imaginable, and it must have been very hard for them to justify, 'I'm doing my part.'''
 To Americans who since 9/11 have been trapped in their own limbo -- asked to wait in airport security lines but also to fly to Disney World while sacrifice falls almost entirely on the men and women who volunteered to fight half a world away -- that might be a familiar feeling all over again.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 6, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Page 8 of Arts & Leisure today about the current revival of the play ''Mr. Roberts'' at the Kennedy Center in Washington misidentifies an occasion on which Donald H. Rumsfeld and his future wife, Joyce Pierson, saw the work. It was a performance in Chicago in 1949, when Mr. Rumsfeld was in high school, not a screening of the film version in 1955, when he had graduated from Princeton.


GRAPHIC: Photos: William Harrigan, left, as the ill-tempered captain of the ship, and Henry Fonda as Lt. Douglas Roberts, a naval cargo officer, in the 1948 Broadway production of ''Mister Roberts.'' The show was a huge hit, winning the first Tony Award for best play. (Photo by John Swope)(pg. 8)
 A digital rendering of Andrew Jackness's soaring set for the new production of ''Mister Roberts'' at the Kennedy Center. (Photo by Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, Washington)(pg. 11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY VESSELS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); WORLD WAR II (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (88%); NAVIES (78%); DRAMA FILMS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (71%); FILM (71%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (69%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); BESTSELLERS (52%); THEATER (52%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (51%) Theater

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%); US NAVY (56%) Kennedy, John F, Center for the Performing Arts (Washington, DC)

PERSON: Todd S Purdum; Michael Kaiser; Thomas Heggen; Joshua Logan

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



113 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Taking Your Hard-Earned Money, Giving a Little Bit Back, and Making You Love It

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
W.C. Fields used to say, ''You can't cheat an honest man,'' which may help explain the popularity of rebates.
 Pioneered by the automobile industry, they proved to be an effective device to temporarily offer discounts, to pay commissions to dealers based on full price and to let companies profit from the float -- or, better yet, from the fact that well over half the rebates they offer are never redeemed.
 In no time, government embraced the same marketing psychology.
 Proclaiming ''a historic day in the history of New Jersey and probably in the history of the United States,'' on March 15, 1977, Gov. Brendan T. Byrne of New Jersey delivered a $96.84 check to John and Alice Chambers, a retired couple from Absecon. Theirs was the first under a homestead rebate passed as a palliative for the new state income tax. 
 ''The government is actually giving money back to the taxpayer,'' the governor said, in returning to the couple what amounted to about 25 cents a day. ''I don't know of anyone who can tell me that this has ever happened.''
 It has happened since then in many other states. But what government takes away and then gives back, it can also take away again. which is precisely what Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey of New Jersey boldly proposed last week to save about $1.1 billion. As one response to years of unsustainable state spending, his austere budget would scale back property tax rebates to the elderly and disabled from $1,200 to $800 and suspend the N.J. Saver Program, which provided rebates averaging $691 to other homeowners who typically pay $5,000 or more in property taxes. 
 ''Of course it's a gimmick, but people like the money,'' said Jon Shure, president of New Jersey Policy Perspective, a liberal advocacy group. 
 Joel B. Slemrod, director of the Office of Tax Policy Research at the University of Michigan, said: ''People think $2.09.9 a gallon is a substantial savings over $2.10. Whether it's produce in a grocery store or taxes, the way the price is framed for what amounts to the same transaction makes a difference.''
 It is not just a matter of perception. To some consumers, the difference is apparent in their pockets. 
 Property tax rebates can account for a disproportionately large bonus for many lower-income taxpayers on fixed incomes, often including the elderly and disabled. Rebates can be so persuasive in the purchase of big-ticket items, like automobiles, that, at times, manufacturers lose money on every vehicle they sell and profit only from the interest and fees they charge to finance the purchases.
 People love a bargain, even when it really is not one. W.C. Fields also used to say, ''Never give a sucker an even break,'' which explains why consumers overlook the fact that rebates turn them into bankers, in effect loaning money to companies, some of which bait consumers with the promise of checks that never materialize or are hopelessly delayed. Sometimes, companies impose burdensome paperwork that many consumers do not bother to complete.
 ''I bought a computer, and the box was thrown out,'' recalled William Ahern, director of communications for the Tax Foundation, a business-backed research group. ''Companies can count on a high incidence of rebates not being redeemed. With the government, that won't be the case.'' 
 What government cannot dictate, though, is how consumers spend the money. In 2001, federal tax rebates were intended to stimulate a sluggish economy, but when Professor Slemrod surveyed Americans to find out what they would do with their $300 or $600 checks, he found that most intended to save them rather than spend them. 
 Are rebates more meaningful politically than economically? 
 ''Yes,'' Mr. Ahern said. ''They are not only insignificant economically, but they are very problematic even as a promotional device.'' 
 ''The whole thing backfired on the Bush administration,'' he recalled, ''because too many people perceived that the $300 or $600 federal 'prebate' they received was the tax cut. I know of people getting $2,000 in tax relief every year, but they still think the tax cut was $300 in 2001.'' 
 Still, rebates produce more credit than blame for elected officials.
 ''To be honest with you, it's kind of like found money,'' said Robert Castoro, an Internal Revenue Service appeals officer from Bedminster, N.J. ''It's political. I mean, they give you a check with the governor's signature on it.''
 Last year, those $400 property tax rebates disbursed by New York City mentioned Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's name no less than four times: once on the envelope, twice in an accompanying letter and once on the check itself. 
 But if rebates are so popular, what happens when they are withdrawn or reduced? 
 ''People see it as a loss or recognize it for the tax increase that it is,'' said Mr. Shure of New Jersey Policy Perspective. 
 Still, New Jersey Republicans slashed the homestead rebate in 1992 and survived in the Legislature -- in part because the total program was smaller than it is today and also because they compensated with a state sales tax reduction. 
 And, arguably, political candor can be as appealing as pandering. 
 ''You can pretend fiscal gaps don't exist or use completely painless short-term measures to get around them,'' said Matthew Gardner, state tax policy director of the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, a nonpartisan research organization. ''The other alternative is to bite the bullet and propose things that people don't like. Governor Codey has made a bold move. Has he proposed the right solution? I would say no, but he's doing something that many governors have refused to do.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Perception is crucial in rebates: Mayor Bloomberg's name appeared four times last year on mailings of New York City tax rebate checks. (Photo by Margaret Keady for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); GOVERNORS (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); LIBERALISM (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); INCOME TAX (68%); SALES REBATES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



114 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The World: Guesswork; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1704 words

HEADLINE: What's in It for America?

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN. 
Roger Cohen writes the ''Globalist'' column for The International Herald Tribune.

 BODY:
IN the Middle East, an old order is weakening -- that of authoritarian, repressive states walled off from modernity. A new order is rising, with democracy stirring in countries from Iraq to Egypt, mass demonstrations pushing out Syrian troops from Lebanon and a Palestinian leader apparently committing himself to an open political system. But will this emergent democratic current, if consolidated, make America safer?
 President George W. Bush has argued that America's ideals are now synonymous with its interests; the spread of freedom will drain the frustration and rage on which terrorism feeds. The argument is beautiful in its simplicity. But it is precisely in democratic Europe that Mohammed Atta, a mastermind of the 9/11 attacks, lived for about a decade, and it is from Britain, scarcely a stranger to liberty, that Richard Reid, the would-be shoe bomber of American Airlines Flight 63 from Paris to Miami, hailed. Democracy can open the way for many things including illiberal opinion.
 Turkey, long a pliant ally under military or military-backed rule, has proved more restive under the government of a democratically elected moderate Islamic party, forcing the United States to revise its Iraq invasion plans by denying access to American troops. A fully democratic and independent Lebanon would presumably reflect the fact that many Lebanese think Hezbollah, viewed as a terrorist organization in Washington but not in Paris, is a force for good, helping the needy and resisting Israel. 
 For a long time, American policy toward the Middle East was guided precisely by such fears: democracy could be, and likely would be, dangerous. A blind eye was turned to authoritarianism because it kept the shop in order, quieted the Arab street and served American interests. But then the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, showed how treacherous the status quo could be.
 ''The traditional United States approach for the past half-century ignored what went on inside Middle Eastern societies so long as they cooperated on energy, security and diplomacy,'' said Richard Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations. ''The president has now rejected that. The question is: can he deliver an orderly transition?''
 That question will likely not be answered for several years. But what is clear already is that a region long marked by inertia is in flux. Events from Saudi Arabia to Syria suggest that the invasion of Iraq and the election there have indeed had a catalytic effect, opening up debate, tearing down walls. Democracy is getting a toehold.
 But terrorism remains a mystery. Nobody knows exactly what leads a young Muslim to blow himself up in the name of a holy war against the West. As Walter Laqueur, the historian specializing in political violence, has observed, ''There can be no final victory in the fight against terrorism, for terrorism (rather than full-scale war) is the contemporary manifestation of conflict, and conflict will not disappear from earth.''
 In other words, democracy is no panacea, but nor is anything else. Terrorism will not crumble like Communism or Fascism, defeated by containment or force of arms or economic measures or the ballot box. Indeed, it is possible the greater proximity of Western ideas and practices may only redouble the jihadist urge, which has been driven in part by the desire to re-create an infidel-free caliphate. But it is also possible that a more open system may cool apocalyptic urges in the Middle East as it has elsewhere.
 ''Democratic governments in the Middle East are going to be much more difficult for the United States to handle because there will be more direct expression of sentiment, much of it hostile,'' said Rashid Khalidi, a professor of Middle Eastern studies at Columbia University. ''But in the end it will be healthier and, yes, democracy could provide an outlet for the frustration that drives people to jihadism.''
 For many years, Islamism seemed the only such outlet. In varying degrees, the Iranian revolution, jihadist successes in Afghanistan, and the anti-Western teachings of men like the executed Egyptian writer Sayyid Qutb contributed to this vogue. So, too, did the hypocrisy of the West in making it clear that democracy was not for countries like Egypt or Saudi Arabia or Algeria, where a democratic election that seemed about to usher Islamists to power was quashed in 1991.
 But in both the West and the Middle East, the currents that produced this drift seem to be ebbing. The Algerian experience was scarcely edifying; it ushered in a period of terrible conflict. Turkey may be harder to handle as a democracy, but it has scarcely ceased to be an ally. The Bush administration has concluded that Middle Eastern democracy is preferable, however uncomfortable it may prove. 
 Among Muslims, too, the forces prodding a rethinking are significant. The Afghan model for a fundamentalist Islamic society has been demolished. The fervor of the Iranian revolution has faded. The invasion of Iraq has brought into the Arab heartland a model -- still fragile and bitterly contested -- of a liberal and democratic society. Democracy is no longer an abstraction, a risible plaything selectively dangled by Western powers with interests more compelling than ideals. It is right there, on the doorstep, or on the screen in the living room.
 ''The discourse is changing in the Arab world,'' said Patrick Clawson, the deputy director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. ''If you want to adopt a radical cause, Islamism is no longer the only answer. You can go join those 500 demonstrators for democracy surrounded by 3,000 police in the streets of Cairo.''
 Of course, if you're angry enough, you can also blow up kids at a Tel Aviv discotheque, or drive an explosives-laden car into police recruits in Iraq, or kill a judge preparing to conduct the trials of Saddam Hussein's henchmen. There are plenty of Arabs still ready to do this in the service of plenty of causes: fanatical Islamic fundamentalism, anti-imperial nationalism, anti-Zionism or simply the defense of threatened privilege.
 The argument that the American invasion of Iraq has boosted recruitment for Al Qaeda and other jihadist groups, increased Muslim hatred of the West, injected a dangerous instability into a turbulent region, and given suicide bombers new cause for their zeal cannot be ignored. The push for democracy through force or arms and unbending rhetoric may only have increased the danger, at least in the short term.
 ''The barrier of fear is beginning to break,'' said Murhaf Jouejati, the director of Middle Eastern studies at George Washington University. ''President Bush has shaken the status quo, shaken the apathy.'' But he added: ''I do not think the ideology of Al Qaeda is fading or weakening for the moment. On the contrary, it is reacting to, and in some ways benefiting from, Western penetration. You have two contradictory forces; Islamic fundamentalism is not yet on the retreat.''
 In Baghdad, the epicenter of the ideological struggle, the theater that now draws every global current of anti-American fanaticism, the clash of the two forces -- modernizing and reactionary -- that are trying to benefit from the collapse of the old Middle Eastern order is intense.
 When electricity is cut again, or when your car pivots at high speed because a hooded gunman has been spotted, or when fires flicker in empty streets inhabited only by skittering trash, or when not even children will look you in the eye, this whole American-led effort to transform a country and a region appears doomed.
 But unexpected voices rise from the chaos. ''People are beginning to feel their own authority, to feel they can create things for themselves, which is the beginning of democracy,'' said Humam Hamoudi, a prominent Shiite in Iraq and a leader of the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution.
 Such sentiment may be significant: the promise of paradise in another life has surely proved persuasive to the suicide-bomber jihadist in part because closed societies made any change in this life seem out of reach.
 The West has tried cold-war containment in the Middle East, living with conflict on a regional scale. It has tried the quiet or sometimes flagrant hypocrisy that characterized the response to the 1991 Algerian election or the decision to let 4,000 Saudi princes do what they like. What has not been tried is the proposition now being tested: that the Middle East is not some strange exception, but will, as Europe and the Americas have, find in democracy a cause for peace.
 ''I think the United States has shifted the momentum in its favor,'' said Paul Berman, the author of ''Terror and Liberalism.'' ''The jihadists' utopia in Afghanistan has been overthrown. We have given democratic ideas a chance in Iraq, although I think we did it badly. It was never Western liberals who were going to defeat these ideologues. It was the liberals of the Muslim and Arab world, and they are stronger today.''
 A couple of months ago, I sat in a Gaza office with a beautiful view of the Mediterranean listening to one such liberal, a Palestinian psychologist, Dr. Eyad Serraj, explain the culture of martyrdom; explain how shame is transposed into honor through self-sacrifice and defeat is conquered by assuming ''the ultimate power, the power to kill''; explain how martyrs were on the level of prophets and so could not be questioned ''although their acts are devastating to us politically.'' 
 It was this culture that Yasir Arafat encouraged, a culture of hopelessness, of the victim, of victory only in death. In so doing, he was representative of his region. He was a dictator who, like Saddam Hussein, offered only one escape: another world.
 ''Arafat was untouchable,'' said Mr. Serraj. ''But Mahmoud Abbas is a human being like the rest of us. He's bringing us back to reality, beyond rhetoric and slogans. I hope we will now get realism and pragmatism.''
 Democracy, the kind Mr. Abbas is promoting as the Palestinians' new president, is all about realism and pragmatism. That is what Iraqis are finding now as they try to form a government. Their experience may just be infectious and make America safer. At least it looks that way for now.


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Iraq, two forces -- modernizing and reactionary -- are trying to benefit from the collapse of the old order. The same dynamic is at work throughout the Middle East. (Photo by Chris Hondros/Getty Images)(pg. 1)
(Photo by Burt Herman/Associated Press)
(Photo by Galli Tibbon/Agence France-Presse-Getty Images)
(Photo by Themba Hadebe/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Farjana K. Godhuly/Agence France-Presse Getty Images)(pg. 3)Chart/Maps: ''An Uneven Landscape of Democracy''The recent series of early steps toward democracy in the Middle East this year -- elections in Iraq, Saudi Arabia and among the Palestinians, followed now by demonstrations in Lebanon seeking the withdrawal of Syrian troops -- raises the question of how many of the world's people live in countries that are considered truly free.An annual study by Freedom House, a human rights organization, rates the level of political freedom and civil liberties experienced by each nation's citizens. Its most recent assessments, released in December, are below.Nations Not Free37 percent of all people live under the harshest 49 regimes.LEAST AT LIBERTYThe eight countries with the greatest political restrictions and widest violations of civil liberties are shaded darker and labeled in BOLD TYPE on the map. The Russian region of Chechnya and the Chinese region of Tibet have equally poor ratings.KYRGYZSTAN, TAJIKISTANBoth held elections last week that were denounced as unfair by outside observers.IRAQBefore the January election, which could bring a better rating at the end of this year, Iraq had an appointed government.AFGHANISTANA presidential election was held in 2004, but serious restrictions on civil liberties remain.BELARUSThe most repressive regime in Europe persisted in 2004. President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, above, ran virtually unopposed and was re-elected.RUSSIARussia was downgraded from partly free to not free, says Freedom House, because of an ''increased consolidation of political authority and stepped-up harassment and restrictionson independent media.'' The sudden shift downward in those categories left it with a lower rating even than some African countries which, despite being monarchies or one-party states, scored higher on Freedom House's broad scales of political rights and civil liberties, says Michael Goldfarb, senior press officer.TURKMENISTANPresident Saparmurat A. Niyazov's likeness, below, is displayed throughout the nation. Niyazov has created a Soviet-style personality cult.Partly Free54 countries have mixed record on political and civil rights.LATIN AMERICASeveral nations have slid back from earlier ''free'' ratings: Honduras in 1998, Venezuela in 1999, Ecuador in 2000, Trinidad and Tobago in 2001 and Bolivia in 2003. Factors range from political instability to civil strife.UKRAINEViktor A. Yushchenko, below, prevailed in a flawed 2004 election marked by increased civic activism, judicial independence and press freedom.GEORGIAA 2004 election, seen as free and fair by monitors, improved its rating.INDONESIADemocratic since 1998, it elected an ex-general as president in 2004. Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono promised to maintain civilian rule.Free89 countries have largely fair, competitive elections and freedom of expression, assembly, association, education and religion.NAMIBIAOnce ruled by South Africa's apartheid regime, the former German colony held a presidential election in 2004. Below, a polling station.INDIAManmohan Singh, below, became prime minister last year after his party won national elections. India is the world's largest democracy.Freedom, Measured By PopulationSince 1980, the portion of the world's people living under oppressive regimes has diminished. The share of those living in free nations is approaching 50 percent.Graphs track the percentage of the global population considered free, parlty, free, or not free from 1980 through 2004. Below are the figures for 2004:NATIONS NOT FREE: 37%PARTLY FREE: 19%FREE: 44%''NOT FREE'' AND ''PARTLY FREE'' -- The spike of people in partially free nations -- and the corresponding dip of those in free nations -- was primarily due to a period of reduced freedom in India from 1991 to 1997. Sectarian violence was largely to blame.Maps of the world highlight countries which are considered free, partly free, and not free.(Bill Marsh and C.B. Williams/The New York Times)(Source by Freedom House)(pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); HEZBOLLAH (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); POLITICS (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); HISTORY (67%); RELIGION (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (61%); AIRLINES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FREEDOM HOUSE (93%); HEZBOLLAH (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%) XIZANG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); SYRIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); LEBANON (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); EUROPE (92%); EGYPT (92%); INDIA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); FRANCE (91%); TIBET (79%); ISRAEL (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); TURKEY (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFRICA (79%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (79%); CHINA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



115 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 2; Sports Desk; KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: A Welfare System for Low-Spending N.B.A. Owners 

BYLINE: By DAN T. ROSENBAUM. 
Dan T. Rosenbaum is an assistant professor of economics at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro.

 BODY:
The N.B.A. has embarked on a grand and peculiar experiment to alter the league's financial structure through a luxury tax. The system has changed the league, but perhaps not in the manner envisioned by its architects.
 In 2002-3 and 2003-4, the tax redistributed $680 million from players and high-spending owners mostly to low-spending owners.
 That $680 million equals one-eighth of total N.B.A. revenue over these two seasons and dwarfs the $80 million redistributed during the five years of Major League Baseball's luxury tax. (This does not include its revenue sharing.) N.B.A. welfare for low-spending owners even surpasses the cash welfare systems in 30 states. 
 The figures are large, but the system is complicated and poorly understood by some teams. It takes effect only if player salaries and benefits top 57 percent (55 percent before this season) of the league's basketball-related income. 
 When that happens, the league first taxes players to make up the difference by taking up to 10 percent of their salaries. But if this escrow tax is not enough to make up the difference -- and it wasn't in 2002-3 and 2003-4 -- then the luxury tax is triggered. (Note that this season, because of an accounting quirk, the luxury tax is unlikely to be triggered.) That imposes a 100 percent tax on teams for every dollar they spend above the luxury-tax threshold, which depends on revenue and is roughly the average team salary.
 The $680 million collected created an additional spending disincentive. The formula for the distributions resulted in an effective tax rate in excess of 300 percent for the first $3 million to $4 million of spending above the luxury-tax threshold. Adding $4 million in salary for a team just below the luxury-tax threshold cost teams almost $17 million, but the same move cost a high-spending team $8 million.
 This creates a de facto ''hard'' cap for teams without deep-pocketed owners. For example, two summers ago Indiana -- a championship-contending small-market team -- had to consider future luxury taxes when giving up Brad Miller, a young All-Star center. This season, the San Antonio Spurs were eager to unload the expensive contract of the fan favorite Malik Rose, who is now on the Knicks. 
 The luxury tax has not only discouraged spending by many teams, but also transformed the N.B.A.'s profit structure, perhaps much more than the system's designers envisioned in 1999. The system doesn't equalize profits across the league; it instead extracts high rents from wealthy, ambitious owners. 
 Three teams, the Mavericks (Mark Cuban), the Knicks (Cablevision) and the Trail Blazers (Paul Allen), redistributed $180 million to the rest of the league in 2002-3 and 2003-4 and had combined losses of about $200 million. In the two seasons before the luxury tax, these teams nearly broke even.
 On the other hand, 13 teams -- Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit, Denver, Golden State, Houston, the Los Angeles Clippers, New Orleans, Orlando, San Antonio, Seattle, Utah and Washington -- received much of the redistribution (about $227 million) and increased profits to nearly $600 million from about $200 million. Staying under the luxury-tax threshold has become more profitable than winning.
 One peculiar feature of the N.B.A.'s system is that teams don't know the precise luxury-tax threshold or even whether the luxury tax will be triggered until after the season. This may tempt teams to game the system by manipulating revenue to avoid triggering the luxury tax. More important, teams must make salary offers without knowing the luxury-tax costs. This uncertainty implies that accurate luxury-tax forecasts could save teams millions of dollars, yet many teams conduct only rudimentary analyses. Even the players union, for which I have been a consultant, spends scant time on forecasting.
 As Steve Patterson, president of the Blazers, points out, forecasting the luxury tax ''requires complex models'' of leaguewide revenue in addition to team-by-team salary levels several years into the future. Teams may dislike this uncertainty, but ''like the three-second call,'' he says, it is ''one of the rules we all work under.''
 Given the distortions and uncertainty created by the luxury tax, how does it affect teams and players? Spending that leads to victories for high-spending teams creates losses for other teams. The luxury tax raises the costs of spending, resulting in high-payroll teams implicitly taking into account the negative effect their spending has on other teams. The luxury tax also helps level the playing field for teams across the league. 
 In addition, players may prefer the luxury tax to other cost-control options like a hard salary cap, because by extracting rent from the wealthiest, most ambitious owners, the luxury tax probably maximizes the revenue for the players over the long term. Such tax payments also increase the share going to a majority of the owners. On the other hand, it could lead to animosity if high-spending owners come to resent owners whom they perceive as having little interest in improving their teams. 
 In the end, the luxury-tax system is a large and quirky experiment. It has changed the N.B.A., even if its effects are not yet fully understood.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Spurs sent Malik Rose, and his burdensome contract, to the Knicks. (Photo by Seth Wenig for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); BASEBALL (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%)

PERSON: MARK CUBAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (51%) TEXAS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



116 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET/Lower East Side; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: A Club for Hundreds of Girls Finds a Permanent Home

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

 BODY:
IN 1998, when the Lower Eastside Girls Club of New York was barely two years old, one of the many unpleasant spaces that the struggling nonprofit organization occupied was a basement on Avenue D. Because sewage frequently backed up after it rained, the girls sometimes had to conduct their activities in rubber boots.
 And this less-than-desirable site was not the worst. At one point, the entire Girls Club -- tap dance shoes, art supplies, enrollment forms -- was pushed around in a shopping cart. 
 For the Girls Club -- which provides after-school, weekend and summer programs for neighborhood preteen and teenage girls -- survival has hinged on obtaining affordable real estate, and that has been all but impossible. Just as the Girls Club was taking off, so were real estate prices on the Lower East Side. Consequently, the organization's beginnings were not auspicious. 
 The Girls Club was formed in 1996, 120 years after the Boys' Club of New York, by a group of neighborhood women who lamented the fact that their sons had a place to go after school for sports and other activities, but their daughters had no similar organization. 
 The founders, who knew one another from a group called Children's Liberation Day Care, had very little money at their disposal. Getting the Girls Club off the ground was a labor of love that has been at times more labor than love, as the organization has bounced from place to place all over the Lower East Side of Manhattan. In all, the Girls Club has had seven office sites in nine years (including the back room of a 99 cent store, right behind the underwear and socks), and it has held program activities, from drumming to fencing to photography, at more than 20 different locations. 
 ''When we launched the Girls Club, we had a virtual ribbon cutting because we had no place to call home,'' said Lyn Pentecost, the executive director. ''We cut a ribbon on an idea.'' 
 Since then, the idea has become very ambitious, indeed. From an all-volunteer staff working with approximately 20 girls to a budget of nearly $1 million for programs serving up to 500 girls a year, the Girls Club is now in the middle of a $12 million capital campaign to build its own facilities on Avenue D between East Seventh and Eighth Streets -- just a stone's throw away from where program leaders once mopped up sewage. The capital campaign will get a major boost next week from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg when he announces what is expected to be a sizable contribution from the city. 
 The new facilities, for which ground is expected to be broken by the spring of 2006, are to be built on what are now six contiguous lots owned by the city. With the help of City Councilwoman Margarita Lopez, the Girls Club was awarded conditional control of the site, which is T-shaped and covers more than 15,000 square feet, by the New York Economic Development Corporation in January 2002.
 These facilities will consist of a one-story 2,000-square-foot community center on East Eighth Street; a four-story building on Avenue D that will be leased to the Federation of East Village Artists, a nonprofit group that will provide work space for artists; and the main Girls Club building on East Seventh Street, all connected by a courtyard.
 The five-story Girls Club will have a commercial kitchen, a cafe, a screening room that will seat 75, a gallery space, artist studios, a career center, a technology room, a two-story library and a science and environmental center -- all topped off with a roof garden. 
 What the buildings will not be are cinder-block eyesores of the sort that so often house community centers in low-income areas. Ms. Pentecost and the Girls Club board members believe in the inspirational power of good architecture, and to that end have relied on the generosity of the architect Craig Tooman of Cutsogeorge, Tooman & Allen and the developer Eric Anderson of Urban Green Equities. Both have, until very recently, worked almost entirely pro bono, not just on the Avenue D site, but also on two previous ones that fell through. 
 In fact, the space that the Girls Club currently calls home, 56 First Street, between First and Second Avenues, is a new four-story building that was designed by Mr. Tooman. And it is Mr. Anderson's residence. (The two met as undergraduates at Columbia University.)
 The Girls Club leases the ground floor and basement from Mr. Anderson at below-market rates -- $5,000 a month for about 3,000 square feet. At $20 a square foot annually, that is considerably less than new construction could command in the area. 
 Not only is the current space affordable for the Girls Club, it's downright fabulous. The all-glass front lets sunlight into Sweet Things, a gallery and cafe that sells baked goods made by girls. In back are the Girls Club offices, and downstairs are computers and television production equipment, purchased with a grant from Manhattan Neighborhood Network, that the girls use to film, edit and produce their own public access show called Girl TV. 
 ''I call this our practice building,'' Ms. Pentecost said. Like their current home, the buildings to be erected on Avenue D will feature clean modern architecture, use a good deal of recycled and locally produced material, and employ environmentally friendly heating and cooling systems. The Girls Club is hoping the new facilities will be designated the first ''green'' youth center in the country by the United States Green Building Council, a Washington-based association that promotes eco-friendly building technology. 
 ''As a firm, we try to be involved in some sort of architecture of conscience,'' Mr. Tooman said. ''We do a lot of work for wealthy individuals who don't need what the Girls Club needs. And that allows us to do some pro bono work.'' Mr. Tooman estimated that the firm had donated $200,000 worth of work over the years to the Girls Club. 
 The heavy lifting of raising millions of dollars for a new home has not been easy, Ms. Pentecost said, particularly when the Girls Club has to raise basic operating funds at the same time. But she believes the fate of the Girls Club depends on securing its own real estate.
 ''I've been in community arts and the nonprofit world my entire life,'' Ms. Pentecost said. ''Programs come and go. But buildings are like diamonds. It's the only way to become a permanent fixture in the neighborhood.'' And diamonds are, after all, a girl's best friend.


GRAPHIC: Photos: PRESENT SITE -- At 56 First Street, left, between First and Second Avenues, the Girls Club leases the ground floor and basement of the new four-story building.
SWEET THINGS -- In the cafe at the Lower Eastside Girls Club, from left, Erica Santiago, Destiny Negron and Tamara Oliveras prepare to make cupcakes, as Miladys Ramirez, the manager, looks on. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)
 NEXT SITE -- The new facilities, above, are planned around a building at Seventh Street and Avenue D. The main Girls Club building is at its left, and the four-story building at the right is to be leased to artists. (Rendering by Cutsogeorge Tooman & Allen Architects) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); BUDGETS (87%); CHILDREN (75%); VOLUNTEERS (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (61%) Finances; Women; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: Lower Eastside Girls Club; Lower Eastside Girls Club

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Lisa Chamberlain

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



117 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: As Demands on Workers Grow, Groups Push for Paid Family and Sick Leave

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Tanya Frazier, the office manager of a 50-person payroll management company in Burbank, Calif., received a call last September from the elementary school her daughter attends, telling her to pick up her flu-stricken 9-year-old.
 But when she stayed home from work the next day to care for her daughter, she was fired.
 Just why is a matter of dispute. Ms. Frazier said she was shocked, because she had missed work only a handful of days that year. Her boss, Jerry Schwartz, said in an interview that he was tired of her taking so many days off. 
 Now Ms. Frazier's case and others like it are being used by a Seattle-based coalition known as Take Back Your Time and various advocacy groups to argue for more paid time off for American workers. Saying that too many workers feel overstressed by demands on their time, the groups are calling for a broad shift in attitudes that would allow Americans to devote more time to their families, to spirituality and to their communities.
 Take Back Your Time and its allies are seeking legislation in 21 states to give workers paid sick days or paid family leave to take care of infants or seriously ill family members. In Washington State recently, the group earned a preliminary victory when committees in the House and Senate passed a bill calling for five weeks' paid family leave for workers, which would be financed by having workers pay a tax of two cents per hour worked, about $40 a year. 
 Take Back Your Time is optimistic about a victory in Washington State, but it is less confident about winning on paid family leave in many other states. If the group makes progress in several states, its leaders say they plan to begin pushing state legislatures to guarantee workers three weeks of paid vacation each year.
 Women's groups are also promoting paid family leave and paid sick time. Spurred by the National Partnership for Women and Families and by 9 to 5, the National Association of Working Women, several dozen Democratic members of Congress are planning to introduce a bill this month that would guarantee workers seven paid days off each year for when they or their children are ill.
 ''A lot of people are shocked when they hear that almost half the work force doesn't have paid sick days,'' said Debra Ness, president of the National Partnership for Women and Families. ''There's something about paid sick leave that's almost as American as baseball and apple pie.''
 The groups argue that these are rare issues that can unite liberals and conservatives: those on the left interested in better working conditions and those on the right who want to promote family values. 
 ''These are issues that cross party lines,'' said John de Graaf, national coordinator of Take Back Your Time, a left-leaning coalition of public health specialists, family and women's groups, environmentalists, union members and church groups. ''There's a lot of potential Republican interest. This is completely about family values. People need time to have strong marriages, strong families and strong communities. When people don't have enough time, families can break down.''
 Liberals and conservatives are finding that they share common ground when it comes to changing attitudes on issues like having parents spend more time with their children. But for liberals, earning conservatives' support for legislation mandating vacations or paid sick days is not easy, making the battle in Congress and in many states an uphill struggle. Conservatives' corporate allies generally oppose such proposals. ''Our members are decidedly against mandates from the federal government,'' said Patrick Lyden, a lobbyist with the National Federation of Independent Business.
 Catherine H. Myers, executive director of the Family and Home Network, based in Virginia, said a preferable solution, instead of enacting mandates, would be for parents to quit or to reduce their paid employment to spend more time caring for their children. ''When we consider what our children really need, how can we afford not to give them our time?'' Ms. Myers said.
 The Bush administration and many conservatives favor a different approach to helping overstretched workers: a bill on comp time that has failed in the past two sessions of Congress. Under current law, most employees who work more than 40 hours a week must be paid time and a half, but under the proposal, an employee who works more than 40 hours in one week could choose between overtime and comp time. 
 Many Democrats and labor unions oppose the bill, saying that it would cut workers' wages by pressuring them to give up paid overtime and that it would give managers too much control over when employees take comp time. 
 According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, American workers put in 1,792 hours on average in 2003 -- three full-time weeks more than British workers and nine weeks more than French and German workers. 
 United States Census data point to increased stress on women. The average middle-class married woman works 500 hours, or 12.5 weeks, more per year than in 1979.
 ''The No. 1 concern that women have today -- even more than security -- is a lack of time,'' said Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster.
 Take Back Your Time and the Massachusetts Council of Churches worked closely last fall with the Lord's Day Alliance, an Atlanta-based group, to urge congregants through fliers and sermons to take ''four windows of time'' over a month to relax and spend time with their families. 
 ''We're very concerned about the 24/7 commercialization of our society and people feeling stressed from working so many hours,'' said the council's executive director, the Rev. Diane Kessler. 
 The Lord's Day Alliance, which has long promoted observing the Sabbath, helped finance the campaign and hopes to spread it to other states.
 ''The needs are the same whether you're poor or rich, Republican or Democrat. You need time to be set aside,'' said Tim Norton, executive director of the Lord's Day Alliance. ''From a Christian perspective, from purely a religious perspective, we believe that the Bible clearly teaches, Old Testament and New, that God created this rhythm of life that must include down time, a time to set aside and basically stop.''
 W. Bradford Wilcox, a sociologist at the University of Virginia who has written extensively about evangelicals, said bridging the divide over how to give Americans more time will not be easy. 
 ''Many hard-working, rank-and-file evangelicals would support legislation guaranteeing paid sick days or paid vacations,'' Professor Wilcox said. ''But evangelical leaders will not go along with these ideas because their close allies in the business community are so firmly against it.'' 
 Todd Rakoff, a professor at Harvard Law School who has written about Americans' time squeeze, said, ''There is something here that could be bridged, but someone has to grab hold of this issue and figure out a way to make political capital out of it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tanya Frazier and her daughter, Vanessa. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SICK LEAVE (92%); OFFICE MANAGEMENT (90%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (90%); FAMILY LEAVE (90%); FAMILY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (88%); WOMEN (88%); LEGISLATION (87%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); INFLUENZA (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); BASEBALL (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); LIBERALISM (68%); CONSERVATISM (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



118 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: Unraveling the Fabric of Our Lives

 BODY:
The World Trade Organization struck a huge blow for poor countries the world over last week when it upheld a ruling that the billions of dollars America spends to subsidize its cotton farmers violate global trade rules. It is long past time for the United States to take responsibility for its dreadful cotton subsidy program, which, by distorting the real price of cotton on the world marketplace, has managed to drive poor farmers from Chad to Benin to Burkina Faso out of business. 
 The ruling gives the Bush administration, which has been pushing for broad farm trade reform, the chance to do what it should already be itching to do. Representative Clay Shaw of Florida put it into proper perspective last week when he said of the trade organization's decision: ''It certainly gives you cover to make some of the corrections needed.''
 No kidding. Those corrections should have been made decades ago, but we'll take what we can get. Indeed, we would like to see the W.T.O. take on the subsidies that Europe lavishes on its farmers; they exceed America's. It is almost inconceivable to think of defending a system that helps farmers in the rich world at the cost of farmers in the developing world. Brazil, which brought the case against the United States, rightly argued that the American subsidies increased cotton production, which, in turn, helped destroy Brazil's export markets. 
 Organizations that care about global poverty, from the United Nations to the World Bank to Oxfam, have argued that reducing subsidies would do much to help poor economies. We are glad the W.T.O. has joined the chorus, and urge America, Europe and Japan to chime in too. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COTTON & COTTONSEED (91%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COTTON FARMING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: WILLIAM LACY CLAY JR (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); BRAZIL (92%); BURKINA FASO (79%); BENIN (79%); JAPAN (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



119 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Iran Says It Won't Give Up Program to Enrich Uranium

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI; David E. Sanger contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: TEHRAN, March 5 

 BODY:
Iran's chief nuclear negotiator said Saturday that the country would never permanently cease enriching uranium, and he warned that if the United States went to the United Nations Security Council to seek sanctions against Iran, ''the security and stability of the region would become a problem.''
 The statements came at the opening of a rare conference on nuclear technology in Tehran, to which three American scholars were also invited. The Iranian negotiator, Hassan Rowhani, also said the government wanted to see progress in its negotiations with Europe by the middle of this month.
 ''We said that we were not happy with the pace of the negotiations. We will end the negotiations if we feel there is no tangible progress by then,'' he said. 
 ''Every time the talks get serious the Europeans say they have to talk to the other side of the Atlantic,'' he said, referring to the United States. 
 Mr. Rowhani's warnings came at the end of a week in which the United States strongly suggested that it was looking for ways to demonstrate that it would join Europe in offering incentives to Iran to fully dismantle its enrichment program. 
 But no final offer has been made, and senior American officials, in interviews in Washington, said that it may be several weeks before the Bush administration settles on what kind of package it is willing to contribute.
 Several administration officials said that in talks with the European nations negotiating with Iran -- Britain, France and Germany -- Mr. Bush's aides have insisted that Europe also agree on what kind of sanctions would be appropriate if Iran refuses the incentives.
 ''There has to be a timetable,'' one senior American official said. ''There has to be a common understanding of how we deal with Iran if it insists that it will resume enriching uranium or take other steps that we think are likely to give it bomb fuel.''
 Iran insists that its program is for entirely peaceful purposes, and the conference under way in Tehran, called ''Nuclear Technology and Sustainable Development,'' is intended to show that the country has started on a full agenda of energy-related nuclear projects. 
 Alireza Akbari, a former general with the Revolutionary Guards and former deputy defense minister, who opposes any compromise over Iran's enrichment program, said the technology was vital for the country's modernization. 
 ''What oil did for Iran over 100 years, nuclear technology can do in 20 years,'' he said. ''It will transform Iran because so many other fields are involved with the technology.''
 The presence of the American guests at the conference suggested that Iran was interested in creating a back-channel of communication with the United States, something it has done often in several decades of tense relations. 
 ''It seems that they want to get their case out through this conference and listen to what others are saying,'' said Clifford Kupchan, vice president at the Nixon Center and a former State Department official in the Clinton administration.
 Mr. Bush is clearly rethinking his approach to Iran, which has been marked by a refusal to become involved in the European negotiations -- or to demonstrate in any tangible way that he is willing to join its strategy of incentives. He returned from his trip to Europe 10 days ago saying he would reconsider that position.
 But after a flurry of initial activity early this week, it became clear by Friday that it would take some time to work out the details. Meanwhile, Iran has refused to turn its temporary suspension of enrichment into a permanent commitment. 
 And it insists that the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, which it has signed, gives the nation the right to manufacture fuel for commercial purposes, and that Iran will not give up that right. 
 Mr. Rowhani said Saturday that Iran had made clear to the Europeans that cessation was out of the question and warned that referring Iran's case to the Security Council would bring a crisis. 
 No one would benefit, he said at a news conference. 
 ''There would be no more confidence,'' Mr. Rowhani added, ''and the region could face a crisis.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); EUROPE (94%); IRAN (93%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



120 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Our Towns; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Amid Scandal, Soul-Searching Over the Scale Of a Class Party

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Roslyn, N.Y. 

 BODY:
GIVEN that the school district is out $11 million or so, the former superintendent and two other employees have been charged with grand larceny and a grand jury will soon hear more evidence, there are many issues more pressing here than just how parents are going to put together 70 10-foot-tall decorated panels and get them to the high school gym on June 2. 
 But sometimes little things intersect uncomfortably with big ones. Consider the attention suddenly being focused on Roslyn High's senior class party. 
 In a wealthy district where students think nothing of a pricey sushi lunch at the Kitchen Kabaret, there's a special place for the annual senior class party. Not to be confused with the senior prom, which comes a week later, the party is a tradition going back about 45 years in which some parents work hours comparable to a full-time job putting together a grand send-off for graduating seniors. Financing comes from $75 donations from the 213 senior class families. Everyone comes without a date and the attendant social pressure to have one. It's egalitarian. It's fun. Seniors look forward to it all year. 
 Parents deliver elaborate invitations to students' homes, assemble baby pictures, come up with decorative themes, each year's a tightly held secret: The Circus, Forever Young, A Road Trip Across America. Then they work at the district's maintenance building to construct something akin to a Broadway stage set, composed of about 70 remarkably sophisticated hand-painted and glittered 10-foot-tall flats and about as many free-standing figures and cutouts that will line the entire gym. Before the party, the gym opens to the public, and hundreds of residents come to gawk in awe. 
 Up until this year, the parents, mostly women, have had the assistance of the school's maintenance workers, who have helped with carpentry and construction -- to the tune of $15,000 in overtime a year. Now, with all spending being scrutinized, the district has declined to make that help available. Suddenly, local doctors are going to Home Depot to buy power tools, and organizers are wondering whether it's possible to get the work done without the table saws and electric air-compressed nail guns used by district workers.
 ''This is a legitimate expense, that's what makes us so angry,'' said Linda Scheinbach, one of the leaders of the committee working on the art. ''It's not building a house in the Hamptons or traveling on the Concorde or billing the district for a $1,500 suite. We don't have 24 credit cards drawing $2 million in cash. It's not for our personal use. It's something we do for the students.'' 
 But the new interim superintendent, David J. Helme, has said one insidious aspect of the district's recent history was the way favors were dispensed so routinely and money spent with so little oversight that even legitimate activities were compromised. And even past and present members of the party committee said the work could have been done more economically in the past had that been a priority of the district. Now the parents are fuming while the district figures out how it can have its staff help out without paying all that overtime.
 Indeed to some, the real lesson of the financial scandals was not just how administrators may have taken the district for a ride, it's how the culture of the district made it easy to write a blank check for any spending, as long as it was supposed to be for the schools.
 Some say people have still not come to grips with the notion that the problem was not just former Superintendent Frank A. Tassone and his tainted associates. Some even wonder whether the senior party, and all that fawning over the entitled young, is just a reflection of skewed values.
 ''The senior party is an extravagance whose time has come and gone,'' said one antispending hard-liner, Lea Dann, a member of the new budget advisory committee. ''No one understands the meaning of cutting back on anything.''
 Oddly, many of those who work hardest for the party agree that it is an anachronism, but one worth saving. It's too much work, but parents seem to value the experience. It's not about who's the star of the class or who got into the fanciest college. Students don't have to spend a fortune the way they do on the prom. It's like the flip side of the financial meltdown: excess, with a communal, not a personal agenda.
 People say the party may someday be scaled back. But even in this crummy year, particularly in this crummy year, it keeps going, at least in part because no class of parents wants to be the one to drop the ball, nobody wants one class to get less than the one before. Scandal or no scandal, the iron law of suburbia is that there are times when too much feels like just the right amount. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAND JURY (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); OVERTIME (78%); FAMILY (77%); LARCENY & THEFT (73%); SCANDALS (70%); HAND & POWER TOOLS (66%); POWER TOOLS (65%); THEATER (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



121 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Is a Cinema Studies Degree the New M.B.A.?

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH VAN NESS

 BODY:
RICK HERBST, now attending Yale Law School, may yet turn out to be the current decade's archetypal film major. Twenty-three years old, he graduated last year from the University of Notre Dame, where he studied filmmaking with no intention of becoming a filmmaker. Rather, he saw his major as a way to learn about power structures and how individuals influence each other.
 ''People endowed with social power and prestige are able to use film and media images to reinforce their power -- we need to look to film to grant power to those who are marginalized or currently not represented,'' said Mr. Herbst, who envisions a future in the public policy arena. The communal nature of film, he said, has a distinct power to affect large groups, and he expects to use his cinematic skills to do exactly that.
 At a time when street gangs warn informers with DVD productions about the fate of ''snitches'' and both terrorists and their adversaries routinely communicate in elaborately staged videos, it is not altogether surprising that film school -- promoted as a shot at an entertainment industry job -- is beginning to attract those who believe that cinema isn't so much a profession as the professional language of the future. 
 Some 600 colleges and universities in the United States offer programs in film studies or related subjects, a number that has grown steadily over the years, even while professional employment opportunities in the film business remain minuscule. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, there are only about 15,050 jobs for film producers or directors, which means just a few hundred openings, at best, each year. 
 Given the gap between aspiration and opportunity, film education has often turned out to be little more than an expensive detour on the road to doing something else. Thus, Aaron Bell, who graduated as a film major from the University of Wisconsin in 1988, struggled through years of uninspiring nonunion work managing crews on commercials, television pilots and the occasional feature before landing his noncinematic job designing advertising for Modern Luxury Media LLC, a Chicago-based magazine publisher. 
 ''You sort of have this illusion coming out of film school that you'll work into this small circle of creatives, but you're actually more pigeonholed as a technician,'' said Mr. Bell, who is now 39.
 For some next-generation students, however, the shot at a Hollywood job is no longer the goal. They'd rather make cinematic technique -- newly democratized by digital equipment that reduces the cost of a picture to a few thousand dollars and renders the very word ''film'' an anachronism -- the bedrock of careers as far afield as law and the military.
 At the University of Southern California, whose School of Cinema-Television is the nation's oldest film school (established in 1929), fully half of the university's 16,500 undergraduate students take at least one cinema/television class. That is possible because Elizabeth Daley, the school's dean, opened its classes to the university at large in 1998, in keeping with a new philosophy that says, in effect, filmic skills are too valuable to be confined to movie world professionals. ''The greatest digital divide is between those who can read and write with media, and those who can't,'' Ms. Daley said. ''Our core knowledge needs to belong to everybody.''
 In fact, even some who first enrolled in U.S.C.'s film school to take advantage of its widely acknowledged position as a prime portal to Hollywood have begun to view their cinematic skills as a new form of literacy. One such is David Hendrie, who came to U.S.C. in 1996 after a stint in the military intending to become a filmmaker, but -- even after having had the producer/director Robert Zemeckis as a mentor -- found himself drawn to the school's Institute for Creative Technologies, where he creates military training applications in a variety of virtual reality, gaming and filmic formats. One film he developed was privately screened for the directors John Milius and Steven Spielberg, who wanted to understand the military's vision of the future.
 ''That was like a film student's dream,'' said Mr. Hendrie, who nonetheless believes he has already outgrown anything he was likely to accomplish on the studio circuit. ''I found myself increasingly demoralized by my experiences trying to pitch myself as a director for films like 'Dude, Where's My Car?''' Mr. Hendrie said. ''What I'm doing here at I.C.T. speaks to the other interests I've always had, and in the end excited my passion more.''
 In recent weeks, members of a Baltimore street gang circulated a DVD that warned against betrayal, packaged in a cover that appeared to show three dead bodies. That and the series of gruesome execution videos that have surfaced in the Middle East are perhaps only the most extreme face of a complex sort of post-literacy in which cinematic visuals and filmic narrative have become commonplace.
 Melding easily with the growing digital folk culture, some film majors have simply taken to creating art forms outside the boundaries of the established film business. In one such instance, Wes Pentz, aka DJ Diplo -- a 2003 graduate of Temple University, where film majors are encouraged to invent new career paths in museums, leisure businesses and elsewhere -- broke through with his trademark Hollertronix, a style modeled on cinematic soundtracks. ''I think of my songs as having a movement, like I would watch in a film, and there's a narrative feel to them,'' said Mr. Pentz, who said he had learned to frame music differently because of his film school experience. 
 In the public policy arena, meanwhile, students like Yale's Mr. Herbst hope to heighten political debate with productions far more pointed than the most political feature film. Even a picture like ''Hotel Rwanda,'' with its unblinking look at African genocide, is ''a soup kitchen approach,'' Mr. Herbst said: ''You're offered something to eat, but there are no vitamins.'' Bringing film directly into politics, he expects to throw objectivity out the window and change minds -- perhaps not an unrealistic aim at a time when, in a bit of what a headline in The Wall Street Journal characterized as ''film noir,'' the Edward D. Jones & Company brokerage has entered the fray over the proposed Social Security overhaul with a highly produced video. 
 To some extent, such broadening vision is already helping to make economic sense of film education, which in the past was often a long path to nowhere. ''Most find their way, and the skills they learn from us are applicable to other careers and pursuits,'' Dale Pollock, dean of the School of Filmmaking at the North Carolina School of the Arts, said of his students. ''So we're not wasting their time or money.''
 Still more, Ms. Daley, the U.S.C. Cinema-Television dean, argues that to generalize such skills has become integral to the film school's mission. More than 60 academic courses at U.S.C. now require students to create term papers and projects that use video, sound and Internet components -- and for Ms. Daley, it's not enough. ''If I had my way, our multimedia literacy honors program would be required of every student in the university,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: David Hendrie, who is using what he's learned at the University of Southern California film school to create military training applications for U.S.C.'s Institute for Creative Technologies. (Photo by Marissa Roth for The New York Times)(pg. 15)Drawing (Drawing by James Yang)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM SCHOOLS (90%); FILM (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); GANGS (68%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); TERRORISM (52%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (50%) Motion Pictures; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (84%)

PERSON: Elizabeth Van Ness

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



122 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Who Wins in a New Social Security?

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
SOCIAL SECURITY may have done more to help the poor than any other government program in American history. Established in 1935 with the explicit objective of protecting the elderly from poverty, it has relied on a heavily skewed benefit formula that pays lower-income workers a higher share of their wages than those at the top of the earnings ladder. 
 The results? According to government figures, old-age poverty has dropped from about 50 percent in the 1930's to around 10 percent today. Most of the credit goes to Social Security. 
 Yet as President Bush sets out to reconstruct Social Security, by allowing workers to divert some of their payroll taxes into personal accounts, crucial questions remain unanswered: Would a new system retain the traditional approach of redistributing income from the more affluent to those in need? Or should personal accounts -- framed by Mr. Bush as a step toward an ''ownership society'' -- usher in a system in which workers keep what they actually save?
 The president argues that workers can get a better return on their payroll taxes if they invest them themselves. Regardless of the truth of that assertion, Social Security has not been a simple retirement savings plan but an instrument of social policy, using part of the taxes paid by some groups to shore up the benefits of others. 
 Any changes made to the system will inevitably shift this distributional mix, and that troubles some members of Congress. ''Social Security is a central strand in our social safety net,'' said Senator Gordon H. Smith, Republican of Oregon, the chairman of the Senate Special Committee on Aging. ''I believe its progressive nature has to be preserved,'' he said, adding that he would hold his vote ''in abeyance'' until ''we address these progressive issues.''
 Social Security uses taxes from the rich to bolster the retirement income of the poor through a benefit scale that now replaces about 60 percent of preretirement earnings for low-income workers but only 30 percent for the workers in the highest earning band. 
 But the program has a multitude of other objectives, moving money every which way. An essential reason for the decline in old-age poverty, for example, is that older generations -- which paid lower payroll taxes -- have received transfers from younger generations, who have paid higher taxes to get the same or even lower levels of benefits. 
 Social Security aims to protect women who stay out of the work force to raise children, offering spousal and survivor benefits that depend on the earnings of the working spouse. And the program's disability insurance favors workers in tougher jobs, mainly at the lower end of the income spectrum. 
 Social Security's income redistribution includes some unintended quirks. Survivor benefits are regressive, favoring people whose spouses were high earners. And the nation's changing demographics have created a patchwork of winners and losers that, to some extent, has overridden the system's original purpose of favoring the poor. 
 That's because Social Security is more generous to people who have more time to collect benefits, like women, who are expected to live three years longer than men, on average, after retirement, and whites, who, after reaching 65, are expected to live a year and a half longer than blacks. 
 Calculations by C.Eugene Steuerle and Adam Carasso of the Urban Institute offer this contrast: A 65-year-old single man who retires this year after a career in which he earned an average of $36,500 a year, in 2005 dollars, will get $164,000 in retirement benefits over the rest of his life, on average, based on his expected life span of 81.1 years. That is about $8,000 less than he would receive if he invested his payroll taxes at a 2 percent rate of return, after inflation. 
 But a single woman with a similar earnings profile can expect to receive $206,000 -- or $28,000 more than she would get by investing the contributions at the same 2 percent rate, merely because she is likely to live longer. 
 Because the poor and the less educated tend to have lower life expectancies, they sometimes end up getting a worse return on their payroll taxes. According to projections by Mr. Steuerle, Mr. Carasso and Lee Cohen of the Social Security Administration, a male high-school dropout who retired over the past decade will receive retirement benefits equivalent to his lifetime payroll taxes invested at a 2.7 percent annual rate of return, after accounting for inflation. But for a college graduate, the implicit rate of return on his payroll taxes is 3.2 percent, because he is expected to live seven years longer.
 What would Social Security reform do to all of this? Personal accounts, in which people invested their own money for their own retirement, would not redistribute wealth by themselves.
 If poor or uneducated workers were allowed to take their stash as a lump sum, though, dying younger would be less of a financial loss. And depending on how Social Security is brought back into long-term financial balance, the distribution of benefits could be reconfigured substantially. 
 CUTTING benefits by raising the retirement age, the choice of Social Security's reformers in 1983, would penalize poorer workers with shorter life spans. But the system could be skewed to transfer more income to the poor. In a report last year, the Government Accountability Office analyzed a plan designed to restore the system's solvency. It included carving out savings accounts, as Mr. Bush suggests, combined with indexing of benefits to inflation instead of to wages and providing low-income retirees a minimum pension of 120 percent of the poverty line. The G.A.O. found that such a system would redistribute more income from high earners to low earners than Social Security does today. 
 The G.A.O.'s exercise also underscored how changes in the system could undermine Social Security's original goal of protecting the elderly from poverty. Bringing Social Security to long-term solvency without raising contributions would require cutting benefits. Even if personal accounts earned a 4.6 percent annual rate of return over a worker's career -- President Bush's central assumption -- overall benefits for the bottom fifth of wage earners would be 4 percent lower than their benefits under the current system.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Sunday with the Economic View column, comparing Social Security's annual return on payroll taxes for groups within two generations of Americans, reversed the generations' labels. A corrected version is on Page 9.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Value for Money''Differences in mortality rates and in benefit schedules mean that some groups get a better deal than others from Social Security, achieving a higher implicit rate of return on their payroll taxes.Social Security's annual return on payroll taxes, after inflation*GENERATION BORN1931-401956-64Graph tracks Social Security's annual return on payroll taxes, after inflation* for men and women (total, high-school, dropout, college graduate, white and black).*Assumes households share payroll taxes and benefits(Source by Lee Cohen, C. Eugene Steuerle and Adam Carasso, ''Social Security Redistribution by Education, Race and Income: How Much and Why'')

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CORPORATE TAX (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); AGING (79%); HISTORY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GORDON SMITH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



123 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; FOOTLIGHTS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 682 words

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON. 
Email: westarts@nytimes.com

 BODY:

The Gates in Hudson Valley
 ''The Gates'' may be gone from Central Park, but they are not gone from the Hudson Valley.
 Christo and his wife, Jeanne-Claude, the artists responsible for ''The Gates,'' have signed posters and renderings of the project and donated them to the Poughkeepsie Museum of Art, where they will be exhibited and can be purchased through April 3. Sales will help finance the museum's efforts to secure its charter, said Albert Shahinian, founder and director of the museum.
 Materials relating to another work by Christo and Jeanne-Claude, ''Over the River Project for the Arkansas River,'' in Colorado, will also be on view and for sale. 
 Mr. Shahinian, who also runs two galleries in Poughkeepsie, both Albert Shahinian Fine Art, inaugurated the museum in May 2003. He began it, he said, to ''expand the aesthetic vision'' of visitors. 
 ''I didn't come into this primarily as an economic venture,'' he said. ''I wanted to bring a high level of art to the area and try to make a living at it.'' 
 The museum is in renovated space in a former office building.
 A program on ''The Gates'' will take place at the museum on March 19 at 8 p.m. Participants are invited to share photographs they took of the artworks in Central Park. Information: (845)454-0522.

Remembering Robert Merrill
 The New Rochelle Opera is soldiering on without one of its most esteemed board members, the baritone Robert Merrill. A longtime New Rochelle resident who died at age 85 in October, Mr. Merrill, was not only a ''wonderful person'' but also provided invaluable contacts in the opera world, said Camille Coppola, the group's founder and artistic director. She called his death ''a blow.''
 ''He was very caring and lovable,'' she added. ''He brought a lot of humor to the board meetings.'' 
 He also helped secure stars like Marilyn Horne, Anna Moffo, Licia Albanese and Jerome Hines as honorees at fund-raising events, Ms. Coppola said. The group will hold a memorial concert in honor of Mr. Merrill on April 17 at 3 p.m. at the Will Library in Yonkers. 
 Meanwhile, the group will continue its 20th anniversary celebration with ''A Conversation With Kitty Carlisle Hart'' on March 13 at 4 p.m. at Iona College in New Rochelle. Nimet Habachy of WQXR will interview Ms. Hart, the actress, singer and former chairwoman of the New York State Council on the Arts. Tickets are $20. Information: (914)576-0365. 

Poetry Around the County
 In 2003 a small group of local poets got together at the Town of Greenburgh's yearly poetry contest award ceremony, and, with the help of Sarah Bracey White, Greenburgh's executive director of arts and culture, the Poetry Caravan was born. Now, 36 poets volunteer their time and talents at readings and workshops around the county. Public readings are scheduled at the Hudson Valley Writers Center on April 3 at 3 p.m., and at the Greenburgh Public Library on April 10 at 2 p.m.
 Usha Akella of Greenburgh is the group's leader. She has also edited an anthology, ''en(compass),'' which includes the work of 32 poets in the group. Billy Collins, the former poet laureate, has written the forward to the book, which was published by Yuganta Press in Stamford and sells for $10.
 On March 13, a party celebrating the book's publication is scheduled from 2 to 4 p.m. at Greenburgh Town Hall. Information: (914)422-1038. 

Thinking About Museums
 Michael Lobel, an assistant professor of art history at Purchase College, said he has noticed that museum design is increasingly a topic of great public interest. So, together with the Neuberger Museum of Art at the college, he organized a series of public talks on museum design and installation.
 The program, ''Rethinking the Museum in the 21st Century'' will feature Lisa Phillips, director of the New Museum of Contemporary Art in Manhattan, on March 9; John Elderfield, chief curator of painting and sculpture at the Museum of Modern Art, on March 30; and Paul Goldberger, architecture critic for The New Yorker, on April 27. The talks will take place at 7 p.m. at the Neuberger. Information: (914)251-6112. ROBERTA HERSHENSON


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FUNDRAISING (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); RIVERS (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (60%); WRITERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



124 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Russia and the West Warily Monitor Moldova's Election

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: CHISINAU, Moldova, March 5 

 BODY:
Residents of Moldova, Europe's poorest nation, head to the polls on Sunday to elect the tiny country's new Parliament in a race that could further test the Kremlin's influence in the former Soviet sphere. 
 Because Moldova's Parliament selects the president, results on Sunday are likely to determine who will become the next head of state.
 It is a question of significance not only for Moldova's 3.4 million residents, who live in a nation troubled by poverty and corruption, but also for Russia's government, which has all but severed contact with Vladimir Voronin, the Communist president the Kremlin regards as a traitor.
 Moreover, the election day conduct of Mr. Voronin's government, which the West has criticized for undemocratic behavior during the campaign, could also shape the perception of Moldova in Europe and the United States, which has been nudging the struggling country toward liberalization but warily watching its leadership backslide in some ways. 
 Although there has been scant sign of the depth of organization or money that marked the street demonstrations last year in Ukraine, opposition leaders insist that electoral abuses could set off widespread unrest.
 ''It may happen very spontaneously,'' said Serafim Urechean, a principal opposition leader and the mayor of Chisinau, Moldova's capital. 
 Like Georgia and Ukraine, Moldova has fundamentally reassessed its relationship with the Kremlin, turning conventional political wisdom here upside down.
 Moldova's shift, made in late 2003 after a dispute over proposed political settlement of the so-called Trans-Dniester region, a Russian-sponsored enclave of separatists and black market businesses on Moldova's border, has led to an election in which traditional labels have lost their meaning.
 The governing Communist Party, which came to power in 2001 on a platform of strengthening relations with the Kremlin, is now only nominally Communist. It has opposed political meddling by Moscow and has advocated privatization and integration into Europe.
 As Mr. Voronin has sparred with the Kremlin, Russia's Duma, the lower house of Parliament, has threatened economic penalties as well an end of discounted fuel sales. 
 It has also threatened to impose a requirement for visas, which could cut the earning potential of the tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands, of Moldovan migrants who work in Russia.
 For all of Mr. Voronin's talk of democracy, his opponents portray him as a corrupt and awkward politician, a would-be dictator who has simply lost his footing. 
 Diplomats and election observers say they do not expect the wide-scale ballot-stuffing and multiple voting that tainted the election last year in Ukraine. But they have accused Mr. Voronin's government of manipulating media coverage, using the police to intimidate the opposition and abusing state resources to advance his campaign. 
 ''Recent trends are disturbing,'' Richard A. Boucher, the State Department spokesman, said last month, adding that the government's behavior ''could cast doubt on the legitimacy of the election.'' 
 Opposition groups, which until the government relented about a week ago had almost no access to television coverage, have complained.
 ''The Communist Party destroyed all the prerequisites of democracy in Moldova,'' said Mr. Urechean, the mayor, who also leads the Democratic Bloc of Moldova, a coalition of smaller parties that together hope to capture a parliamentary majority. 
 Another opposition group with significant support, the Christian Democratic Peoples Party, has also said the government has made sure that the playing field is not level. 
 ''The Communist regime of Voronin has used TV to poison public opinion,'' said Vlad Cubreacov, the vice chairman of the party, whose candidate, Iurie Rosca, claims support from students and women. 
 The opposition parties have been struggling, dogged by a lack of coherence. The Christian Democrats and the Democratic Bloc, in particular, are bitterly opposed to each other, with the Christian Democrats portraying Mr. Urechean as a stalking-horse for Moscow and the Kremlin's puppet-in-waiting.
 No party appears strong enough to win the 61 seats, in a 101-seat Parliament, that would be required to elect a president, Western diplomats said. Various polls suggest that the Communists are leading the race and may win more than 40 seats, with its principal opponents winning 15 to 40 seats each. 
 Although the Communists are favored, no one is calling a clear winner. ''We could be surprised,'' said Ambassador William H. Hill, head of the mission here for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which will be observing the elections on Sunday.
 Whichever party emerges as dominant will face intractable problems: Moldova, a landlocked nation roughly the size of Maryland, is economically marooned and weakened by the Trans-Dniester dispute. 
 As a tiny region with rich soil, a gentle climate and few mineral resources, it had served as an agricultural outpost for the Soviet Union, producing wines and food for Moscow, but relying on other regions for energy and industrial goods. 
 Its narrow economy left it unprepared for independence, and more than 13 years after breaking from the Soviet Union, an absence of jobs has turned it into a nation of wanderers. Forty percent of working-age Moldovans have jobs abroad, mostly in Western Europe but also in Russia, according to the United Nations Development Program. 
 The poverty is palpable. Infrastructure is crumbling, and the gap between the narrow band of wealthy people -- largely regarded here as thieves -- and the rest of the country has fueled resentment.
 Mansions are being built in small neighborhoods here for the political class, while college students in dormitories have unheated corridors and no hot water. In one student tower Friday night at the Technical Institute of Moldova, the stairwells and corridors were dark. Smashed windows let a wintry wind into hallways. Mr. Voronin speaks of joining Europe's political mainstream. But students here said they thought that even such an obvious step was unlikely, given the lingering Communist rule and corruption and the unresolved question of the Trans-Dniester separatist enclave, where Russian support remains high.
 ''Voronin is trying to get to Europe,'' said Dinu Dumitrascu, 21. ''But Europe is not going to take us.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Supporters of the Social Democrat Party in Chisinau, Moldova's capital. The Communist Party is expected to win in a close parliamentary race. (Photo by Daniel Mihailescu/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 President Vladimir Voronin of Moldova has been criticized for encouraging undemocratic behavior in his country's parliamentary elections. (Photo by Sergei Kivrin for The New York Times)Map of Moldova highlighting Chisinau: Separatists in Trans-Dniester have worried leaders in Chisinau.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTION FRAUD (89%); ELECTION MONITORING (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (65%); TRENDS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); EUROPE (94%); UKRAINE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); GEORGIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



125 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 2; Sports Desk; BackTalk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Stamping Out Steroids Takes Time

BYLINE: By ANDREW ZIMBALIST. 
Andrew Zimbalist is professor of economics at Smith College and has consulted for the baseball industry.

 BODY:
Commissioner Bud Selig and Major League Baseball have taken a lot of heat over the last several months for their supposed failure to grapple forthrightly with the sport's steroid problem. Some have even suggested that people in the commissioner's office have been winking at one another while they make public pronouncements against steroid use. 
 From my perspective, these critics are jumping to unfair conclusions. They would benefit from taking a step back and looking more carefully at the evolution of the steroid problem in baseball. Before the mid-1990's, the substances of choice in the clubhouse were amphetamines and recreational drugs. The prevailing view was that top offensive performances in baseball demanded quick reflexes, good eye-hand coordination, quick feet, flexibility and strong wrists -- not bulky muscles. 
 An F.B.I. special agent, Greg Stejskal, told the news media last month that he had notified Major League Baseball about 10 years ago that steroid use was a developing problem. Indeed, it was probably around 10 years ago that some people in baseball became aware that anabolic steroids were being used by some players. At the time, many anabolic steroids were illegal if purchased without a prescription.
 But as baseball became more aware of this as a growing issue, the commissioner's office did, in fact, act. 
 In 1998, Selig convened a group at his Milwaukee office, including team physicians, trainers and outside medical experts, and they decided to begin an investigation and to gather as much information about steroid use and its effects as possible. 
 The next year, together with the players union, baseball helped finance a study on androstenedione. It turned out to be the seminal study on the substance and was later published in a leading medical journal.
 In June 2001, Major League Baseball published a pamphlet in English and in Spanish and distributed it to major league and minor league players. It laid out in considerable detail the known effects of various classes of performance-enhancing drugs. It also hired a new medical staff to advise it on drug policy.
 Baseball reasoned that if it could get players to the majors clean, then it had won half the battle. In the same year, it decided to put in a stringent testing and penalty program for the minor leagues. Incidentally, it wasn't until May 2002 that Ken Caminiti, in an interview with Sports Illustrated, estimated that half of major leaguers were using steroids.
 In 2002, baseball and the union agreed to their first steroid testing and penalty program. Earlier this year it was agreed -- in the middle of a collective bargaining agreement -- to extend that program significantly.
 It would be easy to go back and identify instances when baseball might have gotten the message sooner. It would be equally easy to argue that baseball might have acted sooner or more punitively. It is a safe bet that today Selig and others wish they had done more earlier. Indeed, the new testing and penalty protocol is far from perfect.
 But it is also proper to remember that baseball was hampered by the confidentiality of doctor-patient relationships, the sanctity of the clubhouse culture and union concerns about privacy rights. 
 The dimensions and the implications of the drug issue in professional sports are just beginning to be understood. One must understand the scope of the problem before one can devise effective policy. Eradicating drug abuse is no simple matter. New chemical compounds and new delivery methods (making detection much more difficult) are being developed every day. 
 Underscoring the intractability of the problem is the fact that most athletes under investigation in the Balco scandal are Olympians, and that the International Olympic Committee is reputed to have the gold standard in antidoping policies. Down the road, gene-modification therapy will further complicate the landscape.
 Major League Baseball must be patient and tenacious if it is to have success in the long-run fight against performance-enhancing drugs. Fans, too, need patience.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Commissioner Bud Selig, at a Senate hearing a year ago on steroid use in sports, met with physicians and medical experts in 1998 to begin examining the problem. (Photo by Kevin Lamarque/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEROIDS (96%); BASEBALL (92%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (91%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); SPORTS MEDICINE (71%); DRUG POLICY (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (64%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



126 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: The 'Ready to Work' Test

 BODY:
New York vaulted to the head of the national school reform movement, when, after bolstering curriculum and teaching standards, it required aspiring high school graduates to pass five rigorous state examinations. The exams cover English, math, science, United Stateshistory and government, and global history and geography. 
 Phased in over time, the full requirements have been in force for only two years -- less than the blink of an eye in educational terms. But business leaders are pushing the State Board of Regents to add yet another examination to what already is one of the most test-laden school systems in the United States. The Regents should resist and give their initial reforms time to work. 
 The business leaders complain that too many high school students enter the workplace without the problem-solving and communication skills they need to succeed in the information economy. They would like to see an additional, voluntary examination that would test crucial skills and certify those who pass as ''ready to work.'' 
 The best way to improve these skills, however, is not to tack on yet another exam, but to make sure the school curriculum covers what students need to know. Right now, educators are just beginning to think about how to develop and measure problem-solving, communication and the other so-called soft skills that the new marketplace requires, and adjust the school curriculum accordingly. This process should be given time to play out.
 The Regents are understandably eager to please business leaders who have vigorously supported New York's school reform effort. But they should take care not to rush ahead with a questionable examination that increases the testing load while providing little useful information about a student's readiness for work.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRICULA (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



127 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 4; Magazine Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: Freedom, From Want

 BODY:
 James Traub is wrong to characterize Americans as myopic and isolationist (The Way We Live Now, Feb. 13). He draws his conclusion from the fact that United States government foreign aid, when compared with that of other countries as a percent of gross national income, ranks last. 
 United States government aid -- $16 billion in 2003 -- is the highest absolute amount, almost 25 percent of all governments' aid. This number, however, excludes American private giving of more than $43 billion, more than double the government's aid in 2003.
 Traub's measure, developed by the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, does not fully count the money that foundations, corporations, religious organizations, private charities and individuals send overseas for disasters, schools and health care. 
 By overlooking such charitable contributions, Traub misses the big idea about America: we generally help people abroad the same way we do domestically -- privately. Europeans help primarily through their governments.
 Traub implies that Bush ignores poverty by confronting tyranny, but political freedom contributes to prosperity. When individuals are free to use their talents without government interference, wealth spreads quickly among many, not just a reigning few.

Carol Adelman
Senior Fellow
Hudson Institute
Washington


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); CHARITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); RANKINGS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); RELIGION (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (56%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



128 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: The 'Ready to Work' Test

 BODY:
New York vaulted to the head of the national school reform movement, when, after bolstering curriculum and teaching standards, it required aspiring high school graduates to pass five rigorous state examinations. The exams cover English, math, science, United States history and government, and global history and geography. 
 Phased in over time, the full requirements have been in force for only two years -- less than the blink of an eye in educational terms. But business leaders are pushing the State Board of Regents to add yet another examination to what already is one of the most test-laden school systems in the United States. The Regents should resist and give their initial reforms time to work. 
 The business leaders complain that too many high school students enter the workplace without the problem-solving and communication skills they need to succeed in the information economy. They would like to see an additional, voluntary examination that would test crucial skills and certify those who pass as ''ready to work.'' 
 The best way to improve these skills, however, is not to tack on yet another exam, but to make sure the school curriculum covers what students need to know. Right now, educators are just beginning to think about how to develop and measure problem-solving, communication and the other so-called soft skills that the new marketplace requires, and adjust the school curriculum accordingly. This process should be given time to play out.
 The Regents are understandably eager to please business leaders who have vigorously supported New York's school reform effort. But they should take care not to rush ahead with a questionable examination that increases the testing load while providing little useful information about a student's readiness for work. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRICULA (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



129 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: The 'Ready to Work' Test

 BODY:
New York vaulted to the head of the national school reform movement, when, after bolstering curriculum and teaching standards, it required aspiring high school graduates to pass five rigorous state examinations. 
 The exams cover English, math, science, United States history and government, and global history and geography. 
 Phased in over time, the full requirements have been in force for only two years -- less than the blink of an eye in educational terms. But business leaders are pushing the State Board of Regents to add yet another examination to what already is one of the most test-laden school systems in the United States. The Regents should resist and give their initial reforms time to work. 
 The business leaders complain that too many high school students enter the workplace without the problem-solving and communication skills they need to succeed in the information economy. They would like to see an additional, voluntary examination that would test crucial skills and certify those who pass as ''ready to work.'' 
 The best way to improve these skills, however, is not to tack on yet another exam, but to make sure the school curriculum covers what students need to know.
 Right now, educators are just beginning to think about how to develop and measure problem-solving, communication and the other so-called soft skills that the new marketplace requires, and adjust the school curriculum accordingly. This process should be given time to play out.
 The Regents are understandably eager to please business leaders who have vigorously supported New York's school reform effort. But they should take care not to rush ahead with a questionable examination that increases the testing load while providing little useful information about a student's readiness for work. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRICULA (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



130 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
GASH, JAMES ALAN

 BODY:
 GASH--James Alan. North Chatham, NY, March 3, 2005, James Alan Gash, better known as Jim, died after living several years with cancer. 
Only child of the late Etta (Press) Gash and Arthur Gash, he was born in Brooklyn on July 15, 1930. A graduate of Poly Prep and Cornell University, he majored in English and began his avocation for journalism while working on the Cornell Sun. One of his post graduate jobs was with the NBC affiliate in Buffalo. From there he went to WNEW in New York City when that station was at it's peak, with well known on air personalities William B. Williams and Gene Klavan. Jim joined the large news staff and worked there for fifteen years covering city hall, disasters, politicians, and celebrities of the day from Jackie K. to Marilyn M. His talent was to get to the nub of the story and interpret it clearly. He left in 1974 during the city's financial crisis when news operations were cutting back, and moved upstate to work in the press office of the Speaker of the Assembly. Since being a little boy cheering the Dodgers at Ebbets Field, he was more than a fan and knew everything about every player, trade and game. The 2005 Baseball Register is on his desk. He also loved travel, beach sitting, ethnic food and animals. He leaves his wife of forty four years, Wendy, his shaggy dog Muszka, and many friends who relied on his counsel and the rare ability to just listen. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); BASEBALL (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



131 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2005 Chevrolet Corvette; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1984 words

HEADLINE: Of Speed, Style, Vision And Missed Opportunities

BYLINE: By JEFF SABATINI

 BODY:
LET'S get this out of the way right at the start: the 2005 Chevrolet Corvette is the best high-performance bargain on the planet, bar none. There is simply no other way to park a sports car of this caliber in your driveway for less than $45,000. 
 To wit, when the glossy car magazines look for a worthy challenger to run hot laps against the 'Vette, they tend to pick the venerable Porsche 911 -- a car with a base price of $79,895 and actual stickers that usually run much higher. 
 In these battles, designed to titillate both teenage horsepower hounds and candidates for midlife crises, the Chevy often wins. So it was no surprise that on the pages of the December issues of both Road & Track and Car and Driver, General Motors' tried-and-true two-seater was judged the better car for the money. 
 By now, track-day geeks, youthful dreamers and the Corvette's legion of fans have all memorized the winning numbers: 8 cylinders, 6 liters of displacement, 400 horsepower, 400 pounds-feet of torque, zero to 60 miles an hour in 4.1 seconds, 12.6 seconds through the quarter-mile, a top speed of 186 miles an hour. (These are all according to Car and Driver; Road & Track came up with slightly slower times.)
 To get a little perspective on this slurry of statistics, however, I'd like to throw a third car into the mix. It's an equally iconic steed, my mother's Camry. 
 While the four-cylinder Toyota is anything but a sports car, it is fully capable of cutting off 911's and 'Vettes on the freeway. One can even imagine the Camry, in the hands of a less adept pilot than Mom, skidding toward a stop before slamming into the substantial plastic-composite rear end of a 'Vette that had just decelerated from 60 m.p.h. to a dead stop in only 114 feet.
 The point is, in the real world, the Corvette's numbers matter a lot less than they do in the fantasyland of guys who use ''pilgrimage'' and ''Bowling Green, Ky.'' in the same sentence. All of today's most potent performance machines -- Corvette included -- offer levels of power and handling so far beyond what is usable on our increasingly congested road system as to be absurd. Even if you can open the throttle, is there a difference between obliterating the speed limit in 5 seconds rather than 6? Not an important one.
 Go ahead and believe in the infallible stopwatch and irrefutable spreadsheet if you must. I distrust numbers-crunching that fails to recognize the subjective qualities that make cars more than mechanical animals. Absolute performance matters far less than purity of design and overall drivability. Call it what you will -- the spirit, the soul of the car, the Heartbeat of America -- but I'll take this gestalt any day over pulling g's on a skidpad. 
 In other words, I'm unconvinced that the new Corvette is a great car just because it can literally run circles around 99 percent of what's on the road today.
 This is the so-called sixth generation of Chevrolet's halo car (it is thus known as the C6), though it is heavily based on the previous C5 model. Like last year's Corvette, it comes in coupe and convertible body styles in a mostly conventional front-engine, rear-drive layout. 
 A higher-performance Z06 version of the C6 is due to arrive later this year as a 2006 model. It will be powered by a 7-liter V-8 that makes 500 horsepower and 475 pounds-feet of torque, and will carry other performance enhancements to make it more of a racecar in street clothes.
 The C5 was a stellar sports car, which continued a Corvette tradition of major redesigns that took the car in new and mostly better directions. The look of the C6, on the other hand, breaks little ground. It is basically a warmed-over restyle of the C5. This new car makes no overriding design statement, and I get little sense that the development team sat down and probed the really big questions about what a 21st-century Corvette could -- and should -- be.
 While this doesn't make the C6 a bad car -- it is certainly not a bad car -- it is disappointing that such an opportunity was missed.
 The C6 is 5 inches shorter than the C5 and an inch narrower, and it has a 1.5-inch longer wheelbase. This doesn't do too much to change the car's look, but it does significantly improve the Corvette's ride over unfriendly pavement. The new car is less edgy and it is exceedingly comfortable, even when equipped with the optional Z51 performance suspension package.
 Indeed, the C6 is one of the best-riding sports cars I have ever driven. It is also roomy, capable of swallowing a driver of almost any size, including those who shop at the big-and-tall store. Its excellent seats are neither too soft nor claustrophobically supportive, and are still a pleasure after an entire day behind the wheel. With the top down, the convertible model has far too much wind buffeting at speed, but that's my only complaint from the cockpit.
 There is no problem, either, with the Corvette's V-8, which paints the standard C5's lily with 50 extra horses. Acceleration is effortless, as expected, though steering effort is anything but light. The only thing wider than the steering wheel is the car's turning circle, making ''nimble'' the last adjective you'd use to describe this beast. Of course, it would be unimaginable for the Corvette suddenly to become a dainty little sports car, so the heft and brawn of the C6 are as welcome as they are familiar. 
 In fact, the C6 mimics the C5 in so many ways as to be almost entirely without its own personality. 
 The C5's main vices were a cheap, monochromatic interior and a large, unbecoming rear end. G.M. designers sought to address these issues, though the results are middling.
 The interior has been ''upgraded'' with the sort of faux-luxury plastic finishes now common on sub-$20,000 cars like the Scion tC and Chevrolet's own Cobalt. The result makes me appreciate the lack of pretension in the C5, whose dashboard would have looked at home in a Silverado pickup.
 The big-booty issue was tackled in part by shortening the car, which reduced its rear overhang. The haunches and deck lid were given a more sculptured look, though the effect is like cinching the belt of your pants tighter to rein in a beer gut.
 Given the failures in rectifying these big complaints with the C5, it's hard to believe that G.M. managed to screw up one of the Corvette's best features -- its svelte, tapered nose. By ditching the concealed headlights that have graced the front of every Corvette since 1963, and adding a long, horizontal open-air intake to the Corvette's fascia, the C6 has gained what Chevy calls a ''stronger'' face. Or, if you prefer, a beady-eyed lizard.
 The rest of the styling changes are of the nip-and-tuck variety and become apparent only when C6 is parked next to C5. What's really obvious then is how much more organic the old design was. You can tell someone actually drew that car, imperfect as its shape may be, while the new Corvette looks as if it had its genesis in Photoshop. 
 Though the C6, with its longer wheelbase and shorter length, has better overall proportions, I'll still take the C5. Not only does it look meaner, but less like a generic amalgam of influences from other cars.
 I can understand that G.M. wanted to stick with what works, and there are worse directions it could have taken than creating this ''C5 1/2.'' The old car was (and still is) an impressive machine. In its 405-horsepower Z06 trim, the C5 was just as capable of generating numbers to make the fan boys drool. There are myriad ways in which the C6 could have been improved, but wasn't. 
 The Corvette still employs a conventional four-speed automatic transmission while virtually every other sports car on earth has adopted some sort of shift-it-yourself automatic or Formula One manual activated by paddles or buttons around the steering wheel. It is disappointing that the 'Vette still doesn't offer any of these modern gearboxes.
 Would it be heresy to suggest that G.M. might have considered a wholesale reinvention of the Corvette? That perhaps the C6 should have an all-wheel-drive system like the one in the Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution, a fellow member of the 4-Point-Something-to-60-M.P.H. Club? While a hybrid-drive system was clearly never on the drawing board -- G.M. has no such deployable technology -- wouldn't it have been cool to see the Corvette break this ground?
 Perhaps these two suggestions are equally stupid and unrealistic, but the point is simple: there are not enough new ideas in this car. Only once or so in a decade does G.M. redefine the Corvette. You'd think that even in lieu of a clean-sheet design, it might have come up with innovations beyond an optional navigation system. But the new Corvette is still pretty much the same old car with many of the same old annoyances. 
 Primary among these is the six-speed manual's skip-shift ''feature,'' which forces drivers to shift from first to fourth gear at low speed. This trick gives the car a bump in the fuel-economy ratings, keeping it free of a guzzler tax, but that hardly justifies such an intrusive system -- especially since owners routinely disable it with a $20 after-market part.
 In too many ways, the car feels forced together out of disparate parts or components that were not particularly well thought out. The steering column has two separate adjustment controls: a one-axis joystick for its telescoping function and a lever to adjust the tilt. Surely another company would have found a way to combine both functions in a two-axis control.
 Similarly, the power convertible top isn't entirely automatic -- it must still be unlatched by hand. Much of the competition, including lesser sports cars like the BMW Z4, have one-button automatic tops.
 These throwbacks should not be surprising, given that most of this 'Vette was defined a decade ago. The rest, including a problematic keyless entry and ignition system (with electronic door handles) is a result of the C6's being co-developed with the Cadillac XLR luxury roadster. 
 I have had problems with both cars' failure to identify the radio transmitter in the keyfob, forcing me to go through the tedious process of unlocking the car with the key. Since there are no keyholes in the doors, this requires fiddling with a concealed lock at the rear of the car, then a further effort to convince a sensor to ''see'' the fob so the engine can be started.
 The bottom line is that you can find yourself sitting 15 minutes in a parking lot, frustrated with a new technology that offers no more convenience than the previous system. This does provide some time to contemplate what this whiz-bang superfluity is doing in the Corvette in the first place.
 Sadly, we already know the answer. G.M. has only so much money to spend developing cars, and some of that cash had to be sunk into the XLR, which shares its architecture with the C6 Corvette. Now I'm not saying that G.M. robbed Peter to pay Paul, but it's clear that Cadillac's new sports car influenced the C6's parameters as much as anything. 
 I won't judge whether this was the right move or not -- Cadillac's turnaround is certainly G.M.'s greatest success of the last 20 years -- but I will say that I like the XLR a lot.
 And despite my carping and criticizing, I like the new Corvette, too. It's a lot of fun to drive. And as all the world already realizes, it offers unmatched bang for the buck.
 But I want more than a fast car at an attainable price. I expect more from the caretakers of this icon -- America's Sports Car, as it's called. I long for a Corvette in which every surface, every part, every angle and ultimately every decision contribute to the creation of the perfect sports car. I don't expect G.M. -- or any automaker, for that matter -- to succeed in this impossible task, but in the trying comes the possibility of creating a very special car. The new Corvette, unfortunately, isn't it.

INSIDE TRACK: To have and have not.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Changes to the Corvette convertible, left and above left, and coupe, above, include a new interior and a new body structure. Still, the look is not radically different from the 2004 models. A high-performance Z06, top, arrives in the fall with 500 horsepower and a hood scoop. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS CARS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SPEED LIMITS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOWLING GREEN, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



132 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: Big-Box Stores and the Parking Problem

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 I am pleased to hear that issues of environmental concerns, traffic, transportation and labor practices are finally at the forefront in evaluating the location of big-box stores and caused the recent rejection of the proposed Wal-Mart and BJ's Wholesale Club big-box stores (''Big Challenge for a Big Box,'' editorial, Feb. 20). Where was this civic outcry, public and governmental, when a developer with the support and financial assistance of the city, state and federal government proposed a Home Depot, a Costco and indoor parking in East Harlem in 1999 along the F.D.R. Drive and East 116th Street?
 According to a Community Board 11 Task Force Report, approximately 800 jobs were to be lost by local businesses; 144 jobs were to be lost from the businesses that were condemned through eminent domain; 16,000 diesel-fueled cars and trucks were expected on a daily basis on a site adjacent to the F.D.R. Drive, which does not permit commercial traffic; increased traffic would aggravate the quality of life of the residents, who already suffer the highest rate of asthma hospitalizations in the country; increased vehicular and truck traffic would pose an additional danger to the 5,000 children attending the 14 schools and day care centers adjacent to the project site.
 The Home Depot-Costco project has not yet been built. But Home Depot recently opened up two stores in upscale locations of Manhattan, one in a former historic Chelsea warehouse and the other in the new Bloomberg Tower, without public parking facilities. Is there a double standard for good city planning and good historic preservation for economically depressed neighborhoods?

Raymond Plumey
East Harlem

The writer is an architect and planner.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); EMINENT DOMAIN (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); CHILDREN (75%); WRITERS (73%); ASTHMA (73%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); CITIES (70%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); HISTORY (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (95%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (91%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (91%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



133 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; ROUNDTABLE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2463 words

HEADLINE: Left Behind

 BODY:
Peter Beinart, the editor of The New Republic; Michael Tomasky, the executive editor of The American Prospect; and Katrina vanden Heuvel, the editor of The Nation, are three leading voices for liberalism today. Now, following the re-election of George W. Bush, and with the continuing dominance of Republicans in Congress, the politics they stand for is arguably more embattled than at any time since 1933 and Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal. Barry Gewen, an editor at the Book Review, asked the three editors to discuss and debate the present state of liberalism in America, and its future.

Why has ''liberal'' become a dirty word for so many Americans today?
 VANDEN HEUVEL. I would begin with the unrelenting assault on the term liberalism by the right wing. It has been a project over the last few decades. And by failing to take their own side in the argument liberals have conceded -- to the point where John Kerry was wary of being associated with liberalism in one of the debates. Liberals have also paid a heavy price by allowing liberalism to be defined almost exclusively as social liberalism. So that you lost sight of economic rights, economic justice.
 TOMASKY. I essentially agree with that. But liberal concepts still have more resonance than you might think. Polls continually show that people are rhetorically conservative and operationally liberal or progressive. 
 BEINART. Yes, the term needs to be defended. But I think one also needs to recognize that while people may be conceptually liberal, they're not voting for enough liberals. Liberals need to look at how they grew estranged from large numbers of Americans in the post-Vietnam period. And I think another estrangement has occurred since 9/11. Many Americans have questions about the degree to which liberals are willing to defend the country.
 VANDEN HEUVEL. A majority of Americans support an America that works with international institutions, that wants a strengthened U.N., that wants to be part of a constructive multilateral engagement with the world. And that is ignored by too many liberals because it doesn't seem like a winning strategy. 
 TOMASKY. I want to move on to the cultural issues here for a moment, because they are obviously quite important in what's happened to liberalism. There's a conversation that's going to have to happen with regard to issues like gay marriage. Was it pursued in the right way in 2004, either by the Massachusetts court or by [the mayor of San Francisco] Gavin Newsom? And abortion is obviously a very vexing question. Has the rhetoric that's used to defend abortion rights really defended the core principle well? Or does that rhetoric need to change? 
 VANDEN HEUVEL. We need to make a distinction between the first-principles conversation and the one on electoral winning strategies. And I think that becomes tricky. But on the gay marriage issue, for example, we are a more tolerant country than we were 20, 30 years ago.
 BEINART. I think one of the great problems in the debates about abortion and gay rights is the perception that liberals are illiberal and nondemocratic. It's remarkable to me how many people still mention the fact that [the anti-abortion Pennsylvania governor] Bob Casey was denied the right to speak at the 1992 Democratic convention. That was an illiberal thing the party did. And there is an important debate for liberals to have about the role of the courts in pushing social change. Finally, I don't think you can separate these questions from people's larger concerns about the culture. Liberals should believe in free speech, of course, but there is no reason that liberals need to believe that everything that comes out of an unregulated free market is good culturally. 
 VANDEN HEUVEL. I agree that too often liberalism has become associated with license instead of liberty. But you know that among progressives there is a critique of this kind of free-market vulgar culture, which is promoted not by The Nation or The American Prospect or The New Republic but by Fox television.
 TOMASKY. Parents do worry about what their kids are seeing, what their kids are being exposed to. I'm no prude but sometimes I'm surprised by what I see on television or what I see in commercials.
 VANDEN HEUVEL. Again, we need to make the case that these are not our values, but without diminishing the liberal belief in free speech. 
 BEINART. Democratic politicians who made this the biggest issue, Tipper Gore and then Joe Lieberman, both faced a fair degree of ridicule from within their own ranks. Neither of them as far as I can tell was advocating censorship.

What would a liberal foreign policy look like?
 TOMASKY. A kind of principled realism. First, terrorism is a threat. It threatened our shores more directly than the Soviet Union ever did. And it must be the focus of a foreign policy. We need alliances, yes. But alliances are a means. The end is the isolation of terrorists and the states that harbor them. The end is the control of nuclear proliferation, an extremely serious issue that the Bush administration sort of ignores. And the end is bringing liberty to the places of the world where it doesn't exist. 
 BEINART. I would just add that the Bush administration's guiding principle is a belief in military power, not a belief in human rights and democracy. It is why there has been no Marshall Plan since 9/11 by this administration. It is why they consistently try to cut programs to deal with the loose nuclear materials. It is why they have not seriously engaged with trying to create liberal currents in civil society in the Muslim world. This is where liberals have a real opportunity. Conservatives today, like conservatives during the cold war in so many ways, do not have a sufficient appreciation of the nonmilitary aspects of American power in this struggle. 
 VANDEN HEUVEL. I don't think we understand the challenges of the 21st century if we make the ''global war against terror'' our organizing principle. How does military dominance -- and that is at the core of too much of the establishment liberal conception of security policy -- deal with the central challenges of insecure and decrepit nuclear arsenals in the former Soviet Union? Or pandemics like we've never seen? Or environmental degradation? Or global inequality? Or failed states? I would also argue that you need far more effective nonmilitary responses to the fight against terrorism, which may be lost if one pursues the kind of hawkish security policy you're laying out. 
 TOMASKY. I think the war in Iraq was a catastrophic mistake. It was not part of the war on terror. Somebody attacked us. We didn't get him. He's still at large. That's the war on terrorism to me. That's the heart of it. 
 VANDEN HEUVEL. In the context of the war on terror, Iraq was an act of self-sabotage. 
 BEINART. Let me say a couple of things as someone who did support the war in Iraq. There is no question that the war is going very, very badly. But I think two things remain even if we do end up deciding that Iraq was a terrible disaster. The first is that there is an important connection between dictatorship and the rise of Islamic fundamentalism. Secular dictators like Saddam Hussein or secular autocrats like Hosni Mubarak create a political dynamic in which liberalism gets weakened and weakened. And the only alternative becomes Islamic fundamentalism. The fight for a third way in the Muslim world is critically important. The second thing is that it is still entirely conceivable that there will be a role for the American military in this fight in the future -- not alone, I hope -- but in preventing a state from being a haven for the people who want to attack us. Because if we are attacked again, it will be a terrible, terrible day for liberal values in the United States. 
 VANDEN HEUVEL. I think you are ignoring the legitimate grievances in the Middle East. You cannot ignore the role of the Israeli-Palestinian crisis. And I think that is a very difficult one for the Democratic Party to address. 
 TOMASKY. I'm skeptical that Palestinian statehood, which I assume all of us support, which George Bush has said he supports, will solve a lot of these problems. I'm not persuaded that on the day that Palestinian statehood arrives that there still won't be buses being bombed in Israel. I'm skeptical that Israeli security forces will sit on their hands. And I'm skeptical that Islamic fundamentalists won't just find some other reason to hate the United States. I admit that's not a very hopeful assessment of the situation. And it's not very constructive. 

To move on to domestic economic policy, the Bush administration pursues a more market-oriented philosophy while liberals tend to pursue a more government oriented philosophy. Is there some meeting ground?
 TOMASKY. Not on Social Security. Social Security returns efficiencies that very few private programs of its sort can return. It's the greatest social insurance program devised by any government, ever. A lot of Democrats are open to some kind of private account on top of it. But as a principle Social Security is inviolate. 
 VANDEN HEUVEL. In fact, liberals and progressives have done a lot over the course of history to save the market from itself and from its excesses. And there is an interesting movement under way within the Democratic Party led by people like Eliot Spitzer and the treasurer in California, Phil Angelides, to use public pension funds to invest in what are called high-road investments: clean energy, high-wage enterprises. I think that's an interesting use of the market. 
 BEINART. I completely agree on Social Security. But I think liberals should be entirely empirical about market-oriented tax credits versus new government programs. Does a tax credit do something better or does a government program? 
 VANDEN HEUVEL. Something that hasn't been mentioned is labor, which I think is very important. Labor was a core component of the New Deal liberal coalition. Now it's under assault. It's a diminishing constituency, unfortunately, in the progressive liberal coalition. 
 TOMASKY. Labor can play a significant policy role if it becomes more powerful. Because that's how politics works. To me, the effort to organize Wal-Mart is what it's all about. That's a very hard fight that could take 20 years, but if the unions can organize the Wal-Mart stores that would be a titanic historical victory, like organizing the coal mines in the past. 
 BEINART. There was a very interesting discussion going on near the end of the Clinton administration between labor and what you might call New Democrats on the question of trade. It might have produced a kind of synthesis about America pushing for expanded trade deals that have labor and environmental protections -- as opposed to no free trade deals at all, or free trade deals that have no protections whatsoever, which is what the Bush administration generally favors. I think unfortunately that conversation, because the party is not in power, has come to a halt. 
 VANDEN HEUVEL. I do think that there is a larger question underpinning the role of labor in the Democratic Party, which is: How do you operate in an international environment where global conditions make it murderously difficult for American working people to achieve fair wages? The whole issue of international trade is one that has pulled the party apart. We are living in a new world and new conditions. There need to be some fundamental standards. 

Can the Democrats become the majority party in America again?
 TOMASKY. One of the Democratic Party's problems is that it doesn't have enough contact with its rank and file. Right-wing people in this country have a place to meet and talk politics -- their churches, increasingly the megachurches in the exurbs. There's not a meeting place like that for liberals and for Democrats. I think it's a job of the new party chairman to initiate some conversations about the core principles of the party. This is not usually the job of a chairman. He's usually a mechanic. But I think this has to happen now, because otherwise, before they know it, it's going to be 2006 and they're going to be the party of prescription drugs again. And then it's going to be 2008 and there won't be any context for what the party should be.
 VANDEN HEUVEL. One of the things that came out of this election, which is exciting, is that there's the beginning of an independent infrastructure outside the Democratic Party, a kind of fusionist politics combining movement politics with electoral politics. And I would build on that, building a farm team of new, Paul Wellstone-type leaders, developing messages and ideas. Stop listening to the pollsters and consultants inside the Beltway; that's not where the energy, the passion, the conviction's going to come from.
 BEINART. I think that the base needs to be engaged, absolutely, and I certainly think that Washington and Washington political consultants should not be the only people who set the direction for the party. But I also think it's important to remember the base was enormously engaged in this election. The Democratic Party still lost. The party has to have a listening tour within its own base but also a listening tour among swing constituencies that are moving away: Hispanics, Jews, the military in particular. The Democratic Party needs a strategy with military voters not simply because of their numbers, but because military voters will give the Democratic Party credibility with nonmilitary voters who are concerned the Democratic Party is not tough enough. One cannot forget the central fact that the Democratic Party has lost every election since the 9/11 era, in which national security has been predominant. That is an enormous, enormous problem. 

RECOMMENDED READING

BEFORE THE STORM
Barry Goldwater and the Unmaking
of the American Consensus.
By Rick Perlstein.
Hill & Wang, paper, $17.
(Katrina vanden Heuvel)

FEAR
The History of a Political Idea.
By Corey Robin.
Oxford, $28. (K.v.H.)

GOD'S POLITICS
Why the Right Gets It Wrong
and the Left Doesn't Get It.
By Jim Wallis.
HarperSanFrancisco, $24.95.
(Michael Tomasky)

JOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH
His Life, His Politics, His Economics.
By Richard Parker.
Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.
(M.T., K.v.H.)

NICKEL AND DIMED
On (Not) Getting By in America.
By Barbara Ehrenreich.
Metropolitan/Owl/Holt, paper, $13. (K.v.H.)

THE 9/11 COMMISSION REPORT
Norton, paper, $10.
(Peter Beinart)

THE PROMISE OF AMERICAN LIFE
By Herbert Croly.
Northeastern University,
paper, $24.
(P.B.)

TERROR AND LIBERALISM
By Paul Berman.
Norton, paper,
$13.95.
(P.B.)

THE VITAL CENTER
The Politics of Freedom.
By Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.
Transaction,
paper, $24.95.
(P.B., M.T.)

WHEN AMERICA WAS GREAT
The Fighting Faith of
Postwar Liberalism.
By Kevin Mattson.
Routledge, $26.
(M.T.)


GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, from top, Michael Tomasky, Katrina vanden Heuvel, Peter Beinart. (Photographs by Lisa Iaboni/The New York Times)Drawings (Drawings by Dusan Petricic)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (98%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); ABORTION (63%); MARRIAGE (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: American Prospect (Magazine); New Republic (Magazine); Nation, the (Magazine)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Barry Gewen; Michael Tomasky; Peter Beinart; Katrina Vanden Heuvel; Rick Perlstein; Corey Robin; Jim Wallis; Richard Parker; Barbara Ehrenreich; Herbert Croly; Paul Berman; Arthur M Jr Schlesinger; Kevin Mattson

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



134 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: Black Churches Struggle Over Their Role in Politics

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE

 BODY:
A tug of war is under way inside black churches over who speaks for African-Americans and what role to play in politics, spurred by conservative black clergy members who are looking to align themselves more closely with President Bush.
 The struggle, mainly among black Protestants, is taking place in pulpits, church conventions, on op-ed pages and on the airwaves, and the president himself began his second term with a meeting in the White House with black clergy members and civic leaders who supported his re-election. 
 Bishop Harry R. Jackson Jr., the pastor of the Hope Christian Church in College Park, Md., is part of a new breed of leaders who have warmed to the Republican stand on social values. He paraphrases Newt Gingrich as he stumps the country to promote a ''Black Contract With America on Moral Values,'' whose top priorities include opposition to same-sex marriage and abortion.
 ''Historically when societies have gone off kilter, there has been rampant same-sex marriage,'' Mr. Jackson said in an interview. ''What tends to happen is that people tend to devalue the institution of marriage as a whole. People start rearing kids without two parents, and the black community already has this incredibly alarming and, if I may say, this shameful number of babies being born without fathers.'' 
 He said he hoped to collect a million signatures of support this year.
 Efforts like Mr. Jackson's have brought a sharp reaction from other black ministers, who bridle at putting their energies into fighting same-sex marriage.
 ''Oppression is oppression is oppression,'' said the Rev. Kelvin Calloway, pastor of the Second A.M.E. Church in Los Angeles. ''Just because we're not the ones who are being oppressed now, do we not stand with those oppressed now? That is the biblical mandate. That's what Jesus is all about.'' 
 At the heart of the debate, church leaders say, is whether to stay focused primarily on issues like job creation, education, affirmative action, prison reform and health care, which have drawn blacks closer to the Democratic Party, or whether to put more emphasis on issues of personal morality, like opposition to abortion and same-sex marriage, which would place them deeper in the Republican camp. 
 ''I think there is a movement among African-American evangelicals who are extremely concerned about issues of family and abortion, and our leadership has to do something about that,'' said the Rev. Herbert H. Lusk II of Philadelphia, who was one of the ministers who met with President Bush in January.
 Most black ministers have long been aligned with the Democrats, and Senators John Kerry and John Edwards spent Sundays in black churches in the last weeks of the campaign to get out the black vote.
 But the White House has been reaching out to sympathetic black clergy members -- through its stand on social issues, its effort to give religious groups more of a role in providing federally financed social services and ideas like Mr. Bush's proposed initiative to counter gang violence, a concern of some black ministers who support him, like the Rev. Eugene F. Rivers of Dorchester, Mass. 
 Although only 11 percent of black voters cast ballots for Mr. Bush, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls, conservatives point out that it was still an increase from the 8 percent in 2000, and Republicans seek to expand those numbers.
 Some black ministers say the Republicans will not make headway. Asked if issues like same-sex marriage will galvanize African-Americans, the Rev. Jesse Jackson said, ''Well, they didn't make the Top 10 with Moses, and Jesus didn't make mention of them.'' Still, looking to bolster their own political power, the leaders of four black Baptist conventions representing 15 million parishioners met in January to fashion their first united stand in almost a century on social and economic issues and to bury past differences. 
 At the end of their four-day session, the ministers called for an end to the war in Iraq and withdrawal of American troops. They declared their opposition to the confirmation of Alberto R. Gonzales as attorney general. They stated their opposition to making the president's tax cuts permanent, and warned that reductions in spending on children's health care programs would be ''immoral.''
 They say they are trying to counter the growing influence of white evangelicals in national politics. ''They have a strong voice now in national politics, and it would seem they are the only voice,'' the Rev. Dr. William J. Shaw, president of the National Baptist Convention USA, said of white evangelicals. ''And the challenge to us is to be a voice that is soundly biblically based and that doesn't provide a blanket sanction to government policy as others have done. This is a dangerous time when white evangelicals dictate government policy.''
 But they also raise questions about the conservatives in their own ranks, accusing them of being seduced by Mr. Bush's ''faith-based initiatives'' program to funnel federal monies to church-run social service programs and asking how much sway they really have.
 ''Where did this come from?'' said the Rev. Madison Shockley, pastor of the Pilgrim United Church of Christ in Carlsbad, Calif., who with Mr. Calloway wrote an opinion article in The Los Angeles Times in response to the ''Black Contract With America.'' ''It came from Bush and the Christian right, and the carrot is faith-based money.''
 Some conservative black ministers say, however, that they finally feel as if they have a political home. The Rev. O'Neal Dozier, pastor of the Worldwide Christian Church Center in Pompano Beach, Fla., said that for years he had struggled to organize a local ecumenical group of ministers concerned about issues like abortion and same-sex marriage. Now, attendance at these meetings has risen considerably, and Mr. Dozier expects 200 ministers, black and white, at the next gathering in April.
 ''I don't think the old guard is that strong now. We're in south Florida and south Florida is heavily Democratic, yet the pastors I see are beginning to change, and as a result of them changing, it is going to change their flock,'' said Mr. Dozier, who also attended the January meeting with Mr. Bush. ''Every social change has to start from the pulpit.''
 White evangelicals are also participating in the discussion. Ministers like the Rev. Lou Sheldon, chairman of the Traditional Values Coalition, an organization of 43,000 churches, are organizing black ministers in major cities around issues of sexuality. ''We're looking for African-American clergy members who have local authority, and we're getting them to hold a summit on marriage, just one issue,'' Mr. Sheldon said. 
 Even longtime friends are being pulled in opposite directions. Dr. Shaw and Mr. Lusk, for instance, have much in common. 
 Dr. Shaw leads the country's largest black denomination, the National Baptist Convention USA, of which Mr. Lusk and his congregation are members. The churches where each has preached for decades are 20 minutes apart in Philadelphia, and each man preaches politics. 
 At his White Rock Baptist Church, Dr. Shaw has spoken out against a constitutional ban on same-sex marriage. He says he does not believe that the Bible permits such unions, but he pointedly rejects a government ban on them.
 ''My position on same-sex marriage is not that it is the sole determinant on moral issues,'' Dr. Shaw said. ''Marriage is threatened more by adultery, and we don't have a constitutional ban on that. Alcohol is a threat to the stability of family, and we don't have a constitutional ban on that.''
 From his own pulpit, Mr. Lusk moves in the opposite direction. In services before Valentine's Day at his Greater Exodus Baptist Church, Mr. Lusk invited worshipers to a Sweethearts Dinner. But he cautioned them from attending with sweethearts of the same sex. ''We're living in perilous times,'' Mr. Lusk said. ''We're living in a time when the preachers we looked to are confused, when they're getting their sociology mixed up with their theology.''
 Mr. Lusk says that the differing priorities of politically liberal and conservative clergy members do not have to fracture the black community. He sees himself, he said, as a bridge between the National Baptist Convention and the White House. 
 ''You don't square these things,'' Mr. Lusk said about the agendas of liberal and conservative black evangelicals. ''You just agree to disagree without being disagreeable.''
 ''The Klan in Memphis when I was a boy denied me the right to think what I wanted,'' he added. ''We shouldn't get to a time in our lives when our own people deny us the same right to think. I think Dr. Shaw and other leaders understand that.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: At left, the Rev. Kelvin Calloway of the Second A.M.E. Church in Los Angeles. At center, Bishop Harry R. Jackson Jr., pastor of the Hope Christian Church in College Park, Md. At right, the Rev. Dr. William J. Shaw, a Philadelphia pastor and president of the National Baptist Convention USA. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)
(Photo by Matthew Cavanaugh for The New York Times)
(Photo by Ryan Donnell for The New York Times)
 The Rev. Herbert H. Lusk II, of Greater Exodus Baptist Church in Philadelphia, with a church member. (Photo by Ryan Donnell for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (88%); ABORTION (88%); RACE & RACISM (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); JOB CREATION (50%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); PRISONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DAVE CAMP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



135 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; COMMUTER'S JOURNAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Boldly Going Where No Governor Has Gone Before

BYLINE: By JACK KADDEN. 
E-mail: kadden@nytimes.com

 BODY:
NOW and then, my wife will catch me with my guard down and announce that we have to do something about the refrigerator, or the roof, or some other domestic crisis that I have been trying to ignore because I don't want to spend the money to make things right.
 Invariably, I agree that she's got a point, and we reluctantly prepare to pay for the necessary work.
 For the last decade or more, Connecticut has been a lot like me, ignoring the deterioration of its transportation system and turning a deaf ear to those who have been warning of impending catastrophe.
 Fortunately, those days appear to be over. 
 In the boldest and most surprising budget address in years, Gov. M. Jodi Rell acknowledged the problem, saying: ''We all know what we need to do. We just need to do it.''
 She called for the purchase of 342 new cars for Metro-North, the construction of a new maintenance facility for the railroad, and improvements on I-95, I-84 and I-91.
 And in an act of rare political bravery, she proposed tax increases to pay for it all, including a 6-cent rise in the gasoline tax over eight years, a $1 surcharge on tickets on the New Haven Line and higher taxes on alcohol and cigarettes.
 She didn't call these measures revenue enhancements. ''Those are my tax increases,'' she said. ''I won't run away from them.''
 Whether you like her proposal or not, it's refreshing to have a leader who recognizes a problem and tries to deal with it head-on. We haven't seen much of that in the region in a long time. 
 It probably didn't hurt that last winter's problems on Metro-North -- the breakdowns, the cancellation of dozens of trains, and the commuter outrage that followed -- offered inescapable proof of the need for change.
 By and large, advocates for commuters are thrilled with Mrs. Rell's plan. 
 ''Not only did she propose the action that we hoped for, but she also used strong, blunt, plain language,'' said Cindy Lemek, executive director of All Aboard, a Hartford-based mass transit advocacy group. ''The e-mail Listservs were certainly buzzing, because people were really excited that after so many years of frustration, there was movement.''
 Rodney Chabot, the chairman of the Connecticut Rail Commuter Council, was pleased but wary.
 ''The governor's proposal is all the right things,'' he said. ''All we want to do is see the check written. New York State took the initiative five years ago to order new cars, and they already have over 100 in service. Time is the key.''
 He emphasized that by raising the gas tax, Governor Rell is only restoring a portion of the 14 cents-a-gallon in taxes that Gov. John G. Rowland eliminated.
 ''Rowland really undercut the railroad,'' Mr. Chabot said. ''He wouldn't let D.O.T. ask for more money. He's responsible for the delays.''
 Mr. Rowland's outright hostility to mass transit makes Mrs. Rell's proposal that much more extraordinary, since she was a member of his administration.
 In addition to cutting the gasoline tax, thus undermining a key source of revenue for mass transit, and repeatedly raising fares, Mr. Rowland also proposed eliminating the Waterbury and Danbury branch lines on Metro-North and shutting down the Shore Line East railroad.
 ''He said it would be cheaper if we simply bought all the riders automobiles,'' said Joseph McGee, vice president for public policy at the Business Council of Fairfield County. ''Of course, that misses the whole point of mass transit -- to get cars off the road.''
 Mr. McGee echoed Mr. Chabot's criticism of Mr. Rowland.
 ''We had been struggling with the Rowland administration for 10 years, urging them to do this, particularly when there were large surpluses,'' he said. 
 ''What made this even more difficult was that as a Republican, Fairfield County was his political base, but he simply ignored the dominant political issue here,'' said Mr. McGee, a Republican himself who was commissioner of economic development under Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr.
 It is far from certain that the Democrat-controlled General Assembly will approve the governor's plan, and critics have said the new taxes would place too much of the burden on the poor.
 But Mr. McGee had only praise for Governor Rell.
 ''From a statecraft position, from someone who's an accidental governor, it's a bold move,'' he said. ''It was seen as the third rail of Connecticut politics, but I think just the reverse has happened. I think she seized the moment. I think it will benefit her.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (87%); BUDGETS (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); FUEL TAX (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: M JODI RELL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



136 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3462 words

HEADLINE: EBay's Joy Ride: Going Once . . .

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: San Jose, Calif. 

 BODY:
THE open revolt began almost instantly among eBay's sellers -- a hodgepodge of hobbyists, slick entrepreneurs and quirky collectors who conduct daily virtual auctions of everything from samurai swords and refrigerator magnets to an unread copy of an ''Archie and Veronica'' comic book (Volume 55). In January, eBay announced steep fee increases, which took effect two weeks ago, prompting sellers to post caustic comments on community bulletin boards both on and off the company's Web site. Petitions have been circulated, sellers have debated an eBay boycott and those unhappy with the company seem evenly split over whether ''FeeBay'' or ''GreedBay'' is the most apt epithet for it.
 Inside eBay, the reaction to all this is: So what else is new? 
 Five times in five years, the company has raised the price of doing business on its site, and each increase -- whether a bump in the charge for listing an auction item or a jump in the commission the company collects on a completed sale -- has provoked strident outbursts. The practiced nonchalance with which eBay executives greet even these harshest of pronouncements starts with the chief executive, Meg Whitman, possibly the most powerful woman in corporate America today. Speaking at the company headquarters here last week, she sounded almost nostalgic when talking about past protests, like the ''Million Auction March,'' hatched in 2000 by those who were upset when eBay announced that it would be selling banner advertisements on its site. 
 ''The thing to know about the eBay community,'' she said, ''is that it's been vocal from Day 1.'' Ms. Whitman allowed that the dissatisfied had lately ''perhaps been a tad more vocal than in the past.'' But to her mind, that is because eBay is so much more vast today than it was only a few years ago.
 Despite the Million Auction March and what William C. Cobb, who oversees the company's North American operations, called the ''constant drone'' of complaints on the company's message boards, the collective worth of merchandise sold through eBay has surged since 2000, to $33.8 billion from $5.2 billion.
 Even so, others in the eBay universe are convinced that the company has a far bigger problem on its hands than it is willing to acknowledge. They include many longtime sellers and Wall Street analysts, long bullish on eBay, who now say they are uncertain about the company's ability to sustain its torrid rate of growth. As they see it, Newtonian physics may finally be catching up with eBay after one of the most magical rides ever for the stock of a young company.
 It is too early to assess the fallout from the recent furor over fees, but this much is clear: the company has never before imposed so sharp a rate climb. Hardest hit were those who operate virtual stores on the eBay worldwide mall. As of Feb. 18, store owners must pay eBay an 8 percent commission on each sale, up from 5.25 percent. 
 ''Imagine the reaction if a state raised its sales tax by nearly three percentage points,'' said Ina Steiner, the editor and publisher of AuctionBytes.com, an online newsletter that has reported on the online auction world since 1999. It is no surprise, Ms. Steiner said, that in recent weeks she has heard an outcry not only from those who tend to bark loudly whenever eBay raises a fee, but also from those who ''might have rolled their eyes over a fee increase in the past but kept selling.''
 SINCE the end of January, more than 24,000 people have added their names to an online petition protesting the new fees. A according to PowerSellersUnite.com, a site run by a fed-up former eBay seller, more than 7,000 eBay stores have shut down in the five weeks since the company announced the fee increase. EBay said it had 161,000 stores on its North American site at the end of 2004.
 ''People stay on eBay because they get value from it,'' Ms. Steiner said. But Ms. Steiner, among others, worries that dishonest practices by sellers -- shipping a knock-off instead of the genuine article, for example -- are eroding the trust essential to eBay's continued health. EBay says it now has more than 1,000 employees working to eradicate fraud, but Ms. Steiner says she is convinced that the problem is getting worse.
 Sellers, Ms. Steiner said, ''feel there are so many problems, including fraud, including technical issues, including frustration that eBay is great at bringing on more sellers but not as good at bringing more buyers. I don't think people would seriously consider leaving eBay, or at least expanding beyond eBay, if they felt eBay was improving in the areas they care about.'' 
 In other words, the short-lived repercussions from the unpopular fee increases may be the least of eBay's problems. For months, sellers have been fulminating over a long list of complaints, from fraud to fewer bidders per auction and lower selling prices to poor service from eBay. 
 ''My complaint with eBay isn't that I'm paying more,'' said Candice Darr, who since 2000 has made her living on eBay selling software at a store she named Darrsoft. ''The way I look at it, rent goes up. That's just reality. My complaint is that my rent is going up but I'm getting less for my money.'' 
 Ms. Whitman likes to reminisce about the early days of eBay, when skeptics dismissed the company as a niche player that would have roughly the same impact on Internet commerce as a flea market on a town's economy. EBay went public in September 1998, during the madness of the dot-com bubble, but as Ms. Whitman recalls it, as many as half the prospective investors who attended the road show preceding its stock offering declined to buy shares. Back then, Amazon.com and Yahoo, not eBay, were the darlings of those interested in becoming rich from the consumer Internet. 
 Now eBay reigns as one of the kings of Internet commerce. Amazon.com has twice eBay's revenue, but it operates warehouses around the world and carries inventory, while eBay basically sells nothing other than a spot in its worldwide bazaar. As a result, eBay is nearly three times more profitable than Amazon, and its market capitalization, at $56 billion, is nearly four times as great. And though Google's market cap is almost as large, eBay posted twice the profits last year. 
 Yahoo is eBay's competitor for the crown. Yahoo booked slightly more revenue and profit than eBay did in 2004, but eBay's market cap is 25 percent larger than Yahoo's. EBay boasts that it is ''the most valuable e-commerce franchise in the world,'' and it may be just that.
 EBay has 66 million registered users in the United States and 135 million worldwide, and its revenue has grown 70 percent a year, annualized, since going public in 1998. And the company's share price has moved accordingly, increasing 21-fold since the initial public offering. The company went public at a split-adjusted $1.97 a share and now trades at $41.75. 
 Yet eBay is again facing skeptics. Among the analysts who wonder aloud if its stock market ride has come to an end, at least temporarily, are Derek Brown at Pacific Growth Equities and Safa Rashtchy at Piper Jaffray, both based in San Francisco. Mr. Brown described eBay as ''one of the most extraordinary engines to emerge on the Internet,'' but since the fall of 2003 he has had an underweight recommendation on the company. And Mr. Rashtchy, though he used the word ''phenomenal'' to sum up eBay's business, recently downgraded eBay to market perform from buy.
 Both check in periodically with those who make their living through eBay, like sellers or those in the business of providing technical help and other support services for sellers. Mr. Rashtchy, for instance, had dinner last month with a group of top eBay sellers, and Mr. Brown speaks regularly with a group of 10, including several ''seller-service providers who in turn are in touch with hundreds, if not thousands, of sellers.'' 
 ''They've taken on a much more negative tone in the last 12 to 18 months,'' Mr. Brown said of sellers. ''They have a variety of different complaints, but the bottom line is that our research indicates customers have grown increasingly frustrated and disenchanted with the platform. Many of them have indicated to us that they're running twice as hard to stand in place.'' 
 Mr. Brown also began seeing signs that people were not just complaining; they were acting on their disenchantment. He noticed that the average number of items per seller was decreasing, as was the growth rate in another important statistic: the revenue that eBay generates on everything but the commission on a sale, from the basic cost of listing an item to a long list of optional features like a ''buy it now'' button. 
 AT the same time, he and others spotted data that suggested an abrupt slowdown in the growth of the company's North American site, such as a sharp decline in the number of new sellers joining the site.
 Yet in 2004, eBay's stock climbed by an extraordinary 80 percent. ''I'm watching the degradation of the metrics, and I'm hearing the grumblings by sellers get louder and louder and louder, and the stock was hitting 52-week highs,'' Mr. Brown said. ''There was a disconnect between perception and reality.'' 
 Then, on Jan. 19, eBay announced its results for the fourth quarter of 2004. Its earnings per share fell a penny short of analyst expectations, largely because of a sluggish start to the holiday buying season. The company's stock fell 19 percent the next day as a half-dozen investment banks cut their ratings. The shares are down 28 percent so far this year -- and Mr. Rashtchy is among those who doubt that eBay can continue to grow at anywhere near the pace it set in its first six years as a publicly traded company. 
 ''The market kept the valuation of eBay very high because people could be confident that the company could grow into the numbers,'' Mr. Rashtchy said. ''But with a stock like eBay, when it keeps going up and up, investors are always nervous. They always have in the back of their minds that the company will eventually hit a wall.'' When it misses the numbers, he said, it is hit hard.
 Jonathan Garriss is the co-founder of Gotham City Online, an online shoe store that does so robust a business on eBay that he paid the company nearly $500,000 in fees last year. Given the fee increases, he figures, he will pay an additional $75,000 in 2005, assuming the same volume in sales. By contrast, Chel Ramsey is a mother of three who until recently was paying only a few hundred dollars in fees each month to operate a children's clothing store called ScuttleBugs on eBay. 
 Both discovered their inner retailer courtesy of eBay -- and yet both are now keenly frustrated with a service that has meant so much to their lives. 
 Ms. Ramsey, who recently decided to move her store to its own site off of eBay, lamented that her eBay business was suffering a slow death from a thousand nicks. Eighteen months ago, she figured that she earned $800 to $1,200 a month selling children's clothes through eBay. Her profit, she said, dropped to $400 to $500 in recent months. 
 ''They get you when you list, they get you when you sell, they get you when somebody pays,'' Ms. Ramsey said. ''They even take a bite out of shipping.'' 
 First there is the monthly $15.95 that eBay charges to be a host of a store on its site -- compared with $9.95 a month until the most recent fee increase. Ms. Ramsey paid an additional $10 a month to show pictures of her inventory, largely children's clothes costing 99 cents to $3.99 an item. 
 Listing each item for sale costs only 2 cents but that's only the start, she said. The eBay search engine typically points shoppers only to auction items, not to fixed-price items sold in its stores. So Ms. Ramsey put a dozen or more items on auction each month to drive traffic to her site, and the listing fees on those, she said, ranged from 55 cents to $1.25 an item. Often, she ended up selling those items for less than cost -- an advertising expense, as she saw it.
 She typically racked up several more charges on a sale, beyond the commission. Virtually all her customers used an eBay payment service called PayPal that serves as a middleman between seller and shopper and charges the seller a fee, as a credit card company would. For the typical seller, that runs 2.9 percent of the total charged, including shipping and handling. Ms. Ramsey also used eBay's shipping features, which meant paying an additional 20 cents for every label printed.
 The e-mail that satisfied customers sometimes sent to her was free, but she worried that the message they often conveyed might have a price. She said, ''They'll say: 'I'm so happy to have found an honest seller. I was ready to give up on eBay.'''
 Where Ms. Ramsey said she felt ''nickeled and dimed,'' Mr. Garriss, of Gotham City Online, who has been selling shoes on eBay since 1999, described deterioration of another important measurement inside the world of eBay: the average selling price of an item. Mr. Garriss is also the executive director of the Professional eBay Sellers Alliance, a trade group started in 2003 for eBay sellers who do at least $25,000 in business each month.
 EBay executives contend that the average selling price has gone up in some categories. But that does not seem to be the experience of most of the 600 or so sellers who belong to Mr. Garriss's trade organization. 
 ''For a lot of our sellers, the average selling price is getting less and less and their eBay fees continue to go up,'' he said. ''So their profitability is declining.'' As a result, he said, ''a lot of sellers have disappeared off eBay'' -- a trend that eBay's ''aggressive'' fee increases, he said, are likely to accelerate. 
 Where will they go? Some sellers will do what he did, Mr. Garriss said: realize that it is much more economical to operate your own online store and to buy keywords from search companies like Google and Yahoo to point potential buyers to your site. He maintains a presence on eBay, he said, but outside the confines of eBay, where hard-to-believe deals are the coin of the realm, he can charge more for the same shoes. 
 Others will do as R.J. Moore did. Mr. Moore, who started doing business on eBay in 1999, was selling $2 million to $3 million in jewelry a year. But increased competition, he said, cut into profits, and last June he left eBay altogether. He now sells his jewelry at a smaller eBay rival, Bid4Assets.
 ''There's far less action there,'' Mr. Moore said, ''but they offer a much better deal.''
 More recently, Bob Lee decided to do the same. Mr. Lee had sold video games via eBay but decided to shut down his eBay store after calculating that his fees would be rising by hundreds of dollars each month. He knew that it was time to leave, he said, ''when I figured out that eBay would be making more money on each video game we sold than we were.'' 
 Ms. Whitman, eBay's chief executive, said she felt the pain of sellers who believe that eBay no longer offers the same money-making opportunities as it did in the past. When told about the plight of people working so much harder to remain in place, she nodded her head, a slightly pained expression on her face. She spends part of each day, she said, reading the company's message boards. She appreciates, she said, that a lot of people are disappointed that once-thriving eBay businesses have fallen on hard times.
 But her job, Ms. Whitman said, is to maintain the overall health of the wider eBay ecosystem, not to worry about individuals. To make her point, she recalled the dust storm that sellers kicked up a few years earlier, when the selling price of collectibles fell.
 ''People asked us what we were going to do about that,'' she said. ''The answer was, we're not going to do anything.'' Since then, of course, eBay has continued to thrive and grow, and plenty of people are now making a good living in the collectibles category. 
 That is the laissez-faire nature of life on eBay, as Ms. Whitman and others explain it. A few homesteaders staking out a new category may feel as if they have struck gold in their first months, but their good fortune is guaranteed to pique the interest of other entrepreneurs. The entry of others causes prices to fall -- but if they fall too steeply, sellers stop selling, thereby driving prices back up. In this view, eBay is a perfect manifestation of capitalism as perceived by Adam Smith, efficient and self-correcting. Ms. Whitman's job -- and the job of those who work for her -- is to help people buy and sell but otherwise to stay out of the way.
 Some sellers contend that there has been a decline in the percentage of auctions that end in a sale. If that were true, Ms. Whitman said, she would be worried. But she maintains that the percentage of auctions that end successfully has remained fairly constant. ''That has not swung very much since the day I walked in the door in 1998,'' she said.
 Indeed, it was a concern for the ''balance of the marketplace,'' not a desire to bump up eBay's bottom line, that explains the most recent set of fee increases, said Mr. Cobb, who runs eBay's North American operations. The feeling inside eBay, he said, was that a kind of equilibrium needed to be restored between those using auctions and those selling items for a flat price in an eBay store. A sharp increase in the commission charged on all store sales, this reasoning went, would lead more sellers to embrace the auction model. 
 The company also said it believed that too large a proportion of sellers were using the ''gallery'' feature -- choosing to have a picture accompany a listing -- so the company raised its fee for the feature by 40 percent to restore its premium status. 
 DESPITE the hailstorm of criticism, Mr. Cobb sticks by the fee increases, saying only that he could have done a better job in explaining all this to what everyone inside eBay calls simply ''the community.'' As a kind of penance, the company announced last month that it would provide telephone customer service to every shop owner -- a service previously reserved for high-volume eBay vendors known as power sellers -- defined as the top 2 percent in sales -- and would not charge the $15.95 monthly rent for April. Mr. Cobb also promised to slow down the rate at which the company introduces new features on the site. The frequent addition of new bells and whistles has been blamed for the broken links and other technical difficulties that eBay sellers have been complaining about.
 If nothing else, the fee increase has demonstrated to eBay executives that they do not have quite the pricing power that they thought. Ultimately, however, the company's fortunes hinge less on the growth rate of the company's American site than on its foreign operations and the use of PayPal beyond the eBay site. 
 PayPal is the default method of payment on the American site, and it is slowly gaining momentum as eBay struggles, country by country, to translate the service into a foreign language while seeking approval from local regulators to operate within their borders. Already, it accounts for one-quarter of eBay's revenue, which the company expects to reach roughly $4.3 billion this year. 
 But the company's deepest hope for PayPal, which eBay bought for $1.5 billion in 2002, is that more and more Web sites not related to eBay will adopt it as a preferred payment method. According to data provided by eBay, only about 2 percent of the Web's small- and medium-size outposts -- which the company defines as sites doing less than $5 million in e-commerce a year -- offer buyers the PayPal option.
 EBay now operates independent auction sites in 32 countries. The company's footprint is especially wide in Europe, where it has had phenomenal annual growth rates, reaching triple digits in some countries. 
 That overseas success has been largely factored into the company's stock price. The battle now is over Asia. On the upside, eBay is strong in South Korea and has first-mover advantage in China. On the downside, it has conceded e-commerce in Japan to Yahoo, which is trying to parlay its strength in Hong Kong and Taiwan to pursue the nascent Chinese e-commerce market.
 Earlier this year, eBay announced that its international arm would spend an additional $100 million on the Chinese market, which Ms. Whitman has declared ''critical'' to eBay's continued success.
 For the moment, though, the company can at least take solace that people care so much about eBay that they are bothering to rant at all about the North America site. ''What we've found over time is this is like when fans of a team call in to a talk radio station,'' Mr. Cobb said. ''For the most part, while they're screaming at us they're also wearing that jersey for us on Sunday and rooting for us, with paint on their face.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about business challenges facing eBay, the online auctioneer, referred incompletely to the situation of a jewelry seller, R.J. Moore, who said he left eBay last June and moved his online store to a smaller rival because it offered a better deal. EBay says it earlier suspended Mr. Moore from selling on its site. He was suspended after rival sellers accused him of bidding on their products to drive up prices and of failing to pay in auctions he won -- accusations that he denies. He says he was already intending to switch sites.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Meg Whitman, eBay's chief executive, has been unfazed by the lively protests from sellers over fee increases. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Chel Ramsey, who had a children's clothing store on eBay, is setting up her own site instead. The fees, she said, were nibbling away her profits. (Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)(pg. 4)Chart: ''EBay's Staggering Growth . . .''Since going public in September 1998, eBay has had steady success and rapid growth. Wall Street gives it the hightest value of the major Internet companies. But, so far this year, its stock price has dropped by 28 percent.Graph tracks eBay net revenue and net income portion from 1998 to 2004.Graph tracks eBay registered users (U.S. and INT'L) from 1998 to 2004.Graph tracks value of goods sold through eBay (U.S. and INT'L) from 1998 to 2004.Graph tracks stock price for eBay since 1998.. . . Stacked Up Against the Other Internet GoliathseBayMarket capitalization: $56.15 billion2004 Revenue: $3.27 billion2004 Net income: $778 millionGoogleMarket capitalization: 51.042004 Revenue: 3.192004 Net income: 399Yahoo!Market capitalization: 44.492004 Revenue: 3.582004 Net income: 840Amazon.comMarket capitalization: 14.632004 Revenue: 6.922004 Net income: 588(Sources by Company reports
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET AUCTIONS (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PETITIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); WEB SITES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EBAY INC (95%)

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%)

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



137 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2198 words

HEADLINE: Joey Gay's Excellent Adventure

BYLINE: By JAY DIXIT. 
Jay Dixit writes for The Washington Post, The Village Voice and Rolling Stone.

 BODY:
WHEN Joey Gay heard that Pips Comedy Club in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, was for sale, he discovered his life's purpose. All the elements of his past -- growing up with an embarrassing last name in a rough part of Brooklyn, learning to be funny to ward off schoolyard bullies, running a strip club for five years and doing standup for eight -- everything had been leading up to this.
 Pips, a shoebox of a space sandwiched between Lundy's and Randazzo's, two of the borough's venerable seafood palaces, was born in 1962, just as comedy clubs were coming into their own, and at 43 years old, it is generally regarded as the country's oldest comedy club. In its heyday, Pips jump-started the careers of Rodney Dangerfield, David Brenner and Andrew Dice Clay, and was a stomping ground for a string of heavy hitters that included Joan Rivers, Andy Kaufman, Woody Allen, George Carlin, Billy Crystal, Robert Klein, Jerry Seinfeld and Jay Leno.
 But in recent years, the club had fallen on hard times, and late last summer, the owner decided to sell it to a man who planned to turn it into a Greek restaurant. Mr. Gay, who at 35 is eight years younger than the club, couldn't bear the idea. 
 ''I felt like I was the only Yankee fan, and they were tearing down the stadium,'' said Mr. Gay, who talks like a raspier version of Joe Pesci and radiates an old-fashioned formality that reminds people of a 1930's film star. ''The bluebloods of American comedy started here. That means something to me.''
 Mr. Gay got in touch with Louis Torelli, a restaurant manager who was his best friend in sixth grade at St. Rose of Lima Catholic school in Midwood, where the boys grew up. Along with a partner, Mr. Torelli had been planning to open a Subway franchise. Mr. Gay persuaded them to put their money into Pips instead. 
 They bought the club in September, and now they face a formidable challenge. Its remote location, on Emmons Avenue at the end of the Q line, makes it relatively inaccessible, especially for Manhattanites. Though the club has a long history, it is a history few people know or care about. A-list comics have long since stopped performing there, and the Jews and Italians who populated the neighborhood when Pips was the center of New York's comedic universe have been replaced by new immigrants, particularly Russians, who are less likely than native English speakers to want to see comedy in English. Perhaps most crucially, two decades of bad word of mouth seemed almost impossible to overcome.
 Damion Sammarco, a friend of Mr. Gay's and his co-host at a Lower East Side open mike, thought it was a bad idea all around. ''Joey used to always talk about how if he had a couple hundred thousand dollars, he'd buy Pips,'' Mr. Sammarco said. ''And I'd say to him: 'Joey, if you had a couple hundred thousand dollars, I'd do everything in my power to stop you.''' 

Where Even Bartenders Heckled
 Pips, which occupies a century-old storefront along what was never a very picturesque section of the waterfront, was founded in 1962 by a onetime standup comic from Brooklyn named George Schultz. Mr. Schultz had named his German shepherd Pip, after his favorite Dickens character, and when he bought the club, he named it Pips, too.
 The early rosters were studded with unknowns, though they wouldn't stay that way for long. In the lineup, for example, was a childhood friend of Mr. Schultz's named Jacob Cohen who had tried comedy without success as a young man and was working as an aluminum siding salesman. When he took another shot at comedy, he changed his named to Rodney Dangerfield, landed on ''The Ed Sullivan Show,'' and, with ''I don't get no respect'' as his signature line, became a star.
 Other early performers included Joan Rivers, who, since she had no car, showed up only when Mr. Dangerfield gave her a ride. ''He would literally take both hands off the wheel to write down jokes, pad in the left hand, pencil in the right hand,'' Ms. Rivers recalled. ''I stopped going because I was afraid to ride with Rodney.''
 David Brenner, who went on to be a regular guest host on ''The Tonight Show,'' got his first paying gig at Pips, and his rise to stardom, combined with his loyalty to Mr. Schultz, gave Pips its early momentum and attracted other top-flight comics. Largely thanks to his efforts, Pips became something of an Algonquin Round Table for a generation of comedians.
 At the same time, Pips was pure Brooklyn, the only club, as ''Goumba Johnny'' Sialiano, the host of the morning show on WKTU-FM, remembers, ''where you could get heckled by the bartender.'' 
 Outsiders learned quickly what a tough room it could be. ''It was pretty rough for an Irish Southern chick,'' said Brett Butler, who later starred in the 1990's sitcom ''Grace Under Fire.'' ''The guys had their elbows on the table, looking at me like, take your clothes off or get outta here.'' 

The Little Prince of Midwood
 As Pips was becoming a launching pad for a brilliant new generation of comics, Joey Gay was growing up in nearby Midwood, in a working-class Irish-Catholic household, the cherished baby in a family that included five older sisters. His mother worked as a nurse, and his father, a counselor for the Board of Education, regularly took side jobs to help support his brood.
 As the son his father had yearned for, Joey was the prince of his family; as one of his sisters put it, ''When Joey was born, it wasn't a christening, it was a coronation.''
 St. Rose of Lima was a different story; there, Joey was picked on relentlessly. ''With my last name,'' he said, ''you either learn to box or talk. I learned to talk. If a kid was bullying me, I couldn't knock him out. But I could say something that made him look like a jackass in front of everybody.'' 
 He was kicked out of Edward R. Murrow High School in his sophomore year, not for causing trouble but for doing no work. (Years later, during a standup routine, he recognized in the audience the man who had booted him and picked him out of the crowd, saying: ''I'd like you to step into my office. I'm sorry I can't call your parents.'')
 At 22, after two years at a community college in upstate New York, Mr. Gay found himself back in Midwood, where he had an epiphany. Late one night, he and some friends were returning home when they ran into a bunch of guys wielding box cutters and bowie knives. A fight broke out, and two of Mr. Gay's friends were stabbed; although they survived, the knives perforated their lungs. ''I thought, the people around me are getting stabbed, shot,'' Mr. Gay said. ''I realized I can't spend my life on a street corner. I was going to have to figure out how to make some other life for myself.'' 
 The next year, he bought a topless bar in Chesapeake, Va.
 The bar was called J.B.'s Gallery of Girls, and Mr. Gay proved to be a natural at managing it. With his flashy clothes and even flashier cars -- at one point he simultaneously owned a Chrysler LeBaron, a convertible Thunderbird Super Coupe and an Infiniti I30t-- he also became something of a local celebrity. He started dating strippers, and got arrested for public drunkenness.
 It was a miserable period of his life, and one reason was that the dangers he had fled in Brooklyn had followed him to Virginia.
 ''Everybody on both sides of the bar was crazy, violent and on drugs,'' he said. The clientele included ex-cons, bikers and convicted murderers, and on four occasions, Mr. Gay pulled the .38 he carried, expecting to have to shoot somebody; each time he talked his way to a resolution. 
 Five years into that life, in 1997, his father died, prompting yet another epiphany. As the only men in a family of six women, the two had developed an extraordinary closeness; the loss of the father devastated the son. It also made him realize that he didn't want to spend the rest of his life running a strip club. ''I thought, 'This ride's going to be over someday, and what am I doing?''' he said. And so he decided to sell the bar and become a comedian. 

Where Mobsters Met Lobsters
 As Mr. Gay was inching closer to Pips, Sheepshead Bay was sagging ever downward. The gangsters that had flourished there for decades had tightened their grip on the area, so much so that as John Mulrooney, a comic who played there in the 80's, recalled, ''The club's motto was 'Where the mobsters meet the lobsters.''' The owner of the clam bar next door was shot to death just before one of the shows, and Pips customers who got out of line discovered that their cars had been smashed while the police looked the other way. 
 By 1991, the year Mr. Schultz died, the club was rapidly losing whatever cachet it had left. Soaring crime combined with a recession kept people in at night, often glued to comedy on cable or ''Saturday Night Live.'' Especially with Pips unable to match the rates of clubs springing up in Manhattan, star comedians no longer felt the need to take the train out to Sheepshead Bay to make their bones.
 In the last decade the club has done little advertising and has not significantly changed its pay scale or its roster. In the process, the club deteriorated from a world-class launching pad where producers discovered new stars to a tired hangout for local Russian teenagers.
 Then the trajectories of Pips and Mr. Gay came together. In 1999, Mr. Gay was still struggling to find his comedic voice and working odd jobs as a maintenance man and a night watchman while making the open-mike circuit. Then one night, during a guest spot at Pips, something clicked, so much so that the owner, Ray Garvey, let him return to do the weekend. It was Mr. Gay's first booking. 
 Still, with only 10 minutes of material, he needed a place to hone his act, and it was at this point that Mr. Garvey made him an offer: Mr. Gay could have extra stage time in exchange for cleaning the premises and answering phones. Two weeks later, Mr. Gay moved into the apartment over the club.
 Soon, he was booking road gigs and earning enough to support himself and move to Park Slope. And last summer, when he learned that Pips was about to become a Greek restaurant, he acted.

In the Land of the Mook
 ''Welcome to Pips. My name is Joey Gay.'' 
 Pause for laughter. 
 ''Laugh it up, people, I'm used to it. People ask me if this is my real name. I'm like: 'No, this is a stage name. I chose this name.' 
 ''I'm single because nobody wants to be Mrs. Gay. It's not the kind of thing you write over and over in a notebook, is it, ladies?'' 
 The occasion was the grand reopening of Pips last October. In the hope of again making the club a destination for Manhattanites, Mr. Gay and his partners spent $200,000 renovating the cramped and dingy space, almost as much as it cost them to buy the place. 
 The paint on the purple walls is so fresh you can smell it, the twin spotlights are brand new, and the electronics are up to date. There are elegant touches: the polished chrome latticework that holds the spotlights, the mahogany grid behind the bar for the liquor, the framed photographs of comedy legends who have passed through the club. 
 Though the space seats just 110 people, it feels expansive. Through the windows, clubgoers can watch teenagers cruise along Emmons Avenue in their SUV's, Russian disco blaring from their stereos. Sheepshead Bay glimmers in the moonlight.
 On the club's tiny stage, Mr. Gay was in his element. ''Only in Brooklyn could Pips survive,'' he continued. ''You are in the land of the mook. You know what a mook is? A mook is the type of guy who names his baby daughter after his ex-girlfriend so his tattoo will have significance again.''
 The crowd laughed. It was a feel-good moment. But how long such moments can last is uncertain. The economics of running a club like Pips are far trickier than they were in its prime. Even under the best of circumstances, a tiny room like this would have trouble competing with the growing number of large Manhattan clubs able to pay top dollar for talent. 
 ''They would have made more money as a Greek restaurant,'' Mr. Sammarco said of his friend's decision. ''It remains to be seen whether this is the dumbest decision of Joey's life.''
 So far, Mr. Gay seems to be doing everything right. The club is attracting more name-brand comedians, among them Mr. Mulrooney, Louis Ramey and Jackie Mason. According to Mr. Gay, it is also making money, even during the winter doldrums. 
 ''They're getting a lot of good new talent in there,'' said Julian Eyre, a firefighter who has been a Pips regular for years. ''You walk in there, you already got a smile on your face, 'cause you seen Joey up there cracking jokes, bouncing around, going from table to table. Joey's always going to make you laugh, that's a guarantee.''
 Handling talent seems to be Mr. Gay's forte, and in fact he sees a link between his former and current lineup. ''Strippers are the same as comedians, equal parts self-doubt and egomania,'' he said. ''The best comics are like the most beautiful strippers. They're the most damaged.''
 The real test, of course, will be whether the club can attract customers regularly. ''When I sold the topless bar,'' Mr. Gay said, ''I swore I'd never own another club of any sort. It's barely organized chaos.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: FUNNY MAN -- Joey Gay, above, who used to run a strip club, is a new owner of Pips, the venerable Brooklyn club that spawned a generation of A-list comics. ''Only in Brooklyn could Pips survive,'' he says.
A LITTLE RESPECT -- Rodney Dangerfield, right, an early Pips performer. ''To my dear friend George,'' he wrote on a photo inscribed to the club's founder. ''Where would I be without Pips?'' (Photographs by Heidi Schumann for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
BROOKLYN BOYS -- George Schultz, below, who founded Pips in 1962
Joey Gay, below center, the club's new owner, with his father in 1979
and below, far right, Mr. Gay at left with Louis Torelli, the childhood friend who became his business partner. ''Joey's always going to make you laugh,'' says a longtime patron. ''That's a guarantee.'' (Photographs by Heidi Schumann for The New York Times)Chart: ''ROLL CALL -- When Dessert Was Pay Enough''Founded by George Schultz in 1962, Pips was a cradle and an early stomping ground for several generations of great comedic stars.WOODY ALLENOffered to serve as the club's M.C. for $200 a week, was turned down, and returned in 2002 to shoot his movie ''Anything Else.''DAVID BRENNER Performed at Pips without pay, helped finance renovations at the club, and wrote most of the scripts for his early guest-host appearances on ''The Tonight Show'' there.LENNY BRUCE Had his last official booking at Pips, in 1966, but died before he made it.BRETT BUTLER Once played Pips for $35
 she now commands $15,000 for a performance. ''I had never left the South in my life, and I had to learn how to speak Pips,'' she recalls. ''People didn't know whether to be nice to me or treat me like I had a head wound.''GEORGE CARLIN Played Pips only once. ''I was eager to get anything then. Time on the stage is what counted.''RODNEY DANGERFIELD Was selling aluminum siding when he decided to return to comedy by performing at Pips.ROBERT GUILLAUME Before gaining fame as the title character of the 1980's sitcom ''Benson,'' was hired as a musical act at the club, so when a comedian bombed, Mr. Guillaume could lighten the mood by singing in Yiddish.ANDY KAUFMAN Before Pips got a liquor license, was paid in ice cream sundaes.COLIN QUINN Once defended Mr. Schultz in a fistfight, not out of loyalty but because he was trying to get stage time.JOAN RIVERS Hitched rides to Pips with Rodney Dangerfield, but eventually stopped because she was afraid of his driving.JERRY SEINFELD Played Pips in the late 70's, when the question ''Who's working at Pips this weekend?'' was a regular refrain.ANDREW SILVERSTEIN Started his career doing impressions of John Travolta, Jerry Lewis and Sylvester Stallone at the club, where he also perfected the character that made him famous under the name Andrew Dice Clay.(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); RESTAURANTS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JERRY SEINFELD (88%); JAY LENO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



138 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Arms Sales Begin at Home

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
For the life of me, I simply do not understand why President Bush is objecting to the European Union's selling arms to China, ending a 16-year embargo. I mean, what's the problem?
 There is an obvious compromise that Mr. Bush could put on the table that would defuse this whole issue. Mr. Bush should simply say to France, Germany and their E.U. partners that America has absolutely no objection to Europeans' selling arms to China -- on one condition: that they sell arms to themselves first. That's right, the U.S. should support the export to China of any defense system that the Europeans buy for their own armies first. Buy one, sell one. 
 But what the U.S. should not countenance is that at a time when the Europeans are spending peanuts on their own defense, making themselves into paper tigers and free riders on America for global policing, that they start exporting arms to a growing tiger -- China.
 This is especially true since the real reason that the E.U. wants to end its arms embargo with China is to position itself better to sell more Airbus passenger jets to Beijing. Weapons systems are the loss leader that the E.U. is dangling in front of the Chinese to persuade them to buy more of Europe's civilian airplanes. Indeed, what is really sad about the European arms sale proposal to China is that the E.U. doesn't seem to be demanding any political price, even the slightest change in behavior, from Beijing in return, except some vague ''code of conduct.'' Sure. Ask the software industry about Chinese promises not to pirate technology.
 I am not part of the bash-China lobby. I believe that the U.S. needs to engage China, not isolate it, and work with it so that it takes its rightful place on the world stage. I believe China is largely a force for stability in Asia, not instability. But one reason for that is that the U.S. has countered any other impulses from Beijing by maintaining a stable balance of power among China, Korea, Japan and Taiwan -- a balance that has helped the entire region prosper. The sale of advanced European weapons to China can only weaken that balance.
 But what really concerns me is Europe. Europe's armies were designed for static defense against the Soviet Union. But the primary security challenges to Europe today come from the Middle East, Central Asia and Africa. If you put all the E.U. armies together, they total around two million soldiers in uniform -- almost the same size as the U.S. armed forces. But there is one huge difference -- only about 5 percent of the European troops have the training, weaponry, logistical and intelligence support and airlift capability to fight a modern, hot war outside of Europe. (In the U.S. it is 70 percent in crucial units.) 
 The rest of the European troops -- some of whom are unionized! -- do not have the training or tools to fight alongside America in a hot war. They might be good for peacekeeping, but not for winning a war against a conventional foe. God save the Europeans if they ever felt the need to confront a nuclear-armed Iran. U.S. defense spending will be over $400 billion in 2005. I wish it could be less, but one reason it can't is that the United States of Europe is spending less than half of what we are. And the U.S. and E.U. really are the pillars of global stability.
 The U.S. is building 180 C-17 long-range lift aircraft to transport troops and tanks anywhere in the world, and 112 C-5's, to replace the aging C-141's. The European NATO members have exactly four C-17's. They all belong to Britain and even those are leased from Boeing. The Europeans are so short of long-range lift aircraft that they basically have to depend on leased Russian and Ukrainian Antonov transports to get to the battlefield. George Robertson, the former NATO secretary general, used to ask them what they would do if a war broke out during the Christmas season, when most of the Antonovs are leased to toy companies shipping electronic games around the world. Ride, mister?
 For all of Europe's complaining about what the Bush team stands for, my ears are still ringing with the remark that a German columnist recently made to me in Berlin: ''What do we stand for?'' he asked. What is Europe's foreign policy? America is saying that the largest strategic issue of our time is peacefully managing the rise of China. We have to get this right. Having a strong Europe on our side -- not on both sides -- would be a big help.
 If Europe wants to go pacifist, that's fine. But there is nothing worse than a pacifist that sells arms -- especially in a way that increases the burden on its U.S. ally and protector. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (91%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); ARMIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); ARMS EMBARGOES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ETHICS (76%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (74%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); EXPORT PROMOTION (70%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (51%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); ASIA (90%); GERMANY (88%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); AFRICA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



139 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: As Clinton Wins G.O.P. Friends, Her Challengers' Task Toughens

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The intimate gathering at a private home in Corning, N.Y., was pretty typical for an upstate fund-raiser featuring Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton: dozens of donors clustered in the terrace, listening to her speak, as they sipped wine and nibbled on hors d'oeuvres.
 But one thing made the event unusual: The host was a prominent Republican businessman whose brother Amo Houghton was the popular nine-term Republican congressman from the area who, it turns out, gives Mrs. Clinton, a Democrat, an ''A-plus'' for the job she is doing.
 His brother James, chairman of Corning Inc., agreed. ''When I introduced Hillary, I told the crowd that the last time a Houghton had a fund-raiser for a Democrat was about 1812,'' he said. 
 With her 2006 re-election campaign approaching, New York Republican leaders vow to rally party loyalists in a broad effort to topple Mrs. Clinton, who has long engendered deep antipathy on the right. 
 But as the fund-raiser last year in the heavily Republican town of Corning illustrated, the party may have a bit of a problem on its hands.
 In the four years since taking office, Mrs. Clinton has managed to cultivate a bipartisan, above-the-fray image that has made her a surprisingly welcome figure in some New York Republican circles, even as she remains exceedingly popular with her liberal base.
 A recent poll by The New York Times, for example, showed that Mrs. Clinton's popularity had sharply improved among Republicans voters surveyed, with 49 percent saying they approved of the job she was doing, compared with 37 percent who expressed similar sentiments in October 2002.
 But perhaps nothing demonstrates her improved standing with the opposition as much as the close ties she has forged with many leading Republican officials in the state, who say that they have been pleasantly surprised by what they describe as the nuts-and-bolts pragmatism of her style.
 Only five years ago, for example, Representative Thomas M. Reynolds of Buffalo mocked Mrs. Clinton as a ''a tourist who has lost her way,'' alluding to the fact that she had not lived in New York before deciding to run for the Senate.
 But these days, Mr. Reynolds, a Republican who is frequently mentioned as a possible candidate for speaker of the House, says he considers Ms. Clinton an ally in his effort to deliver aid to western New York. 
 In fact, he said that his work with Mrs. Clinton had prompted the local newspaper in his district to call them the ''odd couple.''
 ''I like Senator Clinton,'' said Mr. Reynolds, a friend and adviser to Gov. George E. Pataki. ''I've found that when she says she will take on a job with me, she does it.''
 But surely Mr. Reynolds wants a Republican to take Mrs. Clinton's seat, no? ''New York is a big blue state,'' he responded, referring to the states with large Democratic voter enrollment. ''I will work with whoever the electorate puts in those positions.''
 Nobody expects top Republicans like Mr. Reynolds to cross party lines and endorse Mrs. Clinton. But some political strategists say the Republican Party will have a hard time making a strong case against her, since she will be able to point to the positive reviews she has gotten from her Republican colleagues over the year.
 ''It certainly helps to neutralize the attacks against her,'' said Lee M. Miringoff, the director of the Marist Institute for Public Opinion in Poughkeepsie, N.Y.
 The emerging view of Mrs. Clinton among leading New York Republicans would have been unimaginable four years ago, when her political rivals cast her as a carpetbagger who had no real interest in New York beyond seeing it as a springboard to the presidency.
 Political analysts say that Mrs. Clinton's improved standing reflects her meticulous efforts to win over critics -- as well as the tendency among politicians to look past party differences and find common interests once in office.
 But these strategists also say that the unusually open support she is enjoying among Republicans highlights a lack of party discipline that has been plaguing the New York Republican Party in recent years.
 Mr. Miringoff said that many rank-and-file Republicans apparently felt they had less to lose in bucking the party leadership than in straining relations with a highly popular United States senator.
 ''It's a party that is really hurting,'' Mr. Miringoff said, referring to Republicans. ''And so self-interest and self-preservation are taking over.''
 The Republicans giving Mrs. Clinton high marks include Representative John M. McHugh, who represents New York's economically beleaguered North Country, a politically conservative region that Mrs. Clinton visits frequently.
 In an interview, the congressman said that Mrs. Clinton had been helpful to him from her seat on the Senate Armed Services Committee in steering money to Fort Drum, an Army base in Watertown that provides an economic lift to the area.
 ''Our other senators have been helpful,'' he said, referring to the work Mrs. Clinton's predecessors have done on behalf of Fort Drum. ''But they have not had the advantage of being on the authorizing committee.''
 As for the 2006 Senate race, he did not sound particularly enthusiastic about the prospect of campaigning against Mrs. Clinton. ''We share constituents,'' explained Mr. McHugh, ''and, frankly, the challenges are big enough without erecting artificial partisan barriers.''
 Another Republican, Representative Peter T. King of Nassau County, struck a similar note in recent interview. He described Mrs. Clinton as a celebrity senator who is willing to take a subordinate role on an issue she cares about, rather than allowing her involvement to become a distraction.
 For instance, Mr. King recalled an occasion when Mrs. Clinton suggested that he find another senator to be a co-sponsor of legislation that would benefit New York, because she figured that her presence on the bill would fire up the opposition. ''There are very few politicians in public life who have the composure to step back, knowing that they will win in the end,'' he said.
 Mr. King also said that Mrs. Clinton had been anything but the liberal extremist that her conservative critics accused her of being. ''I'm not going to vote for her and probably disagree with her on 70 percent of the issues,'' he said. ''But I think that too many Republicans who criticize Hillary Clinton sound like Michael Moore criticizing George Bush.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hillary Rodham Clinton will come up for re-election to the Senate next year. (Photo by Mario Tama/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CORNING INC (85%)

TICKER: GLW (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335921 FIBER OPTIC CABLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (85%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); THOMAS M REYNOLDS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



140 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: For 'Simple Joy,' Please Make a Note of It

BYLINE: By Louise Kramer. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE Internet has been Lauren Marrus's bread and butter for more than a decade. She helped create ABC Online, Oprah Online and the Style Channel, a joint venture with AOL. She developed an online service for investors that gave them access to more than one million financial reports. She gives speeches about e-commerce to business groups.
 But her latest venture represents a leap into the past. Last fall, she acquired Dempsey & Carroll, one of the oldest and most respected stationery companies in the United States. It was founded in New York in 1878 and last year fell on hard times. 
 Ms. Marrus, who has been writing letters since she went to summer camp, is convinced that there is a growing market for what she calls ''the simple joy'' of the handwritten note, as e-mail and instant messages start to become a dizzying blur. ''Written correspondence is a real way to break through,'' she said.
 Charlotte St. Martin, a senior marketing executive for Loews Hotels, owner of the Regency hotel in New York, agrees. ''The more high-tech we get, the more handwritten notes will become valuable,'' she said. Ms. St. Martin, who writes personal notes to friends, colleagues and business prospects every chance she gets, said that when she gets a written thank-you from a job seeker instead of an e-mail message, the candidate automatically gets extra points.
 Not all job seekers are likely to be able to afford stationery from Dempsey & Carroll, but those willing to spend $249 for a box of 100 engraved notecards will join an impressive customer list. A favorite of socialites, movie stars, politicians and business leaders, the stationer has engraved invitations for presidential inaugurations and picnics for the polo set. Presidents Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton have ordered notecards. So have George Soros, Madonna and George Steinbrenner III. 
 Ms. Marrus, 43, who has an M.B.A. from Harvard, is running the company out of a design studio on East 57th Street, where a staff of three sells by appointment. The stationery is also sold through a network of dealers and a toll-free number. Needless to say, Ms. Marrus was quick to create a Web site, too. In the five months since she bought the business, it has already become profitable, she said, a note of slight amazement in her voice. There is at least one retail shop in the company's future -- probably on the Upper East Side -- and possibly more. 
 But before Ms. Marrus invests in real estate, she needs to finish putting the company's affairs in order. Last year, its previous owner, George Ward, a respected figure in the engraving business, became seriously ill and abruptly shut down all operations, including an expensive new boutique on Madison Avenue and an engraving plant in Baltimore. Before that, the company had been healthy, with an estimated $5 million in annual sales. 
 When Ms. Marrus arrived to tour the plant, she found it in disarray. Hundreds of copper and steel engraving plates and stationery samples were scattered everywhere. Stacked near the press were invitations for June events. It was July. ''I was debating whether I should buy it, and my husband said I would never be able to forgive myself if I didn't,'' said Ms. Marrus, a fan of Dempsey & Carroll since she treated herself to a box of its engraved correspondence sheets in 1993. ''He was right.''
 She spent less than $5 million to buy the business with backing from private investors, declining to provide the exact amount. She bought the company name, trademarks, customer files and dealer lists. She also bought its inventory of fine paper, navy blue stationery boxes and ink. A former company employee engraves most of Ms. Marrus's orders, and is allowing her to park three tractor-trailers stuffed with her inventory behind his print shop in Hanover, Md.
 Those in the industry say the timing is good for so-called affordable luxuries like engraved stationery, fancy chocolates and designer handbags. Another luxury stationery company in New York, the Mrs. John L. Strong Company, has just expanded to other cities. 
 ''The trend is toward the more expensive items,'' said Lori Robinson, show manager for George Little Management, the organizer of an annual stationery trade show at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. Last year, the event had its largest number of exhibitors in five years.
 Ms. Marrus plans to be at the show in May to show that Dempsey & Carroll is back. Beyond that, she wants to expand its market beyond its aging customer base. 
 She already has a head start. In recent weeks, orders came in for the actress Kate Bosworth and the illusionist David Blaine. He did not, in fact, order disappearing ink. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: ENGRAVED AND ENGAGED -- Lauren Marrus in the stock room of Dempsey & Carroll, the venerable stationery company that she is working to reorganize and revive. (Photo by Jennifer S. Altman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (86%); INSTANT MESSAGING (78%); JOINT VENTURES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (75%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (75%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); RETAILERS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AUSTRALIAN BROADCASTING CORP (58%); LOEWS HOTELS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (55%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (70%); GEORGE H W BUSH (70%); GEORGE SOROS (69%); BILL CLINTON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



141 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2619 words

HEADLINE: A Texan Stumbles in King Arthur's Court

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT; Heather Timmons contributed reporting from London for this article.

 BODY:
WHEN Marjorie Scardino took over as chief executive of Pearson, the stodgy British media company, in 1997, she told investors that she was ''shooting'' to double its share price within five years -- and promptly set out to transform it into a modern, slickly focused behemoth.
 That takes money. And Mrs. Scardino, a feisty Texan, spent it.
 Though she had never run a major corporation, Mrs. Scardino, a lawyer and former journalist turned hard-charging executive, was not shy about selling assets like the Tussauds Group, including the London wax museum, and a stake in Lazard, the investment bank, and spending roughly $8 billion to buy other businesses. 
 To fortify Pearson's powerful education publishing business, she spent $4.6 billion for Simon & Schuster; $2.5 billion for NCS, a testing service; and $463 million for Dorling Kindersley, a British publisher that she added to Penguin Putnam. She also poured hundreds of millions into Internet businesses, including FT.com, the Web site tied to Pearson's global financial newspaper, The Financial Times.
 Along the way, Mrs. Scardino, whose down-home style prompted one British analyst to call her a ''jolly hockey-stick kind of girl,'' caught the fancy of the press and investors. As a woman and an American, she was a novelty in the clubby, male-dominated worlds of British finance and publishing.
 But the novelty is wearing thin. Her promise to double Pearson's share price is long overdue; the stock, which closed on Friday at 636 pence ($12.24) a share, is down 3.3 percent since she took over in January 1997. And her grand strategy has generated more headlines than it has earnings: Pearson earned 30 pence a share in 1996, the year before she arrived, and 30 pence a share last year -- as a growing number of shares diluted a 40 percent increase in adjusted net earnings.
 Though a company spokesman contended that much of the recent decline could be attributed to the weak dollar, which he said had depressed profits from the company's book businesses in the United States, investors and media experts have been less forgiving. 
 ''If you made the decision to invest in dollar assets, you have to pay the price,'' said Bruce C. Greenwald, an economics professor at Columbia Business School who teaches a course on the media. He added that after eight years, you should have growth in your businesses.
 Chris Collett, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, says he has downgraded his estimates of Pearson's earnings three times in the last six months because of a litany of bad news about the company. Alan Beaney, a fund manager at Principal Investment Management in Sevenoaks, England, said his fund sold its holdings several years ago because he had tired of ''one disappointment after another.''
 MRS. SCARDINO'S record has prompted speculation about how long she will stay at Pearson. Investors were abuzz last week, when Lord Dennis Stevenson, Pearson's chairman and Mrs. Scardino's mentor, resigned. 
 ''Stevenson was the gatekeeper between the shareholders and the board, and he was protective of Scardino,'' said Alex de Groote, a media analyst at Commerzbank Securities in London. ''Clearly, now he is gone; the gatekeeper role is vacant.''
 The company went to great lengths to assure investors that Mrs. Scardino was staying on. Mrs. Scardino declined to be interviewed for this article and did not permit any divisional heads to speak about the company's performance over time. The only executive Pearson made available was Rona Fairhead, its chief financial officer.
 Tradition suggests that she may have some breathing room. ''We are too polite to fire people,'' said one British investment analyst. ''They don't do that sort of thing here.'' He would speak only if not named because his firm does not permit him to comment for attribution to the news media.
 Instead, Mrs. Scardino, who turned 58 in January, may be allowed to continue trying to turn around Pearson until she is 60, the age when many British executives retire.
 Her tenure has also been helped by Pearson's relatively generous dividend. It recently increased its payout to 25.4 pence, or about 4 percent of its share price, compared with about 2 percent for British media companies in general. Pearson decided to increase its dividend from 24.2 pence a share even though it had to borrow money to do so.
 During a meeting with investors last Monday, Mrs. Scardino said she had no intention of leaving. Lord Stevenson said Mrs. Scardino had the complete support of the board.
 Critics say a reason for Pearson's difficulty in delivering results is that Mrs. Scardino became caught up in buzzwords of the 1990's -- mergers, expansion and dot-com investments -- and paid dearly for many of the assets she bought. When Pearson bought NCS, for example, it paid a huge 50 times earnings. Company documents show that Pearson lost $431 million on Internet investments alone from 1999 to 2002.
 At the same time, the critics say, the company was too caught up in deals to tend properly to businesses it already owned.
 ''Good management is about taking the hand you are dealt and making the most of it by managing costs and revenues well,'' Professor Greenwald said. ''It was one thing to sell off unrelated business, but Pearson has been shuffling the cards like crazy with no evident purpose and no attention to efficient operations. The predictable result is that their financial returns are terrible.''
 Company representatives defended Pearson's Internet investments. One said that ''over 70 percent of our school and college businesses have Internet components, and online advertising is one of the fastest-growing businesses.''
 But Pearson's return on invested capital last year was 6.2 percent; while that is a slight increase from 2003, it is far below the 7.8 percent that Mr. Wellington said was Morgan Stanley's estimate of Pearson's cost of capital. That means Pearson is not earning as much on its capital as the company pays to borrow it.
 Mrs. Fairhead said that this ''is a brutal way of looking at it,'' and not the view at Pearson's headquarters in London. ''We are looking at it over the longer term,'' she said. ''The critical thing is making sure the return rises over time. That is the path we are on.'' 
 Mrs. Scardino, an inveterate optimist, is clearly counting on better performance this year. And earnings are likely to climb, in part because of a general improvement in educational publishing, which accounted for 67 percent of last year's profit from continuing operations.
 In any case, Mrs. Fairhead said Mrs. Scardino believes that the company has succeeded in streamlining operations and has cut costs by $:360 million over the last several years. ''Now we can benefit from a better economy,'' she said, ''and the ability to build our market share.''
 There is sympathy for that position. Nick Train of Lindsell Train Ltd., an independent investment firm, acknowledged that he had been disappointed by the returns on its Pearson stock, but he added, ''It has been a challenging phase for media companies.''
 Pearson often makes that point, too, and is eager to compare its performance with that of Reuters, the news service and financial data provider. Shares of Reuters have declined more than 40 percent in the last eight years. Pearson officials add that, despite the dip in their share price, the company's rich dividend has provided investors with a total return of 21 percent during Mrs. Scardino's tenure. 
 But Reuters is not an ideal comparison because it does not publish books, magazines or newspapers. A closer match may be to McGraw-Hill, which also relies heavily on educational publishing but has neither made costly purchases nor pursued the dot-com craze. Its stock has risen 300 percent in the last eight years.
 One asset that Mrs. Scardino has used well over the years is her personal style. People who have worked for her say she is open and friendly. Employees of The Financial Times say she sends memos that end with notes suggesting that they pick up the phone and call her if they have a concern.
 Fortune magazine anointed her the seventh most powerful female executive in the world in 1999, and two years later named her the most powerful executive woman outside the United States. She was invested as a Dame Commander of the British Empire in 2002.
 Whether or not Pearson makes a comeback, Mrs. Scardino's career has all the drama of an American success story with the added twist of acceptance at the pinnacle of the staid British establishment. Born in Flagstaff, Ariz., she grew up in Texarkana, Tex., and was active in student politics in high school and attended Baylor University in Waco, Tex., where she majored in French and psychology. In 1974, she married Albert J. Scardino, a budding journalist she met when they both worked for The Associated Press. She went on to earn a law degree at the University of San Francisco, and in 1978, they founded The Georgia Gazette, a weekly newspaper in Mr. Scardino's hometown, Savannah, Ga. He won a Pulitzer Prize in 1984 for the newspaper's aggressive editorials, but those editorials cost it advertising and it failed a year later.
 The Scardinos then moved to New York, where Mr. Scardino joined The New York Times as an editor and Mrs. Scardino became the deputy chief executive of The Economist. She served in New York and then in London.
 Her accomplishments at The Economist, where she more than doubled circulation in the United States, brought her to the attention of Lord Stevenson.
 She initially seemed well equipped for Pearson. She was decisive, ambitious and unpretentious, according to several people who worked with her. And the sales of assets indicated that she was trying to focus Pearson's businesses, shedding unrelated units like theme parks and buying publishing enterprises.
 In her initial years at the helm, she impressed her staff with a single-mindedness of purpose. Early on, she sent out a memo to employees, saying: ''I do my best in an atmosphere of energy, some urgency and a good amount of humor. I do not want to be associated with an organization that is not decent and fair.'' Her drive, coupled with a clearly defined strategy, also impressed investors.
 But Mrs. Scardino's spate of acquisitions and some management decisions have proved costly. That has become apparent most recently at Penguin, the book publishing unit with brand-name authors like Patricia Cornwall, Nora Roberts and Tom Clancy.
 Pearson said last week that Penguin's operating profit tumbled 24 percent last year, to $:54 million, on sales of $:786 million. That is down from 1997, when operating profit was $:56.9 million, though the company said the weak dollar was partly to blame. (At current exchange rates, that would be a profit of $103 million on sales of $1.5 billion.) Penguin accounted for only 12.4 percent of Pearson's profit from continuing operations, but its problems have caused the most recent crises at the company.
 Last year, Penguin sold the warehouse that shipped Penguin's British books and moved to another space. But the new automated systems used to track and ship books did not work properly. The debacle cost the company about $17 million.
 Speaking after Pearson's earnings were released last week, Mrs. Scardino said that what happened at Penguin was outside its managers' control. Several industry executives disagreed, saying that some Pearson executives had forecast risks in such a rapid move.
 ''The consolidation had a logic to it, but it was all fouled up,'' said Mark Le Fanu, general secretary of the Society of Authors in London. ''Whenever publishers move warehouses, there are always teething troubles, but this was on a scale that was of a different dimension.''
 In a smaller, less publicized setback, Penguin shut down Penguin TV, which was created in 2002 to develop programming based on Penguin and Dorling Kindersley books.
 In discussing its results in its earnings statement, Pearson focused less on the warehouse problem than on the weak dollar and softness in the American consumer publishing business. Ms. Fairhead said Pearson relies more on mass-market book sales than any of its rivals. But Mr. Collett, the Goldman analyst, noted that other American publishers, including HarperCollins, did well in the fourth quarter.
 To several people who follow Pearson, including industry executives at rival companies and analysts, the problems at Penguin raise questions about the leadership of John Makinson, the Penguin Group's chief executive, who those people say they consider Mrs. Scardino's likely heir. The company declined to comment.
 As chief executive of Penguin, Mr. Makinson would have had to sign off on the warehouse move, and he was the chief financial officer when Pearson bought Dorling Kindersley, a publisher of illustrated books.
 In 2000, against the advice of veteran publishing executives like Phyllis Grann, then chief executive of Penguin USA, Pearson spent $466 million to acquire Dorling Kindersley, a publisher of illustrated books. Several analysts also found the price very high, considering that Dorling Kindersley had recently posted a $25 million loss.
 In an oblique acknowledgement of problems with the unit, Mrs. Scardino conceded at a lunch with reporters last week that Dorling Kindersley could be ''more integrated'' into the company as a whole.
 To be sure, Pearson is dominated by its educational unit, which accounted for 68 percent of its revenue last year. Mrs. Scardino is largely responsible for that, by spending $4.6 billion for Simon & Schuster in 1998, a deal that ''catapults us to become the leading education business worldwide,'' she told investors at the time. She also added NCS, the testing service for which Pearson paid $2.5 billion, to that unit.
 But after that acquisition, the American market weakened because government cutbacks meant that states bought fewer school books. Only now is that cycle ending, and the industry expecting a strong year. ''The government budgets have been very tight,'' Mrs. Fairhead said. ''They are now rising in terms of tax receipts. The adoption program looks very good for the next several years.''
 That leaves Pearson well positioned for next year in its school business, which accounted for 40 percent of the sales by its Pearson Educational unit. 
 Pearson said operating income for its Financial Times Group jumped 69 percent last year, to $:86 million, or $164 million, on revenue of $:587 million, or $1.12 billion. The revenue gain, of 3 percent, was the group's first since 2000. The increase largely came from cutting costs at The Financial Times, Pearson said. The group publishes that newspaper and other periodicals, and holds the company's half interest in The Economist.
 When Mrs. Scardino joined the company, she vowed to expand the newspaper's circulation with a major push in the United States and Germany. Total circulation jumped 58 percent, to 476,000, by 2001, but it has since fallen back to 436,000. Mrs. Fairhead attributed the decline to job losses in the British financial industry. Weak advertising also prompted the cost cutting, she said.
 Pearson points out that its online business, FT.com, has 76,000 paid subscribers and is breaking even. But it has not started to recoup the money that Pearson invested in it, which was most of the roughly $200 million the division put into the Internet. 
 That is one reason that profits have been ''lumpy,'' as Mrs. Fairhead put it. ''We have been going through a transformation,'' she added.
 Mrs. Scardino told some reporters at lunch last week that she believes the transformation is over, along with the lumpiness. But investors have heard that before, and they are withholding judgment.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about Pearson P.L.C., the British media company, referred incorrectly to its payment of an increased dividend in 2004. The company's free cash flow last year, $:288 million, exceeded its dividend payout of $:201 million, so it did not have to borrow to pay it. 
 The article also referred incompletely to the Pearson officials who were made available for interviews. While the company declined to provide divisional heads, its non-executive chairman, Lord Stevenson, who has announced plans to retire, was interviewed in addition to the chief financial officer, Rona Fairhead.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A BRITISH EMPIRE -- Marjorie Scardino, left, the chief executive of Pearson, and Rona Fairhead, the chief financial officer. The company's wide-ranging publications include, from top left, Penguin Classics books, The Economist, The Financial Times and textbooks by Addison-Wesley and Prentice Hall. (Photo by David Parry/NewsCast)(pg. 1)
 Marjorie Scardino promised to double Pearson's stock price but has fallen short. Penguin Putnam, the unit that published the books below, has had some problems. (Photo by Pearson via Bloomberg News)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); WRITERS (76%); EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING (74%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%); MEN (67%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (93%); PEARSON PLC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS GROUP LTD (57%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%); DORLING KINDERSLEY LTD (56%); PENGUIN GROUP (USA) INC (56%)

TICKER: PSON (LSE) (92%); PSO (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (57%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (56%)

PERSON: MARJORIE SCARDINO (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



142 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 6; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Future of Rail Lines Needs Bold Approach

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Although the transportation initiatives of Governor M. Jodi Rell may appear heavily favoring Fairfield County, the governor's initiatives should be weighed from the historical prospective. While the state's highway systems received massive Federal and state funds for new highway construction and maintenance throughout the years, the railroad rolling stock had not received any significant capital improvement funding during the preceding 30 years. 
 In other words, Fairfield County did contribute its share to the highway systems as the rest of the Connecticut did for the past 30 years but the Fairfield County railroad system, New Haven Line in particular, did not receive the similar benefit. 
 Unfortunately there is no railroad system capable of sustaining itself and be profitable. Concurrently, without Federal and state funding and administration, the highway system nationwide can not exist. In light of the intolerable daily congestion we encounter on I-95, upgrading the mass transit system would be the most expedient and logical solution. 
 Because of our peculiar electrical rail-car designs dating back to the 1920's, the new cars, called M-7's now running on Harlem and Hudson Lines of Metro-North system cannot run readily on our tracks. The most appropriate approach is to acquire replacement electric cars designed and suitable to operate on our New Haven Line. Admittedly it may take somewhat longer but the quantity purchase contemplated should result in competitive pricing. To bridge the gap, the alternative is to supplement the current fleet with ready-made coaches and locomotives until the new electric cars are delivered. 
 The rail transportation situation begs for a bold and fresh approach for resolution. Our economy and business depend heavily on the accessibility (transportation system) to the economic centers; Washington, New York, Connecticut through Boston, the so-called Northeast Corridor. 
 This is an important issue, left unattended it will result in an adverse impact to the state's business climate. I applaud our governor's courageous transportation initiative and her concern for the future of our state's economic well-being.

Albert C. Song
Trumbull

The writer is a retired principal engineer for the Bureau of Public Transportation of the Connecticut Department of Transportation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); WRITERS (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: M JODI RELL (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (71%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



143 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: A Consumption Tax? The Price Isn't Right

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman once again hits the nail on the head, and rightly criticizes Alan Greenspan (''Deficits and Deceit,'' column, March 4). That Mr. Greenspan has been and is a political shill for the Bush administration's misguided fiscal policies is no longer in doubt. 
 This ''starve the beast'' strategy uses tax cuts, mainly for the wealthy, to buy their support (this is democracy?), and the resulting deficits to slash domestic spending for Social Security, health care, education, transportation, the environment and so on. It is a pre-emptive attack on the life of American citizens that will weaken our economy and our country more than any possible terrorist attack could. 
 Instead of considering the citizenry as the ''beast'' to be starved, spending for the conservatives' beauty, the military and Pentagon, should be slashed.

Sidney Tamm
Newton, Mass., March 4, 2005


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); TAX LAW (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (71%); TERRORISM (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); PAUL KRUGMAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



144 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 3-6-05; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: A Fairy Tale for Grown-Ups

BYLINE: By Daphne Merkin. 
Daphne Merkin, a novelist and critic, is a frequent contributor to the magazine.

 BODY:
Who can forget the frenzied public anticipation -- not to mention the media blitz -- surrounding the photogenic and, as it would turn out, fatally ill-conceived union of Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer? That summer in 1981, when a sober Charles wed a certifiably virginal Diana -- she looking more like a demure, pretty milkmaid than the attention-craving glamourpuss she would become -- I was staying at a writer's colony in upstate New York. The atmosphere was heavy with literary concerns, and it was definitely not the thing to evince interest in the choreographed nuptials of two silly anachronistic royals. I worried that I would have to forgo the pleasures of watching the ceremonies along with 750 million other viewers when several days before the event I discovered another writer who shared my declasse fascination. The two of us hatched an ornate plan to depart the colony at 5 a.m. on the day of the wedding, having arranged to drive to a town nearby where my friend knew someone with a house and, most important, a TV. While our colleagues back at the colony lingered in their dreams, we settled down to gaze, wide-eyed with vicarious inner-princess gratification, at the regal fantasy, replete with a gilded chariot, unfolding on the small screen. 
 Fast-forward to the recent announcement of Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles's plans to marry in April. Smirks. Snickers. Rolling of eyes heavenward. Everyone on both sides of the Atlantic feels free to join in a riot of name calling -- started, I might add, years ago by none other than Diana herself, whose snide nickname for her rival was the Rottweiler. The front-page headline of The Daily Star chortled: ''Boring Old Gits to Wed.'' Brit Hume of Fox News was more than a bit perplexed: ''Well, if you look at a photograph of Diana, you can understand, but this one . . . why? Why her?'' A man sitting next to me at a dinner party insists that he wants proof that Camilla is a woman. Another man, one of the more discerning among my acquaintance, but also something of an unreconstructed babe watcher, refers to Camilla as a ''wreck.'' When I demand to know why she is a wreck, it emerges that any woman over 30 -- which would include this man's wife and daughter, not to mention my own inexcusably aged self -- qualifies as a wreck. ''The guy could have had any woman he wanted,'' he adds, sounding outraged on behalf of his entire sex that Charles has sunk to such frumpy depths in his choice of a partner. 
 The fact that none of this is meant seriously is beside the point, for what is stunningly clear is that Charles's decision to wed a woman he has been extraordinarily attached to since they first met at a polo match in 1970, and whose allure for him goes well beyond any obvious pinup appeal, has profoundly threatened the football-bonding, beer-guzzling, mother-rejecting frat boy in every man. Ours is a culture that is open to all kinds of desires, it seems, except the sort of male longing for a woman that isn't immediately reducible to its prurient, arm-candy essence. Which is why Charles's amorous devotion to Camilla, who has the temerity to look her age and not get her teeth capped or keep her waist whittled to Scarlett O'Hara dimensions (and who, by all accounts, is completely at ease with herself notwithstanding), immediately gets translated into an embarrassing spectacle, something that shows him up as a loony wimp and her as a conniving shrew along the Wallis Simpson model.
 Of course, you can hardly expect the poignantly belated decision of these two long-in-the-tooth lovebirds to consecrate their relationship to stir up much in the way of wild excitement. Neither of them possesses the requisite qualities to stimulate the contemporary imagination, grown flabby on a diet of Heidi Klum visuals and C.E.O. excess: Camilla is not beautiful or young or, for that matter, thin (enough), and she seems about as far from the habit of televised, heavily mascaraed soul-baring that endeared Diana to her fans as Bishop Berkeley. Meanwhile, the dithering Charles lacks the singleminded vision and vulgarity of purpose that is supposed to go along with being a rich and powerful guy and that so enthralls onlookers about Donald Trump's various commercial/matrimonial ventures. If anything, he seems a bit too much of a sensitive mama's boy, forever looking for a lap to crawl into or -- and this must be a first in the annals of overheard phone confessions, whether from a prince or a pauper -- a tampon he might impersonate. It's interesting that for all the cultural agitation about the uncrossable communication divide and lack of closeness between the sexes, the impression that Charles conveys of being in touch with his most intimate yearnings, however painfully expressed, hasn't earned him points with women. Just as the fact that the couple, middle-aged and insufficiently comely as they are, seem, quite evidently, to have the hots for each other, hasn't persuaded anyone that this match has an erotic dimension far more potent than the one between Charles and the sexy Diana.
 It hasn't helped the couple's situation, either, that the logistics related to their big day have resulted in one gaffe after another, all eagerly picked up by the British news media to carnivalesque effect, as if we were being asked to consider a pilot for a sitcom to be called ''Charlie and Cami Get Married.'' The announcement of the impending nuptials came four days before Valentine's Day, which made for a slim but sweet journalistic peg, but we will never know why the queen, in all her impenetrable imperial wisdom, decided that it was O.K. for her scandal-plagued eldest son to marry his live-in divorced girlfriend this year and not last year, or next. Undoubtedly her eye is on securing the monarchy after her death (she is 78), but her decision seems to be shot through with lingering ambivalence about how best to salvage whatever dignity remains invested in her hapless brood.
 First there was the flurry about the venue for the ceremony. By contrast to Charles's first marriage, when nothing would do but St. Paul's Cathedral and Kiri Te Kanawa, this time around nothing seems inglorious enough. Windsor Castle was traded down to the Guildhall, with attendant press mutterings about the cost to the public; then there were various edicts from Buckingham Palace about table settings and premarital sleeping arrangements; finally, as if to puncture this particular balloon before it ever gets off the ground, came the announcement that the queen herself would not be attending the ceremony, followed by the news that neither would any of Charles's siblings. When you add to this various other rumors, including the one circulated in a British tabloid that the Bushes have decided not to entertain the couple in the White House -- they are divorced, after all, and who knows how that would play in the heartland -- it's a wonder the pair don't throw in the monogrammed towel and take off for a chapel in Reno.
 Most crucially, though, there is the shadow of Diana, who was everything the wife to be is not. Despite her own celebrity, she remained persistently star-struck, a vulnerable child of divorce who grew up to marry the icon whose poster she had on her bedroom wall, and whose dance partner at the White House was John Travolta. She was obsessed with her image, counted gaudy celebrities like Elton John and Versace among her friends, suffered from bulimia as well as various mood disorders and constantly tried out new hairstyles and wardrobes. In all this she reminded us of who we are, stuck at home watching the E! network, fantasizing about becoming grander and more gorgeous versions of who we are. The fact that she was troubled by larger demons than the specter of her husband's former flame and that she was enormously skilled at manipulating her own coverage, the question of whether she had anything to offer Charles or whether she was in fact interested in knowing who he was beyond the poster icon -- all these issues got lost in the tragedy of her death.
 In truth, it's impossible to approach this occasion with stardust in our eyes, which is where it most importantly differs from marriage No. 1, and is also where it fails to please us in some easy way. Featuring, as it does, a mature and un-Botoxed woman at its center, however, it should speak to us -- especially us older women, otherwise known as wrecks -- in a fuller, more resonant fashion. The long and resilient history of Charles and Camilla is a testament to the power of soulmates' love: not love as an escapist fantasy, but love seasoned by mutual understanding and the contrivances of largely illicit passion. (Let's hope an official seal of commitment won't put the clamps on their erotic life, as it has been known to.) The infinitely gratifying but tragically pubescent fairy-tale romance of Charles and Diana has been replaced by a romance for grown-ups who seem to have taken each other's human measure in private, away from the click of cameras. Camilla, who enjoyed the solid and nurturing childhood that neither Charles nor Diana had, seems to be fairly free of psychological baggage. She is the kind of woman who, if she has a problem, as one of her friends has observed, ''rather than go and see a therapist . . . is a lot more likely to go fox hunting, come back, put some rum in her tea and have some scrambled eggs.'' Whatever liabilities she does come with -- children, pets, an ex, a touch of jowls -- are out in the open for all to see, not tucked away behind the palace doors, as Diana's turned out to be.
 What this love story suggests to us are the salutary uses of disenchantment, if I may tweak the title of Bruno Bettleheim's book about fairy tales. It is anti-ageist, anti-looksist and pro-realism. Coming to us, as it does, in less than perfect shape, the tale speaks to the ordinary imperfections and extraordinary hopes that color all our lives. The tragicomedy that is life in the House of Saxe-Coburg Gotha -- ''the world's most brilliant soap opera,'' as The Economist calls it -- is finally bringing us an act worth watching. Far from joining in the disparagement, we post-babe types should be gathering on the appointed day to toast the prince and his ''devoted old bag,'' as she calls herself. Bring on the confetti. 


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Derek Hudson/Solo/Zuma Press) Chart: ''HER MAJESTY REGRETS''Who will be attending Charles and Camilla's wedding on April 8?WILL NOT ATTEND:Queen Elizabeth IIPrince PhilipWILL ATTEND:Prince WilliamPrince HarryTom and Laura Parker Bowles(Camilla's children)MIGHT ATTEND:Prince AndrewPrince EdwardPrincess Anne Source: The Daily Telegraph

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); BRITISH ROYALTY (89%); WRITERS (76%); BRITISH MONARCHS (74%); DOGS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: PRINCE CHARLES (90%); CAMILLA, DUCHESS OF CORNWALL (89%); PRINCESS DIANA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



145 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; The Nation: Retirement Ideal; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: The Late, Great 'Golden Years'

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
SPEAKING at a 1961 White House conference on aging, President John F. Kennedy declared that adding years to people's lives through the magic of science and medicine, however impressive, was an insufficient ambition for American society. ''Our objective,'' he said, ''must be to add new life to those years.''
 An answer to President Kennedy's challenge had appeared a year earlier outside Phoenix, where the developer Del Webb built his first big retirement community. Its name was Sun City, and its marketing come-on was that the ersatz town in the desert, with its own golf course, recreation hall and shopping center, was the ideal place to retire and spend life's ''golden years.'' 
 On the eve of Sun City's opening, there were some uneasy moments. Two million dollars -- good money at the time -- had been sunk into the project. Experts had told the Del Webb team that older people might reject leaving family and friends for some unknown future among strangers in the desert. Would Sun City be a prefab ghost town? 
 It turned out to be a huge and widely imitated success, because it tapped into a new vision of American lives, one where anyone can leave work behind in late middle age to enjoy a lengthy period of active leisure before the infirmities of old age finally set in. 
 Though there was always a bit of Madison Avenue mythologizing to that vision, the ''golden years'' have been real and attainable for two generations of Americans, those born roughly from 1900 to 1945. Yet for people now in their 50's and younger, what once seemed to be a permanent new feature of the American dream appears to be rapidly receding. 
 Were the golden years ever a sustainable concept for American retirement -- and will we miss them when they are gone? 
 The rethinking of retirement is driven by both necessity and changing attitudes. The current debate over Social Security -- and the even greater strain on Medicare someday -- point to the problem of how to pay for the retirement expenses and old-age entitlements of the more than 75 million baby boomers, born from 1946 to 1964, as they move into their retirement years. Those problems reflect the flip sides of the forces that helped make the golden years possible to begin with. 
 The creation of Social Security in 1935 and the Great Society programs of the 1960's -- Medicare for health coverage and the Older Americans Act for community services -- provided older Americans with a base of financial security. Public and private employers added to that with pension plans that guaranteed fixed payments year after year. Now, private pensions are becoming rare, and the cost of public entitlements is rising sharply. 
 Yet the baby boomers are also shunning the golden-years notion of retirement as an endless vacation. Surveys by AARP and other organizations are finding that up to 80 percent of boomers plan to do some sort of paid work into their 70's. They see continued participation in the work force as a way to help them stay mentally sharp and socially engaged, as well as financially more secure.
 ''The 'golden years' was a brilliant marketing strategy, and a model of retirement that appealed to a lot of people for a long time, but it no longer works economically or socially,'' observed Marc Freedman, president of Civic Ventures, a nonprofit group that tries to make it easier for older Americans to work in their communities.
 Today's retirees are a diverse group, 40 million people of varying ages, incomes and levels of activity. But there are signs that many of them, too, find conventional retirement unsatisfying. 
 ''A life of leisure for most people is boring,'' said Ken Dychtwald, a marketing and strategy consultant on aging, who advises corporations and governments. One symptom that Mr. Dychtwald cited: Retired Americans watch an average of 43 hours of television a week -- akin to a full-time job. ''Traditional retirement has proved to be a failed experiment,'' he said.
 Perhaps, but it is well to remember that the golden-years ideal was profoundly progressive in its day, reflecting a new affluence for the middle class, a triumph of social policy, and a sharp break with most of human history. 
 Before the 20th century, the vast majority of people -- all but the wealthy elite -- labored until they died, or just before. Work, it was said, was the pension of the poor. But as both prosperity and life expectancy began to rise sharply after World War II, a comfortable retirement became a possibility for many more people.
 Social Security provided the incentive of a public pension. President Franklin D. Roosevelt hailed the program for protecting Americans ''against a poverty-ridden old age.'' Yet with 25 percent unemployment and young men riding the rails seen as a potential tinderbox of social unrest, there were other considerations as well.
 ''Part of the motivation was that it was seen as a good idea to get older people out of the work force during the Depression,'' noted Dora L. Costa, an economic historian at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 But it was the post-World War II ascent of the American economy that truly laid the groundwork for mass retirement. Executives and union leaders recognized the longer lives and greater affluence of many workers, but what was still missing, they said, was an alluring model of life after work. Walter Reuther described a retirement wasteland as ''too old to work, too young to die.''
 Then came Sun City and the lustrous image of the golden years. Brochures from the time show happy retirees golfing, lawn bowling, landscape painting and bird watching in a sunlit Western terrain with palm trees, Saguaro cactuses, and modest but pleasant one-story houses. 
 It was a community, the brochure said, that promised ''An Active, New Way-of-Life'' designed for people ''55 and better.'' The marketing pitch spoke of play and community, using terms like ''the new leisure set'' and ''the friendly years'' as well as the golden years. This was not a future in a rocking chair. 
 The golden-years retirees were very good for the economy: a mobile, car-driving culture housed in freshly built exurban communities. Their spending gave a lift to Detroit and the construction industry alike.
 Generational demographics assured them a large measure of financial stability. Following them were a huge generation of relatively well-educated people with good jobs -- the baby boomers -- whose work and taxes have amply financed the retirement entitlements of their parents. 
 The boomers, of course, confront a very different generational arithmetic: they are numerous, but had comparatively small families. Add in the steady stretching of life expectancy and a continuous stream of life-enhancing but costly medical advances, and the current path looks alarming.
 ''The problem is much more serious than most people realize,'' said Lawrence J. Kotlikoff, a professor of economics at Boston University, who is the coauthor with Scott Burns of ''The Coming Generational Storm'' (M.I.T. Press, 2004). 
 In recent years, companies have pulled sharply away from providing their workers with traditional fixed-benefit pensions; instead they offer plans that depend on workers' own savings, like 401(k) accounts, and give no guarantees. 
 But economists say that most workers are saving far too little in these accounts. Then, consider that half of all workers now retire at 62, when they first become eligible for Social Security payments. 
 ''People are not going to be able to retire at 62 and sustain themselves in their current lifestyle,'' said Alicia Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College.
 Even the ''inheritance dividend'' that the boomer generation will eventually receive from their parents, estimated at as much as $10 trillion, will not greatly affect the overall picture for most people, because the richest sliver of the population will get the bulk of that money.
 Yet the pessimistic prognosis assumes that current trends continue. There is an alternative: Change the nature of retirement, just as the golden years were a departure from what came before.
 For example, raise the retirement age by three years, and the annual gain for the Social Security system -- from reduced benefit costs and increased taxes paid by workers still on the job -- would be about 30 percent of the program's total cost, according to Jonathan Gruber, an economist at M.I.T. That one change would erase all the worries about the looming deficits facing Social Security over the next 75 years, Mr. Gruber said.
 A more subtle path would be a voluntary evolution of attitudes about work late in life among both employers and workers. There is some evidence that is already beginning. Nearly half of all people who formally retire from careers either continue to work in full- or part-time jobs or start their own companies, according to Joseph Quinn, a professor of economics at Boston College. 
 The golden-years dream was the freedom from work. ''The new dream,'' said Mr. Freedman of Civic Ventures, ''may be the freedom to work in new fields, and in jobs that are still rewarding.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The leisure and financial security enjoyed by the Depression generation is receding for baby boomers. (Photo by Ed Kashi/Corbis)(pg. 1)
 Advertisements for Sun City in the early 1960's helped build a myth of retirement as an endless vacation. (Photo by The Sun City Historical Society via Jeff Topping for The New York Times)(pg. 6)Chart: ''Over the Hill and Back to Work''People past retirement age make up a rapidly growing share of the American population. But lately, fewer of them are leaving employment behind at 65 or even 70.Graph tracks the American population by age from 1990 through 2050. (some estimates are projections.)2050 PROJECTIONSPercentage of Americans:65 AND OLDER: 20.6%85 AND OLDER: 5.0%Graph tracks percentage of Americans in the work force (ages 65-69 and 70 or older) from 1963 up until now.AGE 65-69MEN: 32.8%WOMEN: 22.7AGE 70 AND OLDERMEN: 12.3WOMEN: 6.4(Sources by Census Bureau, Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AGING (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MEDICARE (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



146 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Commodities Are Pointing Thumbs Up

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
IF you are looking for more confirmation that the United States and global economies are vibrant, just check out commodity prices, especially those for industrial materials.
 ''The story is that all commodities are on the move,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management. And he sees that as a plus right now for the United States economy and the stock market, now at its highest level since the summer of 2001. 
 The rally in commodities, Mr. Paulsen added, ''tells you there is strength in the world, and that builds confidence that this economic upturn is sustainable.'' 
 The Journal of Commerce/ECRI index of industrial materials, including steel, aluminum, zinc, rubber, plywood and benzene, has been rising rapidly since the beginning of February and is nearing its record high, reached in August. The CRB/Reuters raw industrials spot price index, which has a different mix of raw materials, has also been rising and is heading toward the high it reached in 1995.
 The broader CRB/Reuters commodity index, which includes oranges, coffee, wheat, soybeans, gold, crude oil and heating oil, is also near a 1995 high. 
 Boring down to individual commodities shows that copper costs almost $1.50 a pound, just pennies below its recent high in December and not far from the $1.62 it reached in 1989. Nickel is $16,200 a metric ton, still more than $2,000 from its 1988 high but $5,650 above its level last May. Crude oil has been nearing $55 a barrel again and is threatening to make $60 its new perch.
 The Boom-Bust Barometer designed by Edward Yardeni of Oak Associates, which is based on jobless claims and the CRB/Reuters raw industrials spot price index, is back near its high. ''Is there more room for a boom in our Boom-Bust Barometer?'' he asks. ''Apparently so,'' he answers.

LISTEN UP -- Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, will speak publicly on Thursday and Friday; Ben S. Bernanke, a Fed governor, will do so Tuesday and Thursday. Mr. Greenspan's topics are globalization and bank regulation, but he will take questions. Mr. Bernanke will discuss the economy and the current account deficit.

DATA WATCH -- Mr. Bernanke's comments on the current account deficit will come the day before the release on Friday of new data on its largest component, the trade deficit. The consensus forecast is for red ink of $56.5 billion, well above the $51.5 billion monthly average for the last 12 months.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Journal of Commerce/ECRI Industrial Commodity Price Index since 2004. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); SPOT MARKET (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (84%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (78%); BENZENE (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HEATING OIL (71%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (76%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



147 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2414 words

HEADLINE: How the Tumultuous Marriage Of Miramax and Disney Failed

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 5 

 BODY:
Partygoers in elegant evening wear scurried to take their seats at tables decorated with delicate white orchids in the grand hall of the Pacific Design Center here. It was the night before the Academy Awards, and perhaps the last affair that Harvey and Bob Weinstein would throw for the 25-year-old Miramax Films.
 ''No event or person will ever break up the brothers Weinstein,'' Bob Weinstein declared to the assembled glitterati, dismissing critics, he said, who now believe that the Weinstein era is over. Sitting in somber silence, among the nearly 600 guests, were Leonardo DiCaprio, Cate Blanchett and Martin Scorsese. 
 It did not go unnoticed that Michael D. Eisner, the chief executive of the Walt Disney Company, was not among them. The Weinsteins, who are based in New York, were in Hollywood negotiating the final points of a separation agreement from Disney, which had acquired their film studio in 1993 for $80 million. What is clear is that the Weinsteins will have to leave behind the Miramax name and the company they founded. 
 While with Disney, Miramax released more than 300 movies that generated $4.5 billion in American ticket sales and tallied 220 Academy Award nominations and 53 wins, including best picture Oscars for ''Shakespeare in Love,'' ''The English Patient'' and ''Chicago.''
 But the Weinsteins had many low moments at Disney, too. They argued bitterly over huge losses from Talk magazine, now defunct, as well as over the ballooning size of movie budgets and Disney's refusal to release what would prove to be one of the Weinsteins' most profitable acquisitions, ''Fahrenheit 9/11.''
 The story behind the Disney-Miramax breakup, on one level, is about money and ego. The 12-year relationship went the way of many famous Hollywood marriages: infatuation, then betrayal and, expected soon, a divorce with a rich settlement. 
 But it is also a morality play with important lessons. It was not enough for the Weinsteins to make great movies -- Disney wanted those movies to reap lots of money, too. What bothered Mr. Eisner most, said representatives from both sides, was that Disney had unwittingly put together a deal that, in later years, so richly compensated the Weinsteins at Disney's expense.
 Disney and Miramax had other substantive disagreements, including over how much autonomy the brothers would have. And in the tug-of-war between art and commerce, Mr. Eisner's seeming inability to manage creative, sometimes temperamental, moviemakers was just as important as mastering the bottom line. At one point, Disney offered Bob Weinstein a contract that, in essence, would have treated him almost like any other Disney employee. He considered it an insult, a negotiator involved in the discussions said. 
 The terms of the breakup are expected to be revealed in the coming week, though with the volatile nature of the talks, either side could yet walk away from the table. When a breakup is finalized, both Disney and Weinsteins are sure to claim victory. 
 Neither, though, will emerge as a clear winner. The Weinsteins will be leaving behind the comfort of a corporate parent with deep financial pockets. For Mr. Eisner, whose brusque management style has been widely chronicled, the departure will be viewed, rightly or wrongly, as yet another incident where he clashed with associates who were then compelled to leave.
 People who know both Mr. Eisner and the Weinsteins say it did not have to end this way.
 ''It should never have reached the level of acrimony and bitterness that it did,'' said Hal Vogel, a media analyst who has followed the careers of both parties. ''Both sides benefited. The Weinsteins earned a lot of money and a reputation bordering on legendary. Disney got a lot of movies it would not have otherwise had.''
 Contentious Personalities
 Representatives for Disney and Miramax declined to comment on the split. But several people involved in the negotiations between the companies agreed to be interviewed, while insisting on anonymity because of the delicate nature of the talks and the contentious personalities involved. 
 Few in Hollywood know that the breakdown can be traced to simmering tensions following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, according to those involved in the negotiations.
 Disney's fortunes were in a tailspin then, brought on by a lingering recession and a decline in attendance at its theme parks as potential visitors were reluctant to travel. The company's ABC network was lagging in the ratings. And investors were beginning to pressure Mr. Eisner to improve Disney's financial performance. As a result, all of Disney's divisions were forced to cut costs. 
 The lone exception was Miramax, which had a strict autonomy provision that shielded it from corporate interference. In 2000, the Weinsteins renegotiated their contract with Disney and were guaranteed a yearly budget of $700 million along with a promise that they would run Miramax until September 2005, with an option to extend until 2007.
 They quickly flexed their newfound muscle, expanding into books, television and Talk magazine. Miramax began making big-budget movies, too, drifting from its independent roots, although Disney capped Miramax's per-movie investment at $35 million.
 But Miramax's expansion delivered mixed results, causing resentment at Disney's headquarters in Burbank as other divisions were cutting back, according to current and former Disney executives. Two expensive movies produced by Miramax that were released in December 2001, ''Kate and Leopold'' and the Oscar hopeful ''The Shipping News,'' bombed at the box office.
 Talk magazine was a bust; publishing executives estimate it lost $54 million, half of which came out of Miramax's pocket. Miramax's staff had ballooned to more than 450 employees. And in fiscal 2001, according to the executive who reviewed Miramax's finances, the division lost $37 million, although some at Disney suggest it was more than twice that.
 That gave Mr. Eisner pause. In early 2002, Peter Murphy, Disney's chief of strategic planning who negotiated the Weinsteins' contract in 2000 and who often carried out Mr. Eisner's plans, told the Weinsteins that Disney was losing money on their deal, another executive involved in the negotiations said. The Weinsteins' bonuses were not tied to their operating profit and Mr. Eisner wanted Miramax to show more restraint, the executive said. That year, Miramax laid off 15 percent of its staff, the first layoffs in its history, and closed Talk magazine. 
 Mr. Eisner's criticism stung. ''They went out of their minds,'' said a Hollywood executive who talked to the Weinsteins then. The brothers saw their successes a different way: They believed they were building a valuable library with films like ''Pulp Fiction,'' ''The Piano'' and ''Good Will Hunting.''
 And the Weinsteins believed Miramax's movies were generally more financially successful than Disney's own live-action movies, according to the executive who reviewed Miramax's finances. But what upset them the most was that Mr. Eisner criticized them after he rejected some ideas that turned out to be huge hits. Among the projects Mr. Eisner had vetoed financing was ''The Lord of The Rings'' series, which made New Line Cinema a fortune. Instead of cutting back, the Weinsteins sought money elsewhere with Disney's permission, said several people close to Disney and Miramax. Mr. Murphy told the brothers in May 2003 that Disney would consider increasing Miramax's budget if they could attract outside investors. The Weinsteins immediately contacted Goldman Sachs, and, within a matter of weeks, investment bankers there proposed raising $450 million to $500 million in an equity offering that gave a financial edge to Disney because its return would not be limited.
 'A Fundamental Lack of Trust'
 But after several presentations, Mr. Murphy rejected the proposal, saying it had a debt component that made the cost of capital too high, according to a negotiator involved in those discussions. (Disney had nixed a similar financing for its Touchstone division.)
 The decision was not without consequence. After that, the negotiator said, ''there was a fundamental lack of trust between the Weinsteins and Disney.'' 
 That summer, a Hollywood lawyer, Bertram Fields, who represented former Disney executive Jeffrey Katzenberg in a contract dispute with Disney in the 1990's, sought an audit on behalf of the Weinsteins of Disney's records related to charges Miramax paid for home video distribution.
 The situation deteriorated the next year. In May 2004, it emerged that Disney had refused to distribute ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' the Michael Moore political documentary financed by Miramax, fueling a controversy that Mr. Moore and others at Miramax fanned to generate publicity for the film. (The movie, which cost $7 million to make and was distributed by Lions Gate, earned $119 million at the domestic box office.)
 At the time, Disney executives said the controversy was embarrassing to Mr. Eisner, who was coming off a shareholder revolt that cost him his chairman's title. And it was ill-timed for the Weinsteins, who were in the midst of contentious negotiations over whether Disney would extend their employment contracts past September 2005.
 As one Disney executive explained, ''The relationship could have been salvaged up until then.'' 
 In a quarterly earnings call on May 12, Mr. Eisner lobbed a grenade at Miramax, telling analysts that the unit had made money only two out of the last five years. 
 ''Can you believe this?'' a negotiator close to Miramax recalled Harvey Weinstein saying after hearing Mr. Eisner's comment. According to the executive who reviewed Miramax's finances, the studio had an operating profit every fiscal year from 1999 to 2003, except in 2001. The total profit over the period was $395 million.
 Those yearly numbers, though, according to Disney, did not include the cost of overhead it charged Miramax. In fiscal 2002, for example, Miramax showed operating income of $48 million. But with a $50 million charge for overhead, Miramax showed a loss of $2 million.
 The Weinsteins disputed Mr. Eisner's numbers. Miramax, in its own accounting under its agreement with Disney, already included overhead costs, and what Disney charged was additional, according to the executive who reviewed Miramax's finances. But even after subtracting Disney's numbers, Miramax still showed an operating profit of $154 million for the five years, the executive said.
 In Mr. Eisner's view, however, that amount was unacceptable because it was less than the $162 million bonus the Weinsteins were paid under their contract from 1999 to 2003. 
 ''The bottom line is, deals that are too good to be true usually don't last,'' said a Hollywood executive who knows both the Weinsteins and Mr. Eisner.
 At a dinner in New York in late May, Mr. Eisner told friends he was ready to sever the relationship, according to a person who was there. By June, relations between the two sides were at a low. At a star-studded Los Angeles screening of ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' Harvey Weinstein joked that he and his brother had taken out newspaper ads: ''Two executives looking for a company to run. Resumes on request.''
 Even the most mundane exchanges took an air of pettiness. On a trip Harvey Weinstein made to Disney's headquarters in Burbank last summer, an employee called Disney's fire marshal, who asked Mr. Weinstein to stop smoking after seeing his lighted cigarette, a Disney executive said.
 Miramax had bigger troubles, though, as it had by then spent most of its $700 million for the year. Mr. Eisner was not inclined to give the Weinsteins more. 
 While many at Disney were happy to sever ties to Harvey Weinstein, others wanted to keep his brother Bob and his family-friendly, highly profitable Dimension Films in the Disney fold. 
 So in early August, the Weinsteins sought a compromise. Under terms proposed by Skip Brittenham, the Weinsteins' negotiator, Bob Weinstein would stay and have an annual budget of $300 million and a small development staff. He agreed to cut his profit sharing in half. Harvey Weinstein, for his part, would become an independent producer and secure financing for movies to be distributed by Dimension.
 Disney declined, one negotiator said, because the terms were too similar to the previous deal. (''Half a bad deal is still a bad deal,'' the negotiator argued.) 
 But the counter offer was dismissed as insulting by the Miramax team. Mr. Murphy offered Bob Weinstein a cut of a movie's profits only after all other costs, including distribution, were taken out. (Other successful Hollywood producers earn as much as 5 percent of a movie's revenue upfront.)
 On Aug. 24, 2004, Mr. Murphy informed the Weinsteins in a letter that their contract would not be extended past September 2005. Two months later, the Weinsteins threatened to take Disney to arbitration. According to two negotiators, David Boies, the famed litigator hired by the Weinsteins, called Mr. Murphy and told him the brothers were prepared to file a preliminary injunction against Disney if Mr. Eisner or others interfered before the contract expired. 
 Any court battle was sure to be as embarrassing for each party as the lawsuit over the 1995 hiring and firing of former Disney president Michael Ovitz, which was then being played out in a Delaware courtroom. With the two sides at a standstill, Richard Cook, chairman of the Walt Disney Studios, agreed to meet with Harvey Weinstein two days before Thanksgiving in a conference room on the second floor of Disney corporate headquarters in Burbank. 
 ''It would be in the best interest of all us to settle this amicably,'' Mr. Cook told Mr. Weinstein as Mr. Cook settled into a chair at the head of the table, according to a person who attended.
 Mr. Weinstein, who friends say only days earlier came to grips with the relationship's demise, calmly agreed. And during the next several hours -- without tantrums, threats or the glare of public scrutiny -- the two men hammered out the general framework of an agreement.
 Looking forward to another 25 years in the business, the brothers have already sought backing from several Wall Street firms. Of course, they will have to find a new name, as Miramax, which is derived from those of their parents, Miriam and Max, is being kept by Disney. But the often-volatile Harvey Weinstein is again thinking big. At the pre-Oscar party, he ended the evening by saying, ''We've just begun to fight.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, a Page 1 article in some copies yesterday about the breakup of the business relationship between the Walt Disney Company and the founders of Miramax Films omitted a passage at the continuation. The affected section should have read:
 ''The story behind the Disney-Miramax breakup, on one level, is about money and ego. The 12-year relationship went the way of many famous Hollywood marriages: infatuation, then betrayal and, expected soon, a divorce with a rich settlement. 
 ''But it is also a morality play with important lessons. It was not enough for the Weinsteins to make great movies -- Disney wanted those movies to reap lots of money, too. What bothered Mr. Eisner most, said representatives from both sides, was that Disney had unwittingly put together a deal that, in later years, so richly compensated the Weinsteins at Disney's expense.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob, left, and Harvey Weinstein released more than 300 movies while at Disney. (Photo by Tammie Arroyo/Associated Press)(pg. 34)ChartSignificant events in Disney's ownership of MiramaxDisney-Miramax: The Early YearsMAY 1993 -- Disney buys Miramax for $80 million.MAY 1996 -- Disney renews the contracts of Bob and Harvey Weinstein, Miramax's chairmen.FEB. 1999 -- Miramax and Hearst Magazines agree to jointly publish Talk, a new magazine, with Tina Brown as editor.New ContractMAY 2000 -- Disney signs the Weinsteins to new contracts giving them annual movie budgets of $700 million.JAN. 2002 -- Talk magazine suspends publication.MAY 2003 -- Miramax approaches Goldman Sachs to raise $450 million so it can spend more on making movies.Rift and DivorceMAY 2004 -- Disney stops Miramax from releasing ''Fahrenheit 9/11.'' The Weinsteins buy the rights to the movie and find a new distributor.JUNE 2004 -- Harvey Weinstein and Michael Eisner, Disney's chief executive, meet but are unable to resolve their differences.NOV. 2004 -- The Weinsteins begin negotiating to leave Disney.Domestic box-office receipts for all Miramax films, in millionsGraph tracks box-office receipts for Miramax films, in the millions since 1993.Top-grossing films, in millions1993The Piano: $40.21994Pulp Fiction: $107.91995The Postman (Il Postino): $21.81996Scream: $103.01997Good Will Hunting: $138.41998Shakespeare in Love: $100.31999She's All That: $63.42000Scary Movie: $157.02001Spy Kids: $112.72002Chicago: $170.72003Spy Kids 3D: $111.82004The Aviator: $93.6Cursed: $9.6Through Feb. 28Academy Awards for all Miramax films1993: 31994: 21995: 41996: 121997: 21998: 101999: 22000: 02001: 12002: 92003: 22004: 6Figures for Miramax include Dimension Films, a subsidiary.Box-office receipts are counted entirely for the year in which films were released.Academy Awards are counted for the year in which films were released.(Sources by Exhibitor Relations
 Hollywood Reporter)(pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); TICKET SALES (73%); BUDGETS (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (94%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (94%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (94%)

PERSON: BOB WEINSTEIN (92%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (91%); CATE BLANCHETT (57%); LEONARDO DICAPRIO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



148 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2548 words

HEADLINE: Grasping At Flaws

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IT was a slip of the tongue, a brief lapse. But it spoke volumes about where Senator Jon S. Corzine's thoughts are these days. 
 Moments after Senator Barbara Boxer of California referred to him at a news conference in the Capitol as ''soon-to-be-Governor Corzine,'' the senior senator from New Jersey stepped to the podium to weigh in on President Bush's controversial proposal to change social security.
 He charged that proponents of private, individual accounts for social security recipients were motivated by a ''train of thought that there is no role for a federal program to provide a social safety net.'' 
 And then he went off the track. ''There are those who believe this is the opportunity'' to scale back the program, Mr. Corzine said, ''because there is a change in demographics that is occurring that changes the pay-for-play, uh, pay-to, pay-as-you-go routine.'' 
 There have been few stumbling blocks for the popular senator since acting Gov. Richard J. Codey declared himself out of the running for governor just over a month ago, leaving Mr. Corzine the unchallenged Democratic Party nominee.
 But there has been one persistent annoyance: Mr. Corzine's immense wealth -- and the way that the former cochairman of Goldman Sachs has spread it around among New Jersey's Democratic leaders -- has become a stubbornly recurring detail of the early campaign narrative.
 Even as Mr. Corzine has busied himself introducing far-reaching plans for ethics guidelines in Trenton, including an ambitious set of restrictions on the practice of doling out contracts to political contributors known as pay-to-play, much of the media coverage -- and nearly all of the flak coming from his Republican opponents -- has focused on how that squares with the millions of dollars he has donated to local party officials in the past several years.
 Mr. Corzine, who much prefers to talk about his policy goals, his accomplishments in the Senate or his background at Goldman Sachs -- anything, really, other than the oft-revisited subject of his personal wealth -- addressed the issue with an air of resignation.
 ''Yes, people have talked about the money,'' Mr. Corzine said in an interview later that day in his Senate office. ''They're always going to talk about the money. I'm not going to be able to walk away from it.''
 The fact that Mr. Corzine's use of his fortune is coming up as a central line of criticism in this race should not be surprising. Mr. Corzine, who made hundreds of millions of dollars from his time on Wall Street, spent more than $63 million to get elected in 2000, and has promised to spend as much as is needed to win this time.
 And in the years since he first showed an interest in running, Mr. Corzine has contributed nearly $8 million to Democratic causes, including $5 million to a group of powerful New Jersey Democratic leaders who control patronage jobs, public contracts and the crucial placement of candidates' names on the ballot. 
 Many of those same leaders cropped up recently, as if on cue, to support Mr. Corzine's gubernatorial bid and head off a potential primary challenge from Mr. Codey. 
 Then came a flurry of newspaper articles criticizing what one headline in The Philadelphia Inquirer termed the ''backroom primary.''
 For their part, Republican officials, who are preparing to preside over a scrappy seven-candidate primary contest, have so far made Mr. Corzine's political subsidies the centerpiece of their case against him. Douglas Forrester, a wealthy businessman from West Windsor who is one of two candidates at the front of the Republican pack, expressed the general intention among his colleagues when he vowed to use Mr. Corzine's contributions ''to hold him accountable for what's been going on in Trenton.''
 The idea -- in addition to tying Mr. Corzine to the idea of money influencing government -- will be to negate the notion advanced by Mr. Corzine himself that his independent wealth insulates him from any feeling of indebtedness to the party bosses, and allows him to be ''unbought, unbossed.''

'One of the Bosses'
 ''The reason we're talking about his money is that he claims that it makes him different and not part of the problem,'' said Tom Wilson, chairman of the state Republicans ''I contend just the opposite -- that he is absolutely one of the bosses. That he's used his own money to go and buy the nomination. As evidence I offer the fact that not one person, including Dick Codey himself, has said that he doesn't have the qualifications or ability or right ideas to run for governor. They said he doesn't have enough money.''
 Whether the criticism of Mr. Corzine's generosity toward the so-called bosses -- he donated more than $1 million to a pair of committees controlled by two of the party's more influenntial leaders, John A. Lynch Jr., a former state senator from Middlesex County, and George E. Norcross III of South Jersey -- is going to matter in the election is another question. 
 Even after the fund-raising scandals that scarred the brief tenure of former Gov. James E. McGreevey -- who resigned in disgrace last November -- and against a current backdrop of the arrests of nearly a dozen public officials by United States Attorney Christopher J. Christie for corruption, many voters remain almost inured to the effects of money on politics, according to some experts.
 For one thing, the practice is seen as so widespread and longstanding that, despite the current Democratic hegemony in Trenton, voters do not find Republican officials to be much more credible on the subject than their counterparts. After all, it was only during the most recent gubernatorial sweepstakes in 2001 that acting Gov. Donald DiFrancesco was driven from the race by a series of ethical questions about private business dealings in his home town of Scotch Plains. And it was in a Senate race the following year when Jame Treffinger, the Essex County executive and erstwhile Republican frontrunner, made way for Mr. Forrester by getting arrested and subsequently imprisoned on federal corruption charges.
 Mr. Corzine will already be going into the race in a position of great strength, with high approval ratings among voters and the financial resources to broadcast virtually an unlimited number of commercials. There is a real question, given the indifference of voters in the past to campaign finance as a decisive issue, whether any significant number of them will hold Mr. Corzine's contributions against him. 
 ''I think a lot of voters don't even understand what pay-to-play is,'' said Clay F. Richards, assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute, ''and many of the voters that do know tend to dismiss a lot of it because of their attitude that everybody does it. And also as long as it doesn't impact them directly, as long as they haven't seen something stolen from their neighborhood or seen some huge favor that adversely affects them directly, they'll say it doesn't hurt them as much as something like a tax increase.''
 Mr. Richards also predicted that by giving away his own money, coupled with the distinction of having served outside of state government, Republicans would have a difficult time lumping Mr. Corzine in with the image of Democratic corruption in Trenton.
 ''As Corzine came into this race, he came in as Mr. Clean, partly because he served in Washington and not Trenton and also because he used his own money to make contributions to his campaign and to various levels of the party in the state,'' he said. ''The public response has generally been that it's his money and he can spend it however he wants. And to the extent that he hasn't gained a penny from it as far as anyone knows, it's going to be tough to make the case against him.''
 Because of these very points, some Republican candidates seem to have concluded that Mr. Corzine's spending will not be the resonant issue their party is hoping for. Bret Schundler, the former mayor of Jersey City who along with Mr. Forrester is at the top of the polls among the Republican candidates, has concluded that the attacks on the senator's wealth will not work. Consequently, Mr. Schundler has focused almost exclusively on the issue of how to reduce New Jersey's high property taxes.
 Steve Lonegan, the mayor of Bogota and longshot candidate who denounced Mr. Corzine for having a ''Swedish-style socialist agenda,'' has gone so far as to issue a statement urging his fellow Republicans to ''stop whining'' about the senator's money.
 ''Republicans who complain about Corzine's money sound like a bunch of losers and they are sending a losing message to voters,'' Mr. Lonegan told the Clayton Republican Club.
 To his way of thinking: ''The way to win in November is not to kick and scream and complain like children about Corzine's fortune. The way to win is to energize voters with exciting and bold positions.'' 
 Unless and until that dynamic shifts -- and polls show that the attacks on Mr. Corzine's spending are sinking in with voters, Mr. Corzine remains in a strong, if not entirely comfortable position. While his opponents are slogging across the state to attend forums -- begging for support from local officials and figuring out ways to avoid being drawn into embarrassing debates with Mr. Lonegan, an outspoken conservative -- Mr. Corzine will have time to continue rolling out position papers, collecting endorsements and convening meetings of policy experts to help him formulate stances on education, health care and the environment.

Help From a Heavyweight
 In the meantime, Mr. Corzine continues to hire staff people and consultants, including Bob Shrum, one of the Democrats' dominant political strategists and speechwriters. Mr. Shrum vowed to retire after working for Senator John Kerry's unsuccessful presidential campaign last year, but he said recently that he had made an earlier commitment to help Mr. Corzine.
 Not surprisingly, Mr. Corzine considers the discussion of his relationship with the party leaders to be an unwelcome distraction from such issues as his recently unveiled ethics proposal, which calls for a more extensive ban on pay-to-play and an elected comptroller to watch over the state's contracts and other spending, and from his work advancing Democratic objectives in New Jersey and nationally.
 ''I think it's a diversion away from who I am and what I have done in public life,'' he said. ''No one could site an example of how I've been controlled by bosses, and I won't be. The so-called bosses didn't like the very first thing out of my mouth with regard to comprehensive government and ethics reform. I know people are going to try to make that connection because that's the Republicans' strategy. I think they have real problems talking about my effectiveness as a business person --I have an incredible resume -- and I think they have trouble talking about my effectiveness as a U.S. Senator.''
 In particular, Mr. Corzine pointed to his work in the Senate on corporate reform when Enron swiftly fell into bankruptcy after an accounting scandal unwound in December 2001 and on security and aid issues after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11.
 Mr. Corzine likened the situation he faced in New Jersey to the one that Democrats faced nationally. 
 ''This is like talking about social issues when the real issues of the presidential campaign should have been Iraq and the economy,'' he said. ''Distraction is always a great way to try to undermine what might otherwise be a good platform to talk to the citizenry about. I know I'm going to have to deal with it. I've accepted that, but I make no apology for trying to build a strong Democratic Party that addresses the issues that we have.''
 Asked to describe his current relationships with some of the better-known Democratic power brokers in the state, Mr. Corzine made the point of saying that said their importance was invariably overstated.
 Of Mr. Lynch, who holds sway in Middlesex County and beyond, Mr. Corzine said: ''Lynch hasn't endorsed me yet. I haven't talked to John Lynch in the last month. John Lynch was very active in my original Senate campaign. I think he's a smart guy, but he's no more influential than anyone else in these campaigns.''
 Of Mr. Norcross -- an executive of Commerce Bank whose own company is entangled in a pay-to-play scandal in Philadelphia -- said: ''If I talk to George Norcross once a month in these campaigns it would be a lot. Norcross, to his credit, is actually advocating a very strong pay-to-play initiative himself.'' In fact, he said that until Representative Rob Andrews of South Jersey dropped his notion of seeking the Democratic nomination for governor in January, ''George Norcross was supporting him, not me. It's not even in synch with reality.'' 
 What about his political mentor, Senator Robert Torricelli, who first drafted Mr. Corzine into politics in 2000 and later dropped his own re-election effort after the Senate Ethics Committee ''severely admonished'' him for his involvement in a fund-raising? ''Bob is not involved at all in any significant way,'' Mr. Corzine insisted. ''I talk to him maybe once every six to eight weeks. The guy recruited me to run for the United States Senate. Bob will call up and tell me what he thinks.''
 Mr. Corzine said that it is ''easy for those folks to claim'' that there is a close working relationship, but that ''most of the folks that are on my team are not really thrilled with Bob Torricelli.''
 In addition to his proposals to create more stringent ethics regulations, the senator is also making a conspicuous gesture toward opening up his own campaign financing by soliciting donations in small increments.

He Bristles Over Ethics
 But the senator -- normally mild-mannered -- fairly bridled at the suggestion that his recent emphasis on ethics and campaign finance had anything to do with questions about his own relationships within the party or with his history as a major donor. 
 ''It's not about me,'' he said, throwing his hands in the air. ''My proposals with regard to ethics and governance are about a problem that we have in New Jersey.
 ''Last week they just arrested 11 officials, Republicans and Democrats,'' he continued, referring to sting by the United States attorney in Monmouth County almost two weeks ago. ''I'm not doing it to cover up. I believe that this is a threshold responsibility for the next governor. To be convincing to the public that they are going to be independent and are going to make decisions that are in the public's interests not in their own personal interest or their friends' interest.'' 
 As he has stated on numerous ocasions recently, he said that ethics, along with fiscal management, would be a ''threshold issue'' for the next governor, and that no one who lacked credibility in either area would be able to govern in lean times.
 ''I want to deal with ethics, and I want to deal with the financial issues,'' he said. ''If I don't deal with those, you can't deal with the issues in people's lives. You can't deal with asking people to make tough personal choices if they don't trust that the reason you're doing that is that you're thinking of them. In a political campaign, your opponents are not going to accept that's what you are trying to do, but that's what I'm going to try to do.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: These days, colleagues of Jon S. Corzine are referring to him as ''soon-to-be-Governor Corzine.'' Republicans are struggling to dispel that notion. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
There have been few stumbling blocks for Senator Jon S. Corzine since he announced his candidacy for governor and Gov. Richard J. Codey declared himself out of the running. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
Senator Corzine has a word with Representative Robert Menendez, left, in January. (Photo by Mike Deerer/Associated Press)
 Douglas Forrester, left, and Mr. Corzine confer on a political train ride to Washington. (Photo by Brian Branch-Price/Associated Press)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ETHICS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (94%); BARBARA BOXER (73%); BOB MENENDEZ (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2005



149 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: In a Debate Over Trash Burning, It's Rural Tradition vs. Health

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: TOWN OF CHESTER, N.Y. 

 BODY:
On a recent Adirondack morning, the air so dry and cold it seemed to crackle, Luther Grimes stepped outside his mobile home, trudged through the snow and dropped a match into a rusty barrel filled with trash -- paper plates, printer paper, a frozen-corn wrapper, cardboard, crumpled tissue.
 Mr. Grimes, 83, was engaged in a rite of country life: In New York State, if you live in a town with fewer than 20,000 residents, you can burn your trash, and many people do. Though unheard of in the suburbs, the practice of backyard burning is routine for tens of thousands of upstate New Yorkers who torch their waste in burn barrels to avoid paying a $1-or $2-a-bag fee for disposal.
 ''It would be a hardship for us if we couldn't,'' said Gretta Grimes, 82, whose husband burns whatever remains after the couple removes glass, metal and other recyclables. 
 But with the growing body of research about the dangers of burn barrels -- namely the dioxins and other pollutants they give off -- has come a movement to ban their use in New York. Maine and New Hampshire have outlawed the practice of trash burning within the past few years, as did California. Other states, including New Jersey, Connecticut and Vermont, instituted bans long ago.
 ''A lot of people think that burning trash is their right, and they don't understand the potential health implications for them and their children and their neighbors,'' said Ellen Z. Harrison, director of the Waste Management Institute at Cornell University.
 According to the federal Environmental Protection Agency, dioxins, a group of highly toxic chemicals, are produced when waste of any type is burned. After years of technological improvements to large municipal waste incinerators and other industrial plants, backyard burning is now the ''largest quantified source of dioxin emissions'' in the nation, the agency has said.
 Burn barrels, with their low temperatures and lack of controls, are far more polluting than large incinerators. One federal study found that a few dozen burn barrels could produce the same amount of dioxins and related compounds as a 200-ton-a-day modern incinerator serving tens of thousands of households.
 And the potential hazards of those pollutants can travel far beyond mountain hamlets and farm communities. Dioxins, which can cause cancer and disrupt reproduction and development, penetrate the food chain by settling on the plants that meat and dairy animals eat.
 But in New York, where a bill to ban backyard burning has languished in the Legislature for several years, resistance to any government interference is fierce. The strongest opposition to a ban has come from the New York Farm Bureau, which cites costs. The bill would exempt leaves, branches and crop waste -- even burlap bags. But it would spell an end to the practice on farms of burning the large plastic wraps that cover hay bales.
 ''We don't feel there are any viable economic alternatives for disposing of trash, and open burning is an option that we want to make sure stays available,'' said Peter Gregg, a spokesman for the Farm Bureau, which has 35,000 members.
 Farmers are not the only ones concerned about the consequences of a potential ban.
 Most rural communities do not offer curbside garbage collection the way suburbs and cities do, and many residents say they cannot afford the fees at garbage transfer stations. 
 ''Incomes in the Adirondacks are 25 percent less than the rest of the state,'' said Fred H. Monroe, supervisor of Chester, 55 miles north of Albany. ''In our town we charge $1 for a small bag and $2 for a larger one. People feel it's one way they can save money -- if they can just burn it.'' 
 Mr. Gregg, whose group represents the dairy industry, dismissed concerns about pollution. ''All the burn barrels in the state wouldn't equal the amount of pollution emitted from the average traffic jam on the Tappan Zee Bridge,'' he said.
 But environmentalists argue that farms are the worst possible location for open burning. ''It runs counter to common sense to have a large generator of toxicity near your food source,'' said David Higby, a project director for Environmental Advocates of New York, a nonprofit group.
 The E.P.A. says that people are exposed to dioxins mainly through the foods they eat. ''These are fat-loving chemicals,'' said William H. Farland, acting deputy assistant administrator for science in the agency's Office of Research and Development. ''They like to move into fat in various species, and they move up through the food chain.''
 But Dr. Farland cautioned that there was continuing debate over the degree of health risks from dioxins in foods. Federal studies have found extremely low levels of dioxins in milk, he said.
 In New York, the longstanding law relating to backyard burning bars the practice in cities and villages, but allows it in towns with fewer than 20,000 residents, unless a town or county ban is in place. The law separates trash into categories, and the main thing that cannot be burned is ''garbage,'' which is defined as animal and vegetable waste resulting from food preparation.
 But ''rubbish'' can be burned, and that includes a wide range of materials: paper, plastics, cans, cartons, crockery, rags, yard waste, furniture, chemicals, paint, grease, sludge, oil, wood, tires and car parts.
 Some people who burn rubbish, like Mr. and Mrs. Grimes, say they are not harming the environment because they include only paper products. But Dr. Farland said all waste materials, including paper, released dioxins when burned in open containers. 
 Only a handful of the state's 62 counties have passed their own bans, and those are not always strictly enforced, county and local officials say. 
 In some areas, officials are reluctant to pass their own bans for fear of the political fallout. ''Clearly many municipalities wish the state would take action because they don't want to take heat from their constituents,'' said Ms. Harrison of Cornell's Waste Management Institute. 
 In St. Lawrence County, in the state's far north, legislators considered a countywide ban in 2002. But the measure was defeated after much debate in the sparsely populated county, where only a handful of transfer stations serve 111,000 people across nearly 2,700 square miles. Instead, the county committed $33,000 to a public awareness campaign, with billboards, newspaper and radio ads and school presentations on the dangers of burning trash.
 No one seems to know exactly how many households rely on burn barrels. But a 2003 survey by St. Lawrence County showed widespread use, with an estimated 10,000 burn barrels, representing 48 percent of households.
 ''It's an indicator,'' said Jon R. Montan Jr., a planner for St. Lawrence County. ''Not all are being used, but they're there and could be used. And those are just the ones we could see driving by.''
 The state's Department of Environmental Conservation urges residents not to burn trash and supports a state ban. Last fall, the agency signed a joint resolution denouncing the practice, along with seven other states in the Northeast, most of which have bans. 
 But for the past several years, the bill to outlaw backyard burning has stalled in the State Legislature. The Assembly, which is controlled by Democrats, has passed it overwhelmingly. But the same bill has never emerged from committee for a vote by the Republican-controlled Senate.
 ''The No. 1 blocker right now is the agricultural community,'' said Assemblyman David Koon, a sponsor of the bill. He said he fields complaints from his constituents in Monroe County about ''neighbors who burn all their garbage'' and the ''horrible smell.''' 
 Some lawmakers and environmentalists believe the Department of Environmental Conservation could ban open burning simply by rewriting its own regulations. The agency does not disagree, but argues that a legislative ban would have more muscle in terms of enforcement.
 Environmentalists seem optimistic that New York will eventually follow the lead of its neighbors. ''I think momentum is building across the United States,'' said Chris Neurath, a St. Lawrence County resident who operates a Web site (burnbarrel.org) on the antiburning cause. But Mr. Neurath acknowledges that the biggest hurdle in the campaign against backyard burning is the mind-set surrounding it. 
 ''It's become a polarized issue because of the attitude that, 'We've always done this -- it's a tradition -- and the elitists in town are trying to tell us what to do out here in the country,''' he said. ''Then there's the pleasure involved in the process of making fires. So it's not as simple as saying that it's bad for public health.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 9, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about a debate over backyard trash burning in rural areas of New York State misstated the distance between Albany and the Adirondack town of Chester, where some residents burn garbage to avoid disposal fees. It is about 70 miles, not 55. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Luther Grimes, 83, burning his household trash, minus recyclables, as he has for years in the Adirondacks. Concern over dioxins has led to a debate over burn barrels. (Photo by Stewart Cairns for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 David Higby of Salem, N.Y., is project director of Environmental Advocates of New York, a nonprofit group that opposes open trash burning, which he believes is a threat to food sources and ''runs counter to common sense.'' (Photo by Stewart Cairns for The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (78%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (77%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (74%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (74%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); SUBURBS (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (68%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); CANCER (67%); EMISSIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (97%); MAINE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005



150 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: China Doubts U.S. Data on North Korean Nuclear Work

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, March 6 

 BODY:
The Chinese foreign minister, Li Zhaoxing, expressed doubt on Sunday about the quality of American intelligence on North Korea's nuclear program and said the United States would have to talk to North Korea one-on-one to resolve the standoff.
 Mr. Li's assessment, made at an extended news conference during China's annual legislative meeting, amounted to a double slap at the United States. Washington has repeatedly sounded the alarm about North Korea's nuclear efforts and has pressed China, North Korea's only significant ally, to be more active in seeking seek a solution. 
 President Bush last month sent a high-level envoy to Beijing to present fresh intelligence data that the Bush administration contends shows that North Korea's nuclear program is more advanced than previously thought and that it has been selling nuclear materials around the world.
 One task of the envoy, Michael Green, the official handling Asian affairs at the National Security Council, was to dispel Chinese skepticism about the quality of American intelligence, administration officials and Asian diplomats said at the time. 
 But when asked by a Japanese journalist on Sunday to describe China's understanding of North Korea's nuclear program, including whether the country had produced nuclear fuel from enriched uranium as well as plutonium, Mr. Li answered pointedly and with a hint of sarcasm.
 ''Concerning whether North Korea already has nuclear weapons or anything about the question of uranium enrichment, I think that here you may know more than I do,'' Mr. Li said. ''Or to put it another way, I definitely don't know any more than you do.'' 
 Mr. Li's comments suggest that since the Bush administration accused North Korea of violating a bilateral agreement on its nuclear arms program more than three years ago, China has come no closer to accepting Washington's contentions that North Korea already has as many as eight or nine plutonium-based nuclear bombs and is aggressively pursuing a second, less easily monitored method of producing nuclear fuel through enriching uranium.
 China has more economic and political leverage over North Korea than any other nation and had agreed to be the host for several rounds of multination talks aimed at ending North Korea's nuclear program. But China has rejected the Bush administration's appeals to press North Korea to dismantle any nuclear bombs and its infrastructure for producing nuclear fuel.
 China's reluctance to do more creates a problem for the Bush administration because Chinese support -- or, at a minimum, acquiescence -- is essential to any expanded international response, including United Nations sanctions, a trade embargo or military action.
 Senior Bush administration officials dealing with the North Korean issue have said that Chinese officials, perhaps to smooth their sometimes rocky relationship with North Korea, have tended to take a softer line toward it in public than they do in private.
 During the presidential debates last year, Mr. Bush extolled China as the linchpin of his strategy for addressing North Korea, implying that he felt confident that China shared his sense of urgency about the issue.
 But China's enthusiasm for the American position often seems confined to private sessions with American officials.
 Last June, Zhou Wenzhong, one of Mr. Li's top deputies at the Foreign Ministry, said in an interview with The New York Times that he questioned the validity of American intelligence and criticized the United States' strategy for dealing with the Korean issue. Several senior administration officials later told reporters that the Times report of the interview was inaccurate and that the Chinese had assured them it did not reflect their views.
 Mr. Li's comments on Sunday were nearly identical to Mr. Zhou's last June.
 One Chinese political analyst said the ambiguous stance might underscore that China was neither ready nor willing to play a more assertive role in confronting its neighbor. 
 China's oft-repeated line, used again on Sunday by Mr. Li, is that it wants a ''nuclear free'' Korean peninsula. If it were to accept as valid American intelligence that North Korea already has at least one or two and perhaps eight or nine nuclear bombs, North Korea would have already crossed that line, potentially compelling China to adopt a tougher position, said the Chinese analyst, who asked not to be identified. 
 Mr. Li has also said that China aims to maintain ''peace and stability'' on the Korean peninsula. Analysts say China may well view stability on its northeastern border to be of greater importance than the possibility that North Korea has a small and so far untested nuclear arsenal.
 China has sought to arrange new negotiations about North Korea's nuclear program since the last round of six-nation talks, involving Japan, South Korea, Russia, the United States, North Korea and China, broke off inconclusively last summer.
 Mr. Li said the North Koreans, after having made contradictory statements about whether they would take part in the talks, had assured China that they intended to press on.
 ''There is some news I can announce, which is that the North Korean side indicated that it remains willing to continue participating in the six-party talks and that the respective sides can demonstrate sufficient sincerity,'' he said.
 But he also implied that China's role was limited to arranging the talks. A real solution to the standoff, he said, requires direct, bilateral negotiations between the United States and North Korea. 
 Mr. Bush has rejected holding bilateral talks with North Korea, contending that the problem requires a regional, multiparty settlement.
 ''These are both sovereign countries,'' Mr. Li said. ''They are the two major parties concerned. So it is for those two countries to increase trust and build mutual understanding.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing of China yesterday urged the United States to hold direct talks with North Korea to resolve their standoff. (Photo by Jason Lee/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005



151 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: At the Fair Despite Snow and Weak Dollar 

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

DATELINE: MAASTRICHT, the Netherlands, March 6 

 BODY:
Two years ago war broke out in Iraq; last year there was the bombing in Madrid. Indeed, for nearly two decades now the annual European Fine Art Fair here has survived everything from world events including 9/11 to economic downturns and art-market scandals. Yet, throughout it all, the fair manages to be a magnet for collectors.
 Even a snowstorm that arrived for the opening on Thursday, closing the nearby Amsterdam airport and some of the runways at the Orly airport in Paris, or a bomb scare in Brussels that same day, didn't stop some 7,000 people from coming to this small Dutch city to look at art and antiques. By the time the fair ends next Sunday, an estimated 70,000 people are expected to have been here. Because of the weather, the organizers say, that's 5,000 fewer visitors than last year's total. 
 What draws people to this, the world's largest art fair, is the expectation of seeing the best the market has to offer in every collecting category from old master paintings and sculptures to antique furniture, antiquities, silver and decorative objects. This year there were no $40 million paintings by Rembrandt or $15 million sculptures by Bernini as there have been in years past. Some dealers grumbled about the scarcity of objects coming to the market; others said they didn't bring any blockbusters, fearing that if they didn't sell they might be overexposed and therefore less desirable. 
 Still, there was an impressive array of about 30,000 works being offered for sale by some 200 dealers from 14 countries. Among the highlights: a $5.4 million portrait by the Dutch master Jan Lievens and a $6.3 million pastel by Degas; a $575,000 room of French neo-Classical wallpaper panels and a $596,115 18th-century German chess set with intricately carved wood pieces on a mother-of-pearl and tortoise shell board. 
 The cavernous Maastricht Exhibition and Congress Center looked different this year. The organizers had spent about $1 million renovating the space, raising the ceilings of the booths about three feet, opening up some of the aisles, installing a black-and-white-patterned carpet which organizers said was inspired by the tile floors in Vermeer paintings. The place was also decorated with some 100,000 white tulips. 
 Because of its proximity to France, Belgium, Luxembourg and Germany, the fair always attracts important European collectors. Seen perusing the booths during the first three days were George Ortiz, the Bolivian tin heir, and Lita Livanos, the wife of George Livanos, the Greek shipping magnate. Carlos March, the Spanish financier, was here too, as was Gimmo Etro, the Italian fashion designer. 
 Serious American collectors, dealers, auction house experts and museum curators make an annual pilgrimage to Maastricht, although this year there were noticeably fewer than in years past. On hand were curators from museums like the J. Paul Getty Museum and the Los Angeles County Museum, the Boston Museum of Fine Arts and the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston. Eli Broad, the Los Angeles collector, came with his wife, Edythe. It was their first visit to the fair. ''I've been wanting to come here for years,'' Mr. Broad said. ''It's particularly well organized.'' 
 Museum groups from Detroit, North Carolina and Connecticut came, as did trustees from the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Malcolm Rogers, director of the Boston museum, makes Maastricht an annual trip for trustees. 
 ''The fair is always very high quality,'' he said. But this year Mr. Rogers had about 10 trustees in tow; last year he had 25. 
 ''Americans definitely have issues traveling,'' he said. ''And the value of the euro has scared some people. Still, it's a place to educate the eye, and seasoned collectors come knowing that some year things are going to be more expensive.'' 
 The weak dollar was not just on the minds of collectors. Rachel Mauro, a Manhattan dealer who runs the New York gallery of Dickinson Roundell, said: ''For the first time ever we're only quoting prices in euros. If you quote dollars, people's hair stands on end.''
 Some dealers are doing a brisk business. Within the first two hours of the fair's opening, Michael Werner, a dealer with galleries in Manhattan and Cologne, sold a 1937 sculpture by Henri Laurens to a European collector for $2 million. Johnny van Haeften, a London dealer, parted with Lievens's ''Study of an Old Bearded Man.'' Mr. van Haeften had bought the haunting image of a man with a deeply furrowed brow and downcast eyes at Sotheby's in London in July for $3.4 million, then a record price for the artist. On Thursday, the buyer, identified by the gallery only as a European collector, snapped up the painting, which had been cleaned, for $5.4 million. 
 Another painting that sold within hours after the fair opened was ''The Forest,'' painted in 1927 by Max Ernst. Depicting a petrified forest with a circular rainbow in the background, it was being sold by Galerie Cazeau-Beraudiere, dealers from Paris. One of them, Philippe Cazeau, said the forthcoming Ernst retrospective at the Metropolitan Museum had little to do with the sale. He refused to identify the buyer, saying only that it was someone from Europe. Nor would he confirm the price, which was said to be around $5 million. 
 Robert Noortman, a leading Maastricht dealer, came with one of the undisputed stars of the fair: ''The Laundresses,'' a Degas pastel from 1886 of two women ironing, one yawning while the other is pressing a shirt. Three paintings exist of the same subject: one at the Musee d'Orsay in Paris, another at the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena, Calif., and a third in a private collection. 
 ''This is the only pastel of the subject,'' said Mr. Noortman, who recently bought it from a collector in Greenwich, Conn., who had lent it to the Metropolitan Museum until December. Although the pastel has not yet sold, he said several museums were considering it. 
 Attempting to compete with the successful contemporary art fair in Basel every June, organizers this year made an effort to beef up the modern and contemporary art section. Karsten Greve, a German dealer with galleries in St. Moritz, Switzerland; Cologne; and Paris, was exhibiting for the first time with an impressive selection of drawings by Cy Twombly. 
 Acquavella Galleries of Manhattan was back after a three-year hiatus. ''We weren't always successful at the fair, but afterwards we realized we'd made some good contacts,'' said Nicholas Acquavella, a son of the founder, William Acquavella. His booth showed three paintings by Lucian Freud, each of which was reserved, Mr. Acquavalla said.
 Anthony Meier, a San Francisco dealer, had half a dozen works by Gerhard Richter in his booth, including a 1984 abstract oil. The painting, which had been included in the major retrospective of the artist at the Museum of Modern Art in New York in 2002, was priced at $1.6 million. ''We always have a steady diet of Richters,'' Mr. Meier said. 
 The memory of ''The Gates,'' the monumental project by Christo and Jeanne-Claude now being dismantled in Central Park, is still fresh in everyone's minds here. Annely Juda Fine Art, a London dealer, had several of Christo's early works on view. ''We've shown Christo since 1968,'' said David Juda, the gallery's director. Prices for Christo's work have been rising since ''The Gates,'' Mr. Juda said. 
 Within two days of the fair's opening, Mr. Juda had sold Christo's ''Three Store Fronts,'' a wall piece from 1965 that was priced at $297,990. Also on his stand is ''Packed Supermarket Cart,'' from 1963, priced at $695,310 and ''Wrapped Cans,'' a 1959 sculpture of two paint cans, one painted black and the other wrapped in canvas, lacquered and tied with twine. It carries a $218,526 price tag. 
 ''A lot of people came by to talk about 'The Gates,''' Mr. Juda said. ''There is great interest in Christo, and a new realization how important and rare his early works are.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A portrait by the 17th-century Dutch master Jan Lievens sold for $5.4 million in Maastricht. (Photo by European Fine Art Fair)(pg. E1)
An undisputed star: ''The Laundresses,'' an 1886 pastel by Degas at the European Fine Art Fair. Three paintings exist of the same subject. (Photo by European Fine Art Fair)
Priced at $1.6 million: a 1984 abstract work by Gerhard Richter
 the painting was part of a retrospective of the artist at the Modern in 2002. (Photo by European Fine Art Fair)(pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); PAINTING (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (76%); AUCTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); FASHION & APPAREL (71%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (71%); WEATHER (71%); FASHION DESIGNERS (70%); TRADE SHOWS (66%); FLOORING (60%); BUILDING RENOVATION (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (57%) Art; Trade Shows and Fairs; European Fine Art Fair

PERSON: Jan (17th century Dutch artist) Lievens; Edgar (1834-1917) Degas; Carol Vogel

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) NETHERLANDS (94%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (92%); SPAIN (92%); IRAQ (91%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (73%); GREECE (58%) Netherlands ; Maastricht (Netherlands)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005



152 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1484 words

HEADLINE: A Flood of Magazines for Those Awash in Cash

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Sidney Frank, the liquor baron who recently sold Grey Goose vodka to Bacardi for $2 billion, was just back from Hawaii, where he had bought a house -- his sixth -- for $12.5 million.
 ''I am on a quest for the best,'' he said by telephone from another of his homes in Southern California. He said that his search applied both to his personal life and his decision to start a new luxury magazine. ''I want a magazine for my lifestyle and other lifestyles like mine.''
 It is not clear just how many others live like Mr. Frank -- he said 14 members of one of the country clubs he belongs to are billionaires -- but at 86, he is not alone in jumping into the business of luxury magazines to seek gold in the rising hills of glossy advertising, in his case by buying up and revamping titles like Travel Savvy. 
 Publishers are cranking out more magazines than ever -- there are now 6,200 published for the general public in the United States, with 1,006 of those starting up in the last year alone, according to Samir Husni, a journalism professor specializing in magazines at the University of Mississippi. He said that 5 percent of those 6,200 titles are ''aimed at the cream of the crop.''
 ''And we are seeing more,'' he said. ''The market is getting flooded with them.''
 Just last week, Absolute Publishing started a magazine called Absolute, for distribution to New Yorkers with an estimated annual household income of at least $500,000. 
 And Jason Binn, the publisher of Hamptons and Ocean Drive, has several new high-end titles on tap, including one for Washington, called Capitol File, which will compete with two other new luxury glossies.
 The competition is not stopping at American shores: both Absolute and Mr. Binn said they expected eventually to start similar magazines in international markets. 
 ''It is a phenomenon that is here to stay,'' said Michael Silverstein, an executive with the Boston Consulting Group and co-author of the book ''Trading Up: The New American Luxury.'' His firm estimates that by 2010 Americans will spend $1 trillion on luxury goods.
 In an ever more fragmented media world, the rich are becoming their own niche. They may be diverse connoisseurs of fashion, yachting or jewelry, but they share one important trait: a seemingly bottomless supply of disposable income.
 Not everyone in the magazine industry is convinced that this new market is as real as its promoters like to believe. Maer Roshan, editor in chief of Radar, a magazine that is being reintroduced in May and aimed not at the luxury crowd but at contemporary urban culture, said he saw the luxury magazines as escape hatches for a country weary of a post-9/11 reality.
 ''We're in a war and it's not exactly a boom time economy,'' he said. But the luxury magazines ''have ceded reality, so what's left for them but to build their own fantasy worlds?'' 
 Magazines that cater to the affluent are not new. Avenue, which serves Manhattan's Upper East Side, began in 1976. American Express, which created Departures 15 years ago for those who pay a premium for credit cards that yield more benefits, now publishes an even higher-end magazine so exclusive it has no name. And Mr. Binn started his series of city magazines in 1992.
 Most of the magazines rely on a similar formula: extravagantly lush photography on heavy paper stock, flattering feature articles on prominent local personalities and snapshots of those personalities hobnobbing with each other.
 ''People like to see themselves in pictures,'' said Andrew Essex, the editor in chief of Absolute. ''It reinforces their place in the social firmament.''
 The magazines also make it easy for readers to buy what they see on the page, whether it appears in an advertisement or an article -- and it is often difficult to tell the difference, as the magazines have elevated commercial product placement to an art form. The cover of the premier issue of Absolute, for example, shows what look to be glass beads in a broach; they turn out to be the fizz bubbling up from a $430 bottle of Krug champagne, which is featured and recommended in an article inside.
 ''High-end brands want to be in publications where luxury is celebrated with local content to drive business,'' said Mr. Binn. ''They want direct access to the consumers in their respective cities with targeted distribution and exclusive marketing opportunities,'' he said.
 As part of Sobe News, one of his companies, Mr. Binn launched Ocean Drive in Miami in 1992 and in April will start a new high-end interior design magazine to be distributed nationally, called Florida InsideOut. Through another company, Niche Media, Mr. Binn publishes Gotham, Aspen Peak, Hamptons and Los Angeles Confidential and plans magazines in Boston and San Francisco.
 Luxury magazines do not chase a broad market. Many of them are distributed by ''controlled circulation'' -- readers neither subscribe nor pay for their copies. The publishers predetermine potential readers who are rich enough to buy the goods advertised, leaving the magazines free from having to build a large circulation, one of the costliest aspects of publishing. At the same time, many advertisers look for smaller titles where they can pay less and reach people who are likely to buy their products, rather than buy expensive ads in large publications that reach wider but less specific audiences.
 Henri Barguirdjian, chief executive officer of Graff, the diamond merchant who recently sold Donald Trump a 15-carat, $1.5 million engagement ring, said a small magazine like Avenue was a welcome outlet. The free magazine, which is dropped in high-end buildings on Manhattan's Upper East Side, goes to 52,500 people.
 ''It's a small number, but it's almost 100 percent potential clients,'' he said. ''It's very cost-efficient. A page in Avenue or Quest or any of those magazines is infinitely cheaper than in the major magazines.''
 Ernest J. Renzulli, president and publisher of Absolute, is aiming for an audience of just 60,000 New Yorkers. To generate buzz, he is putting 15,000 copies for sale at high-end newsstands and airport lounges starting March 8. His primary audience is New Yorkers who make at least $500,000 a year.
 He said he found them by winnowing databases of the most affluent New York ZIP codes with people who have bought houses for more than $2 million and people who have registered cars, boats or planes that cost more than $75,000. 
 ''It's a small number,'' Mr. Renzulli said. ''But this is not a magazine that's about mass reach. It's about reaching the tip of the pyramid.'' 
 He said that after mailing three or four issues, he will send out renewal cards. Those who say they do not want the magazine would be dropped, as well as those who do not respond. This is one way to assure advertisers that the magazine is reaching people who want it, he said.
 It is not certain whether this model will work. By dropping those who do not respond, the magazine risks later having to spend money to rebuild its circulation. Others in the industry question how Absolute found people who earn $500,000. They said that while it was possible through culling lists to find specific people who made more than $250,000, it was extremely difficult to find specific people who earn more than $500,000.
 In any case, audience size does not matter in the realm of luxury. Erica Kasel, director of marketing for American Express magazines, said Departures went to 700,000 people, but she would not reveal the number who receive the magazine with no name, except to say it was very exclusive.
 ''No one is worried that it's small,'' she said. ''They understand as marketers that this is a magazine that moves product. They can do focused marketing on a large scale without any waste.''
 Advertisers can also get discounts in the newer magazines, said George Fertitta, a founding partner of Margeotes/Fertitta, an advertising agency with upscale clients like Godiva chocolates and Bombay Sapphire gin.
 ''What generally happens when these books come in is they make all kinds of deals to entice their target symbolic advertisers,'' he said. ''Then you realize shortly afterwards which ones are there for good and which ones are doing someone a favor.''
 The success rate for new magazines is only about 40 percent after the first year, said Mr. Husni, the professor. And it generally takes four or five years to turn a profit. 
 Given those odds, some people are already worried that the luxury market may be fast on its way to a glut and will not be able to sustain itself.
 ''Too much of a good thing is not so good anymore,'' said Mr. Barguirdjian, the diamond seller. ''I'm afraid that if more people come in, it will defeat the whole purpose and that people will get tired of these magazines and won't read them anymore. Whoever is investing in these ventures should be careful.''
 ''But I'm not a media specialist,'' he added. ''I'm just a jeweler.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Absolute and Los Angeles Confidential are trying to attract the very wealthy. (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Ernest Renzulli, left, publisher of Absolute magazine, and its editor, Andrew Essex, are aiming at New York households making $500,000. (Photo by Hiroyuki Ito for The New York Times)
 Jason Binn, chief of Niche Media, is introducing new high-end regional magazines for the wealthy. (Photo by Phil Mansfield for The New York Times)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); LUXURY GOODS (76%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (75%); WRITERS (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (63%) Magazines; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Biographical Information

COMPANY: BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (55%) Travel Savvy (Magazine)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: Katharine Q Seelye; Sidney Frank

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005



153 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Polls Show Los Angeles Mayor Facing Dead Heat in Primary

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 6 

 BODY:
James K. Hahn should be coasting to re-election as mayor of Los Angeles. He has a solid political pedigree, a reasonably strong economy, a falling crime rate, the backing of the city's pre-eminent labor federation and a long list of endorsements.
 Heading into the city's primary election on Tuesday, however, the polls show that the race is a dead heat involving Mr. Hahn and two other Democrats, Bob Hertzberg and Antonio Villaraigosa, both former speakers of the State Assembly and former roommates in Sacramento. The two top vote-getters in Tuesday's nonpartisan primary will meet in a runoff election in mid-May. 
 Political analysts here are reluctant to predict the outcome of the primary, but several have said that Mr. Hahn has squandered the power of the incumbency, partly by failing to take advantage of the relative peace and prosperity in the city and partly because of his colorless demeanor. He has also been damaged by a criminal investigation into the awarding of city contracts to large political donors and other charges of favoritism in the conduct of the city's business. 
 Election officials predict that about 30 percent of the city's 1.4 million registered voters will turn out for the election.
 Franklin Gilliam, a professor of political science and a scholar of racial and ethnic politics at the University of California, Los Angeles, said the odds were that Mr. Hahn would squeak through the primary, but without a strong vote of confidence from the public. 
 ''It's difficult to beat an incumbent who is presiding over at least a moderately successful economy,'' Dr. Gilliam said. ''There's some sense that voters are turned off by some of the scandal in City Hall, but none of it has stuck on Hahn, at least not yet.''
 He said Mr. Hahn's endorsement by the Los Angeles County Federation of Labor, A.F.L.-C.I.O., had provided the mayor with significant support because the federation is providing telephone banks, mailers and volunteers to turn out voters. The federation is contributing about $500,000 in independent expenditures on behalf of the mayor. 
 But Dr. Gilliam also said that the mayor had been hurt among African-American voters by his maneuvering to replace Bernard Parks, the city's first black police chief and one of the contenders in the mayoral primary. The mayor also alienated some Latino voters with his harsh campaign against Mr. Villaraigosa four years ago.
 ''Beyond that,'' Dr. Gilliam said, ''I think Hahn's got a bigger problem. It's not clear among any slice of the electorate what he stands for or what he does.''
 Mr. Hertzberg, a gregarious lawyer, is the surging long shot in the race, moving in the past few weeks into a statistical tie with Mr. Hahn and Mr. Villaraigosa, who ran against each other in the general election four years ago. Mr. Hahn won that contest by seven percentage points after finishing second to Mr. Villaraigosa in the primary.
 Mr. Hertzberg's television spots depict him as a Gulliver-like figure bestriding the city, proposing big solutions to the city's big problems. Mr. Hahn, in Mr. Hertzberg's narrative, is the Lilliputian mayor, a man lacking a vision befitting the nation's second-largest city.
 Mr. Hertzberg, who lives in the San Fernando Valley, is appealing to valley residents unhappy with city services and schools and is trying to put together a coalition of Republican and Jewish voters to win a runoff spot.
 Mr. Villaraigosa, a City Council member, is appealing, as he did the last time, to Latino voters, while trying to broaden his coalition to include whites and African-Americans who voted for Mr. Hahn in 2001 but are now dissatisfied with him. Latinos have occupied prominent spots in city and state government and in California's Congressional delegation for decades, but no Latino has won the mayor's office in the modern era.
 In the campaign's closing days, Mr. Hahn has opened two lines of attack against Mr. Hertzberg and Mr. Villaraigosa. He has accused them of supporting California's experiment with energy deregulation and then cozying up to Enron and other energy companies that manipulated the state's energy supplies, leading to widespread power blackouts and brownouts in 2000 and 2001. He has also said in advertisements that Mr. Hertzberg and Mr. Villaraigosa wrote letters urging President Bill Clinton to pardon a convicted crack cocaine dealer. Mr. Hahn used that to great effect against Mr. Villaraigosa four years ago.
 Mr. Hertzberg dismissed the mayor's charges as the flailings of a drowning man. ''You've got a desperate mayor doing desperate things,'' he said. 
 Mr. Hahn said that he had been written off before during his 24 years in public life and had come back to win each time.
 ''Always underestimated,'' Mr. Hahn said in an interview recently, ''never defeated.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Hertzberg, a candidate, with former Mayor Richard J. Riordan, left.
Antonio Villaraigosa campaigning for mayor at a Mexican restaurant.
 Mayor James K. Hahn dancing with Representative Grace F. Napolitano. (Photographs by David McNew/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); POLICE FORCES (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (65%); ETHNICITY (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

PERSON: GRACE NAPOLITANO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005



154 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Hope in the Land of Dashed Hopes

 BODY:
For more than 40 years, the epitome of wasted potential and squandered opportunity in Africa has been Nigeria. From the time it gained independence from Britain in 1960, that behemoth of 137 million people has seemed to do its level best to fritter away every natural advantage. Given the second-highest proven oil reserves in Africa, Nigerian officials spent oil income on lavish estates in Europe instead of decent schools and water systems back home. The country that produced the Nobel laureate Wole Soyinka and arguably Africa's best author, Chinua Achebe, was better known for the cruel, thieving dictator Sani Abacha.
 Now, ''Nigeria is changing,'' says Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, the country's finance minister. She suggested thinking of America and the West as the parent and Nigeria as the child: ''If your child has been doing bad things -- drug abuse or alcohol -- and they come to you and say, 'My mother, I want to change; please help me,' would you say, 'No'? Would you say, 'You are hopeless; you can't change'?'' 
 It's a tough question for anyone who has ever been assaulted at the airport in Lagos just trying to enter Nigeria, or hit up for a bribe by Nigerian government officials, or struck dumb at the sight of orphaned children drinking dirty water on the street. But if America and the developed world are serious about their stated intent to tackle poverty, most of which is in Africa, then they cannot ignore the home of 20 percent of sub-Saharan Africa's people.
 Hard as it is to believe, there are hopeful signs in Nigeria. The Nigerians, through two, albeit flawed, democratic elections, have given themselves a reformist government with the right intentions. President Olusegun Obasanjo has taken up the mantle of anticorruption -- or at least slightly reduced corruption. He established an Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, whose chairman, Alhaji Nuhu Ribadu, at risk to his life, has been terrifying current and former officials with his investigations. Already, two rear admirals have been convicted of helping to steal 11,000 barrels of oil. Some 130 customs officials have been fired. 
 Bunkering, the quaint term Nigerians use to describe outright stealing of crude oil by members of the armed forces or the government, has been reduced to a mere 20,000 barrels a day from 100,000 barrels a day, according to Dr. Okonjo-Iweala. And finally -- this should please all of us who have received e-mail supposedly from Idi Amin's son or Charles Taylor's wife offering untold riches if we'd only provide our checking account numbers -- three purported e-mail crime leaders have been arrested.
 Beyond the fight against corruption, Nigeria has made huge strides in promoting regional security. Nigerian peacekeepers are in Liberia, Sudan and Sierra Leone. Last month, when Togo installed the son of the country's longtime strongman as president, it was Nigeria's Mr. Obasanjo who led the fight that ultimately forced Faure Gnassingbe to step down. We can't help but notice the difference between Mr. Obasanjo and the leader of black Africa's other regional power, South Africa. Thabo Mbeki has largely thrown up his hands in the struggle to force Zimbabwe to hold honest elections that could rid it of the odious despot Robert Mugabe.
 What's missing is for America to take Nigeria more seriously, to do much more than simply treat the country as a gas station. The United States has made some strides with H.I.V.-AIDS treatment in Nigeria, but that should be expanded to include prevention as well. The country isn't anywhere close to qualifying for aid under President Bush's Millennium Challenge Account, which ties money to good governance. But that approach, while worthy, condemns the 80 million Nigerians who subsist on barely anything. America should supplement the Challenge Account program with something that encourages countries like Nigeria to press ahead with reforms, and find ways -- perhaps through private aid groups -- to funnel money to the desperately poor. Nigeria is too big to ignore. If it doesn't succeed, it's hard to imagine that the rest of Africa has much of a chance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); CHILDREN (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); ORPHANS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BRIBERY (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); POLITICS (68%); ETHICS (68%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (66%); CYBERCRIME (66%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (66%); ARRESTS (61%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) Editorials; Freedom and Human Rights; Elections; Politics and Government; Ethics; United States International Relations; Foreign Aid

PERSON: Olusegun (Pres) Obasanjo

GEOGRAPHIC: LAGOS, NIGERIA (73%) NIGERIA (97%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%) Nigeria

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005



155 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; AUTO RACING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Stock Cars Give Mexicans a Rush

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 6 

 BODY:
Ortenzia Gallegos became entranced with stock-car racing a couple of years ago from watching it on television, but she had never seen a live race. Even though she earns a modest salary as a nurse, there was no way she was going to miss the first Nascar race held in Mexico.
 She shelled out $43 each for three tickets -- the cheapest she could find -- to take her daughter and a friend to watch the brightly colored stock cars roar around the first turn of the road course here. 
 ''It's all for the adrenaline,'' she said, smiling. ''It brings strong emotions.'' 
 Gallegos is precisely the sort of fan Nascar officials were hoping to cultivate by bringing the third race of the Busch Series to the Mexican capital, a city where open-wheel racing is a popular sport and the Formula One driver Adrian Fernandez is a national hero, but where stock-car racing is a novelty and most people have never heard of Dale Earnhardt.
 In the end, 94,229 people came out to see the Telcel Motorola 200 at the Autodromo Hermanos Rodriguez, the city's premier racetrack with a capacity of 220,000. The early hopes of fans that one of the nine Mexican drivers might pull off an upset against the more experienced drivers from the United States faded as the cloudy afternoon wore on.
 When it was over, Martin Truex Jr., the defending Busch Series champion from New Jersey, crossed the finish line first, and the only Mexican driver in the top 10 was Fernandez, who put on a spectacular effort in the last 10 laps to finish 10th. Other Mexican drivers with more stock-car experience, among them Jorge Goeters, who won the pole position in qualifying rounds, and Carlos Contreras, had mechanical trouble that knocked them back in the pack.
 Still, few fans who were asked said they were disappointed with the aggressive and sometimes violent style of racing they witnessed. Several drivers spun out of control on the windy course, while others were battered in turns or rammed from behind during the 80-lap, 201-mile race. 
 ''It's very exciting, because in this race they are all at risk,'' said Mario Sanchez, a businessman who brought his wife and two children. ''Here, everyone has an opportunity to win.''
 Auto racing in Mexico tends to attract a different crowd from Nascar races in the United States. Most fans here are from the middle and upper classes, a reflection of the economic realities of the country, where the poor often cannot afford a car. In Mexico, soccer, baseball and bullfights attract working-class people. Their equivalents in the United States have traditionally filled the stands at Nascar tracks in the Southeast. 
 The crowd here Sunday was studded with video cameras, a status symbol in Mexico, where electronics are extremely expensive.
 ''It's a more elitist sport here,'' said Marco Brandi, a student who came with his brother. 
 To attract North American drivers, Nascar sweetened the pot, putting up a purse of $2.3 million, second only to the awards at the series' opening race at Daytona International Speedway. Truex won by following a strategy of going to a pit stop early and trying to stay out of trouble for the last 40 laps.
 ''It's just been a lot of fun down here,'' said Truex, one of the few American drivers who seemed to relish a chance to visit Mexico. ''We wanted to be out front at the end. In order to do that, we had to pit early.'' 
 Before the race, the chatter among fans focused on the chances of the nine Mexican drivers. Goeters led early, but his engine later gave out, and Carlos Contreras's gear shift became stuck seven laps from the finish, taking him out of the race. Other Mexican drivers had similar misfortune.
 Despite the failure of their national heroes, the fans seemed excited as they filed out of the racetrack, and many expressed a desire for Nascar to return. Arturo Sandoval, a 15-year-old whose good grades earned him a ticket from his parents, said he was hooked. ''I like the noise, the roar of the motors and the speed,'' he said. ''I wish there were more events like this.''
 There were complaints, however, about the high price for the tickets, which ran from about $15 to more than $200, with parking an additional $9.
 Jose Angel Martinez Rojas, a 25-year-old construction worker from Matamoros, on the Texas border, who earns about $400 a month, said he left at dawn with a friend for the drive to Mexico City and paid $45 for a ticket.
 ''It's worth the pain,'' he said as the cars rounded the curve in front of his seats, some of the cheapest at the track. ''Absolutely.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A crowd of more than 94,000 watched a Busch Series race in Mexico City yesterday.
 Martin Truex Jr. of New Jersey won the race in a country where stock cars are a novelty. (Photographs by Donald Miralle/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (92%); NASCAR RACING (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); FORMULA ONE RACING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); BASEBALL (72%); SOCCER (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (90%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005



156 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: China Says It Won't Sell Dollars

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, March 6 

 BODY:
The Chinese official in charge of his country's huge foreign currency reserves said over the weekend that China had no plans to sell dollars, and also ruled out any ''large scale'' appreciation of China's currency against the dollar.
 The series of unusually blunt comments by Guo Shuqing, director of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange and a vice chairman of the central bank, may reassure currency traders that China will not push down the value of the dollar by dumping its holdings in favor of currencies that have been stronger in the last year or two, like the euro. With $609.9 billion in foreign exchange holdings at the end of last year, China has the world's second-largest reserves, after Japan. 
 But Mr. Guo's opposition to any significant appreciation of the Chinese currency, the yuan, is also a setback to efforts by the United States, the European Union and Japan to blunt China's growing share of global trade by urging that Chinese officials let the yuan's value rise.
 Mr. Guo appeared to be trying to address an undercurrent of popular dismay in China over the rapid accumulation of dollar-denominated assets even as the dollar has weakened. Chinese media have published numerous articles in recent months asking if the country has lost money by investing so heavily in dollars.
 The official New China News Agency on Sunday carried a rare defense of Chinese currency policies by Mr. Guo. "We will not adjust the structure of our foreign exchange reserves according to short-term fluctuations,'' he was quoted as saying Saturday on the sidelines of a meeting of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, an advisory group. ''If we sell U.S. dollars now when it is tumbling, it means we lose money. If we do sell them, we have to buy other currencies such as the euro. But what if the euro drops?''
 Liang Hong, a Goldman Sachs economist here, said Mr. Guo might have felt compelled to speak publicly because the National People's Congress, the Communist Party-controlled Parliament, has convened for its annual session. ''Each time at this time of year,'' she said, ''they have to respond to these questions, probably raised by N.P.C. members, so they have to defend that.''
 China's foreign reserves have tripled since 2001, but oil prices have more than doubled since then, so the buying power of the reserves has not risen as fast, Ms. Liang noted.
 In separate comments to domestic and foreign news media on Saturday at the conference, Mr. Guo ruled out allowing the yuan to float freely and said that no large-scale appreciation would be permitted. But like other Chinese officials over the last four years, he hinted at the possibility that Beijing would at some point tolerate greater flexibility in the exchange rate, now effectively fixed at 8.28 to the dollar. ''As for how to determine the range, it depends on actual circumstances,'' he said, according to Reuters. ''We are making various preparations."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (93%); US DOLLAR (90%); EURO (90%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); POLITICS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (63%) Currency

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Guo Shuqing; Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005



157 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: In '05, Buffett Says He's Still Betting Against the Dollar

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
When the stock market was soaring in the late 1990's, Warren E. Buffett now says, he should have sold stocks rather than just complain that they were overvalued. Now Mr. Buffett, the billionaire investor, says he is acting on his view that the dollar is still headed down, even though it makes him nervous that so many agree with him. 
 ''I can properly be criticized for merely clucking about nosebleed valuations during the bubble, rather than acting on my views,'' Mr. Buffett wrote in the annual report of his investment company, Berkshire Hathaway, which was released over the weekend. ''Though I said at the time that certain of the stocks we held were priced ahead of themselves, I underestimated just how severe the overvaluation was. I talked when I should have walked.'' 
 The annual report showed that of the $3.5 billion in pretax gains on investments Berkshire realized in 2004, well over half came from betting against the dollar. That included $1.8 billion from foreign exchange contracts. A portion of the $730 million in profits on junk bonds came from foreign exchange profits as well. The bonds were purchased in 2001 and 2002, when such bonds traded at relatively high interest rates.
 Over all, Berkshire reported a decline in 2004 earnings, to $7.31 billion, or $4,753 a share, from $8.15 billion, or $5.309 a share, in 2003. Mr. Buffett said hurricanes cost the company's insurance business $1.25 billion.
 Berkshire ended the year with $43.4 billion in cash and short-term investments, up from $36 billion a year earlier and $12.7 billion at the end of 2002. He said he was looking for good investments but having difficulty finding them.
 On the dollar, Mr. Buffett renewed his criticism of the nation's economic policies. ''The evidence grows that our trade policies will put unremitting pressure on the dollar for many years to come,'' he wrote, adding that Berkshire owned $21.4 billion in foreign exchange contracts, denominated in 12 currencies, at the end of 2004. 
 In a 2003 article in Fortune Magazine, Mr. Buffett proposed that the United States achieve a trade balance -- or at least a sharply reduced trade deficit -- by issuing what he called ''import certificates'' to American companies that exported goods. The certificates could be sold by exporters, but a company could not import goods without a certificate. The idea has gained little support, and the trade deficit has continued to widen, rising to a record $618 billion in 2004.
 ''There are deep-rooted structural problems that will cause America to continue to run a huge current-account deficit unless trade policies either change materially or the dollar declines to a degree that could prove unsettling to financial markets,'' Mr. Buffett wrote in the annual report.
 If nothing is done, he said, the United States will continue to transfer ownership of assets to foreigners to finance American over consumption. Americans, he said, will eventually ''chafe at the idea of perpetually paying tribute to their creditors and owners abroad.'' 
 ''A country that is now aspiring to an 'Ownership Society' will not find happiness in -- and I'll use hyperbole here for emphasis -- a 'Sharecropper's Society.' But that's precisely where our trade policies, supported by Republicans and Democrats alike, are taking us.''
 Mr. Buffett's reputation was built on buying stocks, and sometimes whole companies, cheaply, and on rarely selling stock in what have become Berkshire's principal holdings. In the new annual report, he said that Berkshire's ''big four'' stock positions -- American Express, Coca-Cola, Gillette and Wells Fargo -- had performed well in terms of their businesses, but that he had underestimated how overvalued they had become during the bubble. Of the four, only Wells Fargo now trades for more than it sold for in 2000, while Coca-Cola is worth less than half its peak value.
 In a long discussion of Berkshire's insurance holdings, Mr. Buffett did not mention reports that American International Group is being investigated by federal and New York state authorities for selling a product to a Berkshire company that may have distorted financial statements. 
 The annual report does say that the liquidator of two failed insurance companies in Australia, FAI Insurance and HIH Insurance, planned to assert claims against Berkshire. The liquidator contends that Berkshire's General Re unit contributed to the companies' collapse by helping them with improper accounting. Berkshire said it could not predict the result of the claim.
 Unlike most major companies, Berkshire has never granted stock options, and Mr. Buffett has been a vocal proponent of treating the value of such options as an expense, something that is now required in Europe and that will be required in the United States beginning June 15 unless Congress intervenes. He urged Berkshire shareholders to oppose Congressional action.
 But in the annual report, Mr. Buffett, who is 74, said it was possible that Berkshire would change its policies. ''My successor at Berkshire may well receive much of his pay via options,'' he wrote, quickly adding that such options would have to be structured to prevent the rapid sale of shares after options were exercised.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (88%); EXPORT PRICES (88%); IMPORT TRADE (87%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (85%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (84%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); WEATHER (69%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (67%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (66%); IMPORT CONTROLS (60%); INTEREST RATES (51%) Stocks and Bonds; Currency; Company Reports

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Berkshire Hathaway Inc; Berkshire Hathaway Inc

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (90%); BRK.A (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (90%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (93%) Floyd Norris; Warren E Buffett

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005



158 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1671 words

HEADLINE: SHAKE-UP AT SONY PUTS WESTERNER IN LEADER'S ROLE

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and SAUL HANSELL; Todd Zaun reported for this article from Tokyo and Ken Belson from New York.

 BODY:
The board of the Sony Corporation of Japan named Sir Howard Stringer its chairman and chief executive today, an unusual instance of a leading Japanese company turning to a foreigner to fill a top position, the company said in Tokyo.
 Sir Howard, a Welsh-born former television news journalist, runs Sony Corporation of America and has helped revive the company's music and movie businesses in the United States. He will succeed Nobuyuki Idei, Sony's current chairman and chief executive, who had planned to retire next year after Sony's 60th anniversary.
 This is a remarkable humbling for a company that once defined Japanese innovation and technological prowess in the years after World War II. In recent years, however, Sony has lost ground to American stalwarts like Apple Computer with its dominant iPod digital music player and a raft of upstart electronics manufacturers in China and South Korea. 
 It is also a recognition of the turnaround in Sony's entertainment businesses, which are among the most profitable parts of the company, riding blockbuster movies like ''Spider-Man.'' And it underscores the changes that are sweeping Japan, once ascendant in the world economy, but suffering through a decade of little or no growth.
 In a statement issued from Sony's Tokyo headquarters, Sir Howard hinted at future efforts to integrate the entertainment and electronics focuses of the company. ''We look forward to joining our twin pillars of engineering and technology with our commanding presence in entertainment and content creation to deliver the most advanced devices and forms of entertainment to the consumer,'' Sir Howard said.
 Sir Howard, a charismatic 63-year-old who does not speak Japanese, was born in Cardiff, Wales, and is an American citizen who splits his time between New York and his family's home in London. Before joining Sony in 1997, he worked for 30 years as a journalist, at CBS, at one point as a producer for Dan Rather at CBS, and ultimately went on to run that network.
 Sir Howard was knighted by Queen Elizabeth in 1999 and has become known for being a likeable consensus builder, comfortable negotiating with both Hollywood divas as well as eccentric engineers and managers in Japan.
 ''Forgive the awful pun, but he has kind of oriented himself to his Japanese colleagues,'' said Peter G. Peterson, chairman and co-founder of The Blackstone Group and a former board member at Sony who helped recruit Sir Howard to the company. ''It's a great achievement. They trust him. He's a harmonizer.''
 Mr. Idei, 67, was the first nonengineer to run Sony, and his departure will come two years into his three-year plan to overhaul the company. During his 10-year tenure, Mr. Idei used his background in marketing to reshape Sony into a more media-focused company. 
 Sir Howard, of course, is hardly an engineer himself. But in recent years he has taken an increasing interest in Sony's electronics business, particularly in areas that relate to music and movies. Sir Howard, who is also vice chairman of Sony's board, has tried to break through the bureaucratic logjams that have kept Sony -- the company that invented the Walkman -- from competing effectively against Apple's iPod, the dominant digital music player. And he has taken a key role in negotiating with other Hollywood studios to get support for the new Blu-Ray disk format, which Sony supports.
 More recently, Sir Howard has been increasingly outspoken within Sony that the company has to break down its balkanized structure in order to move much more quickly in the marketplace. In a provocative speech to Sony managers in January he declared that ''the business of Sony has become management not product design.''
 Sir Howard joins a small club of foreign executives who have taken the helm of major Japanese companies. This includes Carlos Ghosn of Nissan and Rolf Eckrodt, a German who led a failed effort to turn around Mitsubishi Motors.
 Sir Howard does not keep a home in Tokyo, but he is expected to spend more time in Japan, a Sony executive said. 
 Still, he has shown that he can build bridges to all sides of that company.
 ''Howard is the ultimate diplomat,'' said Vic Pacor, the former head of Sony's television and home audio division in the United States. ''He is even handed and will bring the kind of stability that the company needs,'' said Mr. Pacor, who is now president of D&M Holdings, a Japanese-American electronics company.
 Allowing a foreigner to take over the reins of Sony would be one of the boldest moves a Japanese company could make. Most Japanese boards and executive ranks are filled with lifetime employees who win those spots more through their loyalty than through their creativity. 
 Yet in appointing a foreigner to its top spot, Sony's management appears to be completing a course originally set out in the 1950's by its co-founder, Akio Morita. 
 He recognized then that Sony had the potential to become a global powerhouse if it not only sold products overseas, but incorporated foreign thinking in its products, its brand and even its management. 
 Sony was the first Japanese company to list its stock on the New York Stock Exchange, something other Japanese rivals soon copied. Sony was also one of the first big Japanese companies to invite a foreigner to sit on its board.
 Sony is now one of the most widely held Japanese companies. Foreigners hold more than one-third of Sony's shares, and foreign investors have had a growing influence on the company's behavior.
 Kunitake Ando, Sony's president is also set to resign and be replaced by Ryoji Chubachi, 57, the company's executive deputy president who has recently has been in charge of Sony's production operations. Mr. Chubachi will also take charge of the ailing consumer electronics business, which still represents 70 percent of Sony's revenue. 
 The appointment of Sir Howard appears to be a blow to Ken Kutaragi, the 54 year old executive who built Sony's PlayStation video game unit into the company's most profitable division. A defiant and idiosyncratic engineer, Mr. Kutaragi, who has long been seen as the leading candidate to become Sony's next chief executive, was given responsibility for electronics and semiconductors two years ago. Now he will again just run the game unit. And he gives up his seat on Sony's board.
 Several former Sony executives speculated that Mr. Kutaragi is still a likely candidate to ultimately become chief executive. But Mr. Kutaragi has been so outspoken within Sony that it would it would be too radical, even at this point, for Sony to appoint him as the deputy to Mr. Stringer. Mr. Chubachi, who is well regarded inside Sony, would be more acceptable to the engineers who run Sony's powerful internal divisions.
 Since last year, Mr. Chubachi has been leading an effort to wring more efficiency from Sony factories by sharing technology and know-how among plants. He is one of the three key executives in charge of carrying out Sony's current revitalization strategy, along with Mr. Kutaragi and Shizuo Takashino, 61, the man who invented the original Walkman and is now in charge of improving product design.
 Ultimately, Mr. Idei may have been forced to resign early because the financial results of the company have been consistently disappointing. In Japan, his tenure is most remembered for what has become called ''Sony Shock'' in 2003 when the company's shares fell by 25 percent after an unexpected quarterly loss.
 In January, the company disappointed investors again saying that its profits would be less than it had earlier forecast for its fiscal year that ends March 31, mainly because it has had to lower prices on its core electronics products.
 Mr. Idei has long painted lofty pictures of digital technology and how it could be combined with Sony's music movie and game content. Yet the strategy, which was first devised in the 1980's by Mr. Morita, has been slow to evolve. Sony's engineers initially resisted the growing power of the media divisions.
 By the time Mr. Idei corralled them into cooperating, the company's electronics division was under had lost its way in its two most important product categories: televisions and portable music devices. It missed both the shift to flat screen sets and MP3 players like iPod. 
 One pet project of Mr. Idei's, the introduction of the Vaio computer line, has met with mixed results. 
 Mr. Idei has initiated a broad project, called Transformation 60, meant to increase profit margins through new products and reducing costs. The company has had successive rounds of layoffs and is moving more production to China. Yet profit margins are far from Mr. Idei's targets.
 ''Just because Howard becomes C.E.O. doesn't mean we can expect a dramatic change in earnings,'' said John S. Yang, an electronics analyst for Standard & Poor's in Tokyo. ''I think Mr. Stringer will be facing as many problems as Idei-san did. But the good thing is that Sony has been proactive about changing.''
 Sir Howard will likely need to repeat his success in the media business on a much broader scale. In the United States, Mr. Stringer made a series of unusual management choices. One of his first hires was Robert S. Wiesenthal, a banker at Credit Suisse First Boston, who became the company's chief strategy officer and later its chief financial officer. He later brought in Andrew Lack, the former head of NBC, to run Sony Music and Michael Lynton, the president of Time Warner International to run Sony Pictures. 
 In 2003, he combined Sony's music business with Bertelsmann's BMG Music. 
 And last year, he had Sony organize an investor group to buy Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, with its deep catalog of movies to bolster Sony's DVD business.
 At the same time, Sir Howard orchestrated several severe waves of layoffs. Mr. Peterson says that Sir Howard's experience restructuring Sony's movie and music companies will help him take the tough actions necessary in Tokyo.
 ''At the end of the day, people want to cooperate with him in achieving his objectives,'' Mr. Peterson said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Howard Stringer, second from left, is Sony's new chief, succeeding Nobuyuki Idei, second from right. Ken Kutaragi, the vice president, left, was demoted
 Kunitake Ando, the president, right, resigned. (Photo by Toshifumi Kitamura/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A9)Chart: ''An Electronics Empire''Sony's new chief executive, Sir Howard Stringer, will head a trans-Atlantic network of subsidiary companies and affiliates. Previously Sir Howard was chief and chairman of the United States arm of the Sony Corporation.HEADQUARTERSSony Corporation: TokyoSony Corporation of America: New YorkEMPLOYEESSony Corporation: 162,000Sony Corporation of America: 22,000PRODUCTSSony Corporation: Televisions, portable audio players, computers games, etc.Sony Corporation of America: Movies, music.OPERATING INCOME BY DIVISION, 2000 through 2004*Graph tracks operating income in the billions for the following divisions since 2000:ElectronicsGamesMusicMoviesFinancial ServicesOtherREVENUEGraph tracks revenue in the billions since 2000.Fiscal years ended MarchOPERATING INCOMEGraph tracks operating income in the billions since 2000.*Fiscal years ended March 31.(Sources by DFC Intelligence, Hoover's, Factiva)(pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); ENGINEERING (88%); ELECTRONICS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); MOVIE REVENUES (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); FILM (76%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (72%); MUSIC (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); WORLD WAR II (54%) Appointments and Executive Changes

COMPANY: SONY CORP (93%); SONY CORP OF AMERICA (58%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Sony Corp; Sony Corp; Sony Corp

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%); BX (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%)

PERSON: HOWARD STRINGER (92%); PETE PETERSON (58%) Andrew Ross Sorkin; Saul Hansell; Howard Stringer; Nobuyuki Idei; Kunitake Ando; Ryoji Chubachi; Ken Kutaragi

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); WALES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005



159 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Down on the Farm; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: The Little Guys Are O.K.

BYLINE: By Bruce Gardner. 
Bruce Gardner, dean of the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources at the University of Maryland, is the author of ''American Agriculture in the 20th Century: How It Flourished and What It Cost.''

DATELINE: COLLEGE PARK, Md. 

 BODY:
THE increasing size and industrialization of American farms have been decried as responsible for depopulating the countryside and causing economic and social ills. President Bush's proposed budget has encouraged the belief that help is on the way, in the form of more stringent limits on farm program payments. The plan, under which payments to some producers would drop by 5 percent and the current $360,000 annual ceiling on payments would drop to $250,000, has earned praise from rural populists, who see it as a step to reduce the subsidization of large as compared to small farms. 
 However, two questions must be raised: Will the limits on payments really help small farms? And, more fundamentally, is it a good idea to subsidize large farms less than small ones? 
 To answer these questions fairly, one must consider some surprising news: small farms are actually surviving and even flourishing to an extent no one guessed 20 or 30 years ago. 
 The United States had 6 million farms in 1944, and by 1970 that number had declined to 3 million, a rate of loss of almost 3 percent each year. If the pattern had held, we would have just over a million farms today. Instead we have 2.1 million, and the rate of decline has slowed to a trickle, with today's total essentially the same as that of 1990. 
 What made this moderation of the trend possible? In large part, the integration of the farm and nonfarm labor markets. Yes, all the improvements over the last 75 years in rural transportation, communications and education first led to an accelerated movement of people from farm to city. But a more recent trend has seen many people commuting to nonfarm jobs while they remain living on the farm. According to the Agriculture Department, nonfarm jobs now account for more than 90 percent of farm households' incomes. 
 In many cases, one family member focuses on the farming enterprise while others -- spouses, siblings, grown children -- work off the farm. In other situations, no one works full-time at farming -- the operation is a side job for the entire family, in some cases a refuge from urban stresses. While complete statistics are hard to come by, the data indicate that these arrangements are proving viable to an extent far greater than was thought possible 30 years ago.
 Government statistics show that the rise of these nontraditional farms has been accompanied by a marked improvement in the economic condition of the agricultural population. Until the 1960's, farm household incomes remained stubbornly below those of nonfarm households, averaging about 60 percent of the nonfarm average. But, beginning in the 1960's, relative farm incomes began to rise -- and by 1990 they had achieved income parity with the rest of Americans. The Agriculture Department's latest estimate, for 2003, is that farm households had average incomes 15 percent higher than average nonfarm levels. 
 Federal figures show that both large farms and small ones are increasing as a fraction of all farms, with the proportion of mid-size farms decreasing. This would lead one to expect a rise in income inequality among farm households, with the middle-sized farmers falling behind. So perhaps the biggest surprise is that incomes are actually becoming more equal. 
 Consider the relative net income of farmers classified by the Agriculture Department as at the bottom fifth in terms of gross sales and government subsidies. In 1950 they made about a third less than did the average farm household. But by the mid-1990's, those farmers in the bottom fifth were within 10 percent of the national average. Similarly, in 1950 the top 5 percent of farmers had two and a half times the average farm household's income; this figure was reduced to one and a third times as much by the mid-1990's. 
 So how should this good news change our thinking about the proposed changes in federal payments? First, the new limits are unlikely to give any significant boost to small farms. Large farms will likely go on producing just as much as they are producing now, because these payments are almost entirely fixed per farm, and do not vary with the amount the farm produces. So the market conditions facing small farms will not improve. On the other hand, if large farms produce less of the bulk program crops that are subject to the limits (cotton and rice are the main ones affected), they will produce something else on their land, and that something else may well be the high-value crops that are more prevalent on today's small farms than on large ones.
 As to the question of whether it is good policy to promote small farms, the main reasons advocates give are that small farming makes rural areas more vital by resulting in more people per square mile, and that small farms are closer to the bucolic ideal so many of us grew up with. While that traditional farming image has as much appeal in agriculture as in many other endeavors, and while I share the sentiment, I have to side with those who question the wisdom of using taxpayer dollars to subsidize it. Large farms simply produce commodities at lower cost, and shouldn't be thought the worse for it. After all, special subsidies for smaller stores in country towns would help them compete with Wal-Mart, too, but even the chain's greatest enemies haven't suggested such a policy.
 The promising trends in terms of farm numbers, increasing incomes and decreasing inequality don't mean there are no economic problems in American agriculture. But they do mean that the industrialization of agriculture has not crowded out small, specialized farm operations. Even in the age of Monsanto and Cargill, there is still a role for Mom and Pop. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (89%); TRENDS (89%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); STATISTICS (76%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%) Agriculture; Agriculture

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%) Bruce Gardner

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005



160 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1636 words

HEADLINE: In Partisan Haggling Over Private Accounts, Even the Middle Ground Is Perilous

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 6 

 BODY:
With President Bush's approach to overhauling Social Security facing a daunting set of obstacles, both sides in the debate are exploring the pros and cons of compromise.
 But while it would not seem difficult on the surface to identify a middle ground, the types of deals envisioned by each side remain mostly anathema to the other, and, because of the high political and ideological stakes, there are contingents in each party who say that failure to agree at all would be better than a compromise that gives way on principle. 
 As a result, analysts and members of both parties say, bringing Democrats and Republicans together on Social Security will be much harder than on issues that better lend themselves to splitting the difference.
 ''It's going to be extremely difficult because of the built-in distrust between Democrats and Republicans,'' said Eric Patashnik, a professor of politics at the University of Virginia who has studied Social Security. ''That's going to be hard to overcome.'' 
 To Republicans and other supporters of Mr. Bush's approach, the obvious middle ground would be to create private investment accounts out of the existing payroll tax, as the White House wants, and then combine that with steps to ensure that low-income and perhaps middle-class workers and retirees come out ahead, giving the final package a progressive cast. 
 ''That's the thing you dangle out there: that the Social Security system is actually going to be better for low-income people,'' said Representative Jim Kolbe, Republican of Arizona, who has been trying to build bipartisan support for a plan that includes private accounts. 
 Among Democrats and other opponents of the administration's proposal, the assumption is that any deal would combine steps to ensure Social Security's financial health with the creation of retirement accounts that would supplement Social Security rather than replace a part of it. In that way, the legislation would meet the liberal demand that nothing be done to dismantle the retirement program while allowing conservatives to establish the principle of personal investing.
 ''If there is potential for common ground, it lies in wrapping together within a single legislative package a fair and balanced solvency plan with a progressive individual account that functions as a universal pension completely separate from the financing of Social Security,'' said Gene Sperling, who was director of the National Economic Council under President Bill Clinton.
 On Sunday, senior members of both parties said they were willing to negotiate -- if the other side would give way on private accounts. Democrats suggested they would be willing to negotiate a package of benefit cuts and tax increases to assure Social Security's long-term solvency if the president dropped his demand for private accounts financed by the payroll tax. Administration officials said private accounts along the lines the president wants had to be part of any deal, but that beyond that, they were open to Democratic ideas.
 ''If the president takes privatization off, if he makes a commitment to the future of Social Security, we're ready to sit down on a bipartisan basis and put everything on the table,'' Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the Democratic whip, said on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC.
 Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, speaking on ''This Week'' on ABC said Mr. Bush was encouraged that Democrats were at least discussing the issue.
 ''We want Democrats and Republicans talking to each other, and out of that, that climate of ideas, discussion, dialogue, I think we'll get something important here,'' Mr. Snow said. But he added that ''private accounts are absolutely a central part of any solution.''
 The search for a deal is playing out quietly on Capitol Hill, with little apparent progress so far. A group of a dozen or so centrists in the Senate, including Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, a Republican, and Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, a Democrat, has held some discussions. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, has been talking with a small bipartisan group about his ideas, which include relying in part on a tax increase on upper-income people, a stance rejected by most of his party. Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., Republican of Florida, has been trying to drum up support in his party for an approach built on supplemental accounts.
 Beyond supplemental ''add-on'' accounts, the ideas in play include imposing benefit cuts in a way that hits the wealthy much harder than low-income people, providing lower-income people a tax credit to help them put more money into their accounts, rolling back some of Mr. Bush's tax cuts to free up money for Social Security, and increasing benefits for widows and other particularly vulnerable groups. 
 Mr. Bush has left himself wiggle room, saying he welcomes all ideas, promising not to exact political retribution for suggestions made by Democrats and expressing a willingness even to consider tax increases.
 But the two basic models for compromise -- a more progressive system with private accounts carved out of payroll taxes and add-on accounts supplemental to the existing system -- are themselves so far apart that it is not clear whether the divide can be bridged. 
 Even if the models were closer together in substantive terms, they would still face the reality that Democrats in Congress see no particular political imperative to work across the aisle to help salvage Mr. Bush's top domestic priority and that Republican leaders, especially in the House, have shown no interest in working with them anyway.
 Administration officials say that they remain optimistic that Mr. Bush can create enough political pressure on Congress to act, and that there are enough ideas fermenting that an accommodation can be reached on the structure of the accounts and the steps needed to ensure the system's long-term solvency. On Monday, Senator Chuck Hagel, a Nebraska Republican who is often named as a possible presidential candidate in 2008, will present a plan.
 ''We like to see ideas, because if people are putting ideas out, they are engaging, and if they're engaging they're helping to create the political mass that's going to produce a result,'' Mr. Snow said.
 Some supporters of Mr. Bush's approach say the only politically viable deal will be one that has broad bipartisan backing; others say that the administration will be happy to win the way Mr. Bush has on most big issues, by peeling off just enough Democrats to make it possible. 
 Either way, people on both sides of the issue said it was hard to see a framework that could be the basis of a bill that can pass. Democrats are almost totally united against anything that includes accounts financed by payroll taxes; only one Democrat in the House has signed on to legislation that would create carve-out accounts, and 42 of 44 Democratic senators signed a letter last week calling on Mr. Bush to abandon his proposal.
 On the other side, supporters of Mr. Bush's approach said there was no chance that add-on accounts could be the basis for a deal.
 ''There is no support whatsoever among conservatives in the House and the Senate for add-on accounts,'' said Michael Tanner, director of health and welfare studies at the Cato Institute, a libertarian research group that has promoted private investment accounts for two decades. ''The whole point is transforming the Social Security system from a system where people are dependent on the government to one where people can save for themselves and accumulate wealth on their own, and add-on accounts don't do anything to transform Social Security.''
 On top of that, many Democrats fear that add-on accounts would open a door over the long run to accounts drawn from payroll taxes.
 ''It's a dangerous concept for those who say they support Social Security,'' said Roger Hickey, co-director of Campaign for America's Future, a liberal research and advocacy group that opposes Mr. Bush's approach. ''Private accounts, whether financed out of the Social Security system or financed out of general revenues, are still a bad substitute for guaranteed Social Security benefits. So anyone who thinks add-ons are a solution should think twice because they really are a Trojan horse.''
 But it is exactly that possibility -- that add-on accounts might pave the way for accounts carved out of Social Security -- that might make the concept politically viable as a compromise, Professor Patashnik of the University of Virginia said.
 ''If you ideologically want to transform Social Security and thereby begin changing F.D.R.'s legacy and the welfare state, the question is whether add-on accounts will help you or hurt you,'' he said. ''Would it be a failure because the existing Social Security system remains in place and you haven't carved anything out of it? Or will add-on accounts become popular and develop a constituency, so that young people who have less trust in the government than in the marketplace ultimately pressure Congress to increase the size of the accounts relative to Social Security?''
 Some Republicans appear to be intent on testing that theory. Senator Robert F. Bennett, Republican of Utah, has floated a plan that would create accounts that start out as voluntary add-ons, through which workers could contribute a percentage of their earnings. After some time, perhaps five years, the workers could divert some of their payroll taxes into the account if they concluded that investing was a good deal for them.
 Mr. Bennett's proposal includes another component that some Republicans say could be a promising part of any compromise. It would impose benefit cuts to help restore the system's long-term financial soundness but in a way so that they would fall more heavily on upper-income people than on lower-income people.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Richard J. Durbin said yesterday that Democrats would not agree to private accounts. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
The Republican senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, above, and Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, right, are seeking bipartisan agreements. (Photo by Dennis Brack/Bloomberg News)
 (Photo by Jonathan Ernst/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%); TAX LAW (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); POOR POPULATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%)

PERSON: OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); RICHARD DURBIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005



161 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: Interpublic's chief is an outsider, but his financial acumen may be just what the company needs.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
MICHAEL I. ROTH, the new chief executive of Interpublic, the agency company, has not written advertisements, managed accounts, supervised the production of commercials or schmoozed with chief marketing officers at cocktail parties.
 Indeed, Mr. Roth, 59, has never been an advertising executive, although before being named chief executive on Jan. 19 he had served on the Interpublic board since 2002 and as chairman since July.
 But as the third chief executive in two years at the Interpublic Group of Companies, whose units work for marketers like Bank of America, Coca-Cola and Microsoft, Mr. Roth -- by all descriptions a frank, decisive and competitive man -- confronts myriad problems. Among them are failed acquisitions, shrinking margins, client defections, seven consecutive quarterly losses and an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission related to accounting irregularities. 
 That gap in his resume may seem yawning, but not to the other members of the Interpublic board, who named Mr. Roth to succeed David A. Bell, the chief executive since February 2003. (Mr. Bell serves as co-chairman with Mr. Roth.)
 The reason, those who know him say, is that Mr. Roth, in his temperament and in his background, resembles the chief executives of the agency companies that are Interpublic's rivals, most notably John D. Wren and Sir Martin Sorrell. Their financial acumen and corporate skills are frequently cited as reasons for the success of, respectively, the Omnicom Group, the biggest agency company in revenue, and the WPP Group, ranked second. (Interpublic is No.3).
 Mr. Roth may not be able to distinguish his DDB's or his JWT's from his RSCG's, but he has been an accountant and a chief financial officer (twice), as well as chief executive of a large financial-services company, the Mony Group. 
 ''Interpublic did not lack for people who know the advertising business,'' said David M. Thomas, a member of the Mony board whom Mr. Roth recruited in October to join the board of Interpublic, which is based in New York. ''What the company needs is the skills Michael brings as someone who understands how it is going to have to operate.''
 ''Being an outsider, having a clean slate, can be a very positive thing,'' said Mr. Thomas, who is the executive chairman of IMS Health in Fairfield, Conn., a pharmaceutical market research and consulting company. ''It will take him a while to learn the advertising business, but he'll pick it up. When you start to show up in front of customers, they tell you pretty quickly what you need to know.''
 Lauren Rich Fine, the analyst who follows the advertising industry for Merrill Lynch, recalled a meeting last fall called by Mr. Roth for her and her counterparts at the other brokerage firms.
 ''It was unusual for a chairman to reach out like that, but it was consistent with his style,'' Ms. Fine said. ''The sense I get is the new regime is more proactive.''
 ''The last thing you want is the perception there needs to be more change,'' she added. ''But bringing in somebody who can come in and take a critical look as a businessman, who says, 'This is what has to happen,' sometimes can make a big difference.''
 Mr. Roth is the first to acknowledge his lack of advertising experience as well as his need to quickly pick up the nuances of how the game is played on Madison Avenue.
 ''It's a challenge, but I like them,'' Mr. Roth said in an hourlong interview over breakfast last month in Midtown Manhattan. (He is in a quiet period now, ahead of Interpublic's planned report later this month of its fourth-quarter results.) 
 ''I didn't have visions of running Interpublic, that's for sure,'' Mr. Roth said, adding: ''I said to the board members when I agreed to become chairman that if I do this, I'll roll up my sleeves and be engaged. Six months later, here I am, engaged.''
 ''I'm new to the advertising industry, but not to Wall Street,'' said Mr. Roth, who became the Interpublic chairman after completing the sale of Mony, where he was the chairman and chief executive, to Axa S.A.
 ''Shareholders want to see results, and I don't blame them,'' he added. ''I think they would have liked to see improvements a little sooner.''
 Interpublic's shareholders have been sorely tried since 2002, when the accounting irregularities, mostly related to bookkeeping at its largest unit, the McCann Worldgroup, were discovered. Months of turmoil led to the board's decision in February 2003 to replace John J. Dooner Jr., chairman and chief executive since 2001, with Mr. Bell, who had been vice chairman.
 Under Mr. Bell, Interpublic, which owns agencies like Deutsch, Initiative and McCann Erickson, made considerable progress, disposing of money-losing units, reducing debt, improving liquidity and cutting costs, all as part of an ambitious turnaround plan he estimated would take until mid-2006 to finish.
 Still, some analysts, investors, clients and senior managers at Interpublic units have been fretting about the future. One worry was the loss of large, lucrative accounts at several Interpublic agencies, from marketers like the Braun division of Gillette, Capital One, HSBC and Samsung. Another concern centered on how long it seemed to be taking to address problems previously identified as priorities, like reorganizing Interpublic's lagging media operations, particularly as Omnicom and WPP keep thriving.
 ''We saw that Michael would be no doubt much stronger in the area of operations,'' said Frank J. Borelli, the presiding director on the Interpublic board, ''and dealing with the individual business-unit leaders, he had to have the C.E.O. title.''
 ''No question, the board is very pleased with the progress so far,'' he added, ''as Michael and David are working very well together,'' with Mr. Bell focused more on client relations. 
 ''Michael's tough-minded. He listens. He makes decisions on a timely basis,'' Mr. Borelli said. ''We're satisfied he has the attributes to do the job and look to him to get us back to where we belong to be.''
 Among those attributes are an undergraduate degree in accounting, from the City College of New York, and degrees from two law schools, at Boston University and New York University. He is also a partner in Roth's Steakhouse on the Upper West Side, with his son, Marc; Mr. Roth and his wife, Carol, also have a son, Andrew, and a daughter, Barrie.
 Before joining Mony in 1989, Mr. Roth worked at Coopers & Lybrand, the accounting firm now part of PricewaterhouseCoopers, from 1973 to 1982, and Primerica, the financial company, from 1982 to 1989. Mr. Roth came to Mony as chief financial officer, became president in 1991 and chief executive in 1993, adding the chairman's title later that year. 
 ''If you look at his background, you see he's used to leading,'' said Anthony J. Hopp, chairman and chief executive at Campbell-Ewald in Warren, Mich., the Interpublic agency that works for clients like Chevrolet, ''and he feels like a leader.''
 Mr. Roth is ''candid; tough, but in an engaging way; and not afraid to ask what some might consider awkward questions,'' Mr. Hopp said. ''My expectation is this operation's going to head north, and head north quickly.''
 Brendan Ryan, Mr. Hopp's counterpart at another Interpublic agency, Foote Cone & Belding in New York, was characteristically candid.
 Mr. Roth ''is not some guy doing audits, a retiring violet who lives in a green-eyeshade world,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''He's decisive, direct, a man of conviction, who will take the action necessary to get done what needs to be done.'' 
 Mr. Roth, not surprisingly, was reluctant to describe his agenda in detail, but specified some goals. ''Clearly, the biggest issue is the internal-control issue'' to prevent a recurrence of the accounting problems, Mr. Roth said, adding: ''That will take time and money, too much money. But we have to get it behind us.''
 Also, ''we've got to fix our media offering,'' Mr. Roth said, referring to the Interpublic lineup of worldwide media agencies, some recently suffering losses from clients like Nestle and Unilever. ''We invented the global perspective,'' he added, ''and then let others sort of pass us by.''
 And ''I want us to be aggressive in new business,'' Mr. Roth said. ''The notion of others cleaning our clock has got to change.''
 There is another task, less tangible but just as important, that Mr. Roth said he considers a priority.
 The Interpublic turnaround ''is a process, and every once in a while you get a surprise,'' he said, adding: ''My job is to make sure there are fewer surprises. I'm feeling comfortable there shouldn't be more.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael I. Roth, the new chief executive of Interpublic, is light on advertising experience, but he knows his way around Wall Street. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (95%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ACCOUNTING (88%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); RANKINGS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%) Biographical Information

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (98%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); WPP PLC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); JWT (54%); AXA FINANCIAL INC (53%); IMS HEALTH INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%) Interpublic Group of Cos

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (98%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (90%); WPP (LSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (90%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (90%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (90%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL I ROTH (94%); JOHN D WREN (58%) Stuart Elliott; Michael I Roth

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005



162 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3679 words

PERSON: Hans A. Bethe

HEADLINE: Hans Bethe, A-Bomb Builder And Later Arms Foe, Dies at 98

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
Hans A. Bethe, who discovered the violent reactions behind sunlight, helped devise the atom bomb and eventually cried out against the military excesses of the cold war, died late Sunday. He was 98, among the last of the giants who inaugurated the nuclear age.
 His death was announced by Cornell University, where he worked and taught for 70 years. A spokesman said he died quietly at home.
 Since the war years at Los Alamos, N.M., Dr. Bethe had lived in Ithaca, N.Y., an unpretentious man of uncommon gifts. His students called him Hans and admired his muddy shoes as much as the way he explained how certain kinds of stars shine. For number crunching, in lieu of calculators, he relied on a slide rule, its case battered. ''For the things I do,'' he remarked a few years ago, ''it's accurate enough.'' 
 For nearly eight decades, Dr. Bethe (pronounced BAY-tah) pioneered some of the most esoteric realms of physics and astrophysics, politics and armaments, long advising the federal government and in time emerging as the science community's liberal conscience.
 During the war, he led the theoreticians who devised the atom bomb and for decades afterwards fought against many new arms proposals. His wife, Rose, often discussed moral questions with him and, by all accounts, helped him decide what was right and wrong.
 Dr. Bethe fled Europe for the United States in the 1930's and quickly became a star of science. As a physicist, he made discoveries in the world of tiny particles described by quantum mechanics and the whorls of time and space envisioned by relativity theory. He did so into his mid-90's, astonishing colleagues with his continuing vigor and insight.
 In a 1938 paper, he explained one of the ways in which the sun and similar stars fuse hydrogen into helium, releasing bursts of energy and ultimately light. That work helped establish his reputation as the father of nuclear astrophysics, and nearly 30 years later, in 1967, earned him the Nobel Prize in Physics. In all, he published more than 300 scientific and technical papers, many of them originally classified secret.
 Politically, Dr. Bethe was the liberal counterpoint (and proud of it) to Edward Teller, the Hungarian physicist and strong conservative who played a dominant role in developing the hydrogen bomb. It brought to earth a more furious version of the fusion reactions in stars, and Dr. Bethe opposed its development as immoral. For more than a half-century, he championed many forms of arms control and nuclear disarmament, becoming a hero of the liberal intelligentsia.
 His wife called him a dove, Dr. Bethe once told an interviewer, adding his own qualifier: ''A tough dove.'' His gentle manner hid an iron will and mind that had few hesitations about identifying what he saw as error, hypocrisy or danger. ''His sense of duty toward society is so deeply ingrained that he isn't even aware of its being a sacrifice,'' a close colleague, Victor F. Weisskopf, once remarked. 

No Regrets on Bomb
 In a 1997 interview in his Cornell office, at age 90, Dr. Bethe said he had no regrets about his role in inventing the atom bomb, done amid worries about the Nazis' getting it first and conquering the world. But as the most senior of the living scientists who initiated the atomic age, he urged the United States to renounce all research on nuclear arms and called on scientists everywhere to do likewise.
 His ultimate dream, he said, his blue eyes calm, was for nations to cut their nuclear arsenals to a few hundred arms or less. ''Then,'' added Dr. Bethe, a survivor of Hitler and Mussolini, ''even if statesmen go crazy again, as they used to be, the use of these weapons will not destroy civilization.'' 
 Throughout life, he remained a staunch advocate of nuclear power, defending it as an answer to inevitable fossil-fuel shortages.
 Dr. Bethe was the last of the scientific greats who led the Manhattan Project to build a bomb and thus initiated the nuclear era, outliving not only Dr. Teller but Enrico Fermi and J.Robert Oppenheimer, the scientific head of wartime Los Alamos. ''He was one of Oppenheimer's first recruits,'' said Robert S. Norris, author of ''Racing for the Bomb'' (Steerforth Press, 2002), ''and was among the last survivors of that extraordinary story.''
 Mr. Norris added that Dr. Bethe was ''the almost perfect expression'' of the scientist-activist, driven by a sense of responsibly for his own atomic breakthroughs and those of his physicist colleagues. ''He saw his role as to educate the public and the policymakers about the new dangers and help figure out ways to control them,'' Mr. Norris commented.
 A biographer, Silvan S. Schweber of Brandeis University, author of ''In the Shadow of the Bomb'' (Princeton, 2000), said he despaired of mastering Dr. Bethe's archive of letters, papers and documents. Later, he feared that he would need ''three fat volumes'' to tell the physicist's story. He described Dr. Bethe as a moralist who took stands in defense of universities, democracy and society. What gave him the courage to do so, he added, was self confidence, a strong personality and the support of the community of friends and scientists he nurtured for nearly seven decades at Cornell.
 Richard Rhodes, who wrote of Dr. Bethe in ''The Making of the Atomic Bomb'' (Simon & Schuster, 1986), remarked on his sunny disposition despite his long struggle with nuclear dilemmas. ''He seemed so calm and, later in life, so serene,'' Mr. Rhodes said. ''That's interesting because he, more than any other leading figure of the Manhattan Project, agonized over his participation, first in the bomb itself and then in thermonuclear research'' to see if a hydrogen bomb was possible. 
 He was not a tragic figure wracked by guilt -- the fate of some who came to regret their bomb labors -- but a man famous for his indefatigable appetite. His lean body could boom with laughter. He loved to ski and climb mountains with colleagues. Students learned to rely on his patience and readiness to help, be it with research or personal problems. 
 Freeman Dyson, a mathematician at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, recalled meeting Dr. Bethe at Cornell in 1947. ''The thing that impressed me the most,'' he said, ''was that he had very muddy shoes and all the students called him Hans. So he was just the opposite of a European professor. That was part of his greatness. He was totally unpretentious and never tried to be bigger than he was.'' 
 Dr. Bethe, he added, ''always had lunch with the students and had a real concern for the teaching and all the students he was responsible for. He had a wonderful gift for finding the right problem for them, not too difficult and not too easy.'' 
 Dr. Bethe's long life embodied a deep faith not in the ultimate authority of science but of people and the human spirit -- a surprising stance for a man often viewed as one of the field's high priests. He understood its limits. His personal philosophy seemed deceptively simple: Science and technology, while good friends of great importance, cannot save humanity. Instead, he taught that only humane reasoning and the struggle to foster just human relationships would keep civilization from using the accomplishments of science to destroy itself.
 Hans Albrecht Bethe was born on July 2, 1906, in Strasbourg, Alsace-Lorraine, to a family of modest means. His father, a physiologist at the University of Strasbourg, was a Protestant and his mother Jewish. He was their only child. A the frail youth, he showed an early genius for mathematics, which his father discouraged, not wanting his son to get ahead of his peers. The precocious boy took to secretly reading his father's books on trigonometry and calculus.
 Dr. Bethe once said he grew up in the solace of ''numbers and fairy tales.'' The family moved to Frankfurt, where his father founded a physiology department at the new university. At the nearby gymnasium, his son studied Greek and Latin, French and English, but excelled at math and physics, deciding he wanted to do both.
 At the University of Munich, Dr. Bethe studied with Arnold Sommerfeld, one of the day's leading theoretical physicists. His teacher bristled with excitement for modern physics, and the student was soon lost to anything else. In 1928, Dr. Bethe received his Ph.D., graduating summa cum laude, having already contributed to the fledgling science of quantum mechanics. The next year he worked for Paul P. Ewald, a noted physicist in Stuttgart, and befriended his family, often visiting and having dinner. 
 At times, Dr. Bethe took the older Ewald children on Sunday walks, including Rose, his future wife. After stints at several universities, he came into conflict with the Nazi race laws and fled Germany in 1933. For two years he taught in England and then came to Cornell, where he remained all his academic life. 
 While lecturing at Duke University in 1937, he bumped into Rose Ewald, who had emigrated and was a student there. The two fell in love.

'Bethe's Bible'
 At Cornell, Dr. Bethe wrote a series of brilliant papers that culminated in the 1938 treatise, ''Energy Production in Stars.'' It set forth the first and only explanation of stellar energy that explained all the known facts -- essentially why stars like the sun burn for billions of years. His talents were synthetic as well as analytic, as evidenced by his production of a wealth of incisive review articles that became required reading for generations of physicists. Known as ''Bethe's bible,'' they, like much else he did, mirrored his precision, thoroughness and extraordinary powers of concentration.
 The world -- and his world in particular -- changed forever in 1938 when German scientists discovered that the atom could be split in two in a burst of atomic energy, starting quiet deliberations around the globe into the practicality of chain reactions and a bomb. In America, Dr. Bethe discussed the matter with Dr. Teller, another refugee from the Nazis. The two were close friends. In New Rochelle, N.Y., Dr. Teller was one of the few guests invited in September 1939 when Dr. Bethe and Rose were married.
 Dr. Bethe's reputation grew with the war effort. In 1940, Time magazine called him ''one of Nazi Germany's greatest gifts to the United States.'' He was helping advance radar at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology when an atomic recruiter came to call, meeting him conspiratorially in Harvard Yard. In 1942, during a walk in the mountains of Yosemite, his wife asked him ''to consider carefully'' if he wanted to continue assessing the feasibility of nuclear arms, Dr. Bethe told Jeremy Bernstein, author of ''Hans Bethe, Prophet of Energy'' (Basic Books, 1979). 
 Worried that Nazi Germany wanted such weapons, he decided that he did. In 1943, he was named the first director of the theoretical division at Los Alamos, the secret laboratory in the mountains of New Mexico where thousands of scientists, technicians and military personnel were gathering to see if a nuclear bomb was indeed possible. Behind rows of barbed wire, he coaxed some of world's brightest and most idiosyncratic experts to work hard on how to unlock the atom. In typical fashion, he bore down on the problems like a battleship, studying them carefully and then crushing them.
 Colleagues often balked. ''No, no, you're crazy!'' Richard Feynman, a young scientist who eventually gained fame as an eccentric genius, protested one day. But Dr. Bethe plowed ahead, proving his idea exactly right. At Los Alamos, Dr. Bethe's group calculated such things as how much plutonium it would take to build an atom bomb, and whether the detonation would ignite the atmosphere and destroy the earth. 
 The bomb's horrors became a turning point for Dr. Bethe. After the destruction of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, he devoted himself to trying to stop the weapon's ''own impulse,'' as he put it. While retaining links to the government and Los Alamos, he helped lead the corps of atomic scientists who, in an unprecedented wave, left secluded laboratories to plead before Congress and the American public for nuclear restraint. 
 He also plunged back into academic life at Cornell, educating a new generation of physicists. He recruited Dr. Feynman, his Los Alamos protege, and helped him develop quantum electrodynamics, an advanced theory for which Dr. Feynman eventually shared the Nobel Prize. 
 In April 1950, Dr. Bethe wrote a provocative article in Scientific American arguing against development of the hydrogen bomb, an advance then looming. He had concluded, after discussions with his wife and colleagues, that it had little military use and was primarily a weapon for incinerating civilians in large cities. ''We must save humanity from this ultimate disaster,'' he wrote. ''And we must break the habit, which seems to have taken hold of this nation, of considering every weapon as just another piece of machinery and a fair means to win our struggle with the U.S.S.R.'' 
 By contrast, Dr. Teller lobbied hard for the superbomb, as it was called. Dr. Bethe worked on it too, hoping to prove the idea impossible and considering his work a hedge against the possibility that the Soviets might get it first. In 1952, a blinding flash of light marked the detonation of the world's first hydrogen bomb, its power roughly 1,000 times greater than the weapon that destroyed Hiroshima. 
 During the cold war, Dr. Bethe and Dr. Teller went from increasingly cool friends to bitter foes. The breaking point came in 1954 -- at the height of the McCarthy era -- over the government's push to remove the security clearance of Dr. Oppenheimer, then the top scientific adviser to the Atomic Energy Commission and a man who probably held more nuclear secrets in his head than any other American. 
 One charge was that Dr. Oppenheimer had argued against a crash program for H-bomb development. Another was that he had Communist ties. In Washington, Dr. Bethe and his wife spent an evening trying to persuade Dr. Teller to testify in favor of Dr. Oppenheimer -- to no avail. At a secret hearing, Dr. Bethe defended his former boss, and Dr. Teller strongly faulted Dr. Oppenheimer's judgment. His clearance was revoked, and he quickly fell from power. 
 Dr. Bethe later wrote a long article charging that Dr. Teller, not Dr. Oppenheimer, had hindered the nation's pursuit of the superbomb for years because of mathematical errors. It was only after the size of Teller's mistakes became apparent, Dr. Bethe wrote, that Dr. Teller and his colleagues were forced to find the right way to solve the problem. The article, written in 1954, was quickly stamped top secret and only declassified three decades later.
 Despite his fears of an unfettered arms race, Dr. Bethe continued to consult for the government and on occasion to help make weapons. In 1955, he perfected a general theory of ablation that was applied to the construction of warheads that could withstand the searing heat of re-entry through the earth's atmosphere. His idea helped beget the intercontinental ballistic missile. 
 Increasingly, he also sought ways to slow the nuclear arms race, winning new influence for his ideas in Washington. As a member of the President's Science Advisory Committee, starting in 1956, he became a driving force behind the world's first and most successful arms control pact, the 1963 Limited Test Ban Treaty, which confined nuclear tests beneath the earth. 
 In usual fashion, Dr. Teller fought it all the way. Dr. Bethe saw the treaty as a bold step toward disarmament and a way to end the rain of radioactive fallout that had increased people's risk of cancer and birth defects. ''Very good. Very right,'' he remarked on the occasion of its signing, visibly moved.
 His influence soaring, Dr. Bethe in 1967 was awarded the Nobel Prize for his explanation of how the stars shine. A 1968 profile by the journalist Lee Edison described Dr. Bethe as ''a tall, spare man with a deceptively distracted look.''
 ''His graying hair seems permanently electrified; his shoes are scuffed, and his tie seems to have been studiously arranged to miss his collar button,'' Mr. Edison wrote. ''He listens attentively, nodding his head as if in agreement, but -- as devastated colleagues and adversaries have discovered -- this habit is far from a sign of agreement. His 'yes, yes, yes' is rather a signal that his mental apparatus is receiving. What he does with the input is another matter.''
 In the late 1960's and early 1970's Dr. Bethe lent his growing prestige to fight the government's plans to deploy antimissile weapons. Having studied the issue for President Dwight D. Eisenhower, he was convinced that all such systems could be easily defeated. It was just too easy, he held, for an adversary to make decoys and other countermeasures that offensive missiles would jettison to outwit defensive arms. And while militarily futile, he argued, antimissile arms would succeed extremely well at adding costly new spirals to the arms race as each side struggled for advantage. 

Opposed by Teller
 As before, Dr. Bethe found himself strongly opposed by Dr. Teller, who this time wanted to shield America from the hydrogen bombs that adversaries had learned how to make. In 1975, at a cost of some $6 billion, the government switched on a limited antimissile system that was soon abandoned because of its ineffectiveness. 
 In the 1970's, after the Arab oil embargo started a global economic crisis, Dr. Bethe threw himself into championing new ways to produce energy. In articles, speeches and Congressional hearings, he argued that the dangers of nuclear reactors were small compared with many other risks judged to be socially acceptable. During this period, Dr. Bethe and Dr. Teller, both firm advocates of nuclear power, became somewhat closer, ''although not with the intimacy of the old days,'' Dr. Bethe recalled. 
 He formally retired from Cornell in the summer of 1975. But that did little to slow his activity. In the 1980's, with the arrival of the Reagan administration, Dr. Bethe again found himself the elder spokesman of scientists opposed to unfettered development of nuclear arms. And his relations with Dr. Teller again began to cool. The Pentagon, he said in an article, ''proposes to address all threats -- real and imagined -- by raising the ante. It refuses to recognize that our worst nightmares can be laid to rest only by constraints on technology.'' 
 With passion, he fought President Ronald Reagan's proposed shield against enemy missiles, known popularly as Star Wars. It again pitted him against Dr. Teller, in what became their last battle. In February 1983, Dr. Teller tried to win over Dr. Bethe by revealing the secret details of what he considered the ultimate technical fix -- the X-ray laser, powered by a nuclear bomb. It would emit powerful beams to smash Soviet warheads before consuming itself in ball of nuclear fire, an H-bomb to destroy H-bombs. ''You have a splendid idea,'' said Dr. Bethe, complimenting Dr. Teller on its physics. But he soon led X-ray laser opposition, arguing that an enemy could easily outwit the exotic weapon.
 ''We need to try to understand the other fellow and negotiate and try to come to some agreement about the common danger,'' Dr. Bethe said after his Teller meeting. ''That is what's been forgotten. The solution can only be political. It would be terribly comfortable for the president and the secretary of defense if there was a technical solution. But there isn't any.'' 
 Ultimately, the government sided with Dr. Bethe, forgoing antimissile deployments in the 1980's and 1990's, a decision the Bush administration has now reversed. In his memoirs in 2001, Dr. Teller accused Dr. Bethe of letting his political views color his technical judgment. Dr. Teller died in 2003.
 Despite the political activism that marked his later life, Dr. Bethe never abandoned his first love -- science. With what might be seen as poetic finesse, he turned his attention to the question of why old stars can suddenly explode with the brilliance of an entire galaxy. An average star like the sun dies quietly. But larger ones can die violently, though no one is quite sure why. ''They go on a rampage,'' Dr. Bethe said with a smile, the blackboard behind him filled with equations. ''In a year they emit as much energy as the sun does in 10 billion years of history. Why does this happen?'' 
 At the start, he said, the central part of a star exhausts its fuel supply, collapsing so fast that the outside of the star stays uninvolved. The small core then bounces back. ''The question we are studying,'' he said, ''is whether that shock wave is strong enough to go all the way through the star and to expel essentially all its outside, because that is what is observed in supernovas.'' 
 In addition to his wife, Dr. Bethe is survived by two children, Henry, of Ithaca, and Monica, who lives near Kyoto, Japan, and three grandchildren.
 In 1995, many of Dr. Bethe's colleagues gathered to mark his 60th year at Cornell with a two-day tribute. ''If you know his work,'' commented John Bahcall, an astrophysicist at the Institute for Advanced Study, ''you might be inclined to think he is really several people, all of whom are engaged in a conspiracy to sign their work with the same name.''
 Alan Lightman, a physicist and author at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, recalled attending a meeting with Dr. Bethe in October 1997, after the celebrated physicist had turned 91. He expected reminiscences. But Dr. Bethe, after tottering up to the podium, surprised him. ''It was a paper on astrophysics that he had just published,'' Dr. Lightman recalled. ''And it was good.''
 Dr. Schweber of Brandeis University, a physicist and historian, said Dr. Bethe achieved a life of professional and personal fulfillment because he learned the redemptive power of love, of serving family and friends, students and society. Dr. Bethe's elan seemed to confirm that judgment. ''I am a very happy person,'' he said with a relaxed smile a few years ago. ''I wouldn't want to change what I did.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Hans A. Bethe in his Cornell office in 1996, in front of his ''carbon cycle'' equation for nuclear energy generation in stars. (Photo by Michael Okoniewski)
Dr. Bethe, left, and Edward Teller in 1983 after they debated at Harvard. Once close friends, the two physicists clashed over the development of the hydrogen bomb and a missile-defense system. At right, Dr. Bethe receiving the 1967 Nobel Prize in Physics. (Photo by Cornell University)
(Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A20)
 Hans A. Bethe in 1985. (Photo by Mark Greenberg/World Picture News)(pg. A1)Chart/Diagram: ''How Stars Shine''Hans Bethe's discovery of how some stars fuse hydrogen into helium, releasing bursts of nuclear energy that become heat and light, helped win him the 1967 Nobel Prize in Physics.Diagram shows how some stars fuse hydrogen into helium, releasing bursts of nuclear energy that become heat and light.(Source by Astronomy: The Evolving Universe, Michael Zeilik)(pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); ASTROPHYSICS (90%); PHYSICS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); LIBERALISM (87%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); QUANTUM MECHANICS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); CELEBRITIES (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); POLITICS (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (66%) Atomic Weapons; Manhattan Project; World War II (1939-45); Physics; Astronomy and Astrophysics; Nobel Prizes; Atomic Weapons; Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (91%)

Hans A (Dr) Bethe; William J Broad; Edward Teller; Enrico (1901-54) Fermi; J Robert (1904-67) Oppenheimer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); HUNGARY (70%)

CATEGORY: Science and Technology

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005



163 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Car Loan and Credit Card Debt Set Quickened Pace in January

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7 

 BODY:
Buyers increased their borrowing on credit cards, auto loans and other types of consumer debt at an annual rate of 6.6 percent in January, the fastest pace in three months, the Federal Reserve reported Monday.
 That represented an increase of $11.5 billion in borrowing from December, double what many economists had expected. 
It came after an increase of $8.7 billion in borrowing in December, which was revised significantly from an estimate of a $3.1 billion increase in December.
 The 6.6 percent rate of increase in January compared with a 5 percent rise in December and was the fastest advance since consumer debt rose 8.2 percent in October.
 Economists expected higher borrowing in January, although the extent of the surge took them by surprise. They said the higher borrowing in January was helped by strong post-holiday sales at retail stores.
 Total consumer debt stands at a record $2.12 trillion.
 Demand for credit cards and other types of revolving credit rose at an annual rate of 8.1 percent in January, to $801 billion, after an 8.5 percent rise in December.
 Demand for nonrevolving credit, a category that includes auto loans, loans for mobile homes, boats and other miscellaneous categories like loans for vacations or schooling, rose 5.6 percent, to $1.32 trillion, after an increase of 2.8 percent in December.
 The Fed report does not include mortgage or home equity loans.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Consumer Borrowing''Net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding
 in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted.Annual Pace of ChangeJan.: +6.6%Dec.: +5.0Nov.: +0.9Graph tracks annual pace of change from September 2003 through January 2005.(Source by Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LENDING (91%); PERSONAL DEBT (91%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); SALES FINANCING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); RETAILERS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%) Credit; Consumer Credit ; Credit and Money Cards; Records and Achievements; Credit

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005



164 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: As Businesses Step Up Spending, Some See a Just-Right Economy

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and EDUARDO PORTER; Edmund L. Andrews reported from Washington for this article, and Eduardo Porter from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7 

 BODY:
Nearly five years after the last economic boom sputtered out, executives and investors are again talking about a rebirth of the Goldilocks economy.
 The Goldilocks economy -- not too hot, not too cold -- was never a perfect metaphor even at the height of the 1990's. For all the strong growth and low inflation of the 1990's, the economy and the stock market were both overheated by the time the stock bubble collapsed in March 2000.
 But a wide variety of indicators now suggest that the economy is in a sweet spot: business investment is soaring; inflation appears more moderate than a few months ago; employment is climbing, even if real wages are not.
 Many economists have raised their growth forecasts for the year, from about 3.5 percent to 4 percent or higher. 
 In some ways, the pattern resembles the handoff from consumer-led growth to business-led growth that many Federal Reserve officials hoped would occur.
 The most encouraging trend is business investment: spending on equipment and software rose 13.5 percent last year and at an annual pace of 18 percent in the fourth quarter of 2004.
 Analysts say much of the investment last year was to replace and repair equipment. This year, much of the spending is likely to be for expanding production capacity. 
 Dell is spending nearly $1 billion to add a factory in North Carolina. Makers of telecommunications equipment, which have been battered since the dot-com bubble burst, are again adding capacity to meet demand for networking equipment, cellphones and cellular infrastructure equipment.
 But for all the good news, many economic forecasters remain worried about the broader global imbalances. The United States' large trade deficit, which exceeded $600 billion last year, is expected to widen in 2005 and increase the country's enormous foreign indebtedness.
 Exports are unlikely to redress that balance this year, most analysts predict, because Europe and Japan are growing at anemic rates in comparison with the United States.
 That means American demand for imports is likely to expand much more rapidly than European and Japanese demand for American exports. And with American imports almost twice as great as exports, America's exports must grow far more rapidly to even begin a reduction in the trade deficit.
 ''The world is still too dependent on U.S. spending,'' said Nigel Gault, an economist at Global Insight, a forecasting firm, in Lexington, Mass. ''We're still increasing imbalances in the global economy, so the U.S. is still increasingly dependent on the inflow of foreign capital.''
 Like many other forecasters, Global Insight raised its estimates for growth this year mostly because new data showed business spending on new equipment was stronger than expected in January.
 Analysts had expected orders for capital goods to decline in January, after the expiration of special tax incentives at the end of last year. Instead, orders for nonmilitary capital goods jumped 2.9 percent in January.
 ''It's clear that businesses have begun to believe that it's time to add to spending and time to hire,'' said Peter Kretzmer, an economist at Bank of America. ''At some point, it becomes riskier not to spend money.''
 Daniel Meckstroth, chief economist at Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI, an industry research group, said production had picked up across an array of industries.
 ''The amazing thing is that it is almost across the board in every type of equipment,'' he said. The fastest-growing areas, he said, are oil and mining equipment, telecommunications and computer equipment, and construction equipment.
 ''The growth last year,'' Mr. Meckstroth said, ''was in replacement and repair of old equipment, but this year we're going to get into the actual growth cycle.'' 
 Hints of a handoff from consumer-led growth to business-led growth are apparent at Siemens Energy and Automation of Alpharetta, Ga.
 At the company, a unit of Siemens of Germany, electrical equipment sales to industrial customers plunged by a third after 2001. Sales of equipment to the residential housing market picked up part of the slack, as the Federal Reserve's low interest rates prompted a home-building boom that continued through last year.
 But Harry Volande, chief financial officer at Siemens Energy and Automation, said industrial sales of electrical equipment and automation systems would expand by double digits, even as sales to the residential housing market flatten with the cooling of the housing market and a tapering off of construction activity.
 Siemens is still cautious about expansion. But Mr. Volande says that his company, like most others, was operating with plenty of spare capacity. Even as investment picks up, little money will be spent to increase capacity. 
 ''I don't think we will see much capacity extension, except in the raw material area,'' Mr. Volande said. 
 Employment growth in February reinforced the impression of a Goldilocks expansion.
 Job creation was unusually strong, with the nation adding 262,000 jobs last month, according to initial estimates by the Department of Labor. But neither hourly wages nor weekly earnings climbed at all, and the unemployment rate actually climbed slightly, to 5.4 percent from 5.2 percent, as more people entered the labor force. That news suggested that growth would remain strong, but that wages were not yet adding to inflationary pressures.
 Numerous uncertainties do remain. One is oil prices, which recently jumped to more than $55 a barrel and are likely to cause at least a modest jump in gasoline prices.
 A bigger uncertainty is the ability of consumers to keep spending. Consumer spending climbed faster than personal income last year, but the personal savings rate is down to 1 percent.
 ''If consumer demand falters, then business caution will intensify,'' predicted Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley.
 Mr. Roach, who is far gloomier than most analysts, contends that competitive pressures from China and other low-wage countries are limiting wage gains among white-collar as well as blue-collar workers in the United States.
 To be sure, the story is not yet finished. Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, has repeatedly argued that companies will be forced to raise wages in order to meet rising demand and that companies will pay for those wages by letting profit margins -- which were unusually large last year -- shrink. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (86%); EXPORT PRICES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); DURABLE GOODS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); PLANT CAPACITY (71%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); TAX INCENTIVES (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%) United States Economy; Capital Investment; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Wages and Salaries; International Trade and World Market; United States Economy; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

PERSON: Edmund L Andrews; Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%) Europe; Japan

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005



165 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: The Debt-Peonage Society

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Today the Senate is expected to vote to limit debate on a bill that toughens the existing bankruptcy law, probably ensuring the bill's passage. A solid bloc of Republican senators, assisted by some Democrats, has already voted down a series of amendments that would either have closed loopholes for the rich or provided protection for some poor and middle-class families. 
 The bankruptcy bill was written by and for credit card companies, and the industry's political muscle is the reason it seems unstoppable. But the bill also fits into the broader context of what Jacob Hacker, a political scientist at Yale, calls ''risk privatization'': a steady erosion of the protection the government provides against personal misfortune, even as ordinary families face ever-growing economic insecurity. 
 The bill would make it much harder for families in distress to write off their debts and make a fresh start. Instead, many debtors would find themselves on an endless treadmill of payments.
 The credit card companies say this is needed because people have been abusing the bankruptcy law, borrowing irresponsibly and walking away from debts. The facts say otherwise.
 A vast majority of personal bankruptcies in the United States are the result of severe misfortune. One recent study found that more than half of bankruptcies are the result of medical emergencies. The rest are overwhelmingly the result either of job loss or of divorce.
 To the extent that there is significant abuse of the system, it's concentrated among the wealthy -- including corporate executives found guilty of misleading investors -- who can exploit loopholes in the law to protect their wealth, no matter how ill-gotten. 
 One increasingly popular loophole is the creation of an ''asset protection trust,'' which is worth doing only for the wealthy. Senator Charles Schumer introduced an amendment that would have limited the exemption on such trusts, but apparently it's O.K. to game the system if you're rich: 54 Republicans and 2 Democrats voted against the Schumer amendment.
 Other amendments were aimed at protecting families and individuals who have clearly been forced into bankruptcy by events, or who would face extreme hardship in repaying debts. Ted Kennedy introduced an exemption for cases of medical bankruptcy. Russ Feingold introduced an amendment protecting the homes of the elderly. Dick Durbin asked for protection for armed services members and veterans. All were rejected. 
 None of this should come as a surprise: it's all part of the pattern.
 As Mr. Hacker and others have documented, over the past three decades the lives of ordinary Americans have become steadily less secure, and their chances of plunging from the middle class into acute poverty ever larger. Job stability has declined; spells of unemployment, when they happen, last longer; fewer workers receive health insurance from their employers; fewer workers have guaranteed pensions.
 Some of these changes are the result of a changing economy. But the underlying economic trends have been reinforced by an ideologically driven effort to strip away the protections the government used to provide. For example, long-term unemployment has become much more common, but unemployment benefits expire sooner. Health insurance coverage is declining, but new initiatives like health savings accounts (introduced in the 2003 Medicare bill), rather than discouraging that trend, further undermine the incentives of employers to provide coverage.
 Above all, of course, at a time when ever-fewer workers can count on pensions from their employers, the current administration wants to phase out Social Security.
 The bankruptcy bill fits right into this picture. When everything else goes wrong, Americans can still get a measure of relief by filing for bankruptcy -- and rising insecurity means that they are forced to do this more often than in the past. But Congress is now poised to make the bankruptcy law harsher, too.
 Warren Buffett recently made headlines by saying America is more likely to turn into a ''sharecroppers' society'' than an ''ownership society.'' But I think the right term is a ''debt peonage'' society -- after the system, prevalent in the post-Civil War South, in which debtors were forced to work for their creditors. The bankruptcy bill won't get us back to those bad old days all by itself, but it's a significant step in that direction. 
 And any senator who votes for the bill should be ashamed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); LOBBYING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); CREDIT CARDS (76%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (71%); DISMISSALS (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); PERSONAL TRUSTS (63%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%) Bankruptcies; Law and Legislation; Consumer Protection; Banks and Banking; Credit and Money Cards; Lobbying and Lobbyists

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); RICHARD DURBIN (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (53%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005



166 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Qualcomm Forecast Spurs Rise in Technology Shares

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Technology stocks rose yesterday after Qualcomm raised its second-quarter profit forecast, spurring optimism that semiconductor earnings may increase more than expected.
 The Nasdaq composite index, which gets two-fifths of its value from computer-related stocks, gained 19.60 points, or 1 percent, to 2,090.21. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 3.19 points to 1,225.31. The Dow Jones industrial average ended little changed, slipping 3.69 points to 10,936.86. 
 Yesterday's advance in the Nasdaq trimmed its year-to-date decline to 3.9 percent. The S.&P 500, which is up 1.1 percent in 2005, is at its highest level since July 2001 after last week's government figures on job growth eased concern about the pace of interest rate increases. The Dow has risen 1.4 percent this year.
 Qualcomm, one of the largest makers of chips that run mobile phones, climbed $1.89 to $37.39. The company said that profit this quarter, excluding the investment division, would be as much as 28 cents a share, 1 cent higher than its January estimate because royalty payments increased more than expected.
 An S.&P. 500 gauge of semiconductor stocks increased 1.8 percent, the biggest increase among the index's 24 industry groups. The group, which was the worst-performing industry in 2004, has rebounded 4.9 percent this year as demand has increased.
 Merger activity also affected stocks. United Defense Industries surged $15.09, or 26 percent, to $73.35, after BAE Systems, Europe's largest military contractor, agreed to buy the company for $3.97 billion. BAE, which will become the Pentagon's sixth-largest contractor with the purchase, will pay $75 a share in cash for United Defense.
 The Hibernia Corporation climbed $5.67, or 21 percent, to $32.24. The Capital One Financial Corporation, the credit-card issuer, agreed to buy Hibernia for $5.35 billion to add a network of bank branches. Capital One fell $2.08 to $76.
 The Maytag Corporation rose $1.23, or 8.4 percent, to $15.93, as the company reaffirmed its 2005 profit forecast of at least $1.10 a share. 
 The Sony Corporation's American depositary receipts added 77 cents, to $39.31. The world's second-biggest consumer electronics company named its first non-Japanese chief executive amid growing discontent from shareholders after the company lost more than 70 percent of its market value in the last five years. Sir Howard Stringer, 63, will replace Nobuyuki Idei.
 The Boeing Company lost 8 cents, to $58.30. The company said it forced out its chief executive, Harry C. Stonecipher, who had been having a personal relationship with a female employee. The chief financial officer, James A. Bell, was named interim chief executive.
 Prices of United States Treasury securities were mixed yesterday. The benchmark 10-year note was unchanged. The five-year note fell 3/32 to 97 28/32, and its yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 3.98 percent. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills, and seven-day cash management bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.314	98.516	High Rate	2.710	2.935	Investment Rate	2.767	3.021	Low Rate	2.680	2.920	Median Rate	2.700	2.925	Total applied for	$60,365,725	$48,356,359	Accepted	$26,900,765	$24,360,392	Noncompetitive	$1,712,502	$1,368,001	

Both issues are dated March 10, 2005. The three-month bills mature on June 09, 2005 and the six-month bills mature on Sept. 08, 2005.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.952
Investment Rate: 2.500
High Rate: 2.465
Low Rate: 2.450
Median Rate: 2.450
Total applied for: $35,760,000
Accepted: $13,000,120
Noncompetitive: $-0-

The 7-day cash management bills mature March 15, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''3-Month Treasury Bills''High rate at weekly auction.Graph tracks bills from November through March.(Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (86%); EXECUTIVES (84%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); ROYALTIES (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); CREDIT CARDS (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (64%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (62%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); BANK BRANCHES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: QUALCOMM INC (90%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (83%); WHIRLPOOL CORP (63%); SONY CORP (63%); BOEING CO (61%); UNITED DEFENSE INDUSTRIES INC (54%); BAE SYSTEMS PLC (54%)

TICKER: QCOM (NASDAQ) (90%); COF (NYSE) (83%); WHR (NYSE) (63%); SON (LSE) (63%); SNE (NYSE) (63%); 6758 (TSE) (63%); BOE (LSE) (61%); BAB (BRU) (61%); BA (NYSE) (61%); BA (LSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (63%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (61%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3795 TANKS & TANK COMPONENTS (54%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: HOWARD STRINGER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005



167 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Spending Plan Helps the State, M.T.A. Is Telling Legislators

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
The document resembles a travelogue of the Empire State, taking the reader from Orchard Park to Oriskany, Sidney to Syracuse, Tonawanda to Troy. The goal, however, is to promote transit, not tourism. 
 In a new strategy to persuade Albany to pay for a five-year capital program, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is distributing an eight-page brochure that highlights dozens of subway, bus and commuter rail parts that are made in the state. 
 The information is intended to persuade members of the Legislature and county executives across the state to support the authority's request for a $27.7 billion capital plan through 2009. But the findings might be particularly surprising for riders in the New York City area. 
 Riders of new subway cars running on the Nos. 2, 4, 5 and 6 lines might not know that the lighting is from Buffalo, the ventilation system from Auburn and the fabricated metal parts from Kingston and Farmingdale.
 Similarly, passengers on the latest clean-fuel city buses might be unaware that the propulsion system was made in Johnson City and the sheet metal in Utica. As for the shiny M7 rail cars operated by the Long Island Rail Road and the Metro-North Railroad -- well, you get the idea. The authority's capital plan includes plans to buy 1,010 hybrid electric or compressed natural gas buses, 1,044 subway cars and 486 rail cars.
 Gov. George E. Pataki has proposed a capital plan that includes $14.7 billion to maintain the existing system, $500,000 for security and $4 billion for expansion projects, although half of the $4 billion would come from New York City for an extension of the No. 7 line.
 The authority's chairman, Peter S. Kalikow, has insisted that $17.2 billion is needed for maintenance, and that the governor's plan would mean delaying major projects, like the Second Avenue subway and a link between the Long Island Rail Road and Grand Central Terminal. 
 Maps showing the origins of the authority's rolling stock provide an illustration of the impact of transit spending, the authority's director, Katherine N. Lapp, said yesterday. ''We've sent them to the leaders in the State Legislature,'' she said.
 ''They're looking at our capital plan, and I want them to understand that it's not just for the benefit of downstate. My point is: Even if you never step foot in our system, the fact is that if you're in one of the areas where we employ New Yorkers, you're benefiting from us.''
 Using a model originally developed by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, Ms. Lapp's staff estimated that the authority's previous capital program, for 2000 to 2004, generated $25.3 billion in economic activity, $10.2 billion in wages and salaries and $941 million in state and local taxes.
 The effort to persuade state lawmakers occurred as the authority's top lobbyist, Christopher P. Boylan, joined officials from other transit agencies across the United States in Washington to lobby for reauthorization of a major federal transportation law. The law, known as the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, expired in 2003. The Bush administration has proposed spending $284 billion on a new six-year bill that includes financing for both highway and transit purposes.
 The secretary of transportation, Norman Y. Mineta, said yesterday that there had been six temporary extensions since the last law expired. ''None of us wants a seventh extension,'' he said during a meeting of the American Public Transportation Association, which represents more than 300 of the largest transit agencies, including New York's. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (76%); COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (76%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); COUNTIES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (88%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); UTICA, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005



168 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Westchester Hospital Says It Must Have Government Money to Survive

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, March 4 

 BODY:
Officials at the financially troubled Westchester Medical Center, who last month urged all levels of government to come to its rescue, say the 1,000-bed regional hospital will deplete its cash reserves within months.
 In an interview about the hospital's fiscal woes and future prospects, the interim president and chief executive, Mary Brown, and the hospital board's chairman, Richard A. Berman, said that without continuing government support, the hospital would continue to lose money. The deficit for last year is estimated at $56 million and this year's is projected at $60 million.
 ''We're going to run out of cash this summer,'' said Mr. Berman, who is also president of Manhattanville College. ''Even if we were best-in-show in terms of management practices and infrastructure, this institution will not and cannot be self-sufficient.'' 
 Hospital officials say the medical center, which like many hospitals has been hurt by slow reimbursement rates and rising costs, offers a level of care that is extremely expensive to provide. It has a burn unit, neo-natal intensive care services, an organ transplant program and a trauma center with a Medevac helicopter. 
 ''You have to keep the helicopter ready to go whether it flies once or 15 times,'' Mr. Berman said.
 As a former county hospital, Westchester Medical Center has also held on to its mission of being a safety net for the poor. The cost of treating patients almost always exceeds the insurance payments, Ms. Brown said.
 ''We had a burn patient who had $2 million in skin grafts,'' Ms. Brown said. ''She had no insurance and didn't qualify for Medicaid. She fell through the cracks. We swallow that cost. We have patients who stay with us for a year on a ventilator. They have no place to go.''
 Last month, the hospital announced two proposals for keeping the medical center solvent and covering its capital expenses. One involves an annual infusion of $60 million, evenly split among the county, state and federal governments, as well as $20 million in annualized cost savings at the hospital and another $20 million in union concessions.
 The other plan, which Gov. George E. Pataki has criticized, would require the state to extend indefinitely a quarter of 1 percent sales tax that is set to expire on May 31 and to apply the revenue, $650 million to $700 million a year, to public hospitals and nursing homes across the state. By its estimate, the medical center would stand to receive about $80 million a year. 
 Mr. Berman and Ms. Brown have been to Albany and Washington recently to present the hospital's case to lawmakers. While the talks are still in their early stages, elected officials indicate that they will not allow the hospital to fail.
 Nicholas A. Spano, a Republican state senator from Westchester, said that since the hospital was asking for perpetual assistance rather than a one-shot bailout, the problem was trickier to address.
 ''It's going to be a very difficult and challenging process to make this happen, but the bottom line is that the state delegation is committed to saving the medical center,'' he said. ''The services it provides are unique. And to their credit, they are taking steps to get their own act in order, administratively.''
 Congresswoman Nita M. Lowey, a Democrat, agreed. ''Regardless of how we got to this point, the medical center cannot close,'' she said. ''We have to find solutions, and it isn't just Westchester's problem because 40 percent of the patients live outside of Westchester'' in the seven-county region. 
 Westchester County continues to guarantee a large portion of the hospital's debt. Larry S. Schwartz, the deputy county executive who joined hospital officials in Washington and Albany, said he favored the sales-tax plan. ''It is the least painful solution, the easiest solution,'' he said. ''It's a way to not only help the medical center, but other financially distressed hospitals and nursing homes.''
 The unions also prefer that plan, which does not entail workers' concessions. But Ms. Brown said the administration was frustrated by what she called the ''cumbersome'' work rules and ''above market'' benefits of the Civil Service Employees Association, the union representing 1,600 workers there.
 Without concessions, hospital officials said, they would consider asking the State Legislature to change the center's designation to a nonprofit hospital under section 501(c)(3) of the federal tax code, exempting it from Civil Service requirements. 
 Jessica Stone, a spokeswoman, said the union would fight any effort to it ''every step of the way.'' In selling their plans, hospital officials have tried to highlight the economic importance of the hospital to the region. With 3,300 employees and another 800 attending physicians on staff, the hospital contributes $1.1 billion a year to the state economy.
 When the hospital spun off from county government in 1998 as a public benefit corporation, expectations were high that it could compete in the changing health-care marketplace. But the hospital, in Valhalla, soon stumbled, recording mounting deficits -- $83 million in 2003 alone -- and carrying out rounds of layoffs. Unlike many big teaching hospitals, the center had no endowment to fall back on.
 As the situation worsened, the hospital brought in an outside consulting firm, Pitts Management Associates of Baton Rouge, La., including Ms. Brown. Last year, she seemed upbeat when she announced a 100-point plan to bring the hospital to break-even status by 2006. 
 At the time, Ms. Brown lowered the projected 2004 deficit to $31 million, a significant improvement over the year before. But she later revised it upward. ''I kept getting surprises, and surprises are never good,'' she said, referring to a sudden jump in the use of health benefits among hospital employees and a decision by accountants to write off $8 million owed to the hospital.
 Ms. Brown also discovered that the hospital had what she described as a stone-age accounting system, and billing, bookkeeping and payroll departments all in need of updating. The hospital has begun to install computer software and train workers to identify every billable service and collect every penny owed. She said she was confident the improvements would ease the annual deficits but not erase them. 
 Mr. Berman said the medical center would continue to lose an estimated $3 million to $4 million a month, even with the best practices in place.
 One reason the large New York City hospitals were not having as many problems as Westchester, he said, was their large patient volume and case mix, and their use of routine and better-paying procedures rather than more complex ones. As an advanced-care hospital serving a 5,000-square-mile area dotted with community hospitals, the medical center gets the sickest of the sick. ''We don't do any routine orthopedics or routine OB-GYN,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Connor Healey, a patient at Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla, being treated for burns on his legs. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); TRAUMA CENTERS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); WOUND CARE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); BURN INJURIES (71%); NURSING HOMES (69%); HELICOPTERS (66%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (64%); SALES TAX (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005



169 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: MEMO PAD

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:

LONGER RANGE FOR SMALL JETS -- Bombardier Aerospace announced a longer-range model of its CRJ700 regional jet yesterday. Bombardier said the new model, to be available early next year, would have a range of 2,516 miles, about 275 miles more than the current version of the plane, which seats 70 to 78 passengers. The new model will carry ''greater payloads over greater distances,'' said Rod Williams, the vice president for aircraft programs at Bombardier's regional aircraft division. In recent years, domestic airlines have shifted larger shares of their capacity to small regional jets, which are usually configured only with coach seats. SeatGuru.com, a Web site that displays seating diagrams for jets in the fleets of various airlines, says of the CRJ700 models that ''many fliers find them to be generally uncomfortable'' because of narrow seats and cramped space.

FLIGHT DELAY REDUX -- Seems like old times. The on-time performance rates of the largest domestic airlines dropped to 71.4 percent in January, from 74.9 percent a year earlier, according to the Transportation Department. The worst delays were at JetBlue Airways (where only 63.1 of flights arrived on time), followed by American Eagle (65.8 percent) and Comair (67.3 percent). The best: Hawaiian Airlines (92.6 percent), Continental Airlines (78 percent) and Southwest Airlines (75.6 percent).

BUSINESS-CLASS SALE -- In a business-class fare sale, Continental Airlines ratcheted up competition for premium travel on about two dozen trans-Atlantic routes, where round-trip business class fares can typically range from $6,000 upward on many airlines. Some examples, based on 30-day advance purchase: Newark to Frankfurt, $1,550 round trip; Phoenix to Lisbon, $1,850. Outbound travel for these fares is from May 19 through Sept. 2, and all return trips must be made by Sept. 9. Details are at www.continental.com.

FLAT-BED SEATS -- The flat-bed seat, long a staple of premium international travel, has arrived in China. China Southern Airlines, the country's biggest carrier, said it had started taking delivery of new Airbus A330 planes with seats that recline into flat beds in its Premier Business Class service. China Southern has flights to more than 80 cities around the world.

HOTELS PROSPERING -- With travel picking up, profits at the average hotel in the United States rose about 13 percent last year over 2003, according to a study by PKF Hospitality Research. This year, the increase is expected to be about 14 percent. The brighter economic picture followed a three-year industry recession during which profits declined 36.2 percent. With demand up, hotels ''have been able to get more aggressive'' in raising room rates, said R.Mark Woodworth, executive managing director of the research company. JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FARES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (86%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); COMPANY LOSSES (64%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (64%) Airlines and Airplanes; Delays (Transportation); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Beds and Bedding; Airlines and Airplanes; Hotels and Motels; Profits (Industry-wide)

COMPANY: BOMBARDIER INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); CHINA SOUTHERN AIRLINES CO LTD (85%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (84%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Bombardier Inc; Transportation Department (US); Jetblue Airways; Hawaiian Airlines Inc; Continental Airlines; China Southern (Airline); PKF Hospitality Research

TICKER: BBD.A (TSX) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (91%); ZNH (NYSE) (85%); K3TD (SGX) (85%); 1055 (HKSE) (85%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (84%); LUV (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%)

PERSON: Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005



170 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Senate Rejects 2 Proposals To Raise Minimum Wage

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7 

 BODY:
The Senate rejected a pair of proposals to raise the minimum wage on Monday, one sponsored by a Democrat that would increase the rate by 41 percent over the next two years, and a second offered by a Republican that offered a smaller increase and a number of benefits for small businesses.
 The defeat of the wage proposals removed two of the few remaining political obstacles to passage of a measure to overhaul the nation's bankruptcy system. 
 On Tuesday, the Senate is set to vote on the remaining procedural issues that stand in the way of final passage of the bankruptcy bill, legislation that has been sought by the bank and credit card industries for nearly a decade. Both supporters and critics of the bill said its sponsors appeared to have the votes to overcome those hurdles and send the measure to the House of Representatives, where Republican leaders have said it would be approved quickly. President Bush supports the bill. 
 The centerpiece of the legislation is a provision that would limit access to Chapter 7 of the bankruptcy code, which allows people to sharply reduce their debt payments and get a fresh start. 
 The bill would instead impose a means test that would prompt many people to file for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 13, which requires a repayment plan. The means test would not be applied to debtors who earn less than the median income in their state. Those who earn more than that and can pay at least $6,000 over five years would have to seek protection under Chapter 13. 
 Supporters say the measure is necessary to curb bankruptcy abuses. But critics say it would impose heavy new costs on bankruptcy filers and would be particularly hard on women and families devastated by high medical costs. They also say that, while the legislation would hurt poor and moderate-income families, it ignores bankruptcy abuses by companies and wealthy people. 
 One of the amendments to be considered on Tuesday would inject the contentious politics of abortion into the measure. It would prohibit those who protest at abortion clinics from using bankruptcy as a shield from paying judgments for violations of the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act. The proposal is sponsored by Democratic Senators Charles E. Schumer of New York and Harry Reid, the minority leader from Nevada.
 The other item up for a vote on Tuesday would limit debate and cut off efforts to filibuster the bill.
 Under a deal worked out between Republicans and Democrats, the wage amendments considered on Monday were all but doomed from the start because they required 60 votes to be adopted. It has been eight years since Congress last increased the minimum wage, which now stands at $5.15 an hour.
 The Democratic proposal to increase the minimum wage by 41 percent, to $7.25, over the next two years was sponsored by Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts. It was sought by organized labor and opposed by an array of business interests. 
 ''The height of hypocrisy will be this afternoon, when those individuals in this Senate say no to a minimum wage increase of $7.25 an hour when this institution voted themselves a $28,500 pay increase over the last five years,'' Mr. Kennedy angrily declared shortly before the amendment was defeated as 49 members voted against it and 46 voted for it. ''Minimum wage has been flat all these years, but not for the members of this Congress.''
 But Republicans denounced the measure, saying that it would do more harm than good.
 ''By raising minimum wage, you are pricing some workers out of the market,'' said Senator John E. Sununu, Republican of New Hampshire. ''It is an economic fact. Proponents of the minimum-wage increase like to dismiss this.''
 Congressional aides said Mr. Kennedy would offer the amendment again in other legislation. 
 The Senate also defeated an alternative amendment by Senator Rick Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania, that would have raised the minimum pay level by $1.10, to $6.25, over 18 months. Thirty-eight senators voted for the measure and 61 voted against it.
 The proposal was supported by some business groups and opposed by organized labor because it would have eliminated overtime pay in many circumstances and excluded millions of workers now eligible for minimum wage and overtime provisions. The Santorum amendment also provided for about $4 billion in tax breaks for smaller businesses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); MINIMUM WAGE (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); US CHAPTER 13 BANKRUPTCY (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FILIBUSTER (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); FAMILY (70%); CREDIT CARDS (69%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); ABORTION (61%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (57%) Labor; Minimum Wage; Law and Legislation; Small Business; Bankruptcies; Labor

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (78%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); HARRY REID (58%) Stephen Labaton; Edward M (Sen) Kennedy; Rick (Sen) Santorum

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005



171 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Beijing Leaders Speak of Force to Keep Taiwan 'Chinese'

BYLINE: By CHRIS BUCKLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, Tuesday, March 8 

 BODY:
China's leaders introduced a bill on Tuesday that would effectively pre-authorize military action if Taiwan took concrete steps toward formal independence, a move American officials have said they fear could increase prospects for cross-strait conflict.
 The legislation specifies that any changes in Taiwan's Constitution seeking to legalize the island's de facto independent status could be a trigger for military action. It is a direct challenge to President Chen Shui-bian of Taiwan, who had made changing the Constitution a paramount goal of his second term in office.
 The bill, which is expected to be passed by the National People's Congress next Monday, does not compel China's leaders to initiate military action. It allocates powers to them that they have long been assumed to have and puts the leadership in a position to judge if and when Taiwan has ventured too far toward formal independence. 
 Yet it also amounts to a political commitment by China's new leadership under Hu Jintao, the Communist Party and military chief, to act decisively were Taiwan to try to solidify its existing separateness in legal terms -- for example, by changing the formal name of the country to Taiwan from Republic of China. 
 ''So long as there is a glimmer of hope for peaceful reunification, we will exert our utmost to make it happen rather than give it up,'' says a summary of the legislation, which was presented Tuesday morning. But it outlines in abstract terms three triggers for the use of ''nonpeaceful means.''
 ''The draft legislation provides that in the event that the 'Taiwan independence' forces should act under any name or by any means to cause the fact of Taiwan's secession from China, or that major incidents entailing Taiwan's secession from China should occur, or that possibilities for a peaceful reunification should be completely exhausted, that state shall employ nonpeaceful means and other necessary measures to protect China's sovereignty and territorial integrity,'' the summary says.
 The law stipulates that the State Council, China's cabinet, and the Central Military Commission, the top military body, ''are authorized to decide on and execute'' military action with no more than a notice provided to the legislature.
 Chinese officials have debated the merits of passing a law on Taiwan for many years. Some scholars have called on the country to set a deadline for reunification with Taiwan, which would have been viewed as far more provocative than any language in the law introduced Tuesday.
 The new ''antisecession law'' is therefore considerably less inflammatory than it might have been.
 Even so, China may have miscalculated the timing. The law was prepared last fall, when cross-strait relations were viewed as precarious and Mr. Chen's party, which China long viewed as a hardened advocate of independence, appeared set to take control of Taiwan's legislature from the Nationalists, who favor calmer relations with the mainland.
 Instead, Mr. Chen and his Democratic Progressive Party failed to gain a legislative majority, Mr. Chen's first major political setback since he was first elected president in 2000. That led to an easing of cross-strait tensions. 
 Mr. Chen expedited an agreement on direct holiday charter flights to ferry Taiwan residents to the mainland. He also forged an unusual political pact with James Soong, the leader of a small opposition party who favors reunification with the mainland. The moves alienated some of Mr. Chen's independence-leaning advisers, several of whom resigned from his cabinet.
 Wang Zhaoguo, the vice chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, presented the new law to the Congress Tuesday morning on behalf of the country's leadership. ''Given the current state and future trend of cross-strait relations,'' he said, ''it is imperative to resolutely oppose and check the secessionist activities of the 'Taiwan independence' forces.'' 
 Reflecting the awkward timing, Chinese officials have been seeking to downplay the impact of the new law in recent days.
 Although the law was drafted in great secrecy, Chinese officials seemed to have set in motion an internal political process that might have been difficult for Mr. Hu to stop without appearing to compromise too much on Taiwan policy.
 Mr. Hu on Tuesday formally completed his accession to China's top posts with the formal retirement of Jiang Zemin from his position as chairman of the Central Military Commission, Mr. Jiang's last major title. Mr. Hu is now the chief of the Communist Party, head of state and leader of the military.
 Much of the law, which has four parts, emphasizes the opportunity for peaceful settlement of the Taiwan issue. It promotes the integration of Taiwan and China and opens the door to new economic, cultural, and educational exchanges.
 But it stipulates that the Taiwanese leader must adhere to the formula China set out for its dealing with Taiwan, known as the ''one-China'' policy. The Chinese say they are willing to engage in dialogue with Taiwan over a wide range of issues provided Taiwan first acknowledges that it is part of China, even if not directly subject to mainland rule.
 Mr. Chen has repeatedly rejected that formula.
 The more combative portion of the law comes in part of the introduction, which takes a firm line against any moves by Taiwan to alter its Constitution in a way that might upset Beijing.
 ''We should be particularly careful of Taiwan authorities trying to use so-called constitutional or legal means through referendum or constitutional re-engineering to back up their secessionist attempt with so-called legality,'' the draft text says.
 The fourth section sets out the conditions under which China would consider attacking Taiwan. That section states that the mainland will judge whether Taiwan officials succeed in making independence claims a ''fact.''
 The section also makes clear that the authorities would not necessarily feel they need to wait for independence to happen if they conclude that ''incidents entailing secession'' seemed unstoppable or that ''possibilities for peaceful reunification'' diminished beyond recovery. 
 Andrew Yang, a top security specialist in Taiwan, said Beijing seemed focused on drawing a firm line on steps that lead to legal, or de jure, independence.
 The United States, which is Taiwan's only major ally and weapons supplier, roundly criticized the legislation in advance of its presentation as a ''hardening of positions'' that could raise the temperature in cross-strait relations. American officials did not comment on the actual text after its release on Monday night, Washington time.
 The Bush administration has pledged to protect Taiwan against an attack from mainland China, though it has also bluntly warned Mr. Chen to refrain from moves that would legalize Taiwan's independence or otherwise upset the status quo in relations with China.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Wang Zhaoquo, a committee official, told the Parliament in Beijing today that China was ready to use force to block secession by Taiwan. (Photo by Frederic J. Brown/Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%) Law and Legislation; Constitutions

PERSON: HU JINTAO (74%) Hu Jintao; Wang Zhaoquo; Chen Shui-Bian (Pres); Joseph Kahn

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) Taiwan; China; Taiwan

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005



172 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Israel Freezes Some Assets Of a Bank Under Inquiry

BYLINE: By ERIN E. ARVEDLUND

 BODY:
In one of the largest money-laundering inquiries in Israel in recent years, authorities there froze $376 million in assets yesterday at Bank Hapoalim, the country's largest bank, and may be questioning clients as far away as Russia and France.
 Israeli police detained nearly two dozen low-level employees at one Hapoalim branch in Tel Aviv in recent days, Yehuda Shaffer, the head of the Israel Money Laundering Prohibition Authority, said yesterday, adding that banking authorities had frozen some assets. 
 Police are looking into 80 separate incidents of suspected criminal activity involving 200 Hapoalim clients, and ''the sums involved in this illegal activity amounted to several hundred million dollars and involved various parties abroad,'' the Bank of Israel and the Israeli police said in a joint statement Sunday. 
 Police may be requesting interviews with high-profile clients, among them Vladimir Gusinsky, a self-exiled Russian media tycoon who was briefly arrested in Moscow in 2000 and later fled to Israel.
 Arnon Perlman, vice chairman of the Ma'ariv Holdings media group, which is partly owned by Mr. Gusinsky, confirmed that Mr. Gusinsky's office in Tel Aviv was raided Sunday. Mr. Gusinsky is in the United States and has not been contacted by authorities, Mr. Perlman said.
 Mr. Perlman, who until late 2003 was the spokesman for Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, pledged cooperation ''with any questions -- if they are asked.'' 
 Mr. Gusinsky holds Israeli citizenship and is an investor in the Ma'ariv group, which runs Ma'ariv, a top-selling Israeli newspaper, and cable television properties. 
 Mr. Gusinsky, who is an Israeli citizen, was arrested in June of 2000 in Moscow and charged with fraud and stealing state property at a time when his television station NTV was considered highly critical of Russia's then newly elected president, Vladimir V. Putin. He was released a few days later on condition he not leave the country, but fled to Spain the following month.
 Mr. Gusinsky is still wanted by Moscow. The European Court of Human Rights ruled last May that he had been arrested unlawfully.
 In the current inquiry at Hapoalim, no one has been charged, nor have the bank itself or its top executives been implicated, Mr. Shaffer said. So far, the year-long undercover investigation has focused on only one Tel Aviv branch and the Bank Hapoalim Trust Company. A bank spokeswoman said the frozen assets represented only 1 percent of Hapoalim's accounts.
 To fight its perception as a dirty-money haven, Israel in 2002 founded the Israel Money Laundering Prohibition Authority. It monitors suspicious-transaction reports that are required from financial institutions like banks and insurance companies.
 ''It's important to show how serious Israel is in implementing the laws,'' Mr. Shaffer said. ''We see this investigation as a commitment to the fight against money-laundering.'' 
 Israel's legislation against money laundering prompted the international Financial Action Task Force, to remove Israel from its list of noncooperative countries and territories in 2002 and from its monitoring list in 2003. But not everyone is convinced that Israel's attempt to stop money laundering can overcome close ties between wealthy businessmen and high-level politics. 
 ''Many politicians there are financed by organized crime, and Israeli politics has been penetrated very deeply by Russian money,'' said Jonathan Nitzan, an associate professor at York University in Toronto, and the co-author of a book on Israel's economy. ''So I don't believe this is a serious attempt to clamp down on money laundering, nor is it a signal of change of direction.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bank Hapoalim, with headquarters in Tel Aviv, is at the center of an Israeli money-laundering inquiry involving about 200 of its clients. (Photo by Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg News)
 Vladimir Gusinsky, a media tycoon whose office was raided. (Photo by Petros Giannakouris/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONEY LAUNDERING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); ARRESTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); EXECUTIVES (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (61%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (61%); INSURANCE (50%) Banks and Banking; Assets, Frozen; Money Laundering; Frauds and Swindling; Search and Seizure; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: BANK HAPOALIM BM (58%); BANK OF ISRAEL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank Hapoalim (Israel); Ma'ariv Holdings

TICKER: POLI (TASE) (58%); 80OA (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%) Vladimir Gusinsky; Arnon Perlman; Erin E Arvedlund

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) ISRAEL (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Israel

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005



173 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; SHAKE-UP AT SONY: JAPAN'S REACTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: Western Chief? Most Japanese Are Unfazed

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 7 

 BODY:
Japan looked globalization in the eye on Monday. On television, the new chairman of the Sony Corporation, a ruddy-faced Welsh-American wearing a red tartan tie, was giving a news conference in English.
 Japan didn't blink.
 ''I don't care at all whether the new head of Sony is Japanese or not,'' Fumihiko Tanaka, a 58-year-old consultant, said in an interview on the Ginza shopping thoroughfare. ''If he has the ability to revive Sony, that is all that matters and all that should matter.'' 
 At a light-pulsing high-rise building in the Ginza district , flat-screen TV's carried images of the news conference by Sir Howard Stringer, the new chief executive, who had just flown to Tokyo from New York, where he will continue to live. 
 Yoshiaki Katsuki, 65, stopped his stroll on the Ginza and asked: ''Does the C.E.O. of a company have to be Japanese if the company is Japanese? No, I don't think so.''
 Japan's press greeted the news with evenhandedness. Nikkei Shimbun, the leading business newspaper, headlined, ''Sony, the first top foreigner.''
 Mainichi Shimbun, another daily, wrote, ''This shows the spread of American management style in Japan.''
 The relaxed reception to the ascension of a Western executive to serve as the steward of a slightly tarnished crown jewel of corporate Japan reflects the distance that the nation has traveled from the self-satisfied insularity of the bubble years in the late 1980's.
 But since then, 15 years of economic stagnation at home and economic boom in China have chastened Japan, stimulating a quiet sea change in attitudes toward foreign investment and foreign management.
 The choice of Sir Howard to turn around Sony is the latest in a series of humbling events as Japan has watched China emerge as a serious challenger to its economic supremacy in Asia, from outstripping it in cellphone production to surpassing Japan in oil consumption. Stripped of the arrogance of old, Japan's government is actively inviting foreign tourism and investment in ways not seen here since the 1960's, if ever.
 Foreigners have increased their ownership of shares on the Tokyo Stock Exchange to 21.8 percent in 2003 from 4.7 percent in 1990. In a reversal of the days when Japan was buying up prime real estate in the United States, American companies now own about 10 percent of Japan's golf courses, picked up on the cheap after these symbols of bubble-era excess went bankrupt.
 Goldman Sachs has been buying up Tokyo real estate. Wal-Mart is gradually opening stores in a joint venture with a Japanese supermarket company. American investors control a major retail bank, Shinsei.
 ''Japanese companies are being internationalized one after another with the number of foreigners on their boards rising,'' Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroyuki Hosoda, Japan's government spokesman, said Monday at a regularly scheduled press conference. Asked about Sony's choice, he said there was ''nothing strange about the appointment.''
 Spurred by the rise of China and Japan's efforts to forge free trade pacts with its neighbors, Japanese companies see global competition on the horizon and are starting to follow international accounting and management standards. In recent years, about 100 of the 3,000 companies listed on the Tokyo exchange have adopted American-style corporate governance and transparency rules.
 ''I hope this opens a new gate to this new, open kind of governance,'' Iwao Nakatani, Sony's chairman of the board, said in an interview, when asked whether Sir Howard's appointment reflected discontent among Sony's outside directors over the company's low share price. ''This is the beginning of the new discussion of how corporate governance should be. This is a historical event.''
 Sony, of course, has always followed an international path that was far more open to foreigners than most Japanese companies. Akio Morita, who founded Sony in 1946, lived for extended periods in New York. Facing entrenched competition at home, he built Sony on overseas sales and overseas investment.
 Today, out of Sony's 150,000 employees, only 50,000 are Japanese and only 29 percent of the group's business takes place in Japan, Nobuyuki Idei, the company's outgoing chairman said at Monday's press conference. In surveys, many American consumers say they are unaware that Sony is a Japanese company.
 Given Sony's global reach, it seemed natural to experts here that it would be the first Japanese-owned company to hire a foreigner as its chief executive. Unlike the Nissan Motor Company, which turned over its reins to a foreigner only after the French company Renault acquired a controlling interest, Sony is purely independent. The implication was that now that the dam has broken, at least a few others may follow.
 ''Sony has always been at the vanguard of doing things differently in Japan and often a pioneer for what came later,'' Paul Sheard, chief Asia economist for Lehman Brothers, said here. ''Other companies are going to this, too.''
 But this newfound openness does not mean that the move did not spark criticism of Sony. Even though Japan has the lowest rate of foreign direct investment among the seven largest industrial powers, nationalists in the media and in Parliament still worry about foreign vulture funds swooping down to grab the nation's richest assets in their talons.
 ''Generally speaking, Diet members with a bureaucracy background don't like foreigners,'' said Kotaro Tamura, a ruling party member of the upper house. By contrast, he said, ''Diet members with a business background are very welcoming of this.''
 In the Ginza district, Takeshi Yamamoto, a 55-year-old finance company employee, said he disapproved of Sony's choice of Sir Howard. ''He will have to work and communicate with Japanese people,'' Mr. Yamamoto said. ''Not only does he not speak our language, but what is more delicate is the Japanese culture.''
 Arguing that ''a Japanese person would have been more suited to head Sony,'' he added, ''If someone doesn't grasp the culture we live in, it will be quite hard to trust and follow this person.''
 But Taro Kono, a ruling party Diet member, welcomed the move, saying that it sends ''a good message to the Japanese conservatives who hate foreign capital coming into Japan.''
 ''Now people can think of inviting in foreign direct investment to revitalize Japan,'' he said.
 In the last five years, Japanese public opinion toward foreign managers has been almost single-handedly softened by Carlos Ghosn, the Brazilian-born French auto executive with a knack for publicity who led the Nissan turnaround. 
 If Sony wanted to clone Mr. Ghosn, the idea did not come from far away. Two years ago, Mr. Ghosn joined Sony's board.
 In the six years since Renault installed Mr. Ghosn at the helm of Nissan after taking control of the financially troubled company, he has wiped out Nissan's debt, slashed production costs, raised profitability, expanded into China, and restored excitement to the Nissan line by introducing a stylish new design to many models and bringing back the Z sports car.
 The Nikkei business newspaper recently asked its readers to name the most influential Japanese business figure of the last decade. The winner was Mr. Ghosn. With applause from Japan's public and lawmakers, Mr. Ghosn will move to Paris in May to become chief executive of Renault as well.
 ''Japanese investors,'' said Robert A. Feldman, Japan economist for Morgan Stanley, Japan, ''don't care if the manager is Japanese, an American or a Martian.'' ''What they care about is earning a good return on their investment.''
 Hiroshi Okuda, chairman of the powerful Keidanren, or Japan Business Federation, was equally unruffled about Sony's choice. ''Honestly speaking, if you think of the future of Japan, this kind of appointment is naturally predictable,'' he told reporters Monday. ''Every top executive should be aware that such an era is coming.''
 But foreign managers in Japan rarely have an easy time.
 Last April, Rolf Eckrodt, a German executive appointed by Daimler Chrysler to run Mitsubishi Motors, stepped down and slipped out of town with barely a farewell toast. In four years, Mr. Eckrodt had been unable to turn around a company that has been plagued by scandal. He left Mitsubishi Motors saddled with $2 billion in yearly losses and with $10 billion in debt.
 In contrast to Mr. Ghosn's approach to Nissan, Mr. Eckrodt ''relied on the old guard,'' said one American manager who recently took over a major Japanese company. ''He never really got to the bottom of things.''
 While many Japanese companies remain reluctant to hire foreign executives, they are increasingly filling their top slots with in-house executives with enough global experience to bring both a bilingual background and a bicultural experience. In the past, such managers were shunned as corporate dead enders, officials who had gone native.
 These days, a more pragmatic approach rules.
 ''People are used to having non-Japanese citizens as heads of companies,'' said Yoriko Kawaguchi, foreign affairs adviser to Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi. ''Performance matters, not nationality.''


GRAPHIC: Chart:2004 SALES (electronics)$47.7 billionOPERATING INCOME -- NINE MONTHS THROUGH DEC. 31Electronics: 64.0%2004: $617 million2003: $1,1592004 SALES (games)$7.4 billionOPERATING INCOME -- NINE MONTHS THROUGH DEC. 31Games: 9.9%2004: $395 million2003: $7052004 SALES (film and television)$7.2 billionOPERATING INCOME -- NINE MONTHS THROUGH DEC. 31Film and Television: 9.6%2004: +$475 million2003: -$13(Source by Sony)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (86%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); CONSUMPTION (63%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (61%); FOOD INDUSTRY (60%); TOURISM (50%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: SONY CORP (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Sony Corp

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%); GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: HOWARD STRINGER (78%) Howard Stringer; James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (67%) Japan; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; China

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005



174 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; SHAKE-UP AT SONY: HOW IT HAPPENED; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: At Sony, Diplomacy Trumps Technology

BYLINE: By LORNE MANLY and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN; Todd Zaun contributed reporting from Tokyo for this article.

 BODY:
Sir Howard Stringer was in Los Angeles late last month, shuttling among the weekend's pre-Oscar parties given by the likes of Barry Diller, the Hollywood mogul turned Internet commerce magnate, when his cellphone rang. 
 Nobuyuki Idei, Sony's chairman and chief executive and Sir Howard's boss, was calling from Japan with some startling news to share: Sir Howard, chairman and chief executive of the United States unit of the Sony Corporation, was almost certainly to become Mr. Idei's successor, according to people closely involved in the succession plan. 
 The final choice had pitted Sir Howard, 63, a former television news producer and executive, and for the last eight years, overseer of Sony's music, movie and electronics divisions in the United States, against Ken Kutaragi, an executive deputy president considered the company's chief visionary. It was Mr. Kutaragi, 54, who built Sony's PlayStation video game unit into a roaring success. 
 By choosing Sir Howard, Sony gave the triumph to the diplomat over the technocrat, the sophisticated corporate manager rather than the brilliant but less polished Mr. Kutargi. 
 The groundbreaking Japanese technology and entertainment company had stumbled financially and technologically in recent years partly because of divisions between its engineering and its entertainment units. It needed someone to pull its parts together so that it did not lose more ground to relative newcomers in consumer electronics like Apple Computer and its iPod, or the rapidly growing electronics manufacturers in South Korea and China that are combining next-generation flat-panel television and superclean chip-making operations at lower cost.
 So, after a weeklong series of discussions in Tokyo to determine the new management structure, Mr. Idei made one more call, this time to Sir Howard last Friday night at his English manor house in Oxfordshire. Sir Howard was told he needed to be in Tokyo for the announcement yesterday that he would be named the first non-Japanese chief executive at Sony in its 59 years. 
 A limber corporate politician, Sir Howard has a knack for winning trust and respect even when delivering bad news. His reputation, for instance, survived the layoffs of hundreds at CBS News. And that image has served him well in a country like Japan and a company like Sony, known for their consensual culture and where the in-your-face corporate politics of American business is rarely welcome.
 ''He can explain each side to the other,'' said Dan Rather, anchor and managing editor of the ''CBS Evening News,'' a former colleague and a friend who has known him for more than 35 years. ''Howard is a marvelous translator.''
 At a news conference yesterday, Sir Howard outlined his vision for the company. ''We would accelerate cross-company collaboration,'' he said, ''thereby revitalizing the company and promoting creativity. Growth cannot be achieved just through cost reduction. We need new projects, new ideas, new strategies, new alliances and a shared vision. All of our managers must have the authority and the will to manage.''
 That soothing language seemed to satisfy even Mr. Kutaragi. Despite losing the battle to Sir Howard, he seems to have been persuaded to accept a lesser role at the company for now, returning to the game unit to take charge of finishing development of the successor to PlayStation 2. Mr. Kutaragi, company insiders said, is still young enough to ultimately emerge as Sir Howard's successor. 
 Sir Howard -- hired by Mr. Idei in 1997, when Sony was trying to recover from debacles at its Columbia Pictures unit -- at first was in charge only of an odd mix of properties that included movie theaters and a shopping mall. But soon he was handed the American electronics division, then movies and music.
 He strengthened relations with Mr. Idei by inviting him to events like the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, and to small dinner parties he held in New York. He speaks little Japanese, but Sir Howard -- a native of Wales, graduate of Oxford, Vietnam war veteran, producer of the ''Evening News'' with Mr. Rather and chief of all of CBS -- can bond with almost anyone, according to friends and colleagues.
 ''In my view, he was Idei's confidant in whatever degree you can become Idei's confidant,'' said John Calley, a former head of Sony Pictures Entertainment, who reported directly to headquarters in Tokyo before Sir Howard arrived at Sony. ''He's the only one I know of who can manage the Japanese and the show-bizzers.''
 Sir Howard's Hollywood schmoozing skills were on display at the end of last month. Although he did not attend the Academy Awards, he made time for the parties that dot the Hollywood landscape before and after. 
 And on the way to the annual festivities presided over by Bryan Lourd of Creative Artists Agency and Ed Limato of International Creative Management, he had the limousine rented by Mr. Calley for the occasion pick up Diane English, the creator of ''Murphy Brown'' -- a hit at CBS when Sir Howard was there and who is now writing a screenplay for Sony.
 ''He's friends with most of the major stars,'' Mr. Calley said.
 But financial results played what is probably a more important role in assuring Sir Howard's rise at Sony. During the fourth quarter of 2004, Sony's movie business accounted for 13 percent ($178 million) of Sony's operating profit, though it is a relatively small piece of the company's overall operations. While the turnaround of the American operations is not yet complete, the merged music division's gains have come in large part from cost-cutting measures.
 Sony's American division is performing much better than its Japanese counterparts. Last quarter, for example, Sony's electronics business, though responsible for around 70 percent of revenue, brought in just 36 percent of its operating income. And for the fiscal year ending on March 31, Sony expects an overall operating profit margin of just 1.5 percent.
 ''Talk about trust; he doesn't have to earn it,'' Mr. Calley said. ''He has it. And he's not going to lose it.''
 Sir Howard's adeptness at corporate politics, his friends and colleagues say, should prevent that from happening. ''He has an excellent nostril for where the power is, where the power really lies, not where it looks like it is,'' said Mr. Rather, noting Sir Howard's ''almost coyote-like ability to recognize who is on the come, who's going to be potent.'' 
 For example, Mr. Rather said, when Laurence A. Tisch began buying up shares of CBS through his family's Loews Corporation in the middle 1980's, Sir Howard recognized that Mr. Tisch was the power player and that Jay Kriegel was his confidant and trusted associate. When Mr. Tisch became the white knight against hostile takeover attempts and eventually chief executive, Sir Howard was well situated to prosper from the shift.
 ''People in news are usually tone-deaf to these things,'' Mr. Rather said. ''Howard is definitely not tone-deaf.'' 
 With his sensitive antennas, Sir Howard, along with other executives, had heard the buzz of coming corporate changes in Tokyo. As a result, he was not completely surprised when in January Mr. Idei encouraged him to be provocative in his speech at a quarterly management conference, according to someone at the meeting who talked to Sir Howard. 
 In the speech, Sir Howard warned that Sony had to beware of becoming top heavy, to avoid looking like a mushroom, where the senior management layers threaten to overpower and strangle the creativity of the engineers and the products they create. 
 He pointed to examples in the United States, where moves like the introduction of shared back-office services across three operating companies (music, movies and electronics) cut about $700 million from the budget (and 9,000 of the 30,000 employees). 
 A combination of these cuts and other restructuring efforts also did away with much of the intradivision politicking at the electronics unit, which is now the most profitable of Sony electronics companies. 
 And in words signaling that the rest of Sony could be in for more such restructuring, Sir Howard told those in attendance that they could also achieve such results if they could withstand the pain of layoffs.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Long an Innovator, Sony Fell Behind''For decades, Sony was atop the consumer electronics industry. But inrecent years, strategic missteps have put it in an unfamiliar position insome new markets trailing the leaders. Here are significant milestonesand how the company performed, according to Richard Doherty, acomputer industry analyst and president of Envisioneering.1955 Transistor radios (markets Sony developed or led)Sony was among the first companies to make them and quickly distanced itself from its competitors. ''Sony proved that smaller could be worth more,'' Mr. Doherty said.1969 Color TV's (markets Sony developed or led)Sony became the de facto standard with its Trinitron TV's. Their pictures were brighter and clearer and their compact size made it practical for people to have multiple TVs for the first time.1975 Home video recorders (market where Sony trailed)Sony was the first to develop a home video recorder format (Betamax), but consumers migrated to VHS recorders, despite their inferior quality, because they recorded longer.1977 Personal computers (market where Sony trailed)Sony did not start making computers under its brand name until long after the Apple II, left, was introduced and long after the market was dominated by others.1978 Portable audio cassette players (markets Sony developed or led)The Walkman, the first signature gadget and the one that perhaps more than any other cemented Sony's reputation as the foremost consumer electronics manufacturer and innovator.1982 Compact disc (CD) players (markets Sony developed or led)Developed with Philips, it was followed two years later by the Discman, the first portable CD player. Sony is still No. 1 in market share, according to NPD Group.1983 Camcorders (markets Sony developed or led)The first self-contained camera and video recorder. Although many companies now sell such recorders, Sony continues to be No. 1 in market share.1988 Digital cameras (markets Sony developed or led)Another market that Sony pioneered. After the camera was introduced, it took six years to get it to market, allowing many companies to catch up, but Sony is still an industry leader.1993 Personal digital assistants (market where Sony trailed)Sony did not introduce its own version of personal digital assistants, like the Palm Pilot, left, until later. After it was unable to attract much interest in its Clie organizers, Sony abandoned the market.1995 Disc-based game systems (markets Sony developed or led)Although cartridge-based entertainment systems from Nintendo and Sega had been around for years, Sony's PlayStation quickly supplanted them. Sony continues to be No. 1 in this market.1997 Digital video discs (market where Sony trailed)Sony helped develop DVD technology, but it has been hard to distinguish itself in a crowded field of low-cost manufacturers, mainly in China.1997 Plasma and L.C.D. TV's (market where Sony trailed)Sony did not introduce its own flat-screen TV's until 1999. And despite its reputation for quality with cathode-ray tube TV's, it has not been able to catch up to the industry leaders.1997 Digital music players (market where Sony trailed)Sony introduced minidiscs in 1991 and thought of them as superior to other digital music players. It is now No. 4 in the market, well behind Apple, the industry leader, and its iPod, left.(Sources by Envisioneering
 POS Data/NPD Techworld/The NPD Group)(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); FILM (77%); SUCCESSION PLANS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); ELECTRONICS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); ENGINEERING (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (74%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); COMPUTER GAMES (73%); POLITICS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%) Biographical Information; Appointments and Executive Changes; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: SONY CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Sony Corp; Sony Corp

TICKER: SON (LSE) (94%); SNE (NYSE) (94%); 6758 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (94%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (94%)

PERSON: HOWARD STRINGER (92%); BARRY DILLER (72%) Lorne Manly; Andrew Ross Sorkin; Howard Stringer; Nobuyuki Idei; Ken Kutaragi

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005



175 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

U.N. Critic Bolton Chosen As Ambassador to U.N.
President Bush chose John R. Bolton, a blunt-spoken conservative known for his sharp skepticism toward the United Nations and international diplomacy, as the new United States ambassador to the U.N. A1

No Date for Syrian Withdrawal
The Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, clarified the extent of a troop withdrawal from Lebanon, saying that Syria will move its soldiers to the border by the end of March but has no timetable to remove any of them from the country. A8

Attacks in Iraq Kill a Dozen
Insurgents carried out a string of armed assaults and suicide bombings in central Iraq, killing at least a dozen Iraqi Army soldiers and police officers and five civilians, officials said. A12

Bolivia President Offers to Quit
President Carlos Mesa of Bolivia offered Congress his resignation in the face of road-choking protests that he said had made the country nearly ungovernable. A3

Pope to Be Home for Holy Week
Pope John Paul II continues to recover well and could be discharged from the hospital before the week of church celebrations leading up to Easter, on March 27, the Vatican said. A4

Moldova Elections Evaluated
Parliamentary election in Moldova, won by the governing Communist Party, generally met Western election standards but had shortcomings that should be eliminated in future races, according to international observers. A10

El Salvador Killings Inquiry
The Organization of American States will reopen an investigation based on new forensic evidence into the massacre of hundreds of peasants in 1981 at El Mozote, El Salvador, by a U.S.-trained Salvadorean Armed Forces battalion. A7

Avian Flu in Vietnam
Vietnam has reported four new cases of human avian influenza, the World Health Organization said. Health officials worry that the avian strain may combine with human influenza to create a new virus. A3

NATIONAL A14-19

Laws Let Terror Suspects Buy Guns, Report Finds
Dozens of terrorist suspects on federal watch lists were allowed to buy firearms legally in the United States last year, according to a Congressional investigation that cites major vulnerabilities in federal gun laws. A1

Power Company Settles Suit
The Justice Department said it reached a settlement with the Illinois Power Company over violations of the Clean Air Act that will require the company to spend $500 million on new pollution-control equipment and to pay $9 million in fines, the largest penalty ever levied on a power company for excessive emissions. A14

Court Revisits Sentencing Law
The Supreme Court, in a decision indicating that its re-examination of the role of judges in criminal sentencing is far from over, overturned a 15-year mandatory sentence that a federal appeals court had ordered imposed on a ''career criminal.'' A15

Boy Recounts Acts by Jackson
The 14-year-old brother of the boy who has accused Michael Jackson of sexually molesting him testified that he twice saw the singer lying on a bed masturbating while he groped the boy with his other hand. A16

Drug Cost Rule Not Enforced
Federal health officials are not enforcing a law that requires drug companies to cut their prices on drugs purchased for poor people under Medicaid, Congressional investigators said. A16

Group Backs Bush's Plan
The Progress for America Voter Fund, a Republican political advocacy group, began a $2 million campaign of television commercials supporting President Bush's Social Security plan. A19

EDUCATION

University President Resigning
The president of the University of Colorado, Elizabeth Hoffman, announced her resignation after struggling with a football recruiting scandal and a firestorm over a professor who likened some 9/11 victims to Nazis. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

CSX Agrees to Settlement Over Broken Signals
New York's attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, said the railroad giant CSX Transportation had agreed to pay $1 million to settle state charges that it violated safety laws by failing to promptly fix and report hundreds of warning-signal malfunctions at grade crossings. A1

Deadlock in Officer's Trial
A Manhattan jury declared that it was hopelessly deadlocked and could not reach a verdict in the trial of Bryan A. Conroy, a police officer charged with manslaughter for killing an unarmed man in a warehouse in Chelsea. B1

Pro- Stadium Ads Rejected
Cablevision, which believes that a proposed West Side sports stadium would take away business from its famed arena, Madison Square Garden, is refusing to run advertisements in favor of the stadium. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Health & Fitness F5

FASHION B11

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-7

ARTS E1-10

9 Arrests in Munch Theft
In a police action that art lovers hoped would shed light on the theft of Edvard Munch's ''The Scream'' last summer, nine people were arrested in Oslo in the theft of three lesser works by Munch. But a police spokesman said there was nothing to indicate a link between this theft and ''The Scream'' robbery. E3

OBITUARIES A20-21

Hans Bethe
The physicist who discovered the violent reactions behind sunlight and helped devise the atom bomb, he was 98. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-15

Chief of Boeing Resigns
The chief executive of the Boeing Company, Harry C. Stonecipher, who was brought out of retirement 15 months ago to clean up the company's tarnished image and restore its credibility, was forced to resign for having an affair with a female Boeing executive. A1

Stringer's Vision for Sony
Sir Howard Stringer, in his first news conference since being named the first Westerner to take the top job at Sony, emphasized breaking down internal divisions at the company. C1

Economy's Sweet Spot
A wide variety of indicators suggests that the United States' economy is in a sweet spot, with soaring business investment, moderate inflation and rising employment. But for all the good news, many economic forecasters remain worried about the broader global imbalances. C1

Ruling Against Tax Court
The Supreme Court rebuked the United States Tax Court for its adoption of a ''bold'' and unauthorized procedure that shields documents from disclosure to people with cases before the court and to federal judges who review the tax court's work on appeal. C2

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Torture by proxy; rules of engagement; standing up to the credit card industry.

Columns: Paul Krugman, David Brooks.

Crossword E8
Weather D8
TV Listings E10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); EASTER SEASON (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (86%); INFLUENZA (86%); SENTENCING (85%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (84%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (83%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARMIES (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); FORENSICS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); RELIGION (72%); BOMBINGS (71%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); EVIDENCE (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); GUN CONTROL (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (65%); APPEALS COURTS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ILLINOIS POWER CO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (63%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); BOLIVIA (92%); LEBANON (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); VIET NAM (90%); HOLY SEE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005



176 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Sports Desk; HORSE RACING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3339 words

HEADLINE: In Horse Racing, an Odd Couple Seek the Reins

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

 BODY:
On a steamy Texas afternoon last fall, Marylou Whitney floated into the paddock of Lone Star Park like royalty, moving along the barricade to accept the outstretched hands of admirers.
 Ms. Whitney, at 79, is the doyenne of racing, a traditionalist like her late husband, C.V. Whitney. She believes that women should wear hats to the racetrack and that the best fertilizer for a horse farm is the owner's feet walking its bluegrass. As Birdstone, the colt she bred and owns, high-stepped into the paddock, Ms. Whitney's face flushed with delight.
 Twenty yards away, another septuagenarian was disrupting what is usually a genteel prerace ritual. Frank Stronach, 72, had Gov. Rick Perry of Texas by the elbow and was hustling him through a jumble of television cameras. 
 Mr. Stronach also had a homebred horse in the race, the Breeders' Cup Classic.
 But he does not want to win big-money races nearly as badly as he wants to gain control of the last essential pieces of his planned empire: New York's three racetracks -- Aqueduct, Belmont Park and Saratoga, where Ms. Whitney reigns over the summer social whirl.
 Mr. Stronach, who owns or operates 11 tracks nationwide, is a rags-to-riches auto-parts magnate who has made a ruckus ever since he arrived on the American racing scene, waging warfare on an old guard that he insists has run the business into the ground. He is determined to add video slot machines and other forms of gambling to racetracks, along with musical entertainment, dancers and anything else that might broaden the sport's appeal -- tactics that are viewed with distaste by many people in Ms. Whitney's social circle.
 So Mr. Stronach has been courting Ms. Whitney as a potential ally, and their evolving relationship is likely to play an important role in determining the future of New York's beleaguered tracks. It will surely influence, as well, the competition among several major racing organizations and casino companies that have been vying for control of tracks across the country. Mr. Stronach's horse, Ghostzapper, was favored to win the $4 million Breeders' Cup at Lone Star Park, one of his tracks. But Mr. Stronach was not here to talk about the race. He delivered a monologue to Governor Perry in the hope of making a powerful new friend in his campaign to transform the $15 billion North American horse industry into a $100 billion global one.
 ''We can create 25,000 new jobs, increase the tax base, make more monies for the state, ya,'' the white-haired Mr. Stronach said in the melodic accent of his native Austria, not waiting for a response from the governor.
 The morning before the Breeders' Cup, Mr. Stronach had been sitting in a limousine outside Ghostzapper's barn on the dusty backside of Lone Star Park in Grand Prairie, Tex., about 15 miles west of Dallas. He could barely contain his disdain for New York's old guard, the generations of racing royalty with names like Phipps and Whitney that have controlled thoroughbred racing in the state. 
 He spit out the reasons why he should own its tracks: the New York Racing Association lost $20 million in 2003, it was enmeshed in a tax-evasion scandal that cost it a $3 million fine and it is operating under a court-appointed monitor as part of a plea deal with federal prosecutors.
 ''They screwed up a monopoly, and that's what happens when you run it like a club,'' Mr. Stronach said. ''They may be nice people, but when you operate on favoritism and friendly connections, and they all sit together in the trustees' room for an afternoon of racing without any of their own money up, do you think they really care about the product or the business?''
 Still, Mr. Stronach knows that to purchase the New York tracks, he needs help from beyond the phalanx of high-powered lobbyists, like the former Senator Alfonse D'Amato of New York, whom he has already hired.
 He needs allies like Ms. Whitney. 

Ready for Change, Within Reason
 ''I don't care if Frank Stronach is taking over -- he's not moving me out,'' Ms. Whitney said with a bravado that seemed to startle her dinner companions at Lexington Country Club in the heart of Kentucky bluegrass country.
 It was a Friday evening two weeks before the Breeders' Cup, and Ms. Whitney and her 40-year-old husband of seven years, John Hendrickson, were celebrating over steaks and Champagne the opening of the fall season at Keeneland, which, like Saratoga, caters to rich owners and their best horses.
 Mr. Stronach's horses race here, and he breeds high-quality steeds nearby on his farm of more than 1,800 acres. But Mr. Stronach, an Austrian factory worker's son who immigrated to Canada, is not one to work the dining rooms of old-line country clubs.
 Ms. Whitney and her husband were dining with friends: the Oxleys and the Farmers, wealthy Kentucky farm owners who have bred or raced a slew of top-flight horses. The conversation had turned to the woes of the New York Racing Association and Mr. Stronach's efforts to buy its racetracks.
 No one at the table disagreed that the industry was in trouble; Las Vegas, state lotteries and the proliferation of gambling and slot machines in state after state had been siphoning gambling dollars from horse racing for decades. But no one was eager to embrace Mr. Stronach, either. They were tired of what they considered his bullying and hectoring, and suspicious of his plan to Las Vegasize racing. Look at what he had done at Gulfstream Park, his track in South Florida: rock concerts, scantily clad cheerleaders. What next?
 Mr. Stronach had to be stopped, they agreed, and an advocacy group was forming under the banner of Friends of New York Racing. The clock was ticking already -- the state franchise for the New York Racing Association expires in 2007, and Gov. George E. Pataki's latest budget suggested that the cash-strapped government, tired of scandals and mismanagement, was ready to put the tracks up for bid as soon as the end of this year.
 The racing association was established in 1955 as a nonprofit corporation to consolidate and run the tracks under a state franchise. Its trustees, among them members of some of the state's oldest families, have fought off previous attempts to sell the tracks to private interests, and secured their latest franchise extension in 1997 after contributing more than $210,000 to the state Republican and Democratic committees.
 The group's purpose was to come up with a new business model for New York racing, then to lobby the Legislature for the changes it wanted. But the list of its supporters read like the ''enemies of Frank Stronach'' and included rival racetrack operators.
 Was Ms. Whitney a part of this cabal? Surprisingly, given her dinner comment, she was not. She and her husband had refused when approached by the group for support and money.
 It turned out that Ms. Whitney's relationship with racing's old guard was as complicated as her pre-Whitney past as an accountant-attorney's daughter, actress, real estate agent, TV cooking show personality and divorced mother of four. 

Tradition Comes With a Price
 Unlike some in the old guard, Ms. Whitney is an economic pragmatist. She says she believes that for horse racing to survive and prosper, the sport and its purses need to grow with new money, along with new owners who have ideas and financial discipline. ''We cannot just race our horses against each other anymore,'' she said. ''It can be a pastime and still be run like a business.''
 Then there's the issue of the Jockey Club, whose mandate is to protect thoroughbreds by recording blood lines and the like. Its concern for breeding may extend beyond horses. Ms. Whitney has never been invited to join this stronghold of the Phipps family -- the descendants of Henry Phipps, partner of the steel magnate Andrew Carnegie -- even though several members are women, and Whitney men have commonly served on the board.
 ''It hurts because I'm not sure you can find anyone who has devoted as much energy and passion to this sport, especially who has been as good a friend to New York racing as I have been,'' she said.
 At the dinner table, Ms. Whitney's blue eyes sparkled and her back stiffened as she allowed that Mr. Stronach may be a kindred spirit after all. ''I'm not a snob -- I'm a traditionalist,'' she said, her lockjaw delivery loosening up as her voice rose.
 ''I am not old guard,'' she added, enunciating each word with great deliberation.
 Once more, Ms. Whitney had startled those at the table.
 Mr. Stronach is another force in racing who has not been invited to join the Jockey Club. So, aware of Ms. Whitney's ambivalence toward the very elite with which she is identified, he made a play for Ms. Whitney's allegiances.
 On the eve of the Breeders' Cup, he invited her to a presentation in a conference room off the lobby of the Mansion on Turtle Creek in Dallas. A cocktail bar had been set up and easels positioned around the room, propping up drawings of the racetrack makeover under way at Gulfstream Park in Hallandale Beach, Fla.
 The track's grandstand and clubhouse had been leveled to transform it into Mr. Stronach's vision of a multipurpose, entertainment destination -- a prototype for what he hopes to create in New York.
 Mr. Stronach and Ms. Whitney wished each other luck at the Breeders' Cup. Then Mr. Stronach, the tool-and-dye baron, and Ms. Whitney, the Edith Whartonesque Queen of Saratoga, wandered from easel to easel, where laser-printed color renderings mapped out the future of horse racing.
 Mr. Stronach tailored his presentation for her. The stage in the middle of the sports bar was for performers like magicians, he said (not the dancing girls, and guys, he has pitched before). The new parimutuel video racing game his company created -- it whirls and rings like a slot machine -- was designed to make the racetrack more accessible to the young people who crave faster-paced action.
 Ms. Whitney looked and listened, oblivious to the executives from Magna Entertainment milling around the room and stealing furtive glances to see how the boss was doing. When it was her turn, Ms. Whitney was succinct.
 She told him what she liked: the training center he had already built in South Florida with a state-of-the-art racing surface and first-class housing for stable hands, who have typically been treated as afterthoughts in racetrack design. Ms. Whitney told him, too, what she did not like: rock concerts and anything else that took the focus away from the horses.
 It was an intense 45-minute match of wills and wits between high-powered people who wore their smiles easily. Ultimately, an alliance was at stake, but for now, the two remained at arm's length.
 ''She's a nice lady who knows and loves horse racing,'' Mr. Stronach said afterward.

A Populist With Many Admirers
 Although she does not hold formal reins of power in thoroughbred racing, Ms. Whitney is still the woman to see. She has played host to and supported a who's who of New York politicians, including two of the men who control the future of horse racing in the state: Governor Pataki and Joseph L. Bruno, the majority leader of the State Senate.
 One day at lunch on the C.V. Whitney Farm in Lexington Ky., in a dining room overlooking the slave-quarters-turned-guesthouse where Ronald and Nancy Reagan once stayed, Ms. Whitney told a story that illustrated how she became the public face of American horse racing. She said she had returned one night after a society gala in a white Bill Blass gown, dripping with emeralds, to find the farm manager and the veterinarian with their hands full trying to deliver three foals.
 ''Off came the jewels and heels, and I was up to my shoulders in the mare, pulling with all my might until my suit was red'' with blood, she recounted.
 ''But that baby ended up being Banshee Breeze, a champion filly, and I foaled her,'' she said.
 The anecdote often provokes eye rolls from some of her peers, who cannot get past the fact that she married, rather than was born, into a fortune built on oil, tobacco and New York City street cars. But it does explain her appeal to readers of publications as diverse as The Daily Racing Form and Vanity Fair.
 Of the tens of millions of dollars that Ms. Whitney has donated to or raised for charity, much has been directed toward horse hospitals, equine research and efforts to save used-up racehorses from the slaughterhouse. She treats breeders and owners of more modest means as equals. She courts everyday racetrack patrons with playful banter, and for her highly anticipated entrances at her annual summer gala in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., Ms. Whitney has arrived in everything from a Model T to a hot-air balloon.
 Ms. Whitney stayed true to her populist form when an ankle injury forced her beloved Birdstone into early retirement in the days after the Breeders' Cup. She turned down multimillion-dollar offers from commercial breeders and decided to stand Birdstone as a stallion herself, just up the road from the C.V. Whitney Farm. She set a modest stud fee of $10,000 for each coupling with Birdstone.
 ''We don't need the money,'' she said. ''And we wanted to make him affordable to breeders at all levels of the game.''
 In contrast, after Ghostzapper won the Breeders' Cup Classic, Mr. Stronach increased the stud fee for the colt's sire, Awesome Again, to $125,000 from $100,000.

A Newcomer's Drive to Succeed
 Mr. Stronach has long favored aggressiveness over accommodation. It worked in transforming a single tool-and-dye shop in Canada into Magna International, an auto-parts powerhouse with 219 manufacturing divisions in 22 countries. In the process, he has amassed a personal fortune of more than $585 million, according to Canadian Business magazine.
 Mr. Stronach, who once washed dishes and peeled potatoes for a living, now lunches in the clubhouse of the golf course that he had built at his sprawling company headquarters in Aurora, Ontario. His inner drive seems unabated in his quest to become king of the sport of kings.
 Over the past six years, Mr. Stronach has threatened to withdraw his financial support from the horse industry's trade group, saying power and policy were in the hands of an entrenched few. He has broken with custom by refusing to sell the simulcast signal of races from his tracks to rival tracks and wagering companies.
 Instead, he has built his own satellite television network with 11.5 million subscribers and purchased an Internet wagering company. This expansion has been costly, as demonstrated by the $41 million loss that Magna Entertainment reported for the fourth quarter of 2004. The company reported a loss of $95.6 million for the year.
 Still, Mr. Stronach envisions horse racing as the anchor of a 24-hour, seven-day-a-week global gambling and entertainment colossus. He envisions a day when customers at his tracks can bet on horses, play slot machines or his racing game, shop and dine. Away from the tracks, they could watch races on his TV network and bet on them online. The New York tracks, with year-round racing, rich purses and high-level horses, would become the prime piece of programming for his empire. 
 Mr. Stronach says he sees himself starkly as an entrepreneur being stymied by a culture of entitlement.
 ''I came up in the automotive business, the most competitive industry in the world,'' he said. ''You could be Henry Ford's brother, but if you don't make a high-quality product at a low price, they aren't going to buy it from you.''
 He makes it clear that neither old guard resistance nor shareholder wrath over his company's recent losses would derail his plans to transform the sport. ''I decided early that I was never going to suck up to anyone again,'' he said, ''that I wouldn't get on my hands and knees and crawl, no matter who it was.''

Considering Another Approach
 But it is hard to cultivate the upper reaches of power with a steamroller. And cultivate, it seems, you must, especially if you have jittery shareholders and an impatient gambling public to satisfy.
 On Jan. 3 -- opening day at Gulfstream Park -- Mr. Stronach was the one being clutched by the elbow and bulled around the clubhouse. He was being harangued not by a governor but by patrons, retirees mostly, and rank-and-file horse owners.
 Things were going badly. The first race of the winter season had to be declared a no-contest. The horses turning for home had to be pulled up by their jockeys, because a tractor had failed to cough to life and pull the starting gate away from the finish line.
 As one person after another buttonholed him to complain about a lack of seating and television monitors, obstructed views and a host of other inconveniences, Mr. Stronach took it in stoically and promised to have them fixed. (It will take a year for the entertainment complex to be completed.)
 ''You won't recognize this place next winter,'' he said. ''But for now, the show must go on.''
 Gulfstream Park was not his only worry that day. A revolt was brewing among investors unhappy with his gambling investments. They wanted him to sell or spin off Magna Entertainment, his horse-racing subsidiary, to restore share value in another subsidiary, a real estate company. To mollify them, Magna Entertainment instead made a series of concessions that were at odds with Mr. Stronach's public comments, moves that smacked of, ''If you can't beat 'em, join 'em.''
 The first was committing $100,000 to join the Friends of New York Racing. Then Mr. Stronach reversed himself further and made the live video feed of his tracks' races available to rival tracks and wagering companies. Magna Entertainment even entered into a partnership with its chief competitor, Churchill Downs Inc., to simulcast each company's races in Europe.
 Was Mr. Stronach now willing to take on partners in New York? Or was he cagily infiltrating the opposition?
 Finally free from fielding complaints and suggestions, and a word or two of praise, Mr. Stronach pulled up a chair in Gulfstream's dining tent. Like a politician, he stayed on message. He insisted that he still wanted the New York racetracks for his own. But he conceded that it may be time to see if some give-and-take could penetrate the old guard.
 ''Let's see what happens by trying to work together,'' he said.

A Meeting of Two Like Minds
 At around the same time, Ms. Whitney was back in Saratoga Springs at her 135-acre estate, Cady Hill, preparing to fly to Florida. Horse racing was very much on her mind.
 Birdstone was about to mate with his first mares in Kentucky. In Albany, Governor Pataki had released his proposed budget, which called for the state's track franchise to be put up for bid starting at $250 million, with annual payments of perhaps tens of millions more on top of that. 
 The New York Racing Association did not have that kind of money. In fact, it had lost tens of millions of dollars and had failed to pay its franchise fees in recent years. It had also been unable to install video lottery terminals that were approved for Aqueduct.
 It seems now that a changing of the guard is imminent: the Friends of New York Racing announced last month the composition of its board of directors, a mix of owners and breeders from the state, as well as national industry leaders. One of Mr. Stronach's executives was among them, as were representatives from the Jockey Club and Churchill Downs Inc.
 Ms. Whitney, however, is not a board member. But as an old sport remakes itself in New York, she will continue to be a behind-the-scenes presence. She will make her opinions known to the right people, like advising the governor on the panel he intends to form to oversee the bidding for New York's tracks. 
 Frank Stronach is not moving Marylou Whitney out of New York racing. If anything, she might help him move in. 
 ''I like what he's doing for the people on the back side who tend to the horses and his vision to bring more people into the sport,'' she said. ''He has already spent hundreds of millions of dollars in the sport and is willing to spend more. He is a smart man and should be taken seriously.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Frank Stronach built a global auto-parts powerhouse. Now he is trying to do the same to horse racing by amassing a network of tracks and transforming the industry.
Mr. Stronach is remaking his Gulfstream Park complex in Florida, where visitors lined up for opening day in January.
Celebrating a champion: Ghostzapper captured the Breeders' Cup Classic in October. (Photographs by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. D4)
Marylou Whitney, right, the doyenne of horse racing, has raised considerable money for horse hospitals and equine research.
Ms. Whitney at the Breeders' Cup. ''I'm a traditionalist,'' she says.
Patrons had their pick of desserts at Lone Star Park, one of the 11 tracks owned or operated nationwide by Frank Stronach. Mr. Stronach wants to build a racing empire. (Photographs by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. D5)
 Marylou Whitney, left, one of racing's old guard, stands behind an effort to modernize the struggling sport. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (93%); HORSES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (89%); GOVERNORS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); LOBBYING (86%); CASINOS (77%); GAMING (76%); FERTILIZERS (71%); DANCERS (64%); JOB CREATION (50%) Horse Racing; Industry Profiles; Finances; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Horse Racing; Horse Racing

ORGANIZATION: New York Racing Assn

PERSON: RICK PERRY (78%) Marylou Whitney; Frank Stronach; Rick (Gov) Perry; Alfonse M D'Amato; Joe Drape

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) New York State; Texas

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2005



177 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: A Split Decision On Florida Slots

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 8 

 BODY:
Voters in Broward County approved a plan on Tuesday to allow Las Vegas-style slot machines at four sites, while Miami-Dade County, just to the south, narrowly rejected a similar proposal.
 The Broward proposal passed 57 percent to 43 percent, while the Miami-Dade plan was rejected 53 percent to 47 percent. 
 The Broward decision clears the way for slot machines at two horse racing tracks, one greyhound track and one jai alai site. The Miami-Dade plan would have allowed slots at three sites in the county.
 The Legislature will now decide what type of slot machines are coming to the county and how they will be taxed and managed.
 Supporters said the plan could amount to a jackpot for the economy by creating thousands of jobs and pumping millions of dollars annually into schools statewide.
 But detractors contended that slot machines would not necessarily help schools and said additional gambling in the region would spur more crime and other social ills. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); JAI ALAI (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); JOB CREATION (52%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2005



178 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1644 words

HEADLINE: Fringes vs. Basics in Silicon Valley

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 8 

 BODY:
It was a lunch-hour scene not uncommon on Silicon Valley corporate campuses. A video game programmer curled a dumbbell and checked out his biceps in the mirror. Nearby, two colleagues walked on treadmills, chatting, while another young man leveled karate kicks at a boxing bag. 
 Those employees of Electronic Arts, the world's largest independent video game maker, were spending their break one day last week in a big, modern company gymnasium that would put many private health clubs to shame. But lately critics at the company, and at other employers in the Valley, say such perks put a cozy face on what amounts to a white-collar sweatshop.
 Electronic Arts, based in Redwood City, Calif., has become the focal point of a debate over whether technology companies are exploiting workers by demanding long hours and using on-campus fringe benefits while skimping on tangible benefits like overtime pay, and rewarding worker loyalty by sending jobs to cheaper labor overseas. 
 The debate has called into question the longstanding Silicon Valley compensation formula in which long hours were soothed with stock options and bonuses. But with no technology boom to fuel stock prices, and new accounting rules making options much more expensive to grant, stock options are no longer the currency that has fueled the traditional Silicon Valley work ethic. 
 Electronic Arts, responding to this financial shift and to its labor critics, plans to announce this week that it will depart from tradition by beginning to pay overtime to some workers. Those workers would no longer be eligible for options or bonuses.
 The move, while not unprecedented in the Valley's recent lean years, is certain to be watched closely by executives at other technology companies. 
 Electronic Arts concedes that the move breaks with tradition. But it says it is acting more in response to employee pressure than because the company considers it the best way to handle labor relations. 
 ''This tears at the employment model that Silicon Valley was built on,'' said Rusty Rueff, the director of human resources for Electronic Arts, which has 5,800 workers. Overtime pay will move game developers ''out of a culture that emphasizes entrepreneurialism and ownership and into a clock-watching mentality,'' he said. 
 Electronic Arts, like other Silicon Valley companies, uses revenue per employee as one measure of efficiency. The company said it had $1 million in sales for each of the 3,500 development studio employees last year. 
 The clash between Electronic Arts and its employees was prompted by an online essay late last year by the wife of a game programmer. She accused the company of driving its workers to the point of collapse. The lament, widely circulated and discussed, has ignited an industry debate over whether there is a need to rethink the rights of high-technology labor. 
 In the past, unions have gotten little, if any, traction trying to organize at technology companies. And few experts see much chance even now of old-style trade unions catching on in the new economy. But there is little question that a new labor base has been galvanized by critics who say that as Silicon Valley has come to be dominated by big public companies that respond mainly to Wall Street's quarterly scoreboard, the corporate gyms and other campus perks may be relics of a partnership with workers that no longer exists. 
 Several hundred workers and managers from the video game industry met at an all-day seminar in San Francisco on Tuesday to discuss quality-of-life issues. The gathering, a rare public acknowledgment of the depth of the worker unrest, was part of an industry conference this week for game developers. 
 The tone was far from rabble-rousing. The focal point was crunching -- referring not to gym exercises, but to the intense period, usually lasting months, just before the release of a new game. During that time, the animators, artists, designers, engineers, and all the others involved in producing a video game are rushing to meet the unforgiving deadline for getting the product to market on the schedule promised to distributors, retailers and shareholders.
 With few exceptions, industry executives and employees agree, crunching is part of a video game's life cycle -- often a very painful part. Workers say they put in 60, 70, even 80 hours a week, with no days off, throwing themselves body and mind into the long march and in many cases fueled by caffeine or even stronger stimulants.
 ''It's soul crushing,'' said a senior executive at a small public video game company who has spent 10 years in the business. Speaking on condition of anonymity, he said he had watched developers become increasingly disillusioned. ''This is much more of a mass-market industry.''
 Such toil is not unique to the video game industry. Lawyers crunch on the eve of a trial, as do investment bankers in the midst of a deal. But lawyers and bankers tend to be better compensated for their efforts than $70,000-a-year game programmers. 
 Game developers, though, once worked in relatively small companies and took enormous pride in the products they created. Now, amid a consolidation that has put the video game business in the hands of a few big public companies like Electronic Arts and Activision, and in which best-selling titles can cost $10 million to $20 million to create, many developers say they feel like cogs in someone else's machine.
 Last July, a group of employees filed a lawsuit against Electronic Arts, asserting it is required under California law to pay overtime for hours worked during crunches. The suit is pending in state court. 
 But it was the online essay, published anonymously by the employee's spouse, that provoked widespread debate about working conditions at the company.
 In an interview, granted on the condition that she or her husband not be identified, she said that her husband is an engineer who makes $50,000 to $70,000 a year. She calculates that if he were paid overtime, he would have received an additional $15,000 to $20,000 in overtime for working six, sometimes seven, days a week over a period of several months. 
 Her essay on the Internet received some 4,000 responses and comments. Many supported her position (''White-collar slavery is alive and well in the games industry'') but many others took exception (''If you don't like a job, quit'').Subsequently, at least two other employee lawsuits have been filed in the video game industry, including a second one against Electronic Arts and one against Sony Computer Entertainment of America, which is based in Foster City, Calif., and employs about 1,400. Sony declined to comment.
 Electronic Arts also declined to comment on the suits. But the company said it was taking the crunch-time concerns seriously. It said it was reviewing its total compensation structure, including who receives stock options, and that it would begin paying overtime to some workers in lieu of bonuses or stock options. 
 Mr. Rueff, the human resources executive, said the company had changed its approach to project management to make sure deadlines were met earlier in the product cycle of a video game, to reduce the crunch-time pressure. 
 Electronic Arts, for example, is currently developing a game based on the ''Godfather'' movies and has added 7 new project managers to the staff of 130 assigned to the project. But even while addressing workplace issues, the company disputed the notion that it is running a sweatshop. 
 Company executives pointed to amenities, including the gym, nutrition-conscious cafeterias, and flexible work structures that let employees take breaks to use the on-campus pool tables, video game machines, basketball courts and masseuse and acupuncturist. They also said employees were compensated not just with salary, but with a bonus that can be 5 to 30 percent of salary. 
 Mr. Rueff, the human resources executive, conceded that the bonuses and stock options in some cases would be less than an employee would receive if paid in overtime. But he said options and bonuses continued to enable employees to be part of the entrepreneurial foundation of Silicon Valley. He said the company was now reassessing its entire compensation structure, including who gets stock options. 
 At the same time, Electronic Arts said that if workers began demanding too much, the company would be forced to find new sources of labor, possibly outside California or even across the nation's borders, where labor costs are lower. Already, more than half of Electronic Arts' 5,800 employees are outside the United States, including 1,700 in Vancouver, British Columbia. 
 ''We can do this in Vancouver, Montreal, or Orlando,'' said Jeff Brown, vice president for Electronic Arts. ''We're not even talking yet about China.''
 The threat of sending jobs overseas is one reason that workers need to start thinking about organizing into unions, said Marcus Courtney, the founder of WashTech, a Washington State-based union that is trying to organize technology workers. Since 1998, the union has attracted only 450 members around the country, who pay monthly dues of $11. 
 The idea of organizing labor in the technology sector is an uphill fight, said Gina Neff, an assistant professor at the University of California at San Diego, who studies labor issues in the new economy.
 Ms. Neff said technology workers themselves had typically been reluctant to organize because they believed they were decently compensated, they liked the industry's dynamism and they felt that as educated people they had individual bargaining power. But those dynamics might be changing as the technology industry matures.
 Video game workers ''have some of the best jobs the American workplace has to offer,'' Ms. Neff said, ''and still their individual power is not enough to guarantee good workplaces.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Perks like the abundant cafeteria and the gym at Electronic Arts may not be enough to keep programmers content. (Photos by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)
Scenes from Electronic Arts' video games, from left: ''Lord of the Rings,'' ''The Godfather,'' ''Medal of Honor'' and ''Catwoman.'' (Photo by Electronic Arts)(pg. C1)
 Employees of Electronic Arts in Silicon Valley enjoy game rooms with pool and table tennis, but they are pressing for more tangible benefits, like overtime pay and protection from seeing their jobs go abroad. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); SWEATSHOPS (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); GARMENT WORKERS (74%); ETHICS (73%); MARTIAL ARTS (72%); OVERTIME (58%) Computers and the Internet; Labor; Fringe Benefits; Wages and Salaries; Overtime; Working Hours; Foreign Labor; Bonuses; Stock Options and Purchase Plans; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Electronic Arts

TICKER: EA (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%)

PERSON: Matt Richtel

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2005



179 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS -- MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Surging Prices In Commodities Reflect Growth Of Economy

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Commodity prices are nearing record highs -- but there may be less to worry about than investors think. 
 While higher commodity prices have often been a worrisome portent of inflation, those concerns have been overshadowed by the other significance of the rise -- that economic growth is picking up in areas around the world. 
 Some analysts also say that the impact of these higher commodity prices on inflation will be muted. 
 The rise ''reflects booming activity in the Asian developing world and on balance, that means the global economy is doing better than we thought,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at ITG/Hoenig. 
 Yet after a closely watched index of commodities rose to a 24-year high yesterday, doubts about this upbeat interpretation emerged in the markets. As the prices of crude oil, home heating oil and copper, all components of the commodity index, neared their record highs, the stock market slumped and Treasury prices fell, sending yields higher.
 At the end of the trading day in New York -- which was battered by a snowstorm that one analyst said contributed to a rise in the price of home heating oil -- crude oil for April delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange was at $54.59 a barrel, up 1.3 percent from $53.89 on Monday. Oil had traded over $55 during the day and is still very close to its high of $55.17, reached in October.
 Home heating oil for April delivery was up 2.6 percent, to $1.5238 a gallon, and gasoline futures, which are lower than retail prices at the pump, rose to a record of $1.5353 a gallon, up 2 percent on the day.
 The price of a pound of copper inched up 0.2 percent, to $1.4995 a pound. 
 The CRB/Reuters index of 17 commodities climbed 1.1 percent, to 312.65, not far from its 314.50 high in January 1981. In the last year, the index has risen 15 percent, with most of that coming in the last month.
 In the bond market, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.39 percent from 4.31 percent on Monday, which was very close to its recent high of 4.41 percent in early December. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 20/32 to 96 28/32.
 The Dow Jones industrial average stumbled in another attempt to get back to the 11,000 level, falling 24.24 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,912.62. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 5.88 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,219.43, while the Nasdaq composite index fell 16.66 points, or 0.8 percent, to 2,073.55.
 Still, for investors, the rise in commodity prices, especially for industrial materials, is positive right now because it is a sign that the global economy is healthy, which is good for the American economic recovery.
 As for their inflationary impact, Mr. Barbera, the economist, argues that it should be much weaker than in the past. One reason for this, he said, is that the industrial commodities are being used in low-wage countries, like China and others in Asia, to make products that can sell for less elsewhere in the world, mitigating the inflationary pressure.
 To support his argument, he notes that the prices of consumer goods, excluding food and energy, have climbed just 0.9 percent in the last 12 months through January. In that same time period, the CRB/Reuters index of raw industrial commodities has climbed 4.8 percent. 
 ''So the inflation link is tenuous at best,'' he said. ''I don't see the big inflation associated with this.''
 Investors seemed to have gone along with this interpretation for some time, given that the increase of the price of oil in October to above $55 a barrel and its current rebound have not set off a big jump in longer-term interest rates, which are sensitive to inflation fears.
 Despite yesterday's rise in Treasury rates, longer-term rates are still below recent highs and are well below where rates were when the Federal Reserve began raising its short-term interest rate benchmark in June.
 Instead, investors have seemed to believe that higher oil prices would just slow growth, and this interpretation has helped keep longer-term interest rates in check.
 Ward McCarthy, managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates, said that this belief was being challenged yesterday in the bond market.
 ''The CRB is on the move again and it would seem that the market is rethinking the oil, inflation, economy nexus,'' he said. ''Maybe it is that it is more of an inflationary threat.''
 He said that the focus was on the recent high yield of 4.41 percent for the 10-year Treasury note, and if it is breached, then inflation fears may begin playing more of a role in the bond market.
 As for crude oil, it was led higher yesterday by the jump in the price of home heating oil, said James R. Steel, New York research director for Refco.
 ''This snowstorm was not expected, and it triggered very strong buying of home heating oil, and that affected the rest of the energy complex today,'' he said.
 Drivers will not get any respite from the rise in gasoline prices, according to the government. The Energy Information Administration said yesterday in its monthly energy forecast that gasoline prices would reach a record national average of $2.15 a gallon this summer.
 Below are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.800
High Rate: 2.565
Coupon Yield: 2.606
Low Rate: 2.550
Median Rate: 2.560
Total applied for: $56,465,809
Accepted: $26,831,269
Noncompetitive: $83,115
The four-week bills mature April 07, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the CRB/Reuters Index from January through March.Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); FUTURES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (88%); BASE METALS MARKETS (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); FUEL MARKETS (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (70%) Futures and Options Trading; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Records and Achievements; Economic Conditions and Trends; Commodities; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Heating Fuel; Copper, Brass and Bronze; CRB/Reuters Commodities Index; Finances; Futures and Options Trading; Government Bonds; Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Futures and Options Trading

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (72%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2005



180 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: Not Without Dispute, Boston Tries to Mend a Tear

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
The Massachusetts Turnpike extends two and a half miles into this city, creating ugly, windswept canyons that force pedestrians to cross bridges with chain-link barriers as they travel between well-preserved historic neighborhoods.
 For years, state and local officials have wanted to repair what Mark Maloney, the director of the Boston Redevelopment Authority, describes as ''a tear in the urban fabric,'' but the economy was not strong enough to allow for costly air-rights development over the highway, a segment of Interstate 90.
 In April, however, Winn Development, a local company, plans to begin relocating utility lines in preparation for building Columbus Center, a $500 million complex that represents the city's first turnpike air-rights development in more than two decades.
 Though largely a residential complex with 451 condominiums, the project will include a five-star hotel with 180 rooms and suites, nearly 40,000 square of retail space and a parking garage with up to 200 spaces for sale or lease to local residents. Almost all of this will be built on a six-acre deck directly above the turnpike. 
 It has taken more than seven years to get to this point. Even in a city known for drawing blood from developers, the 1.3-million-square-foot Columbus Center, which will close the 140-foot gap between the Back Bay and the now gentrified South End, stands out as one of the more contentious recent projects. The developer has met with community groups more than 130 times and has spent $20 million, including $100,000 on a digitally animated video, said Roger M. Cassin, Winn's managing partner for the project.
 During this long process, the developer has been required to scale back plans, eliminating a 38-story tower and leaving the project with one 35-story building over the air rights at Clarendon Street and Columbus Avenue and several smaller buildings ranging from 4 to 11 stories over portions of the gap extending east to Tremont Street.
 It has also had to agree to provide a variety of concessions, including a new enclosed entrance to the Orange Line mass transit station at Clarendon Street, three small parks and shuttle buses to Logan International Airport for residents. 
 ''This is the gift that keeps on taking,'' joked Mr. Cassin, 60, who was on crutches during a recent interview as a result of surgery to repair damage that occurred when his race car slammed into a wall in 1988. 
 These days, local and state governments across the country are actively seeking proposals for air-rights development, not just to erase the scars that mar neighborhoods but also to create land for housing and other needs and generate revenue to help pay for transportation projects. 
 With the nation's population expected to grow by 60 million over the next two decades, the demand for housing in urban cores is expected to skyrocket, said William H. Hudnut III, a senior resident fellow at the Urban Land Institute, a research organization sponsored by developers.
 ''Most of those people are going to go to coastal cities,'' he said. ''There's going to be a surge in the population, and these cities can't just keep spreading out.''
 In this city, the housing shortage is already acute. But while many residents deplore sprawl, they are also loath to see a 395-foot building added to the skyline. 
 ''In Boston, there is an ideological concern about tall buildings, because people believe they violate the historical character of the city,'' said David Dixon, an architect and planner who helped draw up the guidelines for awarding the turnpike air rights. ''But the height of the tower is making it possible to develop two more city blocks and close the open gash with parks, cafes, a market and housing.''
 Another benefit is that density will be added along the Orange mass transit line, which gets much less traffic than the overused Green Line, he said.
 Opponents of Columbus Center say they are not against skyscrapers per se. ''I don't mind height, just as long as it's in the right location,'' said State Representative Martha M. Walz, a Democrat from Boston, the former president of the Neighborhood Association of the Back Bay. Like many in the community, she remains unhappy with the plans for Columbus Center. She said that the tower should not exceed 270 feet in height and that at half an acre, the largest parks will be ''smaller than anyone anticipated.''
 Columbus Center will not be the first project to rise over the Massachusetts Turnpike, whose Boston extension was built in the 1960's alongside the Boston and Albany mainline of the New York Central Railroad. First came the 52-story Prudential Center, then the garage of the 60-story John Hancock Tower and in the 1980's, Copley Place, a retail, hotel and entertainment complex.
 Those projects required the kind of heavy public subsidies that generally are no longer available, said Stephen J. Hines, chief development officer for the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority. ''We're in an era now where projects have to float on their own bottoms,'' he said. ''The private markets oftentimes have pretty aggressive underwriting.'' 
 Since turnpike air rights were exempt from zoning procedures, the developers were not expecting a fight when they were chosen in 1997 to try to develop two parcels, later expanded to four, that split the Back Bay and the South End, Mr. Cassin said. 
 But Back Bay residents were still smarting over an earlier proposal by Millennium Partners to build a 59-story tower on turnpike air rights over Massachusetts Avenue and Boylston Street.
 The outcry over the Millennium proposal, which was eventually shelved, prompted a clash between Mayor Thomas M. Menino and the former head of the turnpike authority and led to the creation of a master plan for air rights and a more competitive selection process with community review. Winn was allowed to proceed with its quest for the Columbus Avenue site, a fact that rankled members of a citizens' advisory committee.
 From the outset, three of the city's most politically astute neighborhoods were fiercely opposed to the project. The South End objected because it seemed vastly out of scale with its Victorian brick-and-limestone row houses. Back Bay residents feared that putting a high-rise building in a low-rise neighborhood would create another wind tunnel, much like the one they experience near the John Hancock Tower. They also worried that Columbus Center would establish a precedent for other tall buildings. Residents of Bay Village, a small neighborhood adjacent to the South End, feared that their narrow streets would be choked with traffic. 
 Initially, Mr. Cassin argued that two towers were required to attract financing. It will cost $60 million, for example, just to build the decks over the roadway, a process that is expected to take a year because of work rules that do not permit traffic to be disrupted. He said extra floors were needed because the parking garage could not be built underground.
 Eventually, he and his partner, Arthur Winn, won over the advisory committee by agreeing to create a parking garage with 595 spaces in a separate structure to the east of the tower, eliminating the need for a second tall structure. The garage will be surrounded by condominiums so as not to be visible from the street.
 In one unusual concession to the neighborhoods, Mr. Cassin agreed to install a system to capture rainwater that falls on the roofs of his buildings and pipe it back into the ground. Since much of this city is built on landfill, with buildings supported by wood piles, groundwater depletion is a major concern. ''The pilings will last forever, so long as they stay wet,'' said Elliott Laffer, the executive director of the Boston Groundwater Trust, a city-financed agency.
 Despite his promises, Mr. Cassin's critics remain unmollified. Some object to his request for a $20 million subsidy to cover the cost of providing 45 units of housing to be priced substantially lower than the market-rate condominiums, which are expected to sell for $500,000 to $3 million. He said that other cities, unlike this one, routinely subsidize ''affordable'' housing.
 As approved by the advisory group, Columbus Center will consist of a variety of structures of different styles that could have almost evolved separately during the normal growth of the city.
 Like the Prudential and Hancock towers, Columbus Center's tallest structure will be on the Back Bay side, an area that has long been considered the city's ''high spine,'' where high-rise development ought to be situated, Mr. Dixon said. The other buildings will diminish in scale as they approach the South End.
 The south side of Cortes Street, which was demolished when the turnpike was built, will be restored with new town houses. ''The buildings are in the vernacular of their neighborhoods,'' Mr. Cassin said. ''That's what really works here.''
 In the end, most residents have come to accept Columbus Center, said Pamela S. McKinney, a principal with Byrne McKinney & Associates, a consulting company, hired by the city, which helped Winn make its case with the advisory committee. ''Maybe the measure of a compromise is that neither side feels they got everything they wish they had.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Roger Cassin, managing partner of Winn Development, described the plan to build over the Massachusetts Turnpike in Boston. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)Chart: ''Data Update''New privately owned housing units authorized by building permits, not seasonally adjusted, through January.Graph tracks aforementioned housing units from 2002-2005 (projected) for the South, West, Midwest, and Northeast.NATIONAL IN THOUSANDSJAN. '04: 131.9NOV. '04: 154.2DEC. '04: 154.1JAN. '05: 138.2(Source by U.S. Census Bureau)Map of Boston highlighting Interstate 90: Development over I-90 in Boston is about to begin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (88%); AIRPORTS (84%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (72%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); ANIMATION (70%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (65%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (50%) Columbus Center (Boston); Massachusetts Turnpike; Housing; Condominiums; Hotels and Motels; Retail Stores and Trade ; Parking Garages and Lots; Area Planning and Renewal; Roads and Traffic; Transit Systems; Stations and Terminals (Passenger); Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Buses; Airports; Logan International Airport (Boston)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%) Winn Development

PERSON: Terry Pristin; Roger Cassin

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (97%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Boston (Mass); Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2005



181 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Our Towns; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Is Utopia Too Good To Be True?

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Preston, Conn. 

 BODY:
ON a bleak, rainy morning at the edges of Connecticut's Central Casino District, few places seem less utopian than the Dickensian landscape of what began a century ago as the Connecticut Hospital for the Insane. There are decrepit brick buildings, a beached boat here, the remains of a ball field and a dismal pavilion there, a witch's brew of pollutants below -- all part of a complex that once housed thousands of psychiatric patients and is now an eerie 470-acre ghost town. 
 Under any circumstances, the idea of building a $1.6 billion movie studio, theme parks, hotel and retail project, and arts school in the scrappy, semirural stretches of Eastern Connecticut would have a certain quixotic quality. But the notion of putting it in the ''Scary Movie'' landscape of what became the old Norwich State Hospital and calling it Utopia Studios has a ''Citizen Kane'' sort of grasping grandeur. 
 Utopia has the makings of a great nutty tale, except for one thing: After a year and a half of negotiations, it has begun to dawn on a lot of people that this might actually happen. After all, with two of the world's largest casinos, Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun, poking just over the horizon, Eastern Connecticut has become a population magnet in a way that people are just beginning to understand. The developers, led by Joseph Gentile of New York, have satisfied town officials that they have sufficient financing, have hired the designer who created projects like the Mall of America in Minnesota and the Bellagio casino in Las Vegas, and have agreed to a complicated memorandum of understanding with the town that involves significant costs to the developers at each step of the process.
 Their plan, which they say would create 22,000 jobs, calls for the construction of 4,200 hotel rooms, a 450,000-square-foot arts college, 225,000 feet of movie studios and five theme parks totaling 1.8 million square feet. 
 A public referendum on the project is scheduled for March 22.
 At Rosie's Diner, not far from the site, people are still scratching their heads. 
 ''Ten years ago we had cows; people had chickens in their yard,'' said David Goss, who owns Ace Heating here and supports the project. ''Now we have the world's biggest casinos, and they're talking about this? It's incomprehensible. It's unbelievable. People don't know what to think.''
 Mr. Gentile's wife, the actress Cathy Moriarty-Gentile (''Raging Bull,'' ''Analyze That''), came up with the general idea for the project and is its chairwoman. Her husband has convinced a lot of skeptical local officials that he can pull it off.
 ''If you asked people a number of years ago if this area could host the world's largest casinos, I think a lot of people would have found that a lot more shocking than this,'' he said. ''You look at the existing tourism base, at the fact that a third of the people in the country can drive here in a day, we fully expect it to be phenomenally successful.''
 THERE are plenty of reasons to be skeptical. Film production projects, like the one proposed for the Brooklyn Navy Yard, are often longer on glamour than results. A place where the weather a third of the year is the way it is on this particular morning may seem a long way from Orlando. An oil-price shock that kept people from driving could kill the whole thing.
 But economic analysts say the site on the Thames River, drawing from both New York and New England, is extraordinarily attractive, and the tourism base from the casinos makes it a lot more credible than it might seem otherwise. 
 ''Could it work? Sure, it could work, but the devil is in the details,'' said Stan McMillen, associate director of the Center for Economic Analysis at the University of Connecticut.
 Whether or not it happens, the real lesson is less about Utopia and more about Gambling. Who would have thought the economic development model for much of the East Coast would turn out to be Las Vegas? But from Atlantic City, to the five casinos proposed for the Catskills, to Eastern Connecticut, that seems to be the way it's working out. Now officials here are trying to determine if this proposal is real or mirage. So far, they think it's for real.
 ''I try to put everything to two tests,'' said Robert Congdon, the first selectman of Preston. ''First is the smell test. If it smells like rotten fish, it usually is. This one smells fine. The other is the 'too good to be true' test. They're failing that test miserably, but so far they've performed everything we asked them to, so we'll see what happens.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (74%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); CITIES (70%); HORROR FILMS (70%); JOB CREATION (64%); REFERENDUMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2005



182 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: Free Trade Proposal Splits Bolivian City

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: EL ALTO, Bolivia, March 8 

 BODY:
This city, a poverty-stricken expanse of adobe houses considered the capital of Bolivia's indigenous people, was the flashpoint of relentless protests against globalization that toppled a government more than a year ago and had threatened another president, Carlos Mesa, who offered his resignation on Monday in the face of mounting demonstrations.
 On Tuesday night, though, the Bolivian Congress rejected the resignation, giving Mr. Mesa a fresh start despite street protests that paralyzed parts of the nation. No one, though, predicts that El Alto will remain calm. As Bolivia inches toward free trade talks with the United States, which is vilified by a powerful leftist movement in this country, the protesters have said they are not finished. 
 But even as this clash of views is being played out, El Alto is quietly benefiting from trade preferences provided by Washington, spawning hundreds of small businesses and thousands of jobs. That has created a little-noticed fissure between those who maintain that Bolivia needs to enter what the Bush administration envisions as a hemisphere-wide free trade zone, and others who say that such an agreement will leave the country, South America's poorest, even more destitute. 
 That fierce division of opinion, most apparent in Bolivia, the most protectionist nation in the region, is echoed across Latin America -- and it is driven by persistent poverty. The market-oriented changes that Washington long ago prescribed for Latin America have brought little or no prosperity to the average person, with some lands poorer than before.
 Growth has been no better than halting in a region that needs galloping momentum to pull many of its people out of poverty, despite improved economic indicators seen in 2004. The United Nations estimated the number of people living in poverty in Latin America at 221 million in 2002, up from 200 million in 1990. ''When you see that there's only been two years of growth in the last 10 years, and other years it was so-so or there was no growth at all, then the political impact is very big,'' said Cesar Gaviria, a former secretary general of the Organization of American States.
 ''So some of these countries have many problems and there is no support for these reforms, or confidence in them, because the expectations for what would happen with growth were not met,'' said Mr. Gaviria, now chairman of Hemispheric Partners, a New York firm providing risk analysis to investors. ''Some of those people who say that nothing has changed are, in fact, right.'' 
 But those promoting free trade point to the Andean Trade Promotion and Drug Eradication Act, a preferential trade deal that lowers United States tariffs on a range of goods, essentially rewarding governments in the region's drug-producing countries for their cooperation. Bolivian exporters to the United States -- a diverse group including furniture manufacturers, jewelry makers and textile producers -- have benefited, growing notably in this city of 750,000 outside La Paz, the capital. El Alto, with its small, humming manufacturing base juxtaposed against the most virulent anti-globalization movement in Latin America, embodies those tensions.
 ''El Alto is the principal beneficiary of this law,'' said Marcos Iberkleid, president of America Textil, a 40-year-old garment maker that ships to retailers like Ralph Lauren. ''The workers know that and see a tangible difference.''
 Others, like Pablo Solon, who heads a policy group, the Fundacion Solon, that opposes the American-led talks, says that free trade aims to chip away at Bolivia's control of its natural gas and minerals, dropping Bolivian tariffs on United States imports and opening vast sectors of the economy to investors. The American plan, he argues, would badly hurt a country ill prepared to compete.
 ''We do not want to turn Bolivia into an island,'' Mr. Solon said, ''but what we want are negotiations that take note of the realities of our country. Much of what is being offered will simply lead to more instability in our country.''
 The growing debate in this hermetic land of nine million comes as the Bush administration, which aspires to an Alaska-to-Argentina trade bloc, has moved aggressively to sign two-party agreements and to press reluctant partners, like Brazil, into accepting its view on trade. So far, deals have been signed with Central American countries, the Dominican Republic and Chile.
 Now, Washington is seeking an accord with three of Bolivia's Andean neighbors, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. Bolivia is currently an observer -- a concession to the country's left-leaning leaders -- but increasingly, government officials and business leaders have declared the need for this country to jump in. 
 Under the Andean pact, negotiated for Bolivia by former President Jorge Quiroga in 2002, dozens of Bolivian products enter the United States duty-free. That pact expires at the end of 2006.
 The problem for Bolivia's government, ever wary of the next round of unrest by globalization opponents, is that the United States now wants it to agree to a quite different kind of deal, one that would open nontraditional exporters to American investment. It would also fly in the face of efforts by the Bolivian left to enact a law that would expand state control over the oil and gas industry.
 As Eduardo Gamarra, the Bolivian-born director of the Latin America and Caribbean Center at Florida International University, sees it: ''The Americans are saying, 'Look, this was a temporary arrangement, and now you have to pay. You have to do certain things and you have to open your economies to us.'''
 But the voices advocating Bolivia's entry into a trade accord have been gathering force, the most prominent in El Alto being that of Mayor Jose Luis Paredes, who was re-elected in December on a free trade plank. With a small staff, working in a church because city hall was burned by protesters in 2003, he is trying to present a different image of El Alto. ''We cannot just close ourselves off,'' Mr. Paredes said of his city. ''If society thought free trade was of no use, I would not be mayor.''
 Though figures on job creation are sketchy, Mr. Paredes said that the Andean pact had already helped double the number of workers employed in factories and by small contractors to more than 20,000. A few big factories have arrived, he said, and the number of microbusinesses -- shops with just a few workers, often under contract to manufacturers -- has risen to 5,300 from 2,500. 
 That is still a relatively small share of the local economy -- 162,000 people work in the informal sector in El Alto, barely making ends meet selling trinkets or food on the street. 
 But exports to the United States under the Andean pact were up 20 percent in the first 10 months of 2004 from the period a year earlier, and Mr. Paredes said that had given Bolivia a tantalizing look at what the future might hold if an accord on a larger scale was signed.
 Among the big beneficiaries is Eduardo Bracamonte, general manager of Exportadores Bolivianos. A maker of jewelry for Macy's, Bloomingdale's and Wal-Mart, its exports of necklaces, rings, pendants and similar items rose to $39 million last year, up 34 percent from 2003.
 The company employs 750 workers in two plants in La Paz and depends on 1,600 more contract laborers in 17 small factories in El Alto, a work force poised to grow under a new pact.
 ''This is mass production,'' he said during a tour, as rows of employees in gray work clothes soldered or strung gold chains in his main plant. ''What the United States wants fits in perfectly with what we can offer.''
 Textile exports have also shot up, mostly benefiting companies like Mr. Iberkleid's America Textil, which had $32 million worth of exports in 2004, up 20 percent from 2003.
 On vast and well-lighted floors in Mr. Iberkleid's factories, workers stitch clothes, examine garments and pack boxes. Others at computer terminals receive orders from the United States, making last-minute alterations before firing off instructions to people on the assembly line.
 Here, the pay and benefits can be more than triple the minimum wage of $55 a month, workers are unionized and some receive company-paid university training -- treatment that is unusual in a country like Bolivia. With orders for clothes pouring in, Mr. Iberkleid has 3,000 workers, up from 1,300 before the trade preferences took effect. ''When I talk to the workers to discuss free trade,'' he said, ''the support is massive.'' 
 But the rosy outlook hides an undercurrent of dissatisfaction among workers here, the kind of pent-up anger that prompted the nationwide protests last week that are endangering Mr. Mesa. Many of them are contract employees for small outfits that barely pay minimum wages.
 At one, a jewelry maker, rows of workers repeated the tedious task of stringing together chains from specks of gold. It is difficult work and the pay -- just above the minimum wage -- is a pittance, workers said.
 One of them, Moises Pintado, 33, said that sometimes employees are not paid on time. He pines for the days when state-owned companies, like the tin and silver mines that once dotted Bolivia, provided many of the jobs. ''Since these new companies are private, they pay us less,'' he said. ''We protest for that reason.''
 Those most poised to protest, the consensus in Bolivia goes, are in El Alto, many driven here by the grinding poverty in their hometowns. 
 In October 2003, spiraling protests began here against President Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada's plans to pipe natural gas out of the country, and led to his resignation. Then earlier this year, protesters shut down the city, prompting Mr. Mesa to cancel a contract with the French-owned waterworks, which had been accused of charging too much for connecting households to the water network.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker at America Textil, a big manufacturer in La Paz and El Alto, Bolivia, wearing a protective mask while cleaning up cotton. (Photo by David Rochkind/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Bolivian workers making gold jewelry in El Alto, a city that has been at the heart of globalization protests.
 Current trade preferences have benefited America Textil, a garment maker with plants in El Alto that exports to retailers like Ralph Lauren. (Photographs by David Rochkind/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); COUPS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); PROTECTIONISM (75%); RIOTS (74%); APPAREL MFG (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); POVERTY RATES (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (70%); TRENDS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); FURNITURE MFG (60%); DRUG POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (50%) International Trade and World Market; Demonstrations and Riots; United States International Relations; Treaties; Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Small Business; Labor

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (59%) Juan Forero; George W (Pres) Bush; Carlos (Pres) Mesa

GEOGRAPHIC: BOLIVIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%) Bolivia ; El Alto (Bolivia)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2005



183 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 49 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: Trenton: Jobless Rate Falls

BYLINE: By Ronald Smothers (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
Unemployment in New Jersey dropped to 3.9 percent in January from 4.2 percent a month earlier, state officials said yesterday. The national rate in January was 5.2 percent, and the drop in New Jersey represents the state's 21st consecutive month of declines in joblessness. Ronald Smothers (NYT)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2005



184 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: BANKRUPTCY BILL SET FOR PASSAGE; VICTORY FOR BUSH

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 8 

 BODY:
The Senate assured final passage of the first major overhaul of the nation's bankruptcy laws in 27 years on Tuesday, when it took two votes that cleared the remaining political obstacles to a measure that the nation's credit and retail industries have sought for years.
 The bill would disqualify many families from taking advantage of the more generous provisions of the current bankruptcy code that permit them to extinguish their debts for a ''fresh start.'' It would also impose significant new costs on those seeking bankruptcy protection and give lenders and businesses new legal tools for recovering debts.
 The Senate on Tuesday first defeated an amendment that would have prevented violent protesters at abortion clinics from using the bankruptcy laws to shield themselves from judgments awarded in civil lawsuits. That amendment, which lost by a vote of 53 to 46, had threatened to derail the legislation. The senators then voted 69 to 31 to limit debate and cut off any effort to kill the legislation by filibuster. 
 Final passage of the measure is now an inevitable formality.
 House leaders have said they will quickly approve the legislation once the Senate completes work on it as early as this week. President Bush has said he intends to sign it. His predecessor, President Bill Clinton, killed the measure in his final days in office in 2000 after it had been passed by Congress by declining to sign it at the end of the legislative session, issuing a so-called pocket veto. 
 The sponsors of the legislation say that it will have the effect of lowering the costs of goods and services for all consumers by making it easier for companies and issuers of credit to collect unpaid debts rather than passing those costs on to everyone else. In the last 30 years, bankruptcy filings have steadily increased, rising eightfold since Congress last rewrote the bankruptcy laws.
 But critics said the measure was a thinly disguised gift to banks and credit card companies, which, they contend, are largely responsible for the high rate of bankruptcies because they heavily promote credit cards and loans that often come with large and largely unseen fees for late payments. They said that the measure would impose new obstacles on many middle-income families seeking desperately needed protection from creditors, and that it would take far longer for those families to start over after suffering serious illnesses, unemployment and other calamities.
 The votes on Tuesday were the second legislative victory in recent weeks both for Mr. Bush and the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, himself a possible presidential contender in 2008. Mr. Frist nimbly moved both the bankruptcy bill and another bill last month making it more difficult to bring class-action lawsuits through the Senate.
 In both cases, he unified the Republicans to beat back every effort by the Democrats to water down or delay the measures. In both cases, he also reached a deal with House leaders in which the Senate blocked any significant changes to the measure in exchange for a commitment from the House that it would adopt unaltered what the Senate approved.
 The White House applauded the votes on Tuesday.
 ''The administration supports the passage of bankruptcy reform because ultimately this will lead to more accessibility to credit for more Americans, particularly lower-income workers,'' said Trent D. Duffy, a deputy White House spokesman. ''The fact that the Senate was able to set aside those issues and move toward passage shows it's another bipartisan accomplishment. Coupled with class actions, it shows we're off to a good start.''
 The sponsors of the bankruptcy legislation say it is a badly needed measure to curb a growing number of abusive bankruptcy filings by individuals who ought to be able to meet their obligations. Those cases, supporters of the measure say, have added hundreds of dollars in annual costs to other consumers who wind up having to pick up the unpaid debt.
 ''We are a compassionate nation but we should not be fools,'' said Senator Orrin G. Hatch, a Utah Republican who has fought for the measure for eight years. ''We want to give our neighbors who get in over their heads a chance to get out of their financial troubles. But for some it is a way to avoid personal responsibility. There is something inherently unfair about denying full restitution to creditors.''
 Supporters of the new law point to the rise of bankruptcy filings, from 200,000 in 1978 to 1.6 million last year, as evidence of abuses. 
 But critics of the measure say that the rise in such filings is not evidence of unfair filings. Rather, they say, it is symptomatic of broader economic problems -- the growing distress in families plagued by high health care and education costs. A recent study by bankruptcy and medical experts at Harvard University found that more than half of the 1,771 personal bankruptcy filers in five federal courts cited medical bills as a primary reason they filed.
 The critics -- including consumer groups, Democrats and more than 100 bankruptcy law professors -- say that the legislation's supporters have significantly exaggerated the problem with the current bankruptcy laws. They say the legislation will do far more damage than good by hitting middle-income families, women and the elderly who have used bankruptcy protection in growing numbers to protect themselves.
 ''This bankruptcy bill is mean-spirited and unfair,'' said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts. ''In anything like its present form, it should and will be an embarrassment to anyone who votes for it. It's a bonanza for the credit card companies, which made $30 billion in profits last year, and a nightmare for the poorest of the poor and the weakest of the weak.''
 In a letter to Congress two weeks ago, 104 bankruptcy law professors predicted that ''the deepest hardship'' would ''be felt in the heartland,'' where the filing rates are highest -- Utah, Tennessee, Georgia, Nevada, Indiana, Alabama, Arkansas, Ohio, Mississippi and Idaho.
 Critics also said the measure fails to do anything to curb abusive bankruptcy practices by wealthy families, who can create special trusts to shelter their assets, and by corrupt companies like Enron and WorldCom, which were able to find favorable bankruptcy courts and deprive many of their employees and retired employees of benefits. The Senate defeated a series of amendments proposed by Democrats that sought to address those issues.
 ''The bill has a real bias,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, whose proposal to close a loophole that permits wealthy people to shelter assets through a special trust was defeated last week. ''It deals with abuses in bankruptcy by one group but not with another group.'' 
 The lobbying money for the legislation, which has come close to passage several times in the eight years since it was introduced, has been lopsided. 
 The main lobbying forces for the bill -- a coalition that included Visa, MasterCard, the American Bankers Association, MBNA America, Capital One, Citicorp, the Ford Motor Credit Company and the General Motors Acceptance Corporation -- spent more than $40 million in political fund-raising efforts and many millions more on lobbying efforts since 1989, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan organization that studies the role of money in the political process. By definition, the critics of the legislation had limited lobbying resources.
 The foundation of the legislation is a provision that would limit access by individuals to Chapter 7 of the bankruptcy code. It enables individuals to sharply limit payments on their obligations and get a ''fresh start.'' 
 The bill would instead impose a means test that would prompt many people to file for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 13, which requires a repayment plan. The means test would not be applied to debtors who earn less than the median income in their state. Those who earn more than that and can pay at least $6,000 over five years would have to seek protection under Chapter 13. 
 The median income for a family of four in 2003 was $65,093, ranging from $45,867 in New Mexico to $82,561 in Massachusetts, according to the United States Census Bureau. 
 The bill would also increase the costs of bankruptcy by increasing the amount of paperwork filed and force people in bankruptcy to pay for counseling about the way they use credit. It would also make it more difficult for some people to try to shelter their assets through the purchase of expensive homes in states like Florida and Texas, which have homestead exemptions. To shelter more than $125,000 in assets, homes must have been purchased at least three and a third years before a bankruptcy filing.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 28, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 15 about Congressional approval of a major overhaul of the nation's bankruptcy laws misidentified the state with the highest median income in 2003 for a family of four -- a level above which families cannot automatically take advantage of the more generous provisions of the bankruptcy law to erase their debts. (The error also occurred on March 9 in an article about Senate passage of the bill.) The state with the highest income was New Jersey ($87,412), not Massachusetts ($82,561). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (95%); LEGISLATION (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); VETO (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); LITIGATION (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CREDIT CARDS (77%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (76%); FAMILY (76%); RIOTS (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (69%); CLASS ACTIONS (69%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (69%); ABORTION (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%) Bankruptcies; Law and Legislation; Consumer Protection; Credit and Money Cards; Banks and Banking; Abortion; Bankruptcies; Suits and Litigation; Demonstrations and Riots; Fines (Penalties); Filibusters and Debate Curbs; Vetoes (US); Bankruptcies

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%) Charles E (Sen) Schumer; Stephen Labaton; George W (Pres) Bush; Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2005



185 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: In U.S. Visit, French Envoy Seeks Support On Arms Issue

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: PARIS, March 8 

 BODY:
France's defense minister, Michele Alliot-Marie, will visit the United States this week hoping to capitalize on improving trans-Atlantic relations and win some measure of support for Europe's plan to lift its arms embargo against China.
 In an interview in advance of her trip, Ms. Alliot-Marie argued that the embargo, which dates to the massacre of students by the Chinese military in June 1989, is largely symbolic and that the same effect can be had with strict export controls.
 She dismissed fears that lifting the ban would lead to increased weapons sales to China, potentially destabilizing the equilibrium across the Taiwan Strait. China claims sovereignty over Taiwan and has threatened to take it by force if it claims formal independence, though for now China's military is underequipped to carry out such a maneuver. 
 ''Lifting the embargo doesn't mean at all that we are going to sell more arms to China,'' Ms. Alliot-Marie said Monday in her office in the ministry building. 
 She added that France was sensitive to Taiwan's situation. ''We're not irresponsible,'' she said.
 Ms. Alliot-Marie is to arrive in the United States on Wednesday, on the first trip by a ministerial-level official since President Bush's visit to Europe last month. She will meet with Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and other administration officials, and Congressional leaders. 
 According to the European Union, French export licenses to China were valued at $228 million in 2003, the most of any member country, and up from $140 million in 2002. 
 But Ms. Alliot-Marie said there were no weapons sales planned that would otherwise be blocked by the embargo. Instead, Europe is more immediately interested in removing what she calls a psychological barrier to improved relations with China. On a more concrete level, the European Union is also likely to be interested in any rewards China may bestow for lifting the ban: Beijing is notoriously political in choosing between Boeing and Airbus for its state-run airlines, for example.
 Tension over Europe's plan to lift the arms embargo against China, probably later this year, comes at a time when France and the United States are drawing closer together on several important fronts, most notably in their joint effort to force Syria to withdraw troops from Lebanon and in a more coordinated approach to dissuading Iran from developing a dangerous nuclear capability. Even on Iraq, the two sides are sounding more conciliatory.
 While France has refused to send any military personnel to Iraq, it has offered to spend $20 million to train 1,500 Iraqi military policemen in nearby Qatar or in France. Iraq has yet to respond to France's offer.
 Ms. Alliot-Marie, a strong proponent of a European identity powerful enough to act without the support or acquiescence of the United States, argued that American and European goals and values were the same and that recent trans-Atlantic divisions had frequently been more a matter of form than substance.
 ''When we speak, we perhaps take into greater account the psychology of the people in matters of international relations,'' she said, adding that what differed were the methods that Europe used to arrive at the same end. ''We think we should lead people to share in a certain number of things with us that we can't necessarily impose,'' she said.
 China is a case in point. Ms. Alliot-Marie argues that China has evolved enormously since 1989 and that it is unfair to maintain an embargo that sends a powerful negative signal. She said denying weapons sales to China could even accelerate the country's own weapons programs. 
 She argues that the embargo, which only covers lethal weapons, is incomplete in any case. It does not cover much so-called dual-use technology that China could use to develop its own weapons systems. That technology is already under strict national controls, and the European Union has proposed tightening its code of conduct on sensitive exports if it lifts the embargo against China.
 Russia and Israel have been China's main weapons suppliers, but even they have been careful not to sell China latest-generation weaponry. France and Europe would do the same. ''We don't sell our state-of-the-art technologies to just anyone,'' Ms. Alliot-Marie said, adding that France maintains one of the tightest export control regimes in the world. 
 She dismissed talk in Congress of retaliatory restrictions on American military technology sales to Europe.
 ''That isn't at all reasonable, nor constructive for U.S.-European relations,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michele Alliot-Marie 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); ARMS EMBARGOES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); RIOTS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) Arms Sales Abroad; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Demonstrations and Riots; Freedom and Human Rights

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (58%); BOEING CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

PERSON: MICHELE ALLIOT-MARIE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Michele (Min) Alliot-Marie; Craig S Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) CHINA (99%); FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); TAIWAN (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%) China; France

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2005



186 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: A New Mood in Congress To Forgo Corporate Scrutiny

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9 

 BODY:
In what has seemed a daily ritual, the Senate in the last two weeks has defeated the most modest attempts by Democrats to curb bankruptcy abuses by corrupt or troubled corporations and their senior executives.
 The votes illustrate a new reality and a sharp swing of the pendulum in the Senate, which has nearly completed its work on the legislation that everyone expects will soon become law. 
 Just two and a half years ago, in the midst of plunging stock markets and widening business scandals that left many thousands of workers unemployed and without their retirement savings, fearful lawmakers rushed by a vote of 97 to 0 to adopt the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. It was the most aggressive federal anticorruption law Congress had adopted in decades. On the day of the Senate vote, the Dow Jones industrial average was down as much as 440 points. Days earlier, WorldCom executives disclosed the first details of the largest accounting fraud in history. 
 Now, as business scandals occupy a less prominent place in newspapers and the stock market is well above 2002 lows, the politics of financial regulation have sharply shifted.
 The new mood has emboldened corporate lobbyists to ask for and receive more from lawmakers, who no longer seem to be concerned about recrimination at the polls. At the same time, business interests have picked up new allies in the Senate, giving them significantly more influence over its proceedings.
 ''How quickly things change,'' said Ann Yerger, executive director of the Council of Institutional Investors, a group of major shareholders that sought tough corporate governance and accounting rules. ''It's been stunning. In the past few months alone, there has been a clear push back from the corporate community, and it has resonated. Folks have short memories, and there is a perception that the Enrons are behind us.
 ''We now spend much of our time trying to hold onto the reforms we had won,'' she added. 
 During the recent debate on tightening the bankruptcy code, the lawmakers rejected a proposal to prohibit corrupt companies from issuing huge payouts to senior executives shortly before entering bankruptcy. They blocked consideration of a measure that would have curtailed the ability of companies like Enron and WorldCom to shop for the most favorable bankruptcy courts; such actions have had the effect of disenfranchising employees and retired workers from the process. 
 They defeated a proposal to protect those employees and retired workers when their companies go bankrupt. They refused to close the ''millionaire's loophole'' that permits wealthy individuals to shelter their assets from lenders by creating special asset-protection trusts. 
 And on Wednesday, they rejected a proposal to put a nationwide limit on the homestead exemption, a provision that has enabled corporate executives to buy expensive homes in states like Florida and Texas to shelter their assets from creditors.
 Lawmakers said the votes reflected the prevailing view that the time had come to consider whether Congress went too far in its response to the wave of corporate scandals that began with the collapse of Enron in the fall of 2001. 
 Senator Richard C. Shelby, the Alabama Republican who succeeded Mr. Sarbanes, a Maryland Democrat, as head of the Senate Banking Committee, said he believed in ''the overall thrust'' of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, praising it for having a positive impact on ''corporate culture.'' But he also said he was aware of criticism that it had been costly, particularly for small businesses.
 ''Nearly three years ago, when we passed Sarbanes-Oxley by an overwhelming vote,'' Mr. Shelby said in an interview on Wednesday, ''it was legislation that was a response to corporate corruption and accounting problems. When you have a response like that, you run the risk that you may have reached too far.''
 ''We're mindful of the problems of Sarbanes-Oxley,'' he added. ''It is not perfect, but it is a good piece of legislation.'' 
 Mr. Shelby said he intended to hold hearings this year to examine how the law had worked and whether the experience of the last few years demonstrated a need for legislative or regulatory fixes in some provisions. 
 ''I still believe in the overall thrust that it has been positive,'' he said, ''and that it has restored integrity to corporate America and the accounting process. We've had a return of investor trust.''
 Mr. Shelby's view that the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may have gone too far is shared by many Congressional Republicans as well as people in some quarters of the Securities and Exchange Commission. It is a position that is being seized upon by business lobbyists. 
 A coalition of organizations has succeeded in delaying a new accounting treatment for stock options. The S.E.C. is openly and closely divided about the effectiveness of issuing heavy fines on companies. It has also delayed imposing tougher financial controls on many companies. A proposal to give shareholders at least a limited say in removing directors is dead, a casualty of an effective campaign against it by the Business Roundtable, an organization of chief executives from prominent companies. 
 And in the case of the bankruptcy legislation, Senate Republicans rebuffed most efforts to impose tougher standards, arguing that these would be impediments to final passage by the House. 
 Elizabeth Warren, a bankruptcy and commercial law expert at Harvard Law School, has for many years led opposition to changes in bankruptcy law like those now pending and has highlighted bankruptcy abuses by the wealthy and by corrupt companies. She is struggling to explain the changing climate in the Senate.
 ''Is it arrogance -- the view that we're doing it because we can?'' she asked rhetorically. ''Is it political payoffs? Just get the bill passed and lick the boots of industry?''
 Professor Warren said that with the current bankruptcy legislation, there was another force at work -- the formidable lobbying power of proponents that was unmatched by any countervailing effort. By definition, those in bankruptcy have meager political resources to put up a fight.
 ''All the money is on one side and all the hurt is on the other,'' she said. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Richard C. Shelby asks if the 2002 law needs adjustment. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (78%); ETHICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (77%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (75%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (74%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); PROPERTY TAX (60%) Corporations; Law and Legislation; Ethics; Accounting and Accountants; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Bankruptcies; Corporations

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: Stephen Labaton; Richard C (Sen) Shelby

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005



187 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: The Fed Says All Is Well, Or Mostly So

BYLINE: By Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9 

 BODY:
The United States economy expanded at a moderate pace from late January through February, with few signs of inflation despite rising production costs, the Federal Reserve said Wednesday.
 ''The economy has continued to expand at a moderate pace,'' the Fed said in its summary of regional economic conditions known as the beige book.
 ''Retail prices were generally flat or up modestly; however, businesses continued to face rising input costs, and a number of districts indicated greater ease in passing along price increases,'' the Fed said. 
 The report, drawn by the central bank from contacts in each of its 12 districts, aims to give policy makers an anecdotal look at the economy.
 The Fed is widely expected to increase overnight borrowing costs by a quarter of a percentage point at its next meeting, on March 22, and to continue to push them higher through the spring and summer.
 In the beige book, the Fed said labor markets across the country had been steady to stronger, with overall wage gains moderate. Many districts noted shortages of skilled labor. Manufacturers were said to be hiring in the Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago and Minneapolis regions, but factory employment was steady to down around Atlanta, St. Louis and Kansas City, the Fed said.
 ''Manufacturing activity was reported as expanding solidly in most districts, although the pace of growth has generally not increased since the last report,'' it said, adding that production of durable goods was particularly strong in many areas.
 In spite of stability in the prices of consumer goods, some manufacturers ''indicated that they have been finding it increasingly easy to pass along price increases,'' the report added. The report also said businesses complained that the cost of worker benefits, particularly health insurance, continued to rise sharply.
 Consumer spending was steady to slightly stronger, although some regions reported sluggish auto sales, the Fed said. It said retailers were mostly comfortable with current inventory levels and generally optimistic on future sales.
 ''A number of reports from retailers indicated that apparel sold well, but others noted weak sales of electronics and big-ticket items,'' the report said. It described housing markets and home-building activity as robust in most areas, but said commercial real estate markets were mixed. 


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Most Regions Report Modest Growth''A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday.CHICAGOA weak auto industry tempered regional economic growth. Consumer spending remained soft.MINNEAPOLISConsumer spending, energy and mining continued to rise. Tourism activity declined.SAN FRANCISCOEconomic growth continued. Businesses reported minor changes in price inflation, despite considerable increases in select producer prices.NEW YORKGrowth of the region's economy remained stable. Prices remained steady. Retailers reported little change in sales.CLEVELANDEconomic conditions improved across the board with retailers, banks and manufacturers reporting expansion.RICHMOND, VA.A rise in the manufacturing and tourism sectors was softened by slow growth in the service industries.ATLANTAEconomic activity remained ''quite positive.'' Retailers enjoyed steady growth while home sales slowed.PHILADELPHIABusinesses, manufacturers and retailers reported continued growth while auto sales dipped below last years levels.BOSTONThe region's economy improved. Retailers and manufacturers reported an increase in sales from one year ago.ST. LOUISThe region experienced modest gains. Residential real estate was strong while commerical real estate was weak.KANSAS CITY, MO.Manufacturing, tourism and energy expanded. Labor markets strengthened while auto sales and home building declined.DALLASRegional economic growth increased, as manufacturing and retail strengthened. The oil industry reported booming conditions.(Source by Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RETAILERS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); ELECTRONICS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); LABOR SHORTAGES (67%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) United States Economy; Production; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Retail Stores and Trade; Labor; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005



188 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1714 words

HEADLINE: Ferrer Promoting Mayoralty as a National Democratic Goal

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
It was somewhere between the salad course and the Barry White song that Fernando Ferrer, candidate for mayor, took the microphone last week at a dinner for the local Democratic club held at Temple Sholom in Mill Basin, Brooklyn. He had already told the crowd that he shared their values because they all came from the same place, as working New Yorkers hoping for more opportunities to get ahead.
 Then his remarks took a different turn. ''I want to earn your support because I do believe, Democrats, I do believe this is the year we take back City Hall,'' he said, to scattered cheers from the racially mixed audience. ''This is the year we send the message coast to coast: It starts here in New York City. Then we go to Albany, and then we take back the White House for Democrats, but most importantly for Democratic values.''
 After two failed runs for mayor, Mr. Ferrer has found himself in an unusual and risky position as the candidate to beat in the Democratic primary, and the man people both inside and outside of the campaign presume will face Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and all his millions in the fall. 
 And this time around, even before Mr. Ferrer and his team have announced a campaign manager, they are already seeing past the primary to the general election, a contest they are casting as the nation's most important electoral battle between Democrats and Republicans this year.
 To counter Mr. Bloomberg's vast personal fortune, the campaign has brought on Leo J. Hindery Jr., a telecommunications and media executive with strong ties to the Democratic National Committee, to lead a cross-country fund-raising drive. But even beyond that, Mr. Ferrer and his team are hoping to harness the dashed hopes of Democrats from California to Texas to Maine in order to mobilize volunteers -- both commanders and foot soldiers -- for Mr. Ferrer's campaign.
 Winning City Hall, they argue, could help spark a nationwide Democratic resurgence.
 ''I think people are going to look at a Republican mayor who has supported Republican policies at the state and federal level that have, I think, by most measures injured this city and most of its people and say, 'Look this is a Democrat versus a Republican,''' Mr. Ferrer said in an interview at his as-yet-undecorated headquarters in Midtown Manhattan. ''And I think national Democrats will be looking at this election and saying, 'Look, can we make a major statement about who we are as a party, what we mean as a party, because we have to stand for something.'''
 There are signs that national Democrats see the New York race as important: the Democratic National Committee has pledged $1 million to the state party to help win both the mayor's and the governor's contests. 
 But as Mr. Ferrer enjoys his new status, many of the old doubts remain. Can he move beyond a minority coalition and attract white voters suspicious of a candidate who views the city as divided into two New Yorks? And can he shake off the sense that he is the product of a Bronx Democratic machine that has long been tainted by accusations of favoritism and even corruption?
 At this point, Mr. Ferrer appears to be doing well. A recent poll by Quinnipiac University showed him well ahead of his Democratic rivals, with 40 percent of the vote among the primary contenders, the amount needed to avoid a runoff. That poll also showed him leading Mr. Bloomberg, 47 percent to 39 percent.
 ''Clearly in the primary you have to believe that Fernando Ferrer is the front-runner and the presumed nominee,'' said Scott Levenson, a political consultant who is not working for any of the mayoral candidates. ''He has run before and done well and is a proven vote-getter. He is arguably secure in his base and has expanded it in some ways over the past four years.''
 And while Mr. Ferrer's opponents dismiss his lead as a reflection of his name recognition from past campaigns, several political analysts said there was more to it than that.
 ''The name has much more resonance, it means something deeper than just a last name,'' said Doug Muzzio, a professor at the School of Public Affairs at Baruch College. ''It is a person, it is a set of beliefs and policy. It is some sort of identity.''
 Indeed, on subway platforms, inside stores and on the streets, Mr. Ferrer is frequently noticed, with people stopping him to chat about when they saw him last, or to wish him luck with his run.
 ''I met you a year ago at a hot dog stand and I spoke to you, and you said you weren't sure whether you were going to run for mayor again,'' said John Gallagher, approaching him in the Columbus Circle subway station. ''I'm glad you are.''
 At Zabar's, one man greeted him: ''El proximo alcalde de Nueva York.'' (the next mayor of New York).
 ''Hi, Mr. Mayor,'' said another customer.
 ''From your lips to you-know-who's ears,'' Mr. Ferrer said, gesturing skyward.
 But for that to become a reality, Mr. Ferrer faces the challenge of making sure his message reaches a diverse set of ears on a much more temporal plane.
 In 2001, Mr. Ferrer cast himself as the champion of the ''other New York,'' a place where, in his view, middle-class and poor people were having an increasingly difficult time surviving and finding ways to advance. But that message, especially when played against the background chatter of advisers and supporters who said that Mr. Ferrer would win by creating a broad coalition of black and Hispanic voters, was labeled divisive by his opponents, and it tarnished his image among white voters in several precincts of the city.
 Four years later, as he prepares to campaign on much the same theme, Mr. Ferrer insists that he has always spoken of the theme in purely economic and not racial terms, mentioning a waitress he met at a diner in Bayside, Queens, who worked six days a week just to pay her $2,000-a-month rent. ''I was talking about her,'' he said, identifying her as white only when asked.
 ''Sorry, I can only say what I can say and believe what I can believe,'' he said, a hint of exasperation creeping into his voice.
 When he was growing up in a struggling family on Fox Street in the South Bronx, his mother believed that her children would be able to achieve more than she had, he said. ''That has no color or language or national origin or religion attached to it,'' Mr. Ferrer said. ''That's a New York aspiration.''
 Nonetheless, this time around, his tale of two cities is softer and seemingly more inclusive. In his thus-far-infrequent campaign appearances, Mr. Ferrer has reminded audiences that he has spoken in the past about the ''other New York,'' but then quickly turned to a more optimistic message of unity. Recently speaking to a crowd of mostly black parishioners at the Greater Highway Deliverance Temple in East Harlem, he said: ''I continue to believe in the need to build one great city. I see one New York that at its best is a better city for everyone.''
 But as he reaches out to the minority and working-class voters he will need to attract to win, he is also reaching out to more affluent and white voters. A recent midweek afternoon found him behind the appetizer counter at Zabar's, for example, slicing smoked salmon and chatting with customers about the relative merits of omega-3 fatty acids. And campaign advisers have been careful to highlight Mr. Ferrer's support among white elected officials, including the state attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, and City Councilmen Lewis A. Fidler and Bill de Blasio of Brooklyn. 
 Indeed, consultants and elected officials say that Mr. Ferrer must find a way to hold onto the minority coalition from his last campaign and expand it to include more whites in order to prevail in the mayor's race. He must appeal, these analysts say, to liberals as well as to more conservative Democrats, many of whom live in the boroughs outside Manhattan. 
 ''I think what Freddy needs to do is shed the image that he created in the 2001 campaign and go back to the moderate that he was during his tenure as borough president'' of the Bronx, said City Councilman James S. Oddo, a Republican who represents central Staten Island and a small slice of Bensonhurst, Brooklyn. ''He needs to go and tell people, 'I was born on Fox Street and I'm closer to what you are and my experiences are closer to your experiences than a guy who was born in Massachusetts and lives in a town house.'''
 Still, it is a tricky line to walk. His support among blacks is threatened by the candidacy of the Manhattan borough president, C. Virginia Fields, who is African-American, and among Brooklyn and Queens residents by Representative Anthony D. Weiner, whose district straddles both boroughs. 
 For the moment, though, Mr. Ferrer seems both confident and philosophical as he focuses on fund-raising and the campaign begins to get under way. By Jan. 18, the most recent public filing with the city's Campaign Finance Board, he had raised a little more than $2.5 million, trailing only the City Council speaker, Gifford Miller, who had raised more than $4.2 million. 
 Of course, Mr. Ferrer and his advisers say, it will take much more than money to best his Democratic rivals and Mr. Bloomberg in what many political analysts predict will be a hard-fought contest. To that end, Mr. Ferrer talks of the four new pairs of Rockport loafers (two black, two brown) that he intends to wear out in his quest for an office his wife says he has seemed destined for since the two first met as teenagers. 
 ''He had a sense of purpose that most young people my age did not,'' said Aramina Ferrer, sitting in the riverfront apartment they share in Riverdale, the Bronx. Mrs. Ferrer, a public elementary school principal, described that purpose as an early sense of responsibility, especially as a Puerto Rican, to make a mark on society. ''Like, 'We're part of the city but you know what? We really need to demonstrate that we can help the community move up.'''
 Extending that vision to the rest of the city, Mr. Ferrer said, is at the heart of his campaign, which he talks about with a whiff of Howard Dean-like partisan fervor.
 ''We've got to be about letting more people into the richness that is New York and to the promise that is New York,'' he said. ''Yeah, that is something that really does separate Democrats from the rest of the world.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Fernando Ferrer campaigning at Temple Sholom in Brooklyn. ''This is the year we send the message coast to coast: It starts here in New York City,'' he told Democrats. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Fernando Ferrer campaigns at Greater Highway Deliverance Temple in East Harlem. He is leading in one poll in the mayoral race. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); ARMED FORCES (62%); INTERVIEWS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005



189 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Stadium Deal Falls Apart In New Jersey, Giants Say

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The New York Giants said that their deal to build a privately financed $700 million Meadowlands stadium collapsed yesterday when New Jersey officials added two last-minute conditions that the team insisted were unacceptable.
 ''I thought we'd be here to announce a deal, but it blew apart today,'' Joe Shenker, an outside lawyer for the team, said during a meeting with reporters.
 The team thought until early in the day that a final issue raised by Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey -- a $3 million payment to the state if the Jets did not build a stadium on the Far West Side of Manhattan and were cotenants in a new Giants facility -- had been settled and that it would announce a final agreement with the state. 
 But the talks fell apart over the state's refusal to guarantee that there would be no special taxes imposed in the future on stadium revenues and its insistence on a separate agreement clearing the way for Meadowlands Xanadu, an entertainment and retail park that is to be built near the stadium. 
 The team's executive vice president and chief operating officer, John Mara, and Steve Tisch, whose father, Robert, is the Giants' co-owner, said they were frustrated by a turn of events that blindsided them. They said they had agreed to all the state's economic demands, primarily its request for $6.3 million in annual rent, rather than the nominal $1 the team had proposed.
 Mr. Tisch said there were 17 drafts of the agreement with the state. 
 ''Seventeen times the goal line has moved, and each time we reluctantly moved,'' he said, then added, ''We've gone as far as we can or will go.''
 Mr. Codey played down the Giants' anger with the late twists in the talks and said in a news conference at the Meadowlands Racetrack that he believed a deal was ''close'' but was not confident that it could be completed. 
 Mr. Mara said he would reluctantly listen to any pitch that might come from the ownership of the Jets, who are fighting to preserve their plan to build a $1.7 billion stadium that would require $600 million in public financing.
 ''If that overture is made in the future, we'd have to listen,'' Mr. Mara said. He added that the team's intention was to stay in New Jersey.
 Mr. Codey said he doubted that the Giants would ever move to Manhattan.
 The first issue added to yesterday's negotiations was Mr. Codey's refusal to rule out letting any of his successors try to tax revenue-generating activities at the new stadium. In his current budget proposal, a tax is suggested on luxury suites. He told team officials that he would drop it from the budget, but they nonetheless fear that such a tax could be enacted on suites, club seats or tickets, and would jeopardize the Giants' ability to pay its debt service.
 In addition, the team said its memorandum of understanding with the state on the stadium required that any additional taxes levied on stadium revenues would be offset against the rent the team will pay. 
 In the late afternoon, Mr. Codey called team officials to say that even if $5 million or more in taxes were levied, the most the team's rent could be reduced would be $1.9 million a year. 
 After his appearance at the track, Mr. Codey said by telephone, ''If a future legislature approved a tax, don't you think the team would pass it on to its customers?'' He said that team executives ''had gotten into a lather'' when they learned of the proposed luxury tax in the budget.
 The second issue that angered the Giants was the state's insistence that it immediately sign off on a separate agreement with the developers of Meadowlands Xanadu. The team said that it would not surrender a provision in the memorandum of understanding calling for a 30-day period, after a final stadium agreement with the state, to negotiate how the new stadium would coexist with Xanadu on Giants game days, largely in terms of parking and traffic.
 ''We want to work out an agreement where we can operate and they can operate, without gridlock,'' Mr. Mara said. The team said the deal with the developers, Mills Corporation and Mack-Cali, was contingent on a signed stadium agreement.
 But the Giants can reduce their lease, which expires in 2026, by 10 years if Xanadu construction starts without their consent.
 A member of the board of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the new conditions added by Mr. Codey reflected criticism by board members that the Giants agreement was a giveaway that the state could not afford.
 The team also has a clause in its current lease, which was extended in 1995, that Mr. Mara and Mr. Tisch said would cost the sports authority, which owns Giants Stadium, hundreds of millions of dollars for improvements to be ''competitive with newly constructed or renovated'' stadiums around the National Football League. Those improvements would include modern luxury suites, new scoreboards, sound and lighting systems, locker rooms and concession stands. 
 The authority has said it could make the ''reasonable periodic alterations'' required by the lease for much less than the team's estimate.
 Mr. Mara said that the team's hopes of having a new stadium for the 2008 season were over. ''Only a miracle can save it,'' he said. ''This really reduces my appetite for doing a deal.''
 Any delays, he said, would raise the cost of the stadium because of annual increases in construction costs. He and Mr. Tisch also said that it has always been crucial for the Giants to be able to start selling luxury suites and club seats before any competition can develop from other new sports facilities, such as the new arena that has been proposed for Brooklyn, or the Jets' stadium. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); EXECUTIVES (66%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (64%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005



190 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Five Years Later and Still Floating

BYLINE: By James Grant. 
James Grant, the editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, is the author of ''John Adams: Party of One.''

 BODY:
TODAY marks the fifth anniversary of the peak of the great millennial stock market. What were you doing when the lights began to dim? Were you a bull or a bear? Rich or otherwise?
 What about today? Are you inoculated against the new alleged sure things? Or perhaps you believe in the permanent hegemony of the dollar in the world's currency markets? In the inevitability of rising house prices? Or of falling interest rates? Answer true or false: the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board is clairvoyant.
 From the March 2000 top to the October 2002 trough, the United States stock market gave up more than half of its quoted value, some $9.2 trillion. Five years ago today, Cisco Systems was the world's biggest company by market capitalization. Its line of business, the computer networking business, was universally heralded as the industry of the future. Owners of Cisco still devoutly hope it is. They have lost 75 percent of their investment. 
 Americans hate to lose, especially when it comes to money, and they've demanded an accounting of the misdeeds of the bubble era. A certain number of former chief executives, like Bernard Ebbers of WorldCom, have had to answer the charges against them in court. And Congress, in 2002, overhauled and stiffened the nation's securities laws. But the chairman, governors and staff of the Federal Reserve have yet to be called to account.
 Booms and busts are recurrent in history and in nations. In not every episode was there a culpable central bank. But in virtually every case, there was a clever neighbor. The unbearable sight of a neighbor getting rich in the stock market in the late 1990's made millions of Americans bipolar. Shopping at Wal-Mart, they would pay any price except full retail. Investing in the stock market, however, they would pay nothing but.
 By the late 1990's, stocks had lost any connection to the value of the businesses in which they represented partial ownership. Picture an artful consumer settling into a discounted hotel room for the night. Now try to imagine this savvy individual formulating a calculated financial decision to make a meal of the $10 cashews and the $6 candy bars on sale in the hotel minibar. That was Wall Street a half decade ago. 
 And, to a lesser but still striking degree, it is still Wall Street today -- and Main Street, too. The Federal Reserve did not stand idly by after the bubble burst. It radically reduced the interest rate it controls (the so-called federal funds rate), pushing it from 6.5 percent in May 2000 to 1 percent by June 2003. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Fed, had worried about a stock market bubble as early as 1995, had warned against ''irrational exuberance'' in 1996, and batted around the possibility that there might, indeed, be a stock-market bubble in discussions with his Federal Reserve colleagues as late as 1999.
 But he was not the man to stick a pin in the bubble. Indeed, he himself became a vociferous booster of the ''New Economy.'' In a speech he gave only four days before the Nasdaq touched its high, he sounded as if he were working for Merrill Lynch, cheering that ''the capital spending boom is still going strong.'' Should the boom turn to bust, the chairman had testified before Congress less than a year before, the Fed would ''mitigate the fallout when it occurs and, hopefully, ease the transition to the next expansion.''
 In so many words, Mr. Greenspan promised that the Fed would make money cheaper and more plentiful than it would otherwise be. He would override the market's judgment with his own. Nobody in earshot quoted the words of the German central banker Hjalmar Schacht, who protested in 1927: ''Don't give me a low rate. Give me a true rate, and then I shall know how to put my house in order.'' Someone should have. Interest rates are the traffic lights of a market economy. To investors, they signal when to go and when to stop. Under the Fed's bubble recovery program, every interest-rate light turned green.
 With no lights flashing red or even amber, investors sped through the financial intersections. They paid more for houses, office buildings and junk bonds than they would have if interest rates were not hugging 40-year lows. The proliferation of dollars helped to lift the stock market out of its doldrums -- though the doldrums of 2002 were singularly shallow ones. In comparison to earlier bear market lows, bargains were scarce on the ground (by March 2000, stocks were uniquely overvalued; never before had a dollar of corporate earnings been so costly to buy). At the checkout counter, inflation was well-nigh invisible. On Wall Street, however, it was -- and still is -- on the rise.
 To hear Mr. Greenspan tell it in 1999, post-bubble damage control was as simple as cutting interest rates. He passed lightly over the possible consequences of the rates he cut. The list so far includes a bubble-like housing market (geographically localized but ferocious), an overheated debt market (this one spans the globe) and a steady depreciation in the foreign exchange value of the dollar. Consuming much more than it produces, the United States emits hundreds of billions of greenbacks into the world's payment stream every year -- about $600 billion in 2004. The recipients of these dollars willingly invest them in American assets if the price is right. On the evidence of the dollar's decline, the price -- the available rate of return -- is too low.
 Ultra-low interest rates not only serve to inflate the value of bonds, stocks and real estate. They also entice investors in those assets to employ the elixir called ''leverage.'' Leverage means debt. Borrowing at 2.5 percent, a speculator can invest at 3 percent and still make a handsome living -- if he or she can be sure when 2.5 percent might be raised to 2.75 percent or 3 percent.
 The Fed is happy to oblige. Forswearing the element of surprise in its policy actions, it has told the market exactly what it proposes to do. Paying close attention, professional investors, including thousands of hedge funds, have borrowed fearlessly. A little fear would help to improve the quality of financial stewardship. 
 ''A stock well bought is half sold,'' said the Wall Street ancients. What they meant is that success in investing depends on one's entry price. As Congress debates an overhaul of Social Security to permit tax-advantaged saving by millions of new investors, a passage from the new Berkshire Hathaway annual report warrants attention. ''We don't enjoy sitting on $43 billion of cash equivalents that are earning paltry returns,'' writes Warren Buffett, Berkshire's chairman. ''Instead, we yearn to buy more fractional interests similar to those we now own or -- better still -- more large businesses outright. We will do either, however, only when purchases can be made at prices that offer us the prospect of a reasonable return on our investment.'' 
 Five years later, the bubble is still unpopped.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Anthony Russo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); MILLENNIUM (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); ACCOUNTING (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BONDS (76%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); HOME PRICES (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (70%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (54%); EXECUTIVES (51%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (71%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (71%); VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (71%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) James Grant

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005



191 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Transit Chief Bets Ridership Won't Suffer If Fares Rise

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
As they try to push through a hefty fare increase, officials of New Jersey Transit made it clear yesterday that they were operating from a position of strength. 
 Despite a fare increase just three years ago that averaged 10 percent, the buses and trains the agency runs around the state and to and from New York City have never been more popular, the officials said. People took a record total of 225.5 million rides last year, a 4.4 percent increase over 2003. 
 The rise in ridership erased the two-year dropoff that followed the Sept. 11 terrorist attack. Except for such an extraordinary event, ridership tends to rise and fall along with the condition of the region's economy, said George D. Warrington, the executive director of New Jersey Transit.
 ''Demand on the system tends to follow the economy and job creation,'' Mr. Warrington said at a meeting of the agency's board in Newark. It surged in the last three months of the year, he added, as New Jersey residents took advantage of holiday promotions and good weather to travel into New York for shopping and shows.
 Mr. Warrington said an assumption that the current growth trend would continue ''is baked into our budget numbers for this year.''
 To balance the agency's budget for its coming fiscal year, which begins in July, Mr. Warrington had proposed to raise fares an average of 15 percent. Without the increase, he said, there would be a $60.6 million gap between revenue and expenses.
 But even before public hearings last month, Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey said he wanted to see a revised proposal. The governor can veto the increase.
 Mr. Warrington has pledged to find ways to further reduce his agency's expenses in order to reduce the proposed fare increase. But he said he was not prepared to discuss details of that effort or how much lower the proposed increase might be. He plans to present a final proposal on fares at a board meeting next month. 
 Yesterday, he was more interested in celebrating the gains in ridership and touting service improvements scheduled to start in April.
 To help ease crowding on the main train line between Trenton and Pennsylvania Station in New York, the agency plans to add an inbound train each weekday morning and an outbound train each evening. That move would increase the number of seats available during each of those periods by about 1,000, or more than 3 percent.
 New Jersey Transit also plans to add express trains to the Hoboken terminal from stations in Ramsey and Little Falls, where it recently built large parking decks. The express trains, which would skip all or almost all of the stops along the way, would shorten the each trip to Hoboken by about 10 minutes, a spokeswoman for the agency said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TRAINS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TRENDS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); VETO (70%); TERRORISM (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%); JOB CREATION (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005



192 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Sale of I.B.M. Unit to China Passes U.S. Security Muster

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The Bush administration has completed a national security review of the planned sale of I.B.M.'s personal computer business to Lenovo of China, clearing the way for the deal, I.B.M. announced yesterday.
 The unusual scrutiny given to the deal mainly reflects the ambivalence in Washington toward China, and its rising economic and military power. 
 Other Chinese companies are expected to follow Lenovo's example by shopping for acquisitions in the United States. ''The lesson from the I.B.M. experience is that the government is going to be difficult on them all,'' said William A. Reinsch, president of the National Foreign Trade Council and a former trade official in the Clinton administration. 
 The Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States, a multiagency group, reviews purchases of American businesses by overseas corporations for any impact on national security. The I.B.M. inquiry was a full investigation, which occurs in far fewer than 1 percent of cross-border deals, according to former committee members.
 The committee's proceedings are secret, and I.B.M. would not say what steps it took to address the concerns of the group, which includes representatives from the Homeland Security, Defense, Justice, Treasury and Commerce Departments. Two people who have been told of the committee's inquiry said I.B.M. made more in the way of commitments and assurances than concessions, which might restrain its sales or product development. 
 The steps, they said, included agreeing to separate Lenovo's American employees, mainly in Research Triangle Park in North Carolina, from I.B.M. workers there who work on other products, like larger server computers and software. 
 The people close to the inquiry said I.B.M. also agreed to ensure that the chips and other parts in desktop PC's and notebooks were stamped with the name of their manufacturer and country of origin. Such labeling is fairly common among PC makers.
 Steven M. Ward Jr., an I.B.M. senior vice president who will become chief executive of Lenovo, said he met with more than a dozen senior government officials to explain the sale for $1.75 billion in cash, stock and debt, announced in December. He said the steps I.B.M. took to gain the approval of the committee would not hobble the business.
 ''I'm delighted with getting this approval,'' Mr. Ward said. ''And we expect to sell Lenovo PC's and ThinkPads to businesses, governments and individuals around the globe.''
 Some committee members were concerned that the sale to Lenovo, which is partly state-owned, could result in technology with important military uses being passed to the Chinese, but the people close to the inquiry said I.B.M. addressed that in briefings and demonstrations in Washington in mid-February.
 I.B.M. engineers and executives, they said, dismantled a desktop PC and a ThinkPad notebook for the committee, identifying where the components were produced and explaining how the machines were assembled. Most I.B.M. PC's are made in China. They contain Intel microprocessors and are assembled with chips and parts made around the world, though mostly in East Asia.
 The I.B.M.-Lenovo episode should prompt Congress to review the authority of the investment committee, which dates from the cold war, said Michael R. Wessel, a member of the United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission, a group established by Congress. 
 Representative Donald A. Manzullo, an Illinois Republican, said yesterday that he planned to push for hearings to see if the committee's role should be expanded to ''take more account of economic security as well as military security.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL SECURITY (92%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); NETWORK SERVERS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (69%) Computers and the Internet; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; United States International Relations

COMPANY: LENOVO GROUP LTD (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL (57%) International Business Machines Corp; Lenovo Group

TICKER: 0992 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005



193 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Miller Has Endorsements From 2 Unions, His Aides Say

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
In the first round of labor endorsements for the mayoral election, Council Speaker Gifford Miller has received the support of two unions representing the city's grocery workers and traffic agents, his aides said yesterday. 
 Mr. Miller, a Democrat, was endorsed by Local 1500 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, which represents more than 12,000 city workers in supermarkets and food stores, including Pathmark, Gristede's and D'Agostino. 
 He also received the endorsement of Local 1182 of the Communications Workers of America, a 2,000-member union representing city workers who direct traffic and issue summonses for wrong turns, illegal parking, littering and jaywalking.
 The union endorsements have started earlier than usual this year as those in a crowded field of potential mayoral candidates jockey to get ahead in the polls. On the path to the Democratic primary, Mr. Miller is vying with Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president; C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president; and United States Representative Anthony D. Weiner.
 But some of the city's largest and most influential unions have yet to commit to any mayoral candidate--and are unlikely to do so until the summer, union officials and others said yesterday. ''We are not even discussing endorsements at the moment,'' said Randi Weingarten, the president of the teachers union.
 Patrick Purcell, director of organizing for the food workers union, said the deciding factor for his members was Mr. Miller's willingness to listen to their concerns over big-box stores. The union's members contend that such stores offer low wages and poor benefits, and that their vast purchasing power could drive local competition out of business.
 Amid intense lobbying by union officials and neighborhood groups in recent months, many Council members have come out against plans for the city's first Wal-Mart store, in Rego Park, Queens. The Council's Land Use Committee also rejected an application last month to build a BJ's Wholesale Club in the Bronx.
 ''The No. 1 issue facing our members in the five boroughs is the threat and spread of big-box stores,'' Mr. Purcell said. ''We believe the next mayor has to have an open mind on this.''
 Similarly, Mr. Miller received support from the union representing traffic agents because of his efforts to take up their issues in the City Council, said Robert Cassar, the president. Mr. Cassar said that the union often felt overlooked by the current administration.
 ''These guys are more than just ticket writers,'' Mr. Cassar said. ''Gifford was a voice for us in the City Council, and he opened people's eyes to who we are.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); RETAILERS (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); PARKING OFFENSES (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (64%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005



194 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: Market Place; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Some signs that stock and bond investors have noticed the price of oil.

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer

 BODY:
IS the price of oil finally going to matter in the stock and bond markets?
 That is the question after crude oil jumped to $55.65 a barrel in intraday trading yesterday, stocks tumbled and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note jumped to 4.52 percent, its highest since July.
 For months, the impact of crude oil, which set its record price of $55.17 in October, has been debated but essentially dismissed as neither a drag on economic growth nor a stimulus to inflation.
 ''Everyone is talking themselves into believing that the economy is impervious to oil because things were so good last year,'' said James E. Glassman, senior United States economist at J.P. Morgan. 
 But yesterday, economically sensitive stocks, including Caterpillar and U.S. Steel, fell, as would be expected if investors were worried that record gasoline prices and near-record oil prices would crimp consumer spending and slow economic growth. The Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index both fell 1 percent; oil for April delivery settled at $54.77 a barrel, a rise of 18 cents. 
 In the bond market, some analysts said that the sell-off was induced by inflationary fears created by the surge in the price of crude oil and other commodities this week. The price of the 10-year note declined 1 1/32, to 95 27/32, while the yield rose from 4.39 percent on Tuesday.
 ''It's a little bit unsettling, and it is one reason that the bond market has had trouble the last few days,'' said Robert V. DiClemente, chief United States economist at Citigroup.
 But while both the stock and bond markets seemed to have been unnerved by oil this week, there are signs that worries about slowing economic growth or increasing inflationary pressures have yet to mushroom. 
 Morgan Stanley's index of 30 economically sensitive stocks declined 1 percent yesterday but it is still up 16.6 percent since Oct. 22, when oil hit its record. The index is also not far below the record high it set at the end of last year. So there has not been a rush to get out of this sector yet.
 Mr. Glassman said that he thought oil did impede economic growth some last year but that its drag was overwhelmed by the stimulus from low interest rates and tax cuts. He said people were not thinking about it now because most signs are pointing to improving economic growth.
 In the bond market, there is a lot more going on than inflation, so it will take time to determine if yesterday's interest rate spike was a signal of longer-term inflation fears or just a lot of bad news all at once.
 For example, the Treasury auctioned a 5-year note yesterday and will sell a 10-year note today. When the outlook for yields is cloudy -- as it is now -- interest rates tend to rise ahead of Treasury auctions.
 In addition, the 10-year note being sold today is part of the same security sold in February. These so-called re-opened issues have not been selling well, said Ward McCarthy, managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates.
 Tony Crescenzi, chief bond market strategist at Miller Tabak & Company, said the growing number of long-term bond sales in Europe was causing a generalized rise in these rates.
 There are, however, reasons for investors to be concerned about inflation because some Federal Reserve policy makers are worrying about price increases, a fact that has been revealed in the minutes of the last two policy-making meetings.
 Mr. DiClemente said there was a small risk that $55 oil would ''seep through the system into the economy'' and increase inflation because Fed policy makers have been raising their benchmark short-term interest rate at a modest pace, which means there still is a lot of monetary stimulus in the economy.
 He said Fed officials have to make it more clear in speeches, statements and the minutes of their meetings that this modest pace of rate increases is subject to change because inflation is a concern. ''If the Fed doesn't make some adjustment, people will begin to doubt them,'' Mr. DiClemente said.
 If that happened, inflationary fears -- and interest rates -- could take off, and that would be bad for stocks and bonds.
 Below are the results of yesterday's auction of five-year Treasury notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.641
High Yield: 4.080
Low Yield: 4.000
Median Yield: 4.040
Total applied for: $38,766,781
Accepted: $15,000,157
Noncompetitive: $102,181
Interest set at: 4%

The five-year notes mature March 15, 2010.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''5-Year Treasury Notes''Graph shows the high yields at auction since 2003.(Source by Treasury Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INFLATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); FUTURES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); INTEREST RATES (63%) Stocks and Bonds; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Futures and Options Trading; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (64%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (64%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005



195 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall On New Fears Of Inflation

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday as the yield on 10-year Treasury notes reached 4.52 percent, the highest level since July, and crude oil prices neared a record. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index erased its gain for this year.
 The rally in oil, along with higher costs for raw materials including copper, spurred concern that the Federal Reserve might accelerate the pace of interest rate increases to contain inflation. 
 ''If you look at where prices for oil and other commodities are, you've set the stage up for relatively higher inflation,'' said Greg Tuorto, who helps manage $3.5 billion at the Guardian Life Insurance Company of America in New York. ''That's a concern for investors.'' 
 The S.&P. 500-stock index lost 12.42 points, or 1 percent, to 1,207.01; it has slid 0.4 percent in 2005. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 107 points, or 1 percent, to 10,805.62, with Exxon Mobil contributing the most to the drop. The Nasdaq composite index retreated 12.26 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,061.29.
 Eleven stocks fell for every three that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.7 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 13 percent more than the three-month daily average.
 Washington Mutual, the nation's largest savings and loan, lost 89 cents, to $41.29. Citigroup, the No.1 financial services company, dropped 59 cents, to $47.88. Countrywide Financial, the mortgage lender, slid $1.69, to $33.36, after a Jefferies & Company analyst, Charlotte Chamberlain, cut her rating to hold from buy, citing the prospect for higher borrowing costs.
 Rising interest rates may curb demand for loans and reduce the value of bonds owned by banks, brokers and insurers. They also make dividend-paying stocks less attractive to investors seeking income.
 Other interest rate-sensitive shares, including utilities and real estate investment trusts, retreated. Consolidated Edison, owner of New York City's electric utility, dropped 77 cents, to $41.71. Equity Residential, the largest United States apartment company, fell $1.21, to $32.95. 
 Higher rates may also crimp demand for new homes. D.R. Horton, the largest homebuilder by market value, slid $2.05, to $41.50. Its smaller rival, Pulte Homes, fell $2.54, to $75.45.
 Exxon Mobil, the world's largest company by market value, slid $2.31, to $60.79, as 67.9 million shares traded. The number of shares was the highest since at least 1980. Exxon's decline helped send a gauge of oil and gas producers down 3 percent for the steepest drop among 10 industry groups in the S.&P. 500.
 Crude oil for April delivery climbed 0.3 percent, to $54.77 a barrel, in New York after a report showing a United States inventory increase failed to damp concern about supply shortfalls this summer. Futures touched $55.65 a barrel, matching the intraday price reached on Oct. 27. Oil rose to a record $55.67 a barrel on Oct. 25.
 Copper futures for May delivery added 0.3 percent, to $1.5035 a pound, in New York. Yesterday, prices reached $1.521, the highest since March 6, 1989.
 Great Lakes Chemical jumped $6.42, or 24 percent, to $33.60, for the best performance in the S.&P. 500. The company agreed to be acquired by Crompton for about $1.55 billion in stock, creating the No.3 publicly traded specialty chemicals maker in the United States.
 The software maker Retek surged $2.04, or 24 percent, to $10.63. Oracle offered $504 million for Retek to thwart an acquisition by SAP A.G., Oracle's largest competitor. Oracle, a maker of business-management software, slipped 27 cents, to $13.35.
 McGraw-Hill, which owns Standard & Poor's and Business Week magazine, lost $6.54, to $89.31. Its 6.8 percent drop was the biggest in the S.&P. 500. The company said recent acquisitions including J.D. Power & Associates would reduce 2005 earnings by as much as 7 cents a share.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INSURANCE (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); DIVIDENDS (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (74%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); LIFE INSURANCE (69%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (69%); SAVINGS & LOANS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (65%); MORTGAGE BANKING (64%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (61%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: GUARDIAN LIFE INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (70%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (66%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%); D R HORTON INC (54%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (54%); CITIGROUP INC (54%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (52%); EQUITY RESIDENTIAL (52%); PULTEGROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (55%); DHI (NYSE) (54%); C (NYSE) (54%); C (BMV) (54%); 8710 (TSE) (54%); ED (NYSE) (52%); EQR (NYSE) (52%); PHM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (70%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (54%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (54%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (52%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (52%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (51%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005



196 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: This Is the Risk That Jack Took

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
THREE years ago Troy Jarvis, a real estate agent in Scottsdale, Ariz., assembled a group of golf buddies to buy a half-acre lot on a golf course near Scottsdale for $350,000 and build a four-bedroom house with a pool for $1.2 million.
 Last year the foursome, which also included a schoolteacher and a periodontist, sold the house for $2.3 million. The profit was enough to encourage the group to acquire four more lots on the same golf course and six lots on another course near Park City, Utah. They intend to build houses on all the lots and sell them for $1.9 million to $3 million.
 At a time when mass-market homebuilders generally take the lower-risk approach of selling houses based on floor plans and constructing them once they have a secure buyer who has made a deposit and signed a contract, a growing number of smaller developers are going ahead and building ''spec'' houses, some with price tags as high as $34 million, without any specific buyers in mind. The idea is that they will sell the houses once they are ready (or nearly ready) for the buyer to move in. And there's plenty of interest, especially in popular vacation and retirement home markets like Arizona and Florida. 
 According to the National Association of Realtors, 13 percent of all homes -- or 1.02 million -- purchased in 2004 were vacation homes, up nearly 20 percent from 850,000 in 2003.
 The risk-friendly builders and their financial backers put the money up front, hire an architect and contractors, and outfit a house right down to the chandeliers, wine coolers and warming ovens to attract a wealthy buyer who wants a move-in-ready residence. If the house doesn't sell, the investors are stuck with the costs.
 So far that has not been much of a problem in some hot real estate markets, where local brokers and consultants say spec building is rising along with house prices. 
 Carmen D'Angelo, an owner of Premier Estate Properties in Boca Raton, Fla., said spec building is up about 30 percent from five years ago in his area, which includes nearby Delray Beach and Fort Lauderdale. In Alexandria, Va., Greg Leisch, the chief executive of Delta Associates, a real estate consulting firm, estimates that there are 30 new spec homes being developed in Wintergreen, Va., a ski, golf and tennis resort area in the Blue Ridge Mountains, where he said there were none four years ago. 
 Some of the spec developers have experience working on custom-built homes. Others are real estate brokers or general contractors who, like the dot-com entrepreneurs of the late 1990's, recruit acquaintances to help finance a project.
 Last July, Bobby Elder, a mechanical and general contractor in Boca Raton, teamed up with a father and son who own a retail chain in Chicago to buy a $300,000 lot on a golf course in Boca Raton. Mr. Elder is building a house on the lot that he says could fetch $1.4 million. In another deal that closed this week, he bought a $1.76 million lot in Boca Raton. A local golf pro co-signed a loan on the property, where Mr. Elder is building a house he hopes to sell for $4.5 million.
 Mr. Elder said he was willing to risk the investment because ''the amount of customers coming into the high-end market is really staggering.''
 In addition to experienced developers, investors with extra cash who want to dabble in the real estate market are attracted to spec building. In the Scottsdale area, for instance, investor interest in spec building has doubled in the past three years, said Mr. Jarvis, speaking on his cellphone from the Mirabel golf course in Carefree, Ariz. 
 One of his partners in the Scottsdale and Park City deals is Terry Miller, a schoolteacher and basketball coach in Vista, Calif., near San Diego. 
 Mr. Miller, who spent some time as a real estate agent before he became a physical education teacher, said, ''I'm at the point in my life where if I lose, I'm not investing all of my savings or my retirement.'' But, he added, with six children, three of whom are in college, ''I'm just hoping to have some fun with it, make some money, and keep moving.'' 
 ''If it does go south,'' he explained, ''that is why we have four investors -- so we can share in the carrying costs.''
 After selling the first house in Arizona, Mr. Miller in turn recruited Jeff and Cheri Harris, the parents of a former student and construction consultants who have previously built spec homes in California. The Harrises decided to invest outside California because land values there had become too high. With all the properties in Arizona and Utah close to golf courses, Mr. Harris said, the investors figure the homes will attract wealthy second-home buyers.
 Some economists say the increase reflects confidence in a housing market where real estate prices continue to rise in many regions. But they caution that the spec building trend could lead to price declines if there is even a slight economic blip. 
 ''These guys typically can't carry these houses for very long, especially these small builders, and then you can get into a fire-sale type situation,'' said Thomas Lys, professor of real estate at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University.
 Still, with deep-pocketed baby boomers looking for a place to vacation or retire, developers are ready to take the risk. 
 ''That's one of the wealthiest generations ever to come into their own in the history of this country,'' said Steven Crandall, president of Tectonics II, a developer in Wintergreen. ''We're hearing from a lot of clients who are despairing because they can't find nice property.'' After a 10-year hiatus Mr. Crandall began building three spec homes again a year and a half ago and wants to sell them for $1 million each.
 In another sign of confidence, some spec developers are aiming for the extreme high end. In Palm Beach, Fla., Dan Swanson, president of Addison Development, who has been building spec houses for 27 years, last month closed on the sale of a $33.6 million Mediterranean-style mansion with 9 bedrooms and 10 bathrooms. The almost-34,000-square-foot house, which Mr. Swanson said was the most expensive spec residence ever sold in Palm Beach, comes with an elevator, four fireplaces and a six-car garage. 
 Although the property took more than two years to build, Mr. Swanson said his profit -- which he declined to disclose -- justified the risk. Among his other spec trophy houses are a $22.5 million, 24,000 square foot house in Boca Raton and one in Palm Beach, still under construction, which is already on the market for $33.5 million. 
 ''A lot of people think we're crazy at these numbers,'' Mr. Swanson said. He added confidently, ''We've been doing this for a long time.'' 
 For many buyers who want a new home, a ready-made spec house with all the fittings eliminates the hassles of micromanaging the choice of a shower head or a kitchen backsplash. Such buyers ''are willing to pay these healthy prices to have it headache-free,'' said Gregory Weadock, a managing partner at Barclays International real estate in Palm Beach. 
 Jennifer Linick, an agent at Devlin McNiff, a Hamptons brokerage firm, said she recently sold a $4 million spec home under construction to a couple who had seen the builder's previous work. She said that the buyers told the builders, ''You pick everything.'' 
 For that reason developers often prefer to build on spec because they don't want to deal with a client's demands or indecision. ''There are many people who don't really know what they want and the building process is very difficult for them,'' said Anthony Nicolli, president of A.M. Nicolli Construction Inc., in Boca Raton. Last year Mr. Nicolli built three spec homes in Delray Beach and is currently marketing another at $8 million. 
 He said there is also opportunity for greater profits, but acknowledged that spec building is a gamble. He added, ''You hope that you are making the right decisions.''
 To attract the kind of people who want to live in the Hamptons, Kevin Mulderrig, a builder in Southampton, N.Y., put ''top-of-the-line everything'' into the spec house he and his two brothers, Ed and Matt, just built, including an elevator and 10 bathrooms. 
 The 7,200-square-foot, six-bedroom house in Southampton is on the market for $8.95 million. 
 Even if the market cools, the Mulderrig brothers and other spec builders should still be able to break even, said Diane Saatchi, a broker with Corcoran Group who is marketing the Mulderrigs' property.
 ''I'm just guessing on this, but if they're into the project for $6 million and it's now priced at close to $9 million and they had to sell really quickly, could they sell at $6 million?'' Ms. Saatchi wondered. ''A lot of people will see they got a $9 million house for $6 million and the timing was great for them. If the market tanks, the people who have $200 million will be around to pounce.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: GAMBLING -- Matt, Kevin and Ed Mulderrig, left to right, build ''spec'' houses hoping to attract buyers, including this $8.95 million property in Southampton, N.Y. (Photo by Laurie Lambrecht for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
TROPHY HOMES -- Spec builders draw deep-pocketed baby boomers with properties like a $22.5 million house in Boca Raton, Fla., above left, and one in Southampton, N.Y., above center. Steven Crandall, right, is developing homes with views in Wintergreen, Va., a resort area in the Blue Ridge mountains. (Photos by above left, Corey Weiner/Red Square Photo
above center, Laurie Lambrecht for The New York Times
 above, Don Petersen for The New York Times)(pg. F11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); GOLF (91%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (88%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESORTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); MOUNTAINS (63%); SKIING (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (91%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (91%); UTAH, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005



197 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Search Engines Build a Better Mousetrap

BYLINE: By TIM GNATEK

 BODY:
GOOGLE has so firmly staked out its place as the Internet search-engine leader that it has even earned a place as a verb in the English lexicon. 
 Paradoxically, because of its very popularity, there may be no better time to try something different.
 Google's success has forced competitors like Yahoo, MSN Search and Ask Jeeves to hustle with releasing new product features, search controls and improved behind-the-scenes programming. The resulting bonanza of tools brings more search capabilities, presented more intuitively than the Web has ever seen.
 But despite the advances, it may be users' search habits that present the biggest barrier to improving the search experience. 
 The pressure to produce isn't just coming from Google. In April 2003, Ask Jeeves (ask.com) added ''Smart Search'' to its engine, which tops search results for definitive queries like ''Who is George Washington?'' with answers -- like an encyclopedia citation and a photograph -- in addition to Web links.
 That same month, Yahoo provided shortcuts to its own topic pages on popular subjects. The top result for ''weather in New York,'' for instance, leads to Yahoo's New York City weather page, with current conditions and a five-day outlook. 
 Associating database content with queries caught on. AOL Search now provides information from partners' content and its own; these ''snapshots'' in fields like entertainment, sports and shopping link to editor-selected information from publications within the Time Warner media universe, including Entertainment Weekly and Sports Illustrated. Likewise, MSN Search returns links to information from its own specialized databases, like MSN Music, msnbc.com and Microsoft's Encarta encyclopedia. 
 ''Having the trusted data, what we know is a right answer, and not asking them to trawl around, that's a huge advantage for the user,'' said Ramez Naam, MSN Search's group program manager. 
 Ask Jeeves will introduce technology this spring that will further the question-and-answer abilities of its engine. The new feature, Direct Answers From Search, will search across the entire Web, rather than simply from its own database, to find answers to natural-language queries (that is, those phrased as questions rather than mere search terms). 
 ''This allows us to answer far more questions than would be possible using editors or structured databases,'' said Jim Lanzone, the company's senior vice president for search properties. ''When you're diving into structured databases, you're limited in your coverage. We want to harvest the power of the 2.5 billion English-language documents in our index, to more broadly answer people's keywords and questions.''
 In comparison, natural-language queries performed with other engines not matching specialized content yield a list of links closely associated with the phrase -- with more consideration for popularity than accuracy. For example, searching for ''Who invented the Internet?'' on Google, Yahoo and MSN yields a top result exonerating Al Gore, rather than crediting computer scientists like J.C.R. Licklider. 
 Other Google rivals are focusing their improvements on offerings that try to bring simplicity and relevance to the search experience. 
 Microsoft's updated MSN Search tries to make searching easier by complementing Boolean terms like ''and,'' ''or'' and ''not'' with slide controls (under ''results ranking'' in Search Builder) that can be adjusted to determine how broadly or narrowly to search. In addition, a ''NearMe'' button can return results based on proximity to your location; the company says about a quarter of all searches make reference to geographic information. 
 ''You're going to see a lot of work in that area,'' said Oshoma Momoh, the general manager for program management at MSN Search. ''If you're querying a news item, we'll show it to you. Or answers from real people. If we can guess that a person is shopping, maybe we can give you a few simple tools that might help you with that task, rather than guessing, 'Do I click on this?'''
 Also of recent note, Amazon's A9 search engine builds on the ability to search by supplementing Web data with its own information. 
 For example, the A9 Yellow Pages service, introduced in late January, not only searches for and provides directions to local businesses, but with the ''Block View'' feature actually displays a photo of the business in the context of its neighborhood, with millions of images up and down the streets of a dozen cities including New York, Atlanta, San Francisco and Seattle.
 ''This is more than the hidden Web; it didn't even exist before,'' A9's chief executive, Udi Manber, said.
 All of the search functions appear as tabs on the side of the page, which can be clicked on or off to suit the search at hand. A movie tab displays movie results related to keyword searches or can hide the Web search altogether, making for a visual searching experience unlike any other.
 Google itself, of course, has been a major innovator, with features like Google Video, which provides searchable transcripts to television programs, and Google Maps, which offers the kind of dynamic, easily navigable charts once reserved for dedicated map programs. Its release of Gmail last year led the field in offering one gigabyte of e-mail storage and encouraged other Web-based mail services to supersize their mailboxes as well.
 John Battelle, who maintains a Web log about search technology (Searchblog, at battellemedia.com), said innovations like ''Block View'' showed how dynamically the search companies were taking advantage of new technologies -- and new economies. 
 ''In 1997 you would have had to spend tens of billions, and it wouldn't have made any sense,'' Mr. Battelle said. ''Now, you can strap a camera and G.P.S. on a computer and drive down the street taking pictures. It's a neat idea, and it didn't cost the farm to try. Now imagine that across the whole Web -- that's what's happening.''
 The continuing efforts to improve the search experience are likely to focus on more readily anticipating just what the user is looking for -- no more, no less -- and making the results easier to navigate. 
 ''The top frustrations among searchers are that the results aren't comprehensive enough: the results were difficult to sort through, and, at times, irrelevant,'' said Dr. Bonny Brown, director of research at Keynote Systems, which tracks Web site performance. 
 ''Any time a site thinks for customers, people always appreciate that,'' Dr. Brown said. ''A site that can work with the reality and the psychology of humans, that is really how you're going to please customers.'' 
 According to another recent report on search conducted by the Pew Internet and American Life Project, it is human behavior that may need to change most before the average Internet user can take advantage of all that search has to offer.
 Dr. Deborah Fallows, who wrote the Pew report, feels that search can improve across the board when the majority of search users start to pose the kinds of refined queries that services expect. 
 To make her point, Dr. Fallows pointed to the most popular search terms: keywords like ''Paris Hilton,'' ''poker'' and ''taxes,'' which appear in the top 10 searches at Lycos. What she feels will begin to improve search across the board is a greater concentration on changing the habits of this majority of search users. ''They always get an answer because they aren't asking very hard questions,'' she said.
 ''What is remarkable in the data is that two-thirds of Internet users are quite naive and clueless about what they're doing with search engines,'' Dr. Fallows said. ''While so many people use the Internet, only a third are really working with it and using it much more in their daily lives.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: FOUND IT -- Amazon's A9 Yellow Pages service, above, can display a photo of a business in the context of its neighborhood. MSN Search, above right, provides slide controls that can be adjusted to determine how narrowly to search. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEARCH ENGINES (92%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (76%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); GOOGLE INC (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005



198 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Lebanese Assembly Re-elects Pro-Syria Premier Who Quit

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, March 9 

 BODY:
Nine days after Lebanon's pro-Syrian prime minister, Omar Karami, was forced to quit under pressure by opponents of Syria's occupation, he was voted back into the post on Wednesday by the Lebanese Parliament. 
 Mr. Karami was chosen by 71 deputies out of a current total of 126, according to the Lebanese Broadcasting Corporation television. The president, Emile Lahoud, is bound by the choice of Parliament -- which is dominated by pro-Syrian deputies -- and will appoint him on Thursday. 
 The nomination of a Syria supporter angered those who have sought an end to the influence of Damascus in Lebanon and threw the political system into deeper turmoil. Opposition members of Parliament have said they would not join a government that failed to meet their demands, which include the dismissal of the Lebanese security chiefs and the full withdrawal of Syrian troops. 
 Parliamentary elections are scheduled for May, but with a purely pro-Syrian government in charge of setting up the election, accusations of impropriety and gerrymandering are bound to create further tension. 
 Tens of thousands of Lebanese have been demonstrating since the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri on Feb. 14 and calling for a withdrawal of Syrian troops. The protests led to Mr. Karami's resignation last week and prompted Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad, to say he would start withdrawing his troops from Lebanon, which they first entered in 1976.
 But Syria seems now to have regained the initiative, emboldened by a huge pro-Syrian rally in downtown Beirut on Tuesday led by Hezbollah, the militant Shiite Muslim group.
 ''This will be seen as a slap in the face of the opposition,'' said Michael Young, a political analyst in Beirut. 
 The United States and Europe have been increasing pressure on Syria to withdraw its 14,000 soldiers from Lebanon since Mr. Assad imposed a three-year extension of Mr. Lahoud's presidential mandate.
 The move prompted the resignation of Mr. Hariri in protest in October and his replacement by Mr. Karami, who has led a government composed of pro-Syrian ministers.
 Syrian troops have started to pull back from coastal regions and some mountains around Beirut to regroup in the Bekaa region, a wide plain between the Lebanon Mountains and the Syrian border. But a complete withdrawal has been left for negotiations with a new government.
 In Washington, President Bush dismissed Syria's plans as a ''a half measure.'' He repeated that Syria must pull out its intelligence officers along with its soldiers, meeting one of the opposition's key demands, before the May elections.
 Once the Lebanese president appoints Mr. Karami, Mr. Karami will form a cabinet that will serve until the election. His supporters say they wish to build a government of national unity with the opposition.
 If the opposition does not take part, only pro-Syrian ministers will be responsible for organizing and overseeing the elections. They will also be responsible for setting a timetable for Syrian withdrawal. Tensions over these issues would certainly ensue. 
 The opposition -- built around a fragile bloc of deputies including Christians, Druse and Sunni partisans of Mr. Hariri -- has also demanded an independent international investigation into his assassination as a condition to their participation in any new government.
 ''In May, it's the elections, and we want a pullout of the Syrian troops and intelligence services before the elections,'' one opposition leader, Walid Jumblatt, said in Brussels on Wednesday after leading Lebanese opponents met with Javier Solana, the European Union's representative for foreign and security policy.
 Opposition leaders wanted a transitional government of technocrats to prepare the elections.
 If the opposition, which has about 50 deputies in Parliament, does not want to take part in a national unity government, ''Well, we won't kill ourselves,'' said Nabih Berri, the pro-Syrian speaker of Parliament.
 Nizar Hamzeh, a political science professor at the American University of Beirut, said: ''You have two camps, and they are becoming increasingly polarized. The Lebanese political system can handle the Syrian withdrawal if all its factions find common grounds. But without a consensus, Lebanon can't handle a power vacuum.'' 
 This is the third time Mr. Karami, the scion of a prominent Sunni Muslim family, has been called to head the government. Both times before, he resigned in the face of street protests, the first time in 1992 after unpopular economic reforms.
 Since stepping down on Feb. 28, he has been heading a caretaker government but has remained largely silent. He did not speak Wednesday.
 On the morning of his resignation last week, he dismissed any notion of quitting but changed his mind halfway through a debate in Parliament that was supposed to consider a motion of confidence in his favor.
 Instead, he caved in before the vote during protests in Beirut and accusatory speeches in Parliament by Bahia Hariri, the sister of the assassinated politician, and Marwan Hamade, an opposition leader who survived a car bomb attack in October.
 At the time, Mr. Karami said he was resigning ''out of concern that the government does not become an obstacle to the good of the country.'' The move seemed to surprise even the speaker of Parliament, Mr. Berri, who could be overheard saying: ''I didn't know about this. I should have been told before.''
 But the decision to reappoint Mr. Karami is partly a reflection of the political void among Sunni politicians left by the death of Mr. Hariri. Under the Constitution, the prime minister must be a Sunni, the president a Maronite Christian and the speaker of Parliament a Shiite.
 ''The decision seems absurd, even Kafkaesque,'' said Joseph Samaha, the editor in chief of the Beirut newspaper Al Safir. ''But the death of Mr. Hariri has left a huge void. Unfortunately there are few people left.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Omar Karami, the re-elected prime minister, at Beirut's presidential palace yesterday. He had quit last week under anti-Syria pressure. (Photo by Mahmoud Tawil/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%) Politics and Government; United States International Relations; Demonstrations and Riots; Appointments and Executive Changes

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (59%) Hezbollah

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); EMILE LAHOUD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Omar Karami; George W (Pres) Bush; Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (95%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) SYRIA (97%); LEBANON (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%) Lebanon; Syria; Beirut (Lebanon); Lebanon

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005



199 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: False Diagnosis

BYLINE: By Bernard Black, Charles Silver, David Hyman and William Sage. 
Bernard Black and Charles Silver are law professors at the University of Texas at Austin. David Hyman is a professor of law and medicine at the University of Illinois. William Sage is a law professor at Columbia.

DATELINE: Austin, Tex. 

 BODY:
MEDICAL malpractice litigation reform is a high priority for President Bush, who contends that juries are running amok, multimillion-dollar settlements are on the rise and greedy trial lawyers are filing frivolous suits. The results, Mr. Bush and others argue, include skyrocketing insurance prices, abandoned medical practices, defensive medicine and a crisis of access to care. Their proposed solution: caps on jury awards to patients and on lawyers' contingent fees. 
 No one disputes that insurance premiums have risen significantly. The question is whether a crisis in states' tort systems accounts for the increase. Consider Mr. Bush's home state of Texas, America's second most populous state and the third largest in terms of total health care spending. After studying a database maintained by the Texas Department of Insurance that contains all insured malpractice claims resolved between 1988 and 2002, we saw no evidence of a tort crisis. Adjusting for inflation and rising population, we arrived at the following findings: 
 Large claims (with payouts of at least $25,000 in 1988 dollars) were roughly constant in frequency.
 The percentage of claims with payments of more than $1 million remained steady at about 6 percent of all large claims.
 The number of total paid claims per 100 practicing physicians per year fell to fewer than five in 2002 from greater than six in 1990-92. 
 Mean and median payouts per large paid claim were roughly constant. 
 Jury verdicts in favor of plaintiffs showed no trend over time. 
 The total cost of large malpractice claims was both stable and a small fraction (less than 1 percent) of total health care expenditures in Texas.
 In short, as far as medical malpractice cases are concerned, for 15 years the Texas tort system has been remarkably stable. Texas's situation is not unique. One study of Florida's experience from 1990 to 2003 also found declines in paid claims per 100 practicing physicians as well as per 100,000 population. Over the same period in Missouri, the total number of malpractice claims fell by about 40 percent and the number of paid claims dropped almost by half. 
 Malpractice premiums have risen sharply in Texas and many other states. But, at least in Texas, the sharp spikes in insurance prices reflect forces operating outside the tort system.
 The medical malpractice system has many problems, but a crisis in claims, payouts and jury verdicts is not among them. Thus, the federal ''solution'' that Mr. Bush proposes is both overbroad and directed at the wrong problem. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (92%); JURY TRIALS (91%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (91%); VERDICTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); TORTS (90%); TORT REFORM (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); DAMAGES (78%); INSURANCE (77%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (72%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (58%) Medicine and Health; Suits and Litigation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Malpractice; Insurance; Medicine and Health; Doctors; Jury System ; Legal Profession; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) William (Prof) Sage; George W (Pres) Bush; Bernard (Prof) Black; Charles Silver; David (Prof) Hyman

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (97%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Texas

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005



200 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Putting Last Things First

 BODY:
This week, there was more evidence that the world has begun edging away from the dollar. International data showed that several more nations who have been big customers for American debt -- including China and India -- have diversified their portfolios away from the American greenback. To us, that sounds like a serious threat to the long-term soundness of the national currency. But the Bush administration hasn't come close to addressing any of the economic fundamentals that have helped spawn the dollar's decline (the budget deficit comes to mind). Instead, the White House has been busy lobbying for new tax cuts that will make the situation worse. 
 Meanwhile, in a world in which the United States desperately needs international cooperation on everything from curbing the trade in terrorist weaponry to presenting a united front to countries like Iran and Syria, President Bush is spending his political capital on getting John Bolton, a longtime critic of multilateralism, as representative to the United Nations.
 We had hoped, when Mr. Bush was re-elected, that he'd rethink his goals once the next campaign was no longer an issue. There are so many critical problems facing the nation. But the president seems determined to ignore the biggest challenges and to home in on politically charged side issues. Medicare faces a perilous future, given growing health costs and the aging of the baby boomer population, and anything approaching a resolution would require hard bipartisan work. But the White House instead decided to make privatizing Social Security its chief priority. Social Security's long-term problems are relatively minor compared with Medicare's, and the fixes are pretty obvious.
 The list goes on and on. When we look at problems that cry out for White House involvement, one that leaps out is our dependency on foreign oil. That not only leaves us hostage to some of the shakiest and most unappetizing oil-producing nations around the globe, but also threatens the entire economy over the long term, given that rising oil prices make the trade deficit even bigger and the dollar even weaker. Another huge economic threat, at least for some agricultural regions, is the growing international pressure to end our irrational subsidy program for crops like cotton. Both of these are tricky political issues that require steady and firm presidential intervention.
 We haven't heard Mr. Bush make a big deal about either, except for his fixation with drilling in the Arctic wildlife preserve. Meanwhile in Congress, all the political capital is being directed toward putting an anti-environmental former lobbyist for mining interests on the federal bench, and passing a new law that will make it difficult for middle-class credit card users who suffer a life catastrophe -- like sudden illness or divorce -- to get back on their feet after they have to declare bankruptcy.
 The priorities of this administration never cease to amaze. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); LOBBYING (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); AGING TRENDS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); TAX LAW (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); TERRORISM (68%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); OIL EXTRACTION (67%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%); WILDLIFE (50%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%) United States Politics and Government; Editorials; Currency; United States Economy; Social Security (US); Medicare; Taxation; Medicine and Health ; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Presidents and Presidency (US); United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (92%); SYRIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ARCTIC (65%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005

 
