

1001 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Resurrecting California's Public Universities

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Even before the recession hit, the public colleges and universities that educate more than 70 percent of the nation's students were suffering from dwindling state revenue. Their response, not surprisingly, was to raise tuition, slash course offerings and, in some cases, freeze or even reduce student enrollment. The damage was acute in California, whose once-glorious system of higher education effectively cannibalized itself, shutting out a growing number of well-qualified students.
The same California State Legislature that cut the higher education budget to ribbons, while spending ever larger sums on prisons, now proposes to magically set things right by requiring public colleges and universities to offer more online courses. The problem is that online courses as generally configured are not broadly useful. They work well for highly skilled, highly motivated students but are potentially disastrous for large numbers of struggling students who lack basic competencies and require remedial education. These courses would be a questionable fit for first-time freshmen in the 23-campus California State University system, more than 60 percent of whom need remedial instruction in math, English or both. 
The story of how the state's fabled higher education system got to this point is told in a troubling analysis by the Public Policy Institute of California, a nonpartisan think tank. In simplest terms, the state has been de-emphasizing higher education spending for decades while shifting more money to other areas, most notably corrections. The net result is that despite growing demand, spending on higher education over the last decade has declined by 9 percent while expenditures for corrections and rehabilitation have shot up by more than a quarter.
For these reasons, the report says, the percentage of recent high school graduates who enroll in the state's public universities -- including the 10 noted research campuses of the University of California, like the Berkeley campus -- declined by about a fifth over the last five years. Many of the state's brightest students appear to be attending schools in other states, raising fears that they might never come back. Other students have settled for poorly staffed, overcrowded community colleges and are unlikely to move on to four-year colleges.
Alarmingly, the institute estimates that about 10 percent of students who qualified for admission to the elite University of California system did not enroll anywhere, perhaps because they were turned away from their first-choice schools.
The report suggests that the portents for California's economy are not favorable. If the current trends continue -- with some students leaving and others deciding not to go to school at all -- California, which cannot rely on imported graduates for its labor force, could fall one million college degree holders short of what it needs to drive its economy by 2025.
California has recently shown signs of coming to its senses. Last fall, voters approved Proposition 30, which raises taxes and directs most of the proceeds to education. Gov. Jerry Brown has also called for a higher education increase in his current executive budget.
At the same time, however, the Legislature is awash in bills that seem to assume that online education is the answer to to the problem. One particularly ludicrous bill would create a ''New University of California'' that offered no instruction but would issue credentials to people merely for passing exams. Another bill would require public colleges and universities to give credit for faculty-approved online courses taken by students who were unable to register for oversubscribed courses on campus. That is a more plausible alternative than the ''New University of California.''
Online classes are and will be part of the educational mix, in California and elsewhere. But they cannot be counted on to revive a beleaguered public system whose mission is to educate a great many freshmen who need close instruction and human contact to succeed. To broaden access and preserve what is left of the public university, California lawmakers will need to change budget priorities that have been moving in the wrong direction for a long time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); DISTANCE LEARNING (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); TRENDS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%); SCHOOL CHOICE (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



1002 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Your State's Gun Control Just Got Stricter? Come on Down!

BYLINE: By REEVE HAMILTON. 
rhamilton@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Gov. Rick Perry speaks wistfully -- almost lovingly -- about a rifle he recently fired while he was at a range in Leander owned by the manufacturer LaRue Tactical. ''I'm incredibly passionate about a well-made piece of equipment,'' Mr. Perry said in a phone interview last week, ''whether it's an automobile or a weapon.''
After the visit, LaRue posted Mr. Perry's results online. From 100 yards away, the governor took three shots and grouped them -- two shots hit the same spot -- mere millimeters from the center of the target.
''That was pretty good, wasn't it?'' Mr. Perry said, though he gave most of the credit to the machinery. ''If you don't have a very well-made weapon, then I don't care how steady your aim, how controlled your breathing or how smooth your trigger pull is.'' 
As debates over gun control intensify across the nation, Mr. Perry and some of his colleagues in the Texas Legislature are pushing to have more weapons of that sort made in the state. Mr. Perry said his office had sent letters to 34 different firearms and accessories manufacturers in other states, particularly where stricter gun and ammunition laws are being considered or passed, encouraging them to relocate to Texas.
Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst and United States Senator Ted Cruz have made similar overtures to out-of-state companies, including Beretta U.S.A. in Maryland and Smith & Wesson in Massachusetts. The effort is not limited to a letter-writing campaign. State Senator Craig Estes, Republican of Wichita Falls, has filed a bill that would formally add incentive programs for gun manufacturers to the state's economic development statute.
''Gun manufacturers and people in that industry have been under attack by states who are threatening their Second Amendment rights,'' Mr. Estes said. ''We want them to realize that Texas is open for business and Texas is a gun-friendly state.''
When the legislation was considered recently before the Senate Agriculture, Rural Affairs and Homeland Security Committee, no one testified against it. One committee member, Senator Carlos Uresti, Democrat of San Antonio, voted against the bill, but his opposition had less to do with guns and more to do with giving the governor what Mr. Uresti called ''a blank check to offer a variety of tax exemptions and other incentives'' to such manufacturers.
Mr. Uresti, whose committee vote will mean the bill will probably be debated by the full Senate, rather than sliding through on the little-scrutinized local and uncontested calendar, argued that any businesses that wanted to move to Texas should share the full burden of financing state services.
''According to the comptroller's office, such tax breaks this year will cost the state $37.7 billion and school districts $6.2 billion in lost revenue,'' he said. ''I'm not against attracting gun and ammunition manufacturers to Texas.''
Mr. Perry said he did not need legislation to use state resources to recruit businesses to Texas; his activities related to gun makers are just a part of his overall economic development strategy.
But, he added, ''often there are pieces of legislation that get filed that send a message.''
Even the state's gun-control advocates concede that Texas is gun-friendly.
Marsha McCartney, president of the Texas Chapters of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, conceded that Texas was ''a few election cycles away from passing laws like they did in Colorado.''
Lawmakers there recently passed bills limiting ammunition-magazine capacity and requiring background checks for all gun purchasers. The move prompted the gun-accessory manufacturer Magpul Industries to announce on Facebook that it would begin its ''transition out of the state.'' Mr. Perry has been courting the company intensely.
Ms. McCartney said she did not have particular concerns about more weapons-related businesses moving to the state. ''I'm sure they will follow the laws in Texas,'' she said, ''just like all Texans will have to follow the federal laws.''
The success of Texas' recruitment efforts may hinge on how the federal gun-control debate shakes out.
''If there was a federal ban on certain types of firearms, it wouldn't matter where you were,'' said Joe Bartozzi, senior vice president and general counsel for the Connecticut-based gun manufacturer O. F. Mossberg & Sons. Mr. Bartozzi said support for measures that would curtail manufacturers appeared to be waning in Washington.
On Thursday, President Obama delivered an impassioned speech aimed at breathing new life into the push for tighter federal gun laws. He mentioned the December shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. -- not far from Mossberg's headquarters -- saying, ''Shame on us if we've forgotten.''
Connecticut is considering gun-control measures that include a potential ban on assault weapons of the sort made by Mossberg.
''All things being equal, we don't want to move,'' Mr. Bartozzi said. ''But we have to consider that the Legislature here could do things that make staying here very difficult.''
Mr. Bartozzi said he had received inviting letters from Mr. Perry as well as from local chambers of commerce throughout Texas.
Mr. Perry accused those who had responded to recent tragedies by proposing tighter gun restrictions of ''playing politics'' and erroneously blaming weapons for societal failures.
His recruitment effort, he said, was different. ''We're responding to the age-old situation of 'Go live where you're most comfortable,' '' Mr. Perry said. ''If other states want to restrict component manufacturing, that's their call. Texas wants to be a place where freedom is still very much alive.''
Mossberg & Sons already has a toehold in Texas. The company recently expanded its roughly 20-year-old facilities in Eagle Pass. ''It's coincidental,'' Mr. Bartozzi said, ''but it certainly takes on much bigger import now.''
Some companies are making the move unprompted. Though no one recruited him, John Harrington, a native Texan, recently decided to relocate his company, Shield Tactical, from Orange County, Calif., to Shiner, east of San Antonio.
In Texas, he said, ''it's an iota of bureaucracy.'' In California, ''it's like before you put up your range you have to be worried about whether the noise level is going to bother the 10-headed duckmouse.''
Mr. Harrington said he was not concerned about more competition moving in. After all, he said, Texas is among the world's top 20 economies.
''If Magpul wants to come and move right next door to me,'' he added, ''I say, bring it on.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A display at McBride's Guns in Austin. Gov. Rick Perry is leading an effort to attract firearms and accessories manufacturers in other states to Texas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CALLIE RICHMOND FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); SMALL ARMS MFG (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATION (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); RELOCATIONS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); TAX LAW (65%)

COMPANY: SMITH & WESSON CORP (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (54%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (93%); TED CRUZ (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



1003 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: A Sustainable Budget Should Endure Any Storm

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard. He was an adviser to President George W. Bush.

 BODY:
IN the national debate over fiscal policy, an important question is what the long-run goal should be. Representative Paul D. Ryan, chairman of the House Budget Committee, has a plan to balance the federal budget in 10 years. When asked if he would do the same, President Obama demurred.
''My goal is not to chase a balanced budget just for the sake of balance,'' the president told George Stephanopoulos of ABC News. The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said the president's goal was instead a ''fiscally sustainable path.'' 
Which raises two questions: What is fiscal sustainability? And how do we know when we have achieved it?
For you and me, the answer is pretty easy. As individuals, we have to balance our budgets over our lifetimes. In other words, in the long run, our spending is constrained by our earnings. If you ever tried to imitate the federal government, by spending more than you earned every year, your creditors would eventually catch on and pull the plug.
The federal government, however, is very different. Having survived now for more than two centuries, it has been granted the presumption of immortality by its creditors. As a result, there is no final day of reckoning on which all debts need to be repaid.
That means that the federal government can run budget deficits year after year, racking up ever-higher debt. And, indeed, that is pretty much what it has done throughout history. With the exception of a few years starting in the late 1990s, when the Internet bubble fueled an economic boom, goosed tax revenue and made President Clinton look like a miracle worker, the federal government has run a budget deficit consistently for the last 40 years. The debt that the federal government owes to the public has risen to about $12 trillion, from $341 billion in 1973.
It may be tempting to look at these facts and to conclude that there's no limit to what the federal government can borrow. But that would be a mistake. Even though the credit markets give the government more latitude than they give to ordinary individuals, the government still faces limits. It can borrow for a long time, perhaps even forever, but it can't go nuts about it.
A metric that economists often use to evaluate a government's fiscal position is the ratio of the government debt to the nation's gross domestic product. G.D.P. measures the total income in the economy and thus reflects the government's tax base. The higher the debt-to-G.D.P. ratio, the more a government will struggle to service its outstanding liabilities.
As a nation, the United States was born with a debt-to-G.D.P. ratio of about 42 percent, thanks to loans that were taken out to finance the American Revolution. In fact, throughout the nation's history, the most common cause of increases in the debt-to-G.D.P. ratio has been the expenses associated with military conflict.
The Civil War increased the ratio from 2 percent in 1860 to 34 percent in 1865. World War I increased it from 3 percent in 1914 to 31 percent in 1919. And World War II increased it from 44 percent in 1941 to 109 percent in 1946, the highest level in history.
The second most common cause of increases in the debt-to-G.D.P. ratio has been deep economic downturns. In 1933, during the Great Depression, the ratio was 44 percent, up from 16 percent in 1929. The recent financial crisis and deep recession have had a similar effect. The debt-to-G.D.P. ratio has increased to 77 percent, from 36 percent in 2007.
SO what does President Obama mean when he talks about fiscal sustainability? He doesn't mean running a surplus and repaying the debts that have been incurred on his watch, as people who spend more than they earn would have to do. Nor does he mean balancing the budget, as Representative Ryan suggests. Rather, the president seems to mean keeping the debt-to-G.D.P. ratio stable at this new, higher level. That is certainly what the last budget he submitted proposed to do.
Achieving this goal is much easier than balancing the budget. Because G.D.P. grows, the government debt can continue to grow as well, just not too fast. Stabilizing the debt-to-G.D.P. ratio requires that future budget deficits be smaller than they have been over the last few years, but they can still be sizable.
Yet this goal, hard to reach as it might be in the current political environment, is still too modest. The problem is that budget projections are based on forecasts, and such forecasts exclude the extreme events that have historically driven up government debt.
Military and economic catastrophes are, by their nature, unpredictable. While we can't plan on one, prudence requires that we take their possibility into account. In normal times, when we are lucky enough to enjoy peace and prosperity, the debt-to-G.D.P. ratio shouldn't just be stable; it should be falling. That has generally been the case throughout our history, and it should become the case again as we look forward.
The bottom line is that President Obama is right that sustainability is a reasonable benchmark for evaluating long-run fiscal policy. But the standard he applies when evaluating it appears too easy. It will leave us too vulnerable when the next catastrophe strikes.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL HOPPE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (69%); HISTORY (66%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



1004 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Anger Over Plan to Sell Site Of Wounded Knee Massacre

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

 BODY:
WOUNDED KNEE, S.D. -- Ever since American soldiers massacred men, women and children here more than a century ago in the last major bloodshed of the American Indian wars, this haunted patch of rolling hills and ponderosa pines has embodied the combustible relationship between Indians and the United States government.
It was here that a group of Indian activists aired their grievances against the government with a forceful takeover in 1973 that resulted in protests, a bloody standoff with federal agents and deep divisions among the Indian people.
And now the massacre site, which passed into non-Indian hands generations ago, is up for sale, once again dragging Wounded Knee to the center of the Indian people's bitter struggle against perceived injustice -- as well as sowing rifts within the tribe over whether it would be proper, should the tribe get the land, to develop it in a way that brings some money to the destitute region. 
James A. Czywczynski of Rapid City is asking $3.9 million for the 40-acre plot he owns here, far more than the $7,000 that the deeply impoverished Oglala Sioux say the land is worth. Mr. Czywczynski insists that his price fairly accounts for the land's sentimental and historical value, an attitude that the people here see as disrespect.
''That historical value means something to us, not him,'' said Garfield Steele, a member of the tribal council who represents Wounded Knee. ''We see that greed around here all the time with non-Indians. To me, you can't put a price on the lives that were taken there.''
Land disputes strike an emotional chord for American Indians, given the United States' long history of neglected promises and broken treaties. The clash over Wounded Knee is raising the moral, legal and social quandaries that have burdened generations of American Indians.
Should they even have to buy land that they believe was stolen from them? Should the land be developed or preserved as sacred? Should the tribe, whose people are among the poorest in America, capitalize on what happened here?
Just last year, the Great Sioux Nation found itself in a similar struggle to preserve sacred ground. Pe' Sla, a vast swath of Black Hills prairie land that they believe was the site of an epic battle between good and evil, was put up for sale by a non-Indian. Several Sioux bands, fearing that the land could be desecrated by commercial development, raised $9 million to buy the 1,942 acres.
The outlook for acquiring the Wounded Knee parcel, which sits on the Pine Ridge Reservation, is not as bright. The burden for buying the land will probably fall to the Oglala Sioux tribe, which is at least $60 million in debt, according to its treasurer, Mason Big Crow, and would need to borrow money to meet Mr. Czywczynski's asking price.
The massacre on Dec. 29, 1890, was said to have started when a shot rang out as soldiers of the United States Seventh Cavalry searched Chief Big Foot's band, which it had arrested and detained here. (Some Indians hypothesize that the massacre was retribution for the routing of Gen. George Custer and his troops at Little Bighorn 14 years earlier.) Estimates of the death toll vary from 150 to more than 300, with some of the bodies recovered on the land Mr. Czywczynski owns.
The land is believed to have gotten into non-Indian hands sometime after a process of allotment began in the late 1800s in which the federal government divided land among the Indians and gave some parcels to non-Indians. Mr. Czywczynski bought the land in 1968, lived there and ran the trading post and museum. He moved away in 1973, after the violent occupation of Wounded Knee by an organization known as the American Indian Movement left much of the town destroyed, including the trading post and his home. Mr. Czywczynski said he had been trying to sell the land to the Oglala Sioux for about three decades, and he blamed the tribe's internal disorder for his inability to do so.
''They never could agree on anything,'' he said. ''They either did not have the money; some wanted it, some didn't want it; it was too high, too low. I've come to the conclusion now, at my age, I'm 74 years old, I'm going to sell the property.''
If the tribe does not buy it by May 1, Mr. Czywczynski said, he will put it up for auction on the open market.
The Oglala Sioux president, Bryan V. Brewer, said, ''I don't think we should buy something back that we own.'' He added that he would leave it up to the descendants of the massacre to plan a way forward.
But that promises to be tricky. There is considerable disagreement over whether the tribe should profit from Wounded Knee through, for instance, developing tourist attractions.
''Whenever we discuss this Wounded Knee massacre topic, it takes us into a deep, deep psychological state because we have to relive the whole horror,'' said Nathan Blindman, 56, one of whose ancestors survived the massacre. ''Anything that might indicate that as descendants we're profiting from our ancestors' tragedy, we can't ever do that.''
Phyllis Hollow Horn, 56, whose great-grandmother and great-aunt were among the survivors, said she would be open to an educational memorial, but was hesitant about seeing the tribe profit.
''How and who should do that is a whole big question,'' she said. ''Ultimately, that's a decision the descendants have to make.''
But many find that unyielding traditionalism hard to swallow, given the hardship on the reservation. Shannon County, which encompasses most of Pine Ridge, has the highest percentage of people living below poverty in the nation at 53.5 percent, according to census data compiled by Social Explorer. Nearly three-quarters of the people in the county are either unemployed or not in the work force.
Proponents of commercialism at Wounded Knee note that community members already profit at the site, selling crafts to tourists in the area. This frequently leads to turf battles, and some have suggested building a market to bring order to the trade.
Garry Rowland, a Wounded Knee native, runs a one-room visitor center that he built next to the mass grave where most of the massacre victims were buried. Some residents have criticized his center, calling it unofficial and accusing him of profiting on the blood of their ancestors.
But Mr. Rowland said that his great-great-grandfather Chief Fire Lightning owned the land before the massacre and that his family should decide what should be done. (Ms. Hollow Horn disputed that Fire Lightning owned the land or that he was a chief.)
''We don't charge admission to our museum,'' said Mr. Rowland, who participated in the 1973 takeover, hangs the American flag upside down and proudly wears an F.B.I. cap that he says stands for ''full-blooded Indian.'' ''We're just trying to preserve what history took place here. We tell the truth of what happened.''
Some have advocated for development like a gas station and a general store to save on the roughly 20-minute drive to Pine Ridge for basic amenities. They also say that building a motel would help attract visitors.
While she respects the lives lost in the massacre, Lillian Red Star Fire Thunder, a 79-year-old Wounded Knee resident, said she disagreed with those who ''make it sound like it's taboo'' to develop the land.
''That was yesterday; tomorrow is going to be tomorrow,'' she said. ''They should think about the future for the children, the families.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Nathan Blindman, a descendant of a survivor of the 1890 massacre at Wounded Knee, near the marker that stands at the mass grave. Left, a member of the American Indian Movement in Wounded Knee in 1973, the year the group took over the town, resulting in a siege that lasted weeks. More photographs at nytimes.com /national. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A12)
Left, James A. Czywczynski is selling a parcel of land that includes the Wounded Knee massacre site. Right, Lillian Red Star Fire Thunder, with her grandson and son, supports developing the area
 A roadside spot near the massacre site where people sell crafts. Some residents here want to build a less makeshift market. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RAPID CITY, SD, USA (78%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



1005 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: A Man of His Time

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FREEDLAND. 
Jonathan Freedland is an editorial page columnist for The Guardian of London.

 BODY:
KARL MARXA Nineteenth-Century Life
By Jonathan SperberIllustrated. 648 pp. Liveright Publishing Corporation. $35.
The Karl Marx depicted in Jonathan Sperber's absorbing, meticulously researched biography will be unnervingly familiar to anyone who has had even the most fleeting acquaintance with radical politics. Here is a man never more passionate than when attacking his own side, saddled with perennial money problems and still reliant on his parents for cash, constantly plotting new, world-changing ventures yet having trouble with both deadlines and personal hygiene, living in rooms that some might call bohemian, others plain ''slummy,'' and who can be maddeningly inconsistent when not lapsing into elaborate flights of theory and unintelligible abstraction.
Still, it comes as a shock to realize that the ultimate leftist, the father of Communism itself, fits a recognizable pattern. It's like discovering that Jesus Christ regularly organized bake sales at his local church. So inflated and elevated is the global image of Marx, whether revered as a revolutionary icon or reviled as the wellspring of Soviet totalitarianism, that it's unsettling to encounter a genuine human being, a character one might come across today. If the Marx described by Sperber, a professor at the University of Missouri specializing in European history, were around in 2013, he would be a compulsive blogger, and picking Twitter fights with Andrew Sullivan and Naomi Klein. 
But that's cheating. The express purpose of ''Karl Marx: A Nineteenth-Century Life'' is to dispel the dominant notion of a timeless Marx -- less man, more ideological canon -- and relocate him where he lived and belonged, in his own time, not ours. Standing firm against the avalanche of studies claiming Marx as forever ''our contemporary,'' Sperber sets out to depict instead ''a figure of the past,'' not ''a prophet of the present.''
And he succeeds in the primary task of all biography, recreating a man who leaps off the page. We travel with Marx from his hometown, Trier, via student carousing in Bonn and Berlin, to his debut in political journalism in Cologne and on to exile and revolutionary activity in Paris, Brussels and London. We see his thought develop, but glimpse also the begging letters to his mother, requesting an advance on his inheritance, along with the enduring anxiety over whether he can provide for the wife he has loved since he was a teenager. We hear of the sleepless nights that follow the start of the American Civil War: Marx is troubled not by the fate of the Union, but by the loss of freelance income from The New York Tribune, which, consumed by matters closer to home, no longer requires his services as a European correspondent. We see the trips to the pawnbrokers, the pressure to maintain bourgeois living standards, ''the show of respectability,'' as Marx put it to his closest friend and co-conspirator, Friedrich Engels.
The picture that emerges is a rounded, humane one. Marx is committed to revolution, without being a monomaniac. He is an intensely loving father, playing energetically with his children and later grandchildren, but also suffering what would now be diagnosed as a two-year depression following the death of his 8-year-old son Edgar. He is clearly also an infuriating colleague, capable of spending 12-hour days in the reading room of the British Museum but stewing on book projects for years, only to fail to deliver. Engels, Sperber writes, spent decades repeating the same message: Get the work done!
Besides the long, devoted marriage to Jenny, there is another love story here: the partnership with Engels, who it seems was prepared to do anything for his comrade. Engels famously subsidized Marx; perhaps less well known is that he spared his friend a scandal by claiming paternity of the child born to the Marx family servant, Lenchen Demuth: the boy was in fact Karl's son. After the great man's death, it was Engels who waded through Marx's scrawled notes to assemble, and publish posthumously, the final two volumes of ''Das Kapital.'' Even Marx's signature text, ''The Communist Manifesto,'' included a 10-point program lifted almost verbatim from an earlier Engels program. Engels was Aaron to Marx's Moses, able to speak in public and so make up for the deficiencies of his partner, who was burdened by both a strong Rhineland accent and a lisp. Such was his devotion that Engels even planted anonymous reviews of ''Das Kapital'' in the German press. Imagine what the pair would have got up to in the age of Amazon.
All this is fascinating enough as human drama (complemented by Sperber's provision of a comprehensive reading of every Marx-related text -- whether speeches, letters, articles, grocery bills or invoices -- in a winningly informal, readable style). But it has extra value. For the act of reclaiming Marx as a man, and a man of his time, alters the way we understand his ideas.
Plenty of scholars sweated through the 20th century trying to reconcile inconsistencies across the great sweep of Marx's writing, seeking to shape a coherent Marxism out of Marx. Sperber's approach is more pragmatic. He accepts that Marx was not a body of ideas, but a human being responding to events. In this context, it's telling that Marx's prime vocation was not as an academic but as a campaigning journalist: Sperber suggests Marx's two stints at the helm of a radical paper in Cologne represented his greatest periods of professional fulfillment. Accordingly, much of what the scholars have tried to brand as Marxist philosophy was instead contemporary commentary, reactive and therefore full of contradiction.
Thus in 1848 Marx could make a speech denouncing as ''nonsense'' the very idea of a revolutionary dictatorship of the proletariat, even though that notion formed a core plank of Marxist doctrine. The old Communist academicians used to insist the text of that speech must have been a forgery, but Sperber believes in its authenticity. Marx delivered it to a Rhineland audience then demanding the broadest possible front against authoritarian Prussian rule. Pitting one Rhenish class against another made no sense in that place at that time, so ''Marx repudiated his own writing.'' The book makes clear that, determined though Marx was to devise an overarching theory of political economy, he was, even in exile, forever preoccupied with German politics and fueled by a lifelong loathing of Prussian despotism. Whatever he wrote in the abstract was informed by the current and concrete.
Only in one area do Sperber's efforts at contextualization fall short. He argues that Marx's writings on the Jewish question, including his hostile comments about Jews, should be understood as ''embedded'' in the attitudes of the age and therefore not deemed straightforwardly anti-Semitic. But such a view is not easy to hold given the evidence Sperber himself marshals, including an 1875 letter to Engels in which Marx -- born a Jew, apparently just before his father's conversion to Protestantism -- casually describes a fellow train passenger as a ''little Yid,'' before offering a description that Sperber, to his credit, concedes ''is a stereotypical denunciation of an uncultured and greedy Jew.''
Not that this relatively soft treatment of Marx's anti-Semitism detracts from the overall achievement of the book. Sperber forces us to look anew at a man whose influence lives on. And he also offers a useful template for how we might approach other great figures, especially the great thinkers, of history -- demystifying the words and deeds of those who too often are lazily deemed sacred. For all the books that have been written about America's founding fathers, for example, we still await the historian who will do for them what Jonathan Sperber has done for Karl Marx.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RALF HIRSCHBERGER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY (GERMANY, 2008)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); HISTORY (78%); POLITICS (77%); RELIGION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); CIVIL WAR (65%); LIVING STANDARDS (62%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (60%)

COMPANY: LIVERIGHT PUBLISHING CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (55%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) MISSOURI, USA (55%) GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (74%); FRANCE (67%); UNITED STATES (55%); BELGIUM (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



1006 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Peculiar Institutions

BYLINE: By MAJOR JACKSON. 
Major Jackson is a professor at the University of Vermont and the author of three books of poetry, most recently ''Holding Company.''

 BODY:
WASHBy Margaret Wrinkle
408 pp. Atlantic Monthly Press. $25.
One of the challenges white writers face in creating black characters is the avoidance of caricature and stereotype. If cultural appropriation must take place, the thinking goes, then authors should treat black narratives -- often the products of American history, and thus as sacred as the Constitution itself -- with kid gloves. If they fail even in the slightest, readers are sure to voice criticism and, maybe justifiably, rain down judgment and reckoning.
Too much singing and dancing, Al Jolson-style, will activate the siren button of the race police. Gratuitous portrayals of black people as oversexed might lead to protests (and the best-seller list) -- but so too might the rendering of a historic black hero as humane and full of complexities, something other than a cardboard, iconic, brave champion of the people. 
Recently, Kathryn Stockett, author of ''The Help,'' was criticized for presuming to speak from the perspective of black domestic workers in 1960s Mississippi. A few decades earlier, William Styron's ''Confessions of Nat Turner,'' which among other offenses imagines the great rebellion leader fantasizing about raping white women, gave rise to a whole anthology in rebuttal, ''William Styron's Nat Turner: Ten Black Writers Respond.'' Strong dissent and hostility may confront anyone interested in using fiction to tell the story of African-Americans. When it comes to literary portrayals of black people, no one is indifferent and no one is spared scrutiny, not even black authors.
Leaping headlong into these turbulent waters, Margaret Wrinkle has written ''Wash,'' a debut novel about slave breeding in Tennessee during the country's westward expansion, and a masterly literary work that will surely earn praise at every turn. Of course, novels about the past are less about the historical periods in question than about how we interpret them through a present-day lens to achieve greater understanding. And what topic needs more understanding than the sexual violence that fueled the economic engine of the 19th-century South?
''Wash'' is narrated, in luxuriant prose, chiefly by three characters: Richardson, a Revolutionary War veteran and diffident slave owner who resorts to breeding to stave off debt; Wash, the protagonist, who serves as Richardson's breeding sire (or ''traveling negro'') even as he attempts to find within himself a freedom his body does not possess; and Pallas, Wash's lover, a midwife and medicine woman from a neighboring farm, whose owner once leased her for three years to another plantation as a sex slave for the proprietor's sons. In short, affecting passages, these characters tell their stories, often with considerable overlap. The technique gracefully waltzes a reader through the novel's more violent peaks and turns while undergirding one of its main assertions: the interrelatedness of the characters' destinies. Black and white, these figures are thrown together in brutal or loving relation to one another, harboring feelings the institution of slavery forbade.
Richardson inherits a legacy of pain from his father, disguised as financial success and masculine achievement. His ambition pushes him to become a man of means and influence both as a soldier and as an unenthusiastic slaveholder. Yet, feeling alienated from the sons who will inevitably claim his power, Richardson coerces a friendship with Wash, who has to bear his master's inebriated visits to the horse barn where he lives and listen to his woeful stories.
''He started coming later and later,'' Wash says, ''talking at me into the damn middle of the night, always sitting a little too close and forever holding that flask. Telling me all his insides whether he meant to or not. At first, it made me feel big because it gave me something on him. Like he was giving me a stick to poke him with. But as time went on, I saw it wasn't a stick for poking him or hitting him neither. It was bigger. More like a heavy wooden beam. A beam I couldn't hardly lift. All his telling did was pull me too close to hit him good.''
Like many of the characters, Wash (the name is short for ''Washington'') attempts to cultivate a sense of freedom. His mother instills in him the power of ancestry, spirit-work and self-possession as a way to survive the tribulations of slavery. She teaches him to make talismans and charms, to claim the land with rocks and altars, and gives him the gift of language and lineage by describing his extended family and her history with his father, so that his people breathe beside him, serving as a wall of life when he feels the death of slavery upon him. Yet Wash has a difficult time applying his mother's resources when they might keep him out of trouble.
Consider a violent encounter at the center of the novel. While Richardson is off serving in the military, Wash is left in a friend's care just as he begins to grow into a powerful young man. The friend's son is terrified of ''saltwater Africans'' -- a fear prevalent among plantation owners who knew of Toussaint L'Ouverture's uprising in Haiti -- and he provokes Wash to speak his mind in an impudent moment of self-regard. In the next instant, the son has snatched a claw hammer and struck him down:
''Nobody moved. I went down like a rag doll, they said. Landed on my belly, cheek to the ground, hit side up. My dark cap turning darker. Catching the blood seeping and I'm staring across rough winter grass with one eye swelling shut.''
Ripe with violence and vulnerability, this is the moment that sticks with you when Wash leaves on Fridays in a wagon to have sex with women on nearby plantations. Wrinkle tastefully abstains from narrating too many of these scenes. Grand narratives of American slavery are replete with stories of runaways or resistances in the form of conjuring or outright rebellion. However, Wash believes that he will exact his revenge on the corrupt system by populating this part of the South with his children. His resistance will come through his offspring, which helps him to cope with his appointed, dehumanizing task and the fact that he must suppress the part of him that longs for physical freedom.
Wrinkle's prose is lush -- at times to a fault, as the novel veers into metaphor and allegory. As if the abiding notion of the stud were not enough, on several occasions Wrinkle goes at length to squeeze the symbol of the mare into a metaphor for Wash's fate, revealing an ecstatic intemperance with figures of speech. Quite possibly, too, the novel is overly self-conscious about speaking back to the past, and it sometimes devolves into aphorisms, as when Wrinkle insists that the dead and their deeds are ''all here, all connected, all the time, regardless.''
Yet I was moved by this story. Some would argue we are still living with the effects of slave breeding. Wrinkle's novel does not allow us to draw easy correlations but invites us to consider the painful inheritance and implications of such a horrendous moment in American history. Rather than disapproving opprobrium and diatribes, this debut occasions celebration. Haunting, tender and superbly measured, ''Wash'' is both redemptive and affirming.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF MARGARET WRINKLE BY DANA WALDON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); SLAVERY (87%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (87%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); HISTORY (77%); SEX OFFENSES (75%); BESTSELLERS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



1007 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: 'Going To Tehran'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
To encourage constructive debate, we will address two of the larger issues raised in -- and by -- Laura Secor's review of our book ''Going to Tehran: Why the United States Must Come to Terms With the Islamic Republic of Iran'' (March 3).
Secor's journalistic record identifies her as someone with a preference for remaking the Middle East along Western liberal lines. But this preference can all too readily end in the robust application of American military power, as we saw in the case of the Iraq war. Indeed, Secor arguably contributed to that war by publishing an article that provided a platform for Kanan Makiya, the leading intellectual voice in the United States for Ahmad Chalabi's notorious Iraqi National Congress, to make his case that American military action would lead to secular liberal democracy in Iraq. 
More important, she seems to have learned nothing from the colossal damage that the Iraq war has done to America's strategic position, in the Middle East and globally. Instead, she has shifted her prism toward Iran -- where, she holds, no legitimate politics can take place until the end of Islamist governance. It is, of course, her right to hold that view. But given her appallingly bad judgment regarding Iraq, assigning her the task of reviewing a book like ours, which challenges American elites' ''conventional wisdom'' about the Islamic Republic so that the kinds of mistakes made regarding Iraq would not be repeated regarding Iran, only guarantees that the book will not be treated seriously.
Second, Secor clearly does not like our argument that, for most Iranians living inside their country, the Islamic Republic is a legitimate if flawed political order, with greater pluralism and vastly more progressive outcomes on a host of economic and social indicators than the shah's secular, pro-Western regime. Yet she offers no objective evidence that the argument is mistaken. She dismisses our reliance on ''opinion polls taken under repressive conditions.'' But those polls -- 14 methodologically sound studies, conducted by Western polling groups as well as by University of Tehran researchers -- provide some of the best and most objective evidence of what Iranians actually think.
Many responses in these polls belie Secor's assertion of a repressed population -- including sharp criticisms of the Interior Ministry and no increase in the percentage of respondents saying, after Iran's 2009 presidential election, that they supported President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. (Before and after the election, the polls consistently showed that Ahmadinejad's victory, with just over 60 percent of the vote -- which is what the official results say he got -- was eminently plausible.) More generally, the results are remarkably consistent -- meaning that, if respondents were lying, they did so in the same percentages on the same issues across 14 different surveys conducted at different times. That has never happened in the history of polling, and is a powerful indicator of these polls' internal validity.
The polls point to a conclusion Secor cannot face: The Green movement did not lose its struggle with Iran's established order because of brutal repression; the movement lost because, even at its height, it did not represent anything close to a majority of Iranians. In 1978-79, when Iranians took to the streets against the shah and were gunned down by the thousands, protests grew larger. (Likewise, when Egyptians poured into Tahrir Square in 2011 and were killed by the hundreds, demonstrations got bigger.) In Iran, even opposition sources admit that under 100 people died in clashes with security forces following the 2009 election -- and yet the Greens retreated, because the constituency for overturning the Islamic Republic was too small to support their bid for power, whether at the ballot box or on the streets.
Americans face a stark choice regarding Iran. We can come to terms with the Islamic Republic, accepting it as a legitimate entity representing legitimate national interests. Alternatively, Washington can continue on its present course -- but that ultimately means going to war. If, in the present climate, with Middle Eastern publics becoming more mobilized and politically relevant, the United States launches another war to disarm yet another Middle Eastern country of weapons of mass destruction it does not have, the resulting damage to America's strategic position will make that done by the Iraq war look almost trivial by comparison. Perhaps that's O.K. with Secor. But your readers deserved a fairer treatment of the analyses and arguments raised in our book.
FLYNT LEVERETTHILLARY MANN LEVERETTMcLean, Va.
Laura Secor replies:
The Leveretts answer an unfavorable review with a torrent of ad hominem insinuations, imputing to me the political views they find the most conveniently preposterous and assigning me guilt by association with everyone from Ahmad Chalabi to the shah. They employ similar tactics in their book, against virtually everyone who writes about Iran.
For the record, journalists regularly present the ideas of influential people and hold them up to critical scrutiny. That is what I did with Kanan Makiya before the Iraq war. When a political reporter does the same with, say, Rand Paul or Occupy Wall Street, we say that she is doing her job -- not that she's giving anyone a ''platform,'' let alone that she becomes responsible for those ideas. That the Leveretts pretend not to understand this tells you all you need to know. I opposed the war in Iraq and have argued that a war with Iran would be disastrous, but I don't expect the Leveretts to tell you this.
I don't claim to know what the majority of Iranians think -- but the Leveretts do. They cite opinion polls conducted on insecure phone lines from outside the country. That's because no independent polling agency has operated in Iran since 2002, when pollsters were sentenced to nine and a half years in prison for publishing results the regime didn't like, and for cooperating with Gallup and Zogby, which the judiciary regarded as collaboration with an enemy state. Now imagine you are an ordinary Iranian, taking a phone call from a stranger who identifies himself with a Western polling outfit and wants to know about your political views. The Leveretts can make what they will of these polls' consistency with one another. Until they are replicated under conditions free from fear, no one knows what they really mean.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



1008 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Mother of the Movement

BYLINE: By NELL IRVIN PAINTER. 
Nell Irvin Painter is the author of ''Sojourner Truth: A Life, a Symbol.''

 BODY:
THE REBELLIOUS LIFE OF MRS. ROSA PARKSBy Jeanne Theoharis
Illustrated. 304 pp. Beacon Press. $27.95.
Beautiful Rosa Parks sits alone in the Montgomery, Ala., city bus she desegregated, an image endlessly replicated, most recently on an American postage stamp issued in February to commemorate Black History Month and what would have been Parks's 100th birthday. By the time she died in 2005, Parks had become an American saint. President Bill Clinton gave her a Medal of Freedom in 1996; Congress awarded her a Gold Medal in 1999 (passed nearly unanimously -- only Representative Ron Paul of Texas dissented); and after her death, her body lay in the Capitol Rotunda. She was the first woman to be so honored, and the first black woman to have a statue in her likeness placed in the National Statuary Hall of the Capitol. It was unveiled this year and positioned, House Speaker John Boehner pointed out, ''right in the gaze'' of Jefferson Davis, president of the Confederacy.
Parks stands for ''the triumph of freedom -- of democracy over dictatorship, free enterprise over state socialism, of tolerance over bigotry'' (President Clinton). ''Our nation was forever transformed'' by her refusal to give up her seat, advancing ''our journey toward justice and equality for all'' (President Obama). 
Quiet, lovely, light-skinned, well-dressed Mrs. Rosa Parks, in her hat and coat and eyeglasses, embodies the nonviolent overthrow of racism in America. She represents the best of Southern womanhood, a genteel contrast to those angry Northern black radicals clamoring for their rights. Her composure seems to indicate the correct way to bring about real change.
In 1955, Parks defied the humiliating Jim Crow policy requiring a black person of any age or sex to defer to any white person by standing so the white person could sit. Her refusal and subsequent arrest inspired a 381-day Montgomery bus boycott that led to sit-ins, marches, campaigns and, finally, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965. The movement and laws it prompted wrought a revolution in American conventions of race and inaugurated Martin Luther King Jr. as the conscience of America.
King carefully managed his public persona, but Parks's image escaped her control. She seems to have entered history with her mouth closed and her mind elsewhere. President Obama voiced the familiar view that she was ''just wanting to get home after a long day at work'' and ''may not have been planning to make history.'' But as Jeanne Theoharis shows in her insightful biography, ''The Rebellious Life of Mrs. Rosa Parks,'' this perspective obscures Parks's lifelong activism and ''fierce determination.'' Parks was not an apolitical, middle-aged lady whose fatigue kept her seated. Both shy and militant, she was a committed activist enmeshed in racial politics -- and their class and gender complications -- wherever she lived.
Parks was politically active before and long after the Montgomery bus boycott, and her family was equally engaged. Her grandfather (who had been enslaved) was a supporter of Marcus Garvey, and her husband, Raymond, participated in the Communist-led movement defending the Scottsboro Boys. Parks spent a decade working alongside E. D. Nixon, the Pullman porters' unionist, in the Montgomery branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. Through the N.A.A.C.P., Parks also met the veteran organizer Ella Baker, who mentored her. Throughout her career, she never shied away from progressives, even those labeled Communist.
Racist atrocities -- rapes, murders, trumped up executions and, in Montgomery, the constant mistreatment of women on the buses -- politicized Parks. But Theoharis argues that two events in the summer of 1955 proved pivotal. The first was Parks's participation in a two-week seminar at the Highlander Folk School, an interracial grass-roots leadership school for adults, where she began to study and discuss approaches to desegregation. The second was the lynching of 14-year-old Emmett Till a few weeks after Parks returned from Highlander.
On Dec. 1, 1955, Parks left work -- she was a seamstress in the tailoring department of the Montgomery Fair department store -- and boarded a bus, sitting in the middle. When the seats in the white section filled up, the driver ordered black passengers to stand. Parks refused. The driver called the police. When officers boarded the bus asking for the miscreant, the driver pointed out Parks as ''that one.'' She did not resist as the police arrested her and took her to city hall, asking her if she was drunk.
Her refusal was well considered and hardly motivated by mere physical exhaustion. As she noted later, ''People always say that I didn't give up my seat because I was tired, but that isn't true. I was not tired physically, or no more tired than I usually was at the end of a working day. . . . No, the only tired I was, was tired of giving in.'' And her restraint was strategic: she knew that Claudette Colvin, another black woman arrested for not giving up her seat on a bus, had been ''manhandled by the police, and others had been beaten or shot for their resistance.''
The boycott's success brought the national press to Montgomery. Parks, however, was not included in the triumphant photographs of King and other ministers sitting at the front of the bus. Nor was she permitted to make a speech (as King and other male movement leaders did) to the 15,000 people who gathered in support of the boycott. ''Parks was to play a symbolic role,'' Theoharis writes. Like other women in the movement, she ''was lauded by the crowd as their heroine but not consulted for her vision of the struggle and subsequent political strategy.'' Later on, Look magazine staged what became the iconic image of Rosa Parks on the bus. A single white man sits behind her; not a local, in fact, but a U.P.I. reporter covering the story.
Rosa Parks and her husband suffered the usual punishments for black protest: hate calls, death threats and loss of employment. Eight months after the boycott's successful end, the impoverished Parks family fled Montgomery for Detroit. They remained economically insecure until Parks finally found steady employment in 1965, working in Representative John Conyers Jr.'s Detroit office until her retirement in 1988. Only in the late 1970s did Parks's obscurity lift with her recognition as a national figure of historical import.
This first comprehensive biography rightly keeps an eye on Parks after Montgomery. Theoharis depicts Detroit's entrenched discrimination and Parks's decades of civil rights activism there. Supporting U.A.W. Local 600, calling Malcolm X her hero, visiting a Black Panther school in Oakland, opposing American involvement in Vietnam and attending the Million Man March at the invitation of Louis Farrakhan, she collaborated with left-wingers and Black Power advocates.
Richly informative, calmly passionate and much needed, ''The Rebellious Life of Mrs. Rosa Parks'' completes the portrait of a working-class activist who looked poverty and discrimination squarely in the face and never stopped rebelling against them, in the segregated South and in the segregated North.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Look magazine's staged portrait of Rosa Parks in the front of a bus, December 1956. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM BETTMANN/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); ELECTION LAW (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); WOMEN (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); HISTORY (72%); RACE & RACISM (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN BOEHNER (55%); RON PAUL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (93%) ALABAMA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



1009 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: When Problems Start Getting Real...

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY. 
Annie Lowrey is an economics reporter for The Times. Adam Davidson is off this week.

 BODY:
When I was a kid, my grandmother used to spirit packets of oyster crackers from restaurants. She unwrapped gifts meticulously, peeling back the tape with her nails so that she could reuse the paper. She also stockpiled so many coupon-bought cans that she probably could have had her own show on TLC.
These habits, judging by both anecdote and literature, were generational. My grandmother was born in 1917 and entered the work force during the Great Depression. I've been thinking of her generation -- the one that saved rather than spent, preserved rather than squandered -- a lot lately. In the past year or so, data have come in regarding how my own generation, often called Generation Y, or the millennials, has adapted to our once-in-a-lifetime financial crisis -- the one that battered career prospects, drove hundreds of thousands into the shelter of schools or parents' basements and left hundreds of thousands of others in continual underemployment. And some of that early research suggests that we, too, have developed our own Depression-era fixation with money. 
The millennials have developed a reputation for a certain materialism. In a Pew Research Center survey in which different generations were asked what made them unique, baby boomers responded with qualities like ''work ethic''; millennials offered ''clothes.'' But, according to new data, even though the recession is over, this generation is not looking to gorge; instead, they are the kind of hungry that cannot stop thinking about food. ''Call it materialism if you want,'' said Neil Howe, an author of the 1991 book ''Generations.'' It seems more like financial melancholy. ''They look at the house their parents live in and say, 'I could work for 100 years and I couldn't afford this place,' '' Howe said. ''If that doesn't make you focus on money, what would? Millennials have a very conventional notion of the American dream -- a spouse, a house, a kid -- but it is not going to be easy for them to get those things.''
This condition is becoming particularly severe for the group that economists call younger millennials: the young adults who entered the job market in the wake of the recession, a period in which the unemployment rate among 20- to 24-year-olds reached 17 percent, when graduate school competition grew more fierce and credit standards tightened. Many also saw their parents struggle through a pay cut, a job loss or another economic disruption during the recession.
These troubles, many economists fear, left serious scars, and not just psychic ones. Now that the economy has entered a steady but slow recovery, younger millennials wonder if they can make up that gap. Lisa Kahn, a labor economist at the Yale School of Management, studied the earnings of men who left college and joined the work force during the deep recession of the early 1980s. Unsurprisingly, she found that the higher the unemployment rate upon graduation, the less graduates earned right out of school. But those workers never really caught up. ''The effects were still present 15 or 20 years later,'' she said. ''They never made that money back.''
Kahn worries that the same pattern is repeating itself. And new research from the Urban Institute augurs that this emerging income gap is compounding into a wealth gap. The institute's research shows that even as the country has grown richer, Generations X and Y, meaning people up to about age 40, have amassed less wealth than their parents had when they were young. The average net worth of someone 29 to 37 has fallen 21 percent since 1983; the average net worth of someone 56 to 64 has more than doubled. Thirty or 40 years from now, young millennials might face shakier retirements than their parents. For the first time in modern memory, a whole generation might not prove wealthier than the one that preceded it.
The millennials' relationship with money seems quite simple. They do not have a lot of it, and what they do have, they seem reluctant to spend. Millennials are buying fewer cars and houses, and despite their immersion in consumer culture, particularly electronics, they are not really spending beyond their limited means. Their credit-card debt has declined, most likely because many millennials cannot get a credit card, and in part because they know they cannot afford to spend now and pay back later. ''They have this risk aversion that we've seen with millennials since they were teenagers,'' Howe said. ''It's declining alcohol use, declining drug use. I mean, declining sex.''
There might be one more factor at play in the millennials' economic anxiety. For my grandmother's generation, the economic boom that followed World War II expanded the middle class and its share of the nation's wealth. Our great recession, however, came after three decades of wage stagnation for a huge swath of middle-class American workers, which is one reason income inequality has yawned to levels not seen since the late 1920s. And since the worst days of the recession ended, inequality has continued to grow. Corporations that shed workers became leaner and more profitable. Members of the 1 percent have taken nearly all the wage gains made in the recovery. Their incomes bounced back. Nearly everyone else's fell. Worse, our savings rate before the recent crisis was near a record low.
During World War II, the ethos was ''use it up, wear it out, make it do, or do without.'' But the 21st-century rallying cry among the young is ''We are the 99 percent.'' This recession's emphasis was never on making do with little; for many millennials, it has seemed more about wondering why they had to make do with so little when so few had so much. This sentiment was captured in recent exit polls that found that nearly two-thirds of presidential voters 29 and younger thought the American economic system favored the wealthy.
The millennials, in other polls, remain optimistic about their futures. Economists are less so. There is a persistent fear that they have entered a permanently lower earnings and savings trajectory. Even if the generation recovers, even if it ends up wealthier than the one before it, the scars will be deep and long-lasting. Kahn has started comparing recent graduates during the recent recession with recent graduates in the 1981-82 recession. She said the initial wage losses were comparable, and the trend looks set to repeat. ''My inclination is pessimism,'' Kahn said. ''If anything, these guys might experience something worse.''
Other economists also envisioned a future in which millennials would spend less and save less. ''I was talking with a mom who has a son in his mid-20s and told her the generation is not on the same wealth-building path,'' said Signe-Mary McKernan, one of the authors of the Urban Institute study. ''She had this look of terror on her face; our children are in trouble, and that's such a worry for a parent. I told her, 'Maybe this generation won't have a worse life, but just a different life.' '' And that may be true. Millennials are the best-educated generation ever. Their challenge may just be to preserve that advantage for their own children.
Deep thoughts this week:
1. The millennials have developed an obsession with money.
2. Partly because they don't have any.
3. Will the income gap become a wealth gap?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASPER RIETMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENERATION Y (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); WRITERS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); BABY BOOMERS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); DISMISSALS (71%); ETHICS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



1010 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: It's a Natural Gas, Gas, Gas

BYLINE: By CHUCK KLOSTERMAN

 BODY:
I'm a biologist with a federal agency. My family owns land in northeast Pennsylvania. A portion is owned outright by my mother, who has entered into a contract with a natural-gas company to allow drilling on the property. Royalties from the gas extraction allow her to live comfortably in retirement. My mother made the arrangements for the gas drilling without my support. I'm not in favor of increasing fossil-fuel dependence. In light of the anticipated royalties, my mother was advised by her lawyer to establish a corporate partnership with my brother and me, for liability protection. This would mean a portion of the royalties will be mine. If I intend to work on any future climate-change projects professionally, should I decline the partnership with my mother? If I do not support natural-gas drilling, is that another reason to decline the partnership? And is this decision different from eventually inheriting money related to drilling? RICHARD, WASHINGTON 
There are three issues here: the responsibility to your mother, a responsibility to your professional vocation and the internal tenets of your own environmental worldview. I'm tempted to split the difference by advising you to take a middle path -- i.e., joining the partnership for the sake of your mom, scrutinizing the actions of the drilling company from your enhanced ''insider'' position and then donating your slice of the royalties to climate-change research. But that just circumvents the central problem. The more I think it over, the more I'm prone to respond ''yes'' to all three of your questions.
It would be one thing if your mom needed you to enter this partnership in order to validate the original contract and earn the income she needs to survive, but that's not what's happening here. The partnership merely mitigates her liability if something goes awry with the drilling. This is the (relatively low) risk she accepted when she signed the deal, knowing you were against the idea in the first place. Moreover, your mother must realize that your professional future is at odds with her request. It could be highly damaging to both you (and, to a degree, your peers) if you pursued high-profile green-energy projects and were subsequently exposed as profiting from ecological practices you're against.
Your third question is tricky. Some would say the only difference is semantic. But I would argue that directly earning money from a specific source is (slightly) different from inheriting money from a person who was involved with that same source in the past. In other words, if you sign the partnership and actively take the royalties, you are entering a business relationship with the drilling company. The two of you are working together in a complicit relationship. But as the beneficiary of an inheritance, that relationship is disconnected by a third party (your mother). The money itself has no memory, and it's not as if declining the inheritance would retroactively reverse the drilling process. Taking the money (and using it for some positive purpose) is more reasonable than declining it because of your distaste for an unchangeable past.
PRICED TO SELL
I've noticed (at the supermarket) that product manufacturers sometimes lower the amount in a package while not changing the price. This is a way to raise the product's price without drawing the attention of the customer. This is tricky. Is it ethical? BARTH POLLAK, SOUTH BEND, IND.
It is. The purchase price and the amount of the product are both listed on the package. It's only a trick to people who memorize the size and cost of an item the first time they buy it and assume that reality will never change. Inflation exists. Prices go up. It's your responsibility to notice, which you obviously have.
(DON'T) STEAL THIS BOOK
My family rented a condominium for a ski vacation. During the stay, I picked up an old novel that was one of approximately 20 books in the apartment. The story hooked me, and I wanted to continue reading. My wife suggested there's an implicit ''lending library'' aspect to vacation rentals, and that the book was probably left in the condo by a previous renter who intended it be taken by a future guest. Do you agree with her take on the issue? NAME WITHHELD, FLORIDA
I do not (and I have no idea how your wife came to this ''implicit'' conclusion). You're not supposed to take things from places you're staying at temporarily. It doesn't matter what the object is. If the book was just sitting on a shelf when you showed up, it's part of the rental (unless the renter specifically says otherwise). If you want to continue reading the novel, buy the novel.
If it's obscure or out of print, contact the person who rented the facility and ask if you can have it. They'll probably say yes. But there's no unspoken rule that suggests you can just walk out the door with it. Why would such a policy exist?
E-mail queries to ethicist@nytimes.com, or send them to the Ethicist, The New York Times Magazine, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018, and include a daytime phone number.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (92%); ROYALTIES (90%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (74%); LAWYERS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013



1011 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2320 words

HEADLINE: Hitched to an Aging Star: Anatomy of a Deal, and Doubts

BYLINE: By DAVID WALDSTEIN

 BODY:
Yankees pitcher Mariano Rivera was convinced that Alex Rodriguez had made a colossal blunder.
Rodriguez, the Yankees' standout third baseman, had created a public uproar and infuriated team officials by opting out of his contract, the richest in the history of baseball at the time, seemingly to pursue options with other teams.
''I told him he had to take responsibility and make it right,'' Rivera said last week at spring training, recalling how he admonished his teammate in the fall of 2007 and urged him to reconcile with the Yankees. ''He had to call them.''
Rivera's stern telephone call set in motion a negotiation that led to a contract that stands as the largest ever in American sports: $275 million over 10 years. It involved the rapper Jay-Z urging his friend Rodriguez to stay in New York, Goldman Sachs executives stepping in as intermediaries to smooth the negotiations and Rodriguez flying to Tampa, Fla., to ask the Steinbrenners for forgiveness, according to interviews with nearly a dozen people with direct knowledge of Rodriguez's negotiations. 
Within two years, he helped to deliver the team's 27th World Series title.
But now, five years into the contract, that financial commitment hangs ominously over opening day, threatening to impose itself on virtually every decision the Yankees make and severely hampering management's ability to cope with the shortcomings of an aging roster.
As the Yankees prepare to open the 2013 season Monday -- without the injured Rodriguez -- the team still owes him $114 million through the end of 2017, when he will be 42.
''At the time, there was an expectation that A-Rod would be breaking all the home run records by the end of the contract, and that is exciting for the fans,'' said Andrew Zimbalist, an economist at Smith College and an expert in sports business. ''But now it's eating up an enormous amount of payroll, and it has clearly become an albatross for the Yankees.''
Long before he joined the Yankees, Rodriguez was represented by Scott Boras, an agent whose clients include many of the game's biggest stars and who has a reputation for extracting huge sums of money from teams. Boras had worked his magic for Rodriguez when he joined the Texas Rangers after the 2000 season, securing a precedent-setting 10-year, $252 million deal.
That landmark contract contained a key provision. Known as an opt-out clause, it essentially set up Rodriguez for two big paydays in the prime of his career, whereas most players get one at most. Rodriguez had the choice to walk away from his contract after seven years and take another shot at the open market by making himself available to other teams. The option followed Rodriguez to the Yankees when they traded for him before the 2004 season.
He took advantage of the clause in 2007 after winning his second Most Valuable Player award in three years, and his third over all. He was 32.
After the Yankees' season ended, Rodriguez met with Boras and his associates at Boras's offices in Newport Beach, Calif. For three hours, the Boras group made an elaborate presentation to Rodriguez, replete with videos, charts and testimonials detailing their strategy to promote Rodriguez in free agency. They projected how much money certain teams might offer, and how Boras would market him to other teams.
At the end of the presentation, Rodriguez complimented them for their hard work but said he wanted to return to the Yankees. The air went out of the room. Boras and his team believed they could land a huge contract -- possibly as much as $300 million -- on the open market.
Several days later, on Oct. 28, the Yankees' archrivals, the Boston Red Sox, were on their way to winning the World Series in a sweep for the second time in four seasons. It was Game 4, on a Sunday night, and Major League Baseball had the country's attention with a crowning moment for one of its most beloved teams.
Then chaos erupted.
During the game, news broke that Rodriguez was opting out of his contract with the Yankees, stealing attention from the Red Sox' victory and turning him into an object of scorn by those who thought he was being selfish and greedy. Bud Selig, the Major League Baseball commissioner, was clearly incensed by the distraction at the climax of the sport's showcase.
Hank Steinbrenner, a Yankees co-chairman, quickly denounced Rodriguez. During the Red Sox' Champagne celebration in the clubhouse after the game, Steinbrenner called a reporter for The New York Times and said that he, his brother, Hal, and their ailing father, George, agreed that if Rodriguez did not want to be a Yankee and be compensated as he had been, ''then we don't want him.''
Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman had been reading a bedtime story to his son, Teddy, during Game 4 and had fallen asleep. He awoke to the buzz of his cellphone. Reporters at the World Series were calling and e-mailing for his reaction to the news. Then he saw an e-mail from Boras notifying the Yankees that his client had opted out. As far back as spring training, Cashman had repeatedly said that if Rodriguez opted out, the Yankees would not negotiate to lure him back.
To this day, the parties dispute whose idea it was to exercise the opt-out clause. Boras maintains that he would never take such a step without his client's direction. But people close to Rodriguez insist he never approved it and made that clear in the meeting with Boras's staff in Newport Beach. Either way, the action created two deep rifts, one between Rodriguez and the Yankees, and another between Rodriguez and Boras.
Reconciliation
Rodriguez had been drifting from Boras by then. The disagreement over the opt-out led Rodriguez to sever the relationship formally, with papers filed with the players' union -- but not before Boras was brought in to help supervise one last document.
Perhaps the only people happy with news of the opt-out were the Rangers, who had agreed to pay a subsidy of $21.3 million to the Yankees at the time of the 2004 trade. Once Rodriguez exercised the option, the original contract evaporated, and the Rangers were off the hook. Texas obviously had no interest in bringing Rodriguez back, but other teams were intrigued.
In early November, it looked as if Rodriguez was leaving New York. That was when Rivera intervened.
Rodriguez placed his conciliatory call to Hank Steinbrenner. He said he had never wanted to opt out and again blamed Boras.
Rodriguez then enlisted the help of John Mallory, a Goldman Sachs wealth management adviser he knew from Miami. Mallory put Rodriguez in touch with his fellow Goldman Sachs financial adviser Gerald Cardinale, who had done work for the Yankees, and the two financial experts began serving as intermediaries between Rodriguez and the Yankees.
Cardinale was the Yankees' banker. He had worked on lucrative business deals with the team.
Mallory and Cardinale got on a Goldman Sachs phone line and called Randy Levine, the Yankees' team president. Mallory told Levine what Rodriguez had said to Hank Steinbrenner. He said Rodriguez was sorry, was ready to apologize to the Steinbrenners in person and wanted to return to the Yankees.
Despite their public outrage, the Yankees had reasons to consider a reunion.
Rodriguez was coming off another sensational year, and he had helped fill Yankee Stadium to capacity since his arrival in 2004. The Yankees set an attendance record that year with 3,775,292 fans, only to be broken in each of the next four years. From 2005 to 2008, Rodriguez never played before fewer than 4 million fans at the old Yankee Stadium, and ratings on the team-owned YES Network soared.
There was also every expectation that Rodriguez, who had 518 career home runs at the time, would eventually pass Willie Mays, Babe Ruth, Hank Aaron and Barry Bonds to bring the title of home run king back to the Bronx. The ratings and marketing potential for that chase were considered extraordinary.
Negotiations soon began over the phone. Levine was the point man for the Yankees, with Mallory and Cardinale passing along initial proposals from Rodriguez, which would have guaranteed him well over $300 million.
Mallory and Cardinale made about 10 calls to Levine over the next few days, transmitting the proposals and counterproposals back and forth. Rodriguez also enlisted the help of the investor Warren E. Buffett, a friend and adviser who helped Rodriguez devise ways to resolve a stalemate over a $50 million gap.
Ultimately, the terms of the deal would include $265 million in guaranteed salary, a $10 million signing bonus and an additional $30 million in marketing bonuses tied to landmark home runs.
For each of the five milestones -- tying Mays, Ruth, Aaron, Bonds and breaking the record -- Rodriguez would receive $6 million. The Yankees looked at the bonuses as a kind of licensing fee they would pay to Rodriguez to secure all the rights to market the home run chase, which would presumably become a commercial boon.
On Nov. 8, as Levine and Hal Steinbrenner drove to Naples, Fla., from Tampa for a meeting of baseball owners, they received a call from Cardinale. Rodriguez had agreed to the basics of the deal. At that point, the Yankees had to get Boras involved, and told Rodriguez that. Boras was still Rodriguez's designated representative and the only one mandated to supervise Rodriguez's interests.
There was also the matter of placating the Steinbrenners. For them to sign off on the deal, Rodriguez would have to go to the owners in Tampa on bended knee.
On Nov. 14, Rodriguez and his wife, Cynthia, flew in from Miami. They sat in Hal Steinbrenner's living room over coffee and iced tea with Hal and Hank Steinbrenner. Levine was there, too, as was Cashman.
Rodriguez professed his regret, again blaming Boras for the entire ordeal, and expressed his wish to remain a Yankee.
Within hours, the final details were worked out, and the richest deal in baseball history was all but complete.
Concerns Creep In
In each of the next three seasons, Rodriguez had at least 30 homers and 100 runs batted in, and although he missed the first month of the 2009 season while recovering from surgery on his right hip, he almost single-handedly led the team to the title that fall. He hit 6 homers and drove in 18 runs in 15 games that postseason, and in the euphoric aftermath of that victory, few fretted over his contract.
''It's a bit early to weigh in on a contract that hasn't come to its completion,'' Hank Steinbrenner said in an e-mail last week, ''but I know we won a World Series in 2009 with Alex wearing pinstripes and playing a big part in that success.''
The first inkling of trouble came shortly before the 2009 season, when Rodriguez was forced to admit publicly that he had used performance-enhancing drugs while with the Rangers. Suddenly, the potential marketing bonanza for any historic home runs was diminished because he was no longer considered unblemished.
Then, in 2011, injuries resurfaced, as did doubt that Rodriguez would reach any of the milestones. He played in only 99 games in 2011, missing time to knee surgery and a sprained left thumb, and he hit just 16 home runs. Last season, he hit 18 home runs with 57 R.B.I., batted .272 and missed six weeks after breaking his hand.
He returned a month before the playoffs but played so poorly that Manager Joe Girardi pinch-hit for him, then benched him -- a public slight virtually unheard-of for one of the game's elite stars.
For his career he has 647 home runs, 115 short of Bonds.
In January, matters grew worse. Rodriguez's name surfaced in connection with an anti-aging clinic in South Florida that was suspected of supplying Rodriguez and other players with performance-enhancing drugs. Rodriguez, through a publicist, denied the allegation. But the Yankees and Major League Baseball were irritated.
The Yankees also saw the possibility of an escape hatch from their financial commitment to an injured player in apparent decline. They considered the possibility of voiding Rodriguez's contract over the supposed misdeeds. But baseball's substance-abuse policy mandates the punishment through suspensions; financial penalties are prohibited.
Rodriguez had surgery on his other hip in January, and he has not spent one day at the Yankees' camp during spring training, instead recovering in New York. Terry Fahn, a spokesman for Rodriguez, said in an e-mail only that Rodriguez was diligently focused on his rehabilitation.
The Yankees, who have reached the postseason in 17 of the last 18 years, are in a financial bind. The team wants to trim its payroll -- which is about $220 million for 2013 -- to below $189 million for the 2014 season in order to qualify for millions of dollars in rebates and luxury-tax savings while still fielding a championship-caliber team. The average annual value of the remaining years on Rodriguez's contract is $22.8 million.
One possibility is that the injury is so bad that Rodriguez is medically unable to play. At that point, an insurance policy would pay for a substantial part of the contract.
The Yankees' insurance policy on the contract includes a four-month deductible, and after that, they are reimbursed for 33 percent of the salary in the first year. If Rodriguez is considered permanently disabled, the insurance will cover 75 percent of the remaining money after the four-month period.
Or Rodriguez might stumble along until both sides agree on a buyout, a possibility that few would have foreseen back in the fall of 2007.
''We saw him at the time as the one that's going to be around a long time and he's going do great things,'' said Hal Steinbrenner, now the Yankees' managing general partner. ''We're halfway through the contract. Alex is capable, if he's healthy after the surgery. If the hips are fine, both of them, he's capable of living up to everybody's expectations. Will he? I don't know. It's up to him. There's plenty of time to do it.''
Five more years, to be precise, beginning Monday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The $275 Million Man: Alex Rodriguez's contract hangs over nearly every decision that the Yankees make. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK LAHAM/GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
Alex Rodriguez, above, in the final game of the 2009 World Series, won by the Yankees. He drove in 18 runs in 15 postseason games. Left, he hit .120 in the postseason last fall. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/ THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SP10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS BUSINESS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (68%); RAP MUSIC (68%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (94%); JAY-Z (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (78%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013



1012 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5360 words

HEADLINE: As OSHA Emphasizes Safety, Long-Term Health Risks Fester

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

 BODY:
TAYLORSVILLE, N.C. -- Sheri Farley walks with a limp. The only job she could hold would be one where she does not have to stand or sit longer than 20 minutes, otherwise pain screams down her spine and up her legs.
''Damaged goods,'' Ms. Farley describes herself, recalling how she recently overheard a child whispering to her mother about whether the ''crippled lady'' was a meth addict.
For about five years, Ms. Farley, 45, stood alongside about a dozen other workers, spray gun in hand, gluing together foam cushions for chairs and couches sold under brand names like Broyhill, Ralph Lauren and Thomasville. Fumes from the glue formed a yellowish fog inside the plant, and Ms. Farley's doctors say that breathing them in eventually ate away at her nerve endings, resulting in what she and her co-workers call ''dead foot.'' 
A chemical she handled -- known as n-propyl bromide, or nPB -- is also used by tens of thousands of workers in auto body shops, dry cleaners and high-tech electronics manufacturing plants across the nation. Medical researchers, government officials and even chemical companies that once manufactured nPB have warned for over a decade that it causes neurological damage and infertility when inhaled at low levels over long periods, but its use has grown 15-fold in the past six years.
Such hazards demonstrate the difficulty, despite decades of effort, of ensuring that Americans can breathe clean air on the job. Even as worker after worker fell ill, records from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration show that managers at Royale Comfort Seating, where Ms. Farley was employed, repeatedly exposed gluers to nPB levels that exceeded levels federal officials considered safe, failed to provide respirators and turned off fans meant to vent fumes.
But the story of the rise of nPB and the decline of Ms. Farley's health is much more than the tale of one company, or another chapter in the national debate over the need for more, or fewer, government regulations. Instead, it is a parable about the law of unintended consequences.
It shows how an Environmental Protection Agency program meant to prevent the use of harmful chemicals fostered the proliferation of one, and how a hard-fought victory by OSHA in controlling one source of deadly fumes led workers to be exposed to something worse -- a phenomenon familiar enough to be lamented in government parlance as ''regrettable substitution.''
It demonstrates how businesses at once both suffer from and exploit the fitful and disjointed way that the government tries to protect workers, and why occupational illnesses have proved so hard to prevent.
And it highlights a startling fact: OSHA, the watchdog agency that many Americans love to hate and industry often faults as overzealous, has largely ignored long-term threats. Partly out of pragmatism, the agency created by President Richard M. Nixon to give greater attention to health issues has largely done the opposite.
OSHA devotes most of its budget and attention to responding to here-and-now dangers rather than preventing the silent, slow killers that, in the end, take far more lives. Over the past four decades, the agency has written new standards with exposure limits for 16 of the most deadly workplace hazards, including lead, asbestos and arsenic. But for the tens of thousands of other dangerous substances American workers handle each day, employers are largely left to decide what exposure level is safe.
By contrast, OSHA has two dozen pages of regulations just on ladders and stairs.
''I'm the first to admit this is broken,'' said David Michaels, the OSHA director, referring to the agency's record on dealing with workplace health threats. ''Meanwhile, tens of thousands of people end up on the gurney.''
Royale Comfort Seating disputes that Ms. Farley's health problems and those of some other workers were linked to their jobs. Company officials also say that while they have sought to safeguard their workers, they have also feared losing jobs to foreign competitors, as many of their industry counterparts in North Carolina have.
Royale has not switched away from the nPB glues, managers said, because alternatives did not work well, were sometimes more dangerous and were almost always more expensive.
''We, as a company, are also in a tight spot,'' said William Lee Isenhour, Royale's director of personnel and safety.
Chronic ailments caused by toxic workplace air -- black lung, stonecutter's disease, asbestosis, grinder's rot, pneumoconiosis -- incapacitate more than 200,000 workers in the United States annually. More than 40,000 Americans die prematurely each year from exposure to toxic substances at work -- 10 times as many as those who die from the refinery explosions, mine collapses and other accidents that grab most of the news media attention.
Occupational illnesses and injuries like Ms. Farley's cost the American economy roughly $250 billion per year because of medical expenses and lost productivity, according to government data analyzed by J. Paul Leigh, an economist at the University of California, Davis, more than the cost of diabetes or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Roughly 40 percent of medical expenses from workplace hazards, or about $27 billion a year, is paid by public programs like Medicare and Medicaid.
And yet the full price of this epidemic is measured not just in hospital bills and wages lost, but also in the ways, large and small, that life has changed for Ms. Farley and other sickened workers. Glue fumes robbed her of dignity and the joy of small comforts. Her favorite high heels stay in her closet because her feet no longer cooperate. She barks at her 8-year-old daughter, Allie, for hopping around their double-wide trailer because the floor's vibrations cause intense stinging.
''I did the work,'' Ms. Farley said about her years putting together furniture for America's households. ''This doesn't seem a fair price to pay.''Foam Country
Two industries converge in North Carolina along the nine-mile stretch of Interstate 40 between Hickory and Claremont. Foam meets furniture here. Cushions find seats.
For nearly a century, towns in these western foothills have been famous for their fine home furnishings, producing roughly half the chairs and tables sold nationwide at the industry's peak in the 1980s. Every year, several million pounds of a flexible polyurethane foam known as slabstock arrives. It becomes the spongy filling in most of the mattresses, chairs and couches produced in the United States.
Delivered as huge yellow or pink loaves, often about four feet high and the length of a tractor-trailer, the slabstock is cut into pieces and glued into shapes by rows of workers standing in booths. They sometimes attach upholstery or add a top layer of polyester fiber to give the cushions a softer feel.
North Carolina has been especially affected by globalization and federal regulations. Shifting cultural mores and rising cigarette taxes have cleared hundreds of tobacco farms. Foreign competition has closed most of the textile mills. More than half of the furniture jobs once based here are now gone, according to federal labor data.
Still, about a thousand people spread across several dozen plants in the state work in this locally vital industry. For Ms. Farley, the job at Royale making cushions represented something rare: a chance for someone with little more than a high school diploma and an ability to stand on her feet all day to make more than $9 an hour.
Day 1 at the job brought ominous advice. Don't dally, co-workers counseled her; managers keep track of your cushions per hour. Bring a hair dryer; it helps in warming brittle hands in winter when the plant gets frigid. Stock up on aspirin and tissues: the first to survive the headaches from the glue's gasoline-like fumes; the second because the fumes clear the sinuses.
Asked about the conditions, Royale officials said their three plants, two here in Taylorsville and one about 15 miles away in Conover, were no worse than others in the business.
But no one denied it was dirty, bone-tiring work. During 10-hour shifts, the gluers held spray guns attached to hoses that ran to a humming compressor and 55-gallon drums filled with the glue. Once sprayed, the glue coated everything -- the lights, fans, floors and electrical outlets -- and hung over the workers' cubicles like a shroud.
''It puts the fog in your head,'' Ms. Farley said. By the end of a shift, the glue left some workers so dizzy that they walked as if they were drunk. At times, they did not remember driving home.A Chemical's Use Grows
Cushion-making companies had every reason to like nPB glues. First marketed in the late 1990s, they were inexpensive, strong, fast-drying and, best of all, unregulated.
''It's so safe you can eat it,'' glue salesmen in North Carolina told customers, according to federal researchers. Plant operators joked, ''At worst, it's a cheap high,'' an official from an industry trade association recalled. Water-based glues, though safer, dried slower. And retooling a plant to use them could cost anywhere from several thousand dollars to more than $1 million, in some cases doubling a company's gluing costs.
Finding a glue that complied with federal rules was a continuing struggle. In the early 1980s, many companies used glue with a chemical called 1,1,1-trichloroethane, or TCA. But the United States and other countries then banned it because it damages the ozone layer, and businesses switched to methylene chloride.
Nicknamed by cushion makers ''methyl ethyl bad stuff,'' it killed more than 30 workers a year and sickened thousands more across all industries. OSHA tightened safety limits on the chemical, so companies sought a new option. Before long, roughly a third of the cushion-making industry had switched to nPB-based glues.
For the most part, American employers are left on their own to find substitutes when federal agencies impose new rules on chemicals. But when the government forces the phasing out of one hazardous chemical, it is often replaced by another equally or more dangerous one.
From the start, government officials worried about the safety of nPB, which is also sometimes called 1-bromopropane or 1-BP.
In 1999, Adam Finkel, OSHA's top health officer who had led the agency's drive to phase out methylene chloride, wrote a letter warning that nPB was being used as a replacement at levels 10 to 200 times what chemical companies said was safe. Something needed to be done, he said, before the number of people exposed to the new chemical ''grows from the hundreds to the tens of thousands or more.''
Some companies pulled back. Protonique SA, a Swiss circuit-board maker, banned it for its workers, who used a form of the chemical that was less toxic than that inhaled by Royale workers. ''There is a weight of evidence that should sound warning bells to any thinking person,'' the company said in 1999. By 2003, Atofina and Great Lakes, two large chemical companies, had decided they would no longer sell nPB.
In the six years after Mr. Finkel wrote his warning letter, federal authorities learned that more than 140 cushion workers nationwide, mostly from plants in Utah, Mississippi and North Carolina, including Royale, had been exposed to dangerous levels of the chemical, many of them sickened and unable to walk.
Cushion makers in the 30,000-employee foam industry were among the most vulnerable of all workers using nPB because they breathed it in aerosol doses. Those employed in other businesses mostly used it in other forms, which pose lower risks, according to scientists, who are finding mounting evidence that nPB is also a carcinogen.
Pinpointing the cause of a worker's ailment is an inexact science because it is so difficult to rule out the role played by personal habits, toxins in the environment or other factors. But for nearly two decades, most chemical safety scientists have concluded that nPB can cause severe nerve damage when inhaled even at low levels.
Ms. Farley sued Royale for workers' compensation payments. Her case, along with several other lawsuits related to glue fumes brought by other workers, has been settled.
When news of exposure problems at Royale reached officials at Mid South Adhesives, the maker of the glue that Royale used, they sent an inspector who found that Royale's Conover plant showed levels at least 10 times what Mid South deemed safe. Mid South officials wrote to Royale to say they could ''not stress enough'' the need to provide better protections or to stop using their glue.
Royale officials, though, responded that even though they had added fans, had trained workers handling toxic chemicals and planned to put in a new ventilation system, problems persisted.
''We tried to use a water-base adhesive, which did not work for us,'' a Royale official wrote, adding that the company saw no alternative but to stick with nPB glue.
Other companies were also reluctant to switch from nPB glues. Officials of the Franklin Corporation, a cushion plant in Houston, Miss., explained in court documents that safety was important but that nPB glues were attractive because they dried so fast that the cushions could be produced in a third of the time.
''There are people lined up out there for jobs,'' said John Lyles, a vice president at Franklin, according to testimony by a plant manager in a successful lawsuit in Mississippi brought by four cushion workers who suffered severe nerve damage from the glue. ''If they start dropping like flies, or something in that order, we can replace them today.''
Businesses found nPB appealing partly because the E.P.A. had given it an endorsement of sorts by adding it to a list of chemicals that do not harm the ozone layer. But an unintended effect of that action was to allow sellers of the chemical to market it as federally approved, ''nonhazardous,'' green and worker-friendly.
As the chemical's popularity grew, E.P.A. officials worried about its use in spray glues, especially in cushion-making factories where the agency had determined that even with ''state of the art'' ventilation, ''nPB-based adhesives cannot be reliably used in a manner that protects human health.''
Environmental officials figured that OSHA, pressured by the Bush administration and Republican lawmakers to be more business-friendly, would not be capable of policing the growing threat. ''OSHA is tough,'' E.P.A. officials said, according to notes from a November 2006 meeting on concerns about nPB. ''But their budget is small, and they are not going to crack down on small businesses.''
OSHA has never set a standard establishing safety limits on workers' exposure to nPB. The E.P.A. recommended such a limit and considered banning the nPB glues, but it has yet to finalize the plan. It determined that most cushion companies using the glue had fewer than 100 employees, which meant they were less able to absorb the cost of another regulation.
''There just wasn't the political will,'' an E.P.A. official who was part of the decision-making said on the condition of anonymity.Improvised Remedies
A single tattered page from a 2005 workers' compensation log summed up the emerging situation at Royale. Beneath a column headed ''Injury or Illness'' stretched a dozen rows, each reading ''Alleged Neurological Injury'' -- one for each worker in the Conover plant sickened in the first three months of the year. Each missed more than 40 days of work because of the glue fumes, which were especially intense after the company moved the work stations closer together.
Thousands of additional pages of court and government documents, as well as interviews with more than two dozen current and former employees -- some speaking on the condition of anonymity -- present a fuller view of the conditions in the plant and how things got that way.
By 2005, Efrain Robles Avila was using a walker because he could no longer stand on his own, according to medical records. Victor Gonzales, a father of three, needed help putting on his clothes because he had lost control of his hands. Laura Garcia, who had worked for Royale for less than a year, complained of a cold numbness running from her waist to her toes. ''It was like your legs didn't receive the signal when you had to walk,'' she said in court documents.
The numbness was dangerous. One worker recounted meeting a neighbor who asked why she was wearing a single red shoe. Only then did the worker realize her foot was bleeding profusely from a two-inch gash.
Inside the plant, workers improvised. Some stood on scrap pieces of foam to cushion their feet and ease the stinging sensation creeping up their legs. One, Sonia Richards, arrived with her own respirator, but a manager told her to put it away, saying it was spooking other workers. In whispers, new employees were warned to visit the bathroom whenever the fog grew thick.
''If you don't clear your head,'' a worker recalled being told, ''it will clear you.''
Royale is among the industry's most dangerous businesses, according to OSHA data. Federal officials found that it had exposed workers to dangerous levels of nPB at least a dozen times, more often than any other company. Since 2002, nearly three dozen Royale workers have been found to be breathing dangerous levels of glue fumes, federal records show.
Current and former employees say the number of workers sickened is most likely double that, since OSHA visited only periodically and turnover was high.
Some buyers of Royale cushions said they knew generally of the dangers of nPB, but expected their suppliers to take all required precautions. Lisa Hanly, vice president of Furniture Brands, which handles Broyhill and other well-known furniture, said, ''Our goal is to produce high-quality product, which meets all legal and safety requirements, at an affordable price.'' She said the company's inspections focused on suppliers overseas, where regulations are weaker than in the United States. Other companies that buy from Royale declined to comment.
Royale workers became regular visitors at local health clinics, including the Clinic for People Without Health Insurance, then run by Dr. Ben Wofford.
Looking like ''upright cadavers,'' Dr. Wofford said, cushion workers arrived unable to stand on their own, supported under their arms by family members. They had showered and changed out of their work clothes, he said, but their breath still carried an odor he remembered from his boyhood days putting together model airplanes.
He had watched for years as his patients' suffering worsened with the bottoming out of the state's tobacco, textile and furniture industries. When people are out of work, he explained in an interview in his office above the pharmacy in Newton, N.C., a diabetic ulcer that would normally cost a toe takes a leg. Their nonfatal hernia bleeds them to death.
''You kill jobs,'' Dr. Wofford said, ''you kill patients.''
Reluctantly, he wrote a letter in 2005 alerting OSHA about problems at Royale. One worker was in especially bad shape, he wrote: ''Indeed he may die as a result of his exposure.''
But Dr. Wofford also urged OSHA not to overreact. ''I would hate to see this plant's multiple shortcomings result in its being shut down,'' he wrote, warning of jobs that could be lost. ''Many are my patients and are already in dire straits economically.''
Referring to one woman who was the sole support for herself and three children, he wrote, ''She too is unlikely to find work if the effects of the neurotoxin are irreversible, as my neurological consultant thinks they may be.''
Over the years, officials with Royale, which employs about 100 workers and had around $7.5 million in sales in 2011, have repeatedly said they have done all they can to make their three plants safe. They frequently took steps to improve the air in their plants, but their actions were also sometimes counterproductive -- after improving ventilation, they failed to change filters, for example, or covered vents with plastic in the winter to keep out cold air, according to OSHA documents.
In a recent interview, Mr. Isenhour, Royale's safety director, said the company never meant to harm anyone and initially did not realize the hazards of nPB. Royale has continued using nPB glues, he added, because alternatives are ineffective or risky.
Glues that use acetone, for example, are popular but highly flammable, he said. Converting the Royale plant to meet federal rules on fire safety would entail replacing the glue-spraying booths with metal walls, installing sprinklers and explosion-proof lighting and retraining workers, at a cost of tens of thousands of dollars, he added.
In 2005, when seven workers became seriously ill at one plant, Mr. Isenhour said, Royale had to lay off 40 people, close the facility and spend $50,000 to move operations to another site and upgrade the ventilation there. OSHA found high levels of fumes in subsequent years because no one informed the company that fans and filters needed cleaning for ventilation to work properly, he said.
If the company switched to a more expensive glue, he said, he would have to raise the price of each cushion, and the furniture makers Royale supplies would contract with Chinese competitors instead.
''We are trying to keep jobs in America,'' he said. ''But that's expensive.''
Both government officials and employers weigh the costs and benefits of protective measures. Many studies show that investing in workplace safety saves money in the long run, but economists say that does not prove true in every case. This, of course, raises the most difficult calculus of all: comparing the worth of a dangerous job versus no job at all. How should companies and regulators put a dollar value on workers' quality of life -- indeed, on their very lives?
To date, Royale has paid nearly a half-million dollars -- in court settlements, required upgrades and less than $20,000 in OSHA fines related to glue fumes. Those costs -- and the harm to workers -- accumulated in slow motion. Cushion making is a boom-bust business, subject to the swings of big orders from furniture companies. Royale and others in the industry frequently use transient, nonunion and illegal immigrant laborers, according to workers and court documents, who are less likely to report hazards and document symptoms.
As fast as workers were getting sick, managers found replacements.
''Folks was limping in and getting worse,'' said Dewaun Teague, a former Royale manager. ''Then they would be let go, and we would hire more.''
Mr. Teague said Royale was a good company to work for in many ways. The owner, Clyde Goble, looked you in the eye when he shook your hand and remembered your children's birthdays, Mr. Teague said, adding, ''This was family.''Complain. Inspect. Repeat.
After receiving an anonymous complaint about glue fumes, Beverly Stone, an OSHA inspector, visited a Royale foam cushion plant in Taylorsville in May 2011. She toured the facility, tested the air and then filed a lengthy report.
''Ventilation did not appear to be working properly,'' it said, adding that at least 16 workers were breathing dangerous levels of glue fumes.
Worrisome enough on their own, Ms. Stone's findings were even more alarming because they were so similar to what OSHA documented in 1996, 2000, 2002 and 2005.
Again and again, Royale workers got sick and contacted OSHA. Inspectors came and went. Little changed.
Company officials were told to ventilate to the outside. They bought pedestal fans instead, and when OSHA inspectors returned, they found the fans turned off or malfunctioning. OSHA demanded respirators that would have cost the company $18. Managers instead handed out 90-cent dust masks -- the type inspectors had told them were useless in blocking vapors.
The agency advised the company to stop using nPB-based glues. And yet, each time inspectors showed up, they found more workers exposed to the chemical and at levels higher than what the glue companies were saying was safe.
Back and forth it went, as workers fell victim not just to toxic air but also to a federal agency's inability to enforce its requirements.
While agency inspectors consistently showed up within a day of receiving worker complaints, records show, they often did with one hand what they undid with the other. Sometimes they failed to levy fines because they did not believe they had the authority. Other times they undermined their own leverage by slashing the size of penalties in hopes of promoting cooperation from the company.
After each visit, the agency suggested abatements but never did follow-up air tests and appeared again only when sick workers complained.
For its part, the company shuffled workers among its three plants in the frustrated hope that one of the sites might have better air flow. But the constant movement of these workers from plant to plant also made repeat problems look to regulators like isolated cases.
In early 2011, when Royale officials realized that they could not fix the ventilation at the Taylorsville plant where Ms. Farley worked, they moved her and a half-dozen other workers to the other Taylorsville site. Ms. Farley's symptoms grew worse there; the ventilation problems had been identified by OSHA in 2002 but never corrected.
If inspections are supposed to force companies to rectify problems and avoid future ones, that 2002 inspection was a failure. ''Not able to require the employer to implement engineering controls,'' the OSHA official wrote at the time, adding that the agency could not levy fines or mandate respirators because there was no federal safety standard involving nPB.
That was a legal judgment call, one that many workplace safety experts say illustrates OSHA's unwillingness to exert its full authority. Though the agency has the legal means to force companies to protect workers better from certain chemicals even when there is no specific exposure level established by the agency as safe, OSHA rarely invokes this power for fear of sapping limited resources if the matter ends up in court.
''We do the best we can,'' said Kevin Beauregard, an assistant deputy OSHA commissioner in North Carolina, which is among 25 states deputized by the federal government to oversee worker safety programs. He said that before his office could act in such instances, it must first prove that workers were exposed to a substance whose hazards were recognized in the industry and that the exposure was avoidable.
OSHA also rates health hazards as a lower priority than safety threats. In 1996, for instance, inspectors discovered that a machine part hit a Royale worker in the groin. The agency threatened to fine the company a total of $120,000, adding $5,000 to the fine for each day that the company failed to repair the machine. But when nPB levels remained high during five visits between 2002 and 2011, the agency never increased the penalties. The proposed total for all of Royale's health-related fines was $20,800, an amount the agency later lowered.
Partly, the emphasis on safety enforcement is a numbers game. OSHA's performance is often measured by lawmakers, advocacy groups and the news media based on how many inspections it does in a year; an inspector can do five times as many safety inspections in the time it typically takes to do one focused on health, where the issues may be less clear-cut. And the agency tends to face less public pressure about health enforcement, because the harm done by these sorts of hazards typically does not show up for years.
Furthermore, while the number of inspectors has grown under the Obama administration, OSHA still has just 2,400 responsible for overseeing roughly eight million work sites -- roughly one inspector per 60,000 workers, a ratio that has not changed since 1970. The federal budget for protecting workers is less than half of that set aside for protecting fish and wildlife.
Mr. Michaels, whose tenure leading OSHA since December 2009 has been characterized by more aggressive enforcement than that of his most recent predecessors, cites a deeper problem: the small amount that OSHA can levy in fines. The maximum penalty for a violation that causes a ''substantial probability of death -- or serious physical harm'' is $7,000. The highest fine for a willful and repeated violation is $70,000.
This, Mr. Michaels said, pales in comparison with fines of up to $130,000 that the Department of Agriculture can levy if a dairy company refuses to pay fees that help the federal government advertise milk products, or the $325,000 that the Federal Communications Commission can fine a TV or radio station for indecent content.
''If the cost of compliance to our rules outweighs the penalties for breaking them, companies just take a 'catch me if you can' approach to worker safety and health,'' he said. And serious violations of the rules should not be misdemeanors, he said, but felonies, much like insider trading, tax crimes and antitrust violations.
But Jeff Ruch, the director of Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility, a public health advocacy organization, said that, on average, OSHA now conducts health inspections and collects air samples less than half as often as it did under the Reagan administration.
''You can't hit someone with a fine,'' Mr. Ruch said, ''if you aren't on site looking to find the violations.''Hard Calculus
As her truck crawled down a bumpy dirt road, Ms. Farley said she needed to go slowly because she could not afford to replace her duct-taped bumper if it fell off. Between money from breeding her four Rottweilers, food stamp assistance and the occasional help from her ex-husband or the local food bank, her finances leave little room for error.
She stopped in a field dotted with narrow white trailers to pick up Cosondra Little, another former Royale worker, who limped as she approached. Ms. Little lives with her 24-year-old daughter, SoSonia, who is unemployed. What fresh tomatoes, collard greens and other vegetables the two eat come mostly from scavenging on nearby fields when farmers allow it. This has been the case, Ms. Little said, ever since she lost her job at the cushion plant in May 2003.
''My feet started to throw a fit,'' she said. First went her health insurance, then money for SoSonia's college tuition, then their savings, and finally the car.
''You try getting a job around here without a car,'' Ms. Little said, riding along a wooded stretch of Highway 16 just south of Taylorsville.
Soon the two women arrived at Martha Cardenas's house, where they were joined by two others, one a former cushion maker, the other a current one. They had gathered to explain that Royale is not unique.
After small talk about Ms. Cardenas's empanadas, the women stacked their medical records on the table. Different plants, different doctors, same glue. Broken lives reduced to physicians' scribbles. ''Staggered gait,'' ''numb hands and feet,'' ''spinal pain.''
Usually the same medical advice, too: find a different job; stop working with the glue. It ''has been clearly documented as a cause of'' nerve damage, Ms. Little's doctor wrote to her boss about nPB.
But other jobs are hard to come by. And that is why everyone has wanted to keep Royale in business. ''Now none of us are working,'' Ms. Farley said. In Dr. Wofford's hesitant whistle-blower letter to OSHA, in a $50,000 loan that county officials gave to Royale, in OSHA's formula for lowering fines, there were vexing calculations seeking to strike the right balance between protecting jobs and safeguarding those holding them.
In Ms. Cardenas's house, the women were doing some math of their own. One tried to tally how many hours she had spent in the unemployment office. Another added up her credit card debt and counted her doctors' visits. But mostly the women listed the subtler costs of their injuries, like the pounds gained from immobility or the addiction concerns with pain pills.
As the women stood up to leave, several grabbed the wall for balance. Ms. Farley added a parting thought.
''And all the while everyone thinks you're just faking,'' she said. The women agree that this is the worst part.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sheri Farley says glue fumes led to neurological damage. (A1)
WORK LEGACY: Cosondra Little lost her job in 2003 but still limps. ''My feet started to throw a fit,'' she said.
Dr. Ben Wofford, former head of the Clinic for People Without Health Insurance, in a letter to OSHA. (A16)
CO-WORKERS' ADVICE: Sheri Farley, 45, was told to stock up on aspirin for headaches from glue fumes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LESLYE DAVIS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
HIDDEN DANGERS: A Royale Comfort Seating plant. Right, another Royale plant during an inspection in 2005, a year seven workers fell seriously ill.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LESLYE DAVIS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 OSHA NORTH CAROLINA) (A17) CHART: Many Inspections, Little Change: Since 1996, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration has sent inspectors to monitor working conditions in the Royale Comfort Seating factories in North Carolina. OSHA has repeatedly found workers exposed to dangerous levels of toxic glue fumes, but the agency has failed to compel the company to make conditions safe for its workers. (Source: OSHA) (A16-A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (89%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); CHEMICALS MFG (74%); CHEMICALS (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); NEUROSCIENCE (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); ELECTRONICS (71%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (70%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (68%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); POLITICAL DEBATES (63%); METHAMPHETAMINE (56%)

COMPANY: FARLEY'S HEALTH PRODUCTS LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013



1013 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2470 words

HEADLINE: Jazz, Up in Harlem

BYLINE: By KIA GREGORY

 BODY:
As another evening falls, the Lenox Lounge sits dim and lonely. Commuters pour out of the 125th Street subway station and onto Lenox Avenue, past its padlocked door. At Ginny's Supper Club across the street, a mostly black crowd of men in suits and women in heels sips and sways as a band turns out a haunting rendition of John Coltrane's ''My Favorite Things.''
It is said that Coltrane once blew his sax at the Lenox Lounge, which kept regulars, downtowners and tourists coming back for 70 years, even through the neighborhood's bleak times. Now, with Harlem resurgent, only its remains are on display: its Art Deco finishes, familiar red paneling and famous sign have all been stripped away.
The Lenox Lounge shut down on Dec. 31 after a bitter lease dispute between the club's owner and his landlord. The space was supposed to reopen within weeks under new management. But overnight, Alvin Reed, the bar's operator, removed the fixtures and furnishings and took them to a nearby storefront, where, he has said, he plans to reopen. That prompted a $50 million lawsuit from Ricky Edmonds, the landlord, demanding the fixtures be returned. Their next meeting before a judge, to present a settlement or set a court date, is scheduled for April 4. 
For the moment, at least, plans for two versions of the Lenox Lounge are unfolding in parallel: one in the storied original location; the other up the street, with the lounge's fabled interior and trademarked name.
They will have company. Farther south, on West 118th Street and St. Nicholas Avenue, another investor plans to reopen the legendary jazz haunt Minton's Playhouse, which before a recent short-lived run had been closed for almost as much of its raucous 75-year history as it had been open.
Maybe it's a long shot. But within the neighborhood's current economic remix, with its new condos and destination restaurants, three businessmen have latched on to the same dream at the same time: reviving a piece of vintage Harlem with a jumping, jamming jazz spot, that this time will outlive the past.
The Lenox Lounge opened in 1942, just south of the intersection of Lenox Avenue and 125th Street.
Mr. Reed and his family moved to Harlem from Virginia a few years later, when he was 6. Decades later, in 1988, Mr. Reed, a jazz lover and retired police officer with property in other boroughs, bought the club. He paid its previous owner $85,000 and signed a new lease.
With his own investment and loans from the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, Mr. Reed restored the interior with geometric floor tiles and zebra-print wallpaper -- and brought back live jazz.
''When I originally took it over, the Lenox Lounge wasn't nowhere near the stature it is now,'' Mr. Reed, 73, said in January. He then memorialized some of Harlem's long vanished clubs: the Savoy, the Baby Grand, Smalls. These were intimate places peopled by black patrons, largely kept out of the segregated nightclubs downtown and Harlem's own Cotton Club, where Duke Ellington and his Jungle Band performed and dancers in faux African dress entertained those looking for an exotic experience.
The early 1940s was a high point for jazz in Harlem, where young and brilliant musicians like Thelonious Monk, Charlie Parker, Dizzy Gillespie, Charlie Christian, and Kenny Clarke jammed and experimented. At Minton's, they created the genre known as bebop. ''I wanted to try to bring some of that back,'' said Mr. Reed, ''bring life back to Harlem.''
Part of the Lenox Lounge's charm was its atmosphere. It was cozy and unpretentious, with duct tape covering tears in some of the seats. Old heads in suits, the after-work crowd and tourists from the Bronx or Switzerland crowded the bar, all friends for the night.
But Mr. Reed and his landlord, Mr. Edmonds, never really got along, said Sharron Cannon, the former manager at the lounge. Tensions, she said, led to standoffs. She recalled a situation over pest control. ''It was definitely a haven for rats,'' she said of the lounge. While the rodents ran wild, she said, Mr. Edmonds and Mr. Reed pointed fingers at each other. Mr. Reed and Ms. Cannon, who co-owns the trademark on the Lenox Lounge name, have parted ways.
In the club's last days, Mr. Reed told patrons he could not afford the escalating rent. But what exactly felled the Lenox Lounge remains unclear. During negotiations to renew the lease, Mr. Edmonds asked Mr. Reed to find a business partner to help him renovate the space, get the proper licenses for live music and stay current with his payments. Mr. Reed had been struggling to pay the monthly rent of $9,925, Mr. Edmonds said, despite the boom in the neighborhood's night life at places like Corner Social and Red Rooster.
During one round of lease negotiations, Mr. Reed agreed to pay $15,000 a month for 2013, according to a letter addressed to Mr. Edmonds from Mr. Reed's lawyer. However, Mr. Reed wanted an ''escape clause,'' that would allow him to cancel the lease with two months' written notice and no further liability.
''How does that preserve the space?'' Mr. Edmonds, 56, asked in January.
The two eventually agreed that Mr. Reed would vacate the premises by noon on Jan. 1. A new tenant, Richie Notar, known for his role in building the Nobu sushi chain, would take over the premises later that day. Mr. Notar had planned to polish a few things and then reopen in a few weeks. The same style, but because of the trademark, a new name.
But around 4 a.m. on Jan. 1, according to court papers filed by Mr. Edmonds, about a dozen workers hired by Mr. Reed began ''stripping the premises bare'' as Mr. Edmonds watched from the street.
The workers, the lawsuit states, grabbed the red-metal panels on the front facade, the distinctive glass-paneled doors, the etched mirrors, the finned-glass light fixtures, the C-shaped banquettes, the bar counter and other fixtures, and fed them to two waiting trucks.
''What he's done is take over everything and take it to another spot, and he clearly cannot do that,'' Mr. Edmonds said in January. ''We clearly have a lease that states he was supposed to leave all that stuff in there. And we're going to do everything in our means to get it back.''
In February, Mr. Edmonds filed the lawsuit, demanding that Mr. Reed return an inventory of 26 listed items -- and pay $50 million in damages.
Last week, Mr. Reed's lawyer, Tyreta Foster, referred questions about the suit to her client. Mr. Reed would only say that he owned the business and ''they're trying to take it away from me.''
In an interview a few days into 2013, Mr. Reed said that he planned to duplicate as much of the Lenox Lounge as he could in a shuttered beauty salon on Lenox Avenue. It was a smaller, two-level space where, he said, people would be able to hang out and listen to good music, in a setting that would be ''less commercial and more authentic.''
''We got the Lenox Lounge sign'' that is going to go up, he said, and it is going to ''look almost as it looked before.''
''I like bad news quick,'' Richie Notar said in late February, wearing a wry smile with a charcoal pinstripe suit and striped shirt, as he sat inside Harlow, his new restaurant in Midtown.
Mr. Notar, 52, with thinning brown hair, was surrounded by a team of contractors, architects, designers and demolition specialists. Blueprints, open laptops and inked notepads were decked on the table -- renovations were going forward, fixtures or no fixtures. In addition to the club in the old Lenox Lounge space, Mr. Notar was planning to open a bakery next door with Dwight Henry of New Orleans, the baker turned actor made famous by the Oscar-nominated film ''Beasts of the Southern Wild.''
A native of Jamaica, Queens, Mr. Notar started out when he was a teenager as a shirtless busboy at Studio 54. He recently left his role as a managing partner in the Nobu chain, which has branded its Japanese cuisine from downtown to Dubai, and set out on his own. He can drop A-list names of musicians, actors and pornography stars.
Almost a year and a half ago, he learned from a posting on the blog Eater that the Lenox Lounge was available. When he walked through the space, quiet and still during the morning hours, ''I felt like I was walking into a movie,'' he recalled.
Now, in light of the lawsuit, he said with a laugh, ''It's like buying a car, and you come back and the seats are gone, the tires are gone.''
But as he later said to his team: ''Maybe he did us a favor,'' referring to Mr. Reed. ''Now, we're able to think about this in a different way.''
As far as the space, Mr. Notar said he still planned to keep to the nostalgic, Art Deco atmosphere: ''I like those little love seats for two,'' he said, remembering the Lenox Lounge of old. But he will add a bit of modern sheen: fine food, pitch-perfect sound and what he called ''a smattering of surprises.''
''I really want to get back to that music-centric era,'' said Mr. Notar, ''where people say: I want to sing there.''
Getting the music right might be the hardest part.
Anyone trying to resurrect a jazz haunt has to face the question of what the music means to Harlem today, said Loren Schoenberg, the artistic director of the National Jazz Museum in Harlem, on East 126th Street.
''There's a lot of ghosts in that neighborhood,'' Mr. Schoenberg said, ''and these places are trying to capture what was a very complicated past. The challenge is not to romanticize it with some corny representation.''
Jazz in its heyday, Mr. Schoenberg said, was not a throwback -- it was vital, young, popular music.
''It wasn't that Parker and Ellington were saying, 'Here's this music from a half a century ago, with this complicated structure, that you can't dance to, and be quiet and listen,'' he said.
''On the other hand,'' he added, ''this music is too good to throw away.''
Mr. Notar wants his club to be much more than a nostalgia operation.
He envisions a place local musicians will call home, a place that an artist in town to promote a new album would check out -- and maybe jump onto the bandstand for a few songs at the end of the night.
No, he doesn't have a name yet. But he has the revered space and, he said, a deepened connection to Harlem. And he believes he can take his refitted version of the Lenox Lounge brand around the globe.
''I know people get insular and protective about it,'' Mr. Notar said, ''but let me tell you, the world is talking about Harlem.''
Change doesn't have to be a bad thing for Harlem, he added, ''As long as it still has that flavor.''
But first, he has to open. As the meeting wound down, Mr. Notar leaned in and asked his team: ''Roughly, give me an estimate of when I can serve my first beer.''
He had hoped the answer would be within a few weeks. Think August, they told him. There were the grease trap, the sprinkler system, pest control, whether those remaining faux-leather seats were fire retardant -- and the list went on.
Richard Parsons owns a jazz collection that towers, swells and spans. It is a mass of thousands of CDs and about 1,500 pounds of black vinyl. He organizes it with a database that can tell him, for example, who is on bass on any particular cut.
For the retired former head of two Fortune 500 companies, Citicorp and Time Warner, his decision to reopen Minton's Playhouse, on a dull stretch of West 118th Street, came easy.
Jazz had first grabbed hold of him as a teenager growing up in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. The night of his senior prom, he said, he took his date to the chic Hickory House restaurant in Manhattan to hear the Billy Taylor Trio.
Sitting in his office one recent afternoon, Mr. Parsons, a stout man of 65, remembered that night as his ''first true adolescent experience.''
When he returned to the city in 1977, after graduating from law school and working in Albany and Washington, the economy had sunk, and dragged real estate values with it. Many celebrated jazz spots had been ravaged.
As chairman of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone in the mid-'90s, Mr. Parsons worked on an economic effort to revive a withering Harlem. The plan radiated from the Apollo Theater, which was struggling after bankruptcy. ''First we had to bring the Apollo back to life,'' Mr. Parsons said. ''Then, get people up here to eat and shop and stabilize the neighborhood.''
Development has spread from 125th Street down to 116th, with a new art-house theater, and to Frederick Douglass Boulevard, with its million-dollar apartments, a sushi restaurant and small shops.
And now, Minton's.
One brisk morning about three years ago, Mr. Parsons, who is board chairman of the Jazz Foundation of America, was scouting the storefront of the old Cecil Hotel, a single-room-occupancy building for adults who had been homeless. He and a longtime friend, Alexander Smalls, the former owner of the restaurant Cafe Beulah, were looking for a project to take on in Harlem. Mr. Parsons made his way around the corner, where he saw the ghostly blue sign, spelling out Minton's.
They had to have it, he told Mr. Smalls.
''You know who the pianist was?'' asked Mr. Parsons, his voice rising with excitement. ''Thelonious Monk!''
''It isn't just a place where guys played,'' he explained. ''It is a place where a genre of music was created. This is history. This is jazz history. And this is going to make what we're doing known around the world.''
The reopened Minton's Playhouse, Mr. Parsons said, will have tablecloths, fine china and Mr. Smalls's brand of Southern revival cooking on the menu. Straight-ahead jazz standards like ''The Nearness of You'' will play with what Mr. Parsons calls ''super duper sound.'' He also plans to bring back the notion of a house band, with gigs for some of the aged musicians the jazz foundation helps with rent and medical care, many of whom still live in Harlem.
Then, on Fridays and Saturdays, as midnight creeps in, the rhythm section and the high horn players, he said, will ''bring the funk.'' Tables will be pulled back, and the floor opened up, ''and the next thing you know, you're in the middle of a nightclub.''
The Cecil, a restaurant he is planning to open next door, will be a lighter, hipper Afro-Asian-American brasserie, offering foods from the African diaspora.
If all goes well, the sibling restaurants will open by fall. And since Mr. Parsons is using his own money for now, he also controls the vision.
There are still a few other places in Harlem to soak up live jazz, like Paris Blues, Chocolat, Ginny's and the Shrine. And Mr. Parsons admitted that some have questioned whether jazz could work on a deserted street, an avenue away from the nearest subway. But, he said, he senses a sure thing.
''There are people in this town who remember the days of elegance, and the days of style and class,'' he said. ''And they love jazz.''
''Jazz,'' he added, ''like other types of music, it changes, it morphs, and it finds new audiences.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from above, the old Lenox Lounge
Thelonious Monk, Howard McGhee, Roy Eldridge and Teddy Hill at Minton's Playhouse, about 1947
Richie Notar, who plans to reopen the Lenox Lounge space
and Richard Parsons, who plans to resurrect Minton's. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
WILLIAM P. GOTTLIEB, FROM THE COLLECTION OF THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
Top, a performance at Minton's Playhouse in 2009. Thelonious Monk, right, at the piano at Minton's about 1947. The club was the birthplace of the music genre known as bebop. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
WILLIAM P. GOTTLIEB, FROM THE COLLECTION OF THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS)
 The bar at the Lenox Lounge, seen from the Zebra Room, weeks before it closed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (76%); LITIGATION (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); JUDGES (72%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (68%); TRADEMARKS (68%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (68%); CONDOMINIUMS (66%); TRADEMARK LAW (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%)

PERSON: RICHARD D PARSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2013



1014 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: His Vision, But Done City's Way

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MILLER

 BODY:
At last year's State of the City speech, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced the creation of a public high school called the Academy for Software Engineering. The school would be part of an ambitious expansion of computer science education in the city, and Mr. Bloomberg called it the ''brainchild'' of a local teacher named Michael Zamansky.
Mr. Zamansky was seated on the stage, a few steps from the mayor. But by that point, he said recently, the project was his in name only: he said he had been effectively cut out of the school's planning process, and his vision of an elite program had given way to one that was more focused on practical job skills.
''I don't know if they think my plans are too grandiose, or too unrealistic or if I'm an elitist snob,'' he said. 
The mayor spoke about other efforts to train the city's future engineers and entrepreneurs. But Mr. Zamansky worried that the new school would be too small: not enough students, not enough ambition.
Mr. Zamansky, 45, had spent two decades developing the computer science program at Stuyvesant High School. Former students now working at Google and Facebook call him a mentor, a role model, a man who showed them their future.
He liked to say he ''hacked the school'' to get what he wanted at Stuyvesant. But hacking the city's education bureaucracy was proving more difficult.
When Mr. Zamansky first came to Stuyvesant's math department in 1993, technology education there included wood shop and telescope-building along with basic courses in Cisco Systems networking and robotics. He introduced the first advanced computer science electives, and started advocating for the subject to be a universal requirement, like math or biology.
Now, more than 300 juniors and seniors routinely vie for the 150 seats available in his advanced classes, which emphasize putting programming to real-world use. And last year, after nearly two decades of arguments, Mr. Zamansky persuaded the school to add a yearlong computer science requirement for the school's approximately 800 sophomores.
His students have built a movie-recommendation Web site, an app that searches for language patterns in celebrity Twitter posts and Pixar-style animations. Mr. Zamansky says his best students graduate ''Google-ready.''
But even with six full-time staff members, he feels Stuyvesant takes his program less seriously than subjects with their own departments. ''We're just considered math teachers by the school and city,'' he said. ''All of this could go away at the whim of the principal.''
So in 2010, he decided that if he could not have his own department, he would have his own school.
He envisioned an elite institution with roughly 300 students per grade, all of whom would be admitted after demonstrating math proficiency. Computer science would be a standard part of the curriculum. Initially, he received encouraging feedback from the Board of Education, he said, but his proposal was rejected after the first application round.
Everything changed, however, after Fred Wilson came calling.
Mr. Wilson, 51, is a founder of Union Square Ventures, one of the bigger players in New York's growing technology start-up scene, and had invested in some of the companies where Mr. Zamansky's graduates now work. He learned about Mr. Zamansky's proposal after his own son experienced frustration trying to learn to write computer code in middle school.
The two agreed that the public schools needed to become incubators for tech talent. ''I was really impressed by what Mike was doing,'' Mr. Wilson remembered. ''He had lots of alums who'd gone onto Carnegie Mellon and M.I.T. and Stanford, and had come back to the city because they were born and raised here. And I thought: that's amazing, that's what we want to happen.''
Mr. Wilson went back to the Department of Education with Mr. Zamansky's proposal, but this time with a significant sweetener: he promised to cover the one-time costs of starting a new school. Space was available in Washington Irving High School in Gramercy, near the city's tech corridor. But the budget for hiring staff, a principal and designing a new curriculum was considerable.
This time, the project was approved.
A flurry of meetings followed. The city advocated for a small school of about 100 students per class whose electives would focus almost solely on computer science. They also wanted the school to be unscreened -- meaning no entrance examinations.
Mr. Zamansky was dismayed. He felt this plan would keep computer science as a specialized subject, instead of offering a widely adoptable model. He also worried about the lack of screening. ''If you want to fuel the tech economy in the city,'' he said, ''then you do need to engage the most struggling students. But your flagship has to be academically high performing.''
Even as the city's vision diverged from his own, Mr. Zamansky said the Department of Education continued to promise him a role in the project. He remained on the planning committee's e-mail list, according to Leigh Ann Sudol-DeLyser, the new school's computer science curriculum consultant, but Mr. Zamansky said the group stopped returning his calls. ''It was clear that I was going to lose, because I'm just a teacher, even though I brought the substance to the table,'' he said.
The Education Department disputed the characterization that Mr. Zamansky had been excluded from the process, but Josh Thomases, the deputy chief academic officer for instruction at the department, and one of Mr. Wilson's initial advocates there, acknowledged a fundamental disagreement. He said that his team was using Stuyvesant's computer science curriculum as a model but that the new school would cater to a broader spectrum of students.
''Mike has figured out how to teach kids so that when they graduate, Fred Wilson's partners will want to hire them,'' Mr. Thomases said in a recent interview. ''But the Stuyvesant curriculum doesn't account for what to do with students who can't get into the most selective school in the system.'' He said the Academy for Software Engineering will double the number of black and Latino students who take advanced placement computer science.
The academy, which opened in Gramercy last fall with 129 freshmen, accommodates students who will take the A.P. exam and become computer science majors, and also those who will find technology jobs out of high school. Students are paired with industry mentors throughout their high school careers.
This September, the city will open a second Academy for Software Engineering in the Bronx and start a software-engineering elective program in 20 schools. ''We're interested in giving students marketable skills so that when they're done, they can take industry certifications and get jobs,'' Mr. Thomases said.
This purely practical emphasis concerns Mr. Zamansky. He teaches many of the same programming languages as the academy and the pilot program do. ''But what's important is what you're doing with the language,'' he said. ''I'm trying to teach deeper concepts of thinking.''
Mr. Wilson dismisses Mr. Thomases' talk of certifications as ''lighting up the bureaucracy.'' But he also disagrees with Mr. Zamansky's insistence on entrance exams and high performance.
''If zero people in a population were going be great software engineers and now 50 percent of them become great, that's arguably a better success,'' he said.
Mr. Zamansky has taken it upon himself, as usual, to see his own vision realized.
His new mission is a nonprofit called Computer Science and Technology for Urban Youth, which aims to teach the fundamentals of software engineering in after-school and summer programs and, ultimately, help teachers introduce computer science classes into their schools.
The program officially began last month, but so far he is still working with his own students at Stuyvesant.
One of the group's first events was a networking session at Foursquare in SoHo earlier this month, hosted by alumni who now work there. Well over 100 Stuyvesant students and graduates gathered in the company cafeteria, eating pizza and talking about colleges and careers. At one picnic table, Michael Lavina, 20, told three current Stuyvesant students how much he loved his computer science program at Stony Brook University. ''The teachers there are legit,'' he said.
When Mr. Lavina went to Stuyvesant, only one semester of computer science was mandatory, and he took it with reluctance. ''I wanted to be a lawyer,'' he said. ''But as a C.S. major, you have skills that most people don't.''
Mr. Zamansky buzzed around the room, making introductions and crackling with nervous energy. He wore his usual drab khaki shirt and chinos with a heavy key ring hanging from his belt. He looked very much like the old guard of techie nerddom.
Finally, he stopped to address his disciples. ''Look around,'' he told the younger generation before him. ''These are the people you study with, the people you're going to work with. This is your family.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Zamansky, top center, a teacher at Stuyvesant High School, who has been trying to revitalize computer science education in New York City schools, at a mixer for present and former students over pizza at the offices of Foursquare in Manhattan. Above right, the home of the Academy of Software Engineering, which Mr. Zamansky inspired. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (90%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (90%); CITIES (90%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (89%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CORE CURRICULUM (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (66%); ANIMATION (65%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (55%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%); RICK PERRY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2013



1015 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: More Stockman

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Deficits are a monopartisan issue. 

 BODY:
Not much more, I promise. As Mark Thoma points out, the verdict among everyone who knows anything is that Stockman's piece, mysteriously given star treatment, was pathetic and embarrassing. It's full of big numbers that are scary because they're big numbers - we've run a current account deficit of $8 trillion. So? We have a $16 trillion a year economy; America's net international investment position is a debt of about 30 percent of GDP, which isn't that big; our balance of investment income is still positive. But it's EIGHT TRILLION DOLLARS! 
Anyway, I get especially annoyed when people portray all of US fiscal history since the 50s, or something, as a tale of bipartisan runaway spending. You should always have this picture in mind:
We didn't have anything you could call a deficit problem until 1980. We then saw rising debt under Reagan-Bush; falling debt under Clinton; rising under Bush II; and a sharp rise in the aftermath of the financial crisis. This is not a bipartisan problem of runaway deficits! Pre-1980, no problem at all; after 1980, deficits were very much a monopartisan issue until the financial crisis, which was a time when running deficits was appropriate. Anyone who says differently hasn't done his homework.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013

 
