

201 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: As California Thirsts, Dams Make Comeback 

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LAKE SHASTA, Calif. 

 BODY:
At a photo opportunity three years ago, the Clinton administration's interior secretary, Bruce Babbitt, took a sledge hammer to the soon-to-be-dismantled McPherrin Dam in California's Central Valley and declared that the era of great dam building in the West was over. Environmentalists had long argued that many dams did more harm than good, and after years of battling, the government agreed.
 Told of that declaration recently, Curtis Knight chuckled bitterly. 
 Mr. Knight, the northern regional manager for California Trout, an environmental group, was strolling on a pristine stretch of the lower McCloud River and explaining how it would be inundated by a proposed enlargement of the nearby 602-foot Shasta Dam. 
In scale at least, the Shasta project, which would raise the dam between 6 feet and 200 feet, harks back to days that many thought were over, when the demand for power and irrigation water led engineers to build colossal dams across rivers throughout the West.
But this new proposal is part of one of the most ambitious water-management programs in history, one that involves raising the heights of several dams in California and building new ones, in the first federally financed dam construction of this type in years. And just as significant, the proposals, which would affect a vast swath of the state, from the McCloud River with its feisty trout to the cotton crops of the Central Valley to the lawns of San Diego, have been worked out by the same groups that had been fighting over dams for years, including a number of environmental groups.
But it is not that people here have necessarily changed their views about dams. Rather, they say they have been forced by the state's seemingly limitless need for cleaner and more plentiful water to at least consider something that had been anathema a short while ago.
"When we began this process five or so years ago none of us expected dams to even be part of the debate, because they didn't pass the laugh test," said Barry Nelson, a senior analyst at the Natural Resources Defense Council, which participated in discussions on the water program. "But we're willing to take a serious look, as long as there are thorough studies." Other environmentalists think the willingness to consider new dams is a slippery slope.
The focus of the program is one of the largest and most overtaxed systems of natural and man-made plumbing in the world, the 700-square mile Bay Delta. It is where the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers meet the eastern reaches of the San Francisco Bay in a maze of channels, aqueducts, oxbows, dams, islands and wetlands.
The delta has provided most of the water for California's growth for more than 100 years. It now supplies water for 22 million people -- mostly in Southern California -- and irrigates 4.5 million acres of some of the most productive farmland in the country. It is the largest estuary on the West Coast, with a watershed that drains roughly 40 percent of the state. It is also the state's largest habitat for fish and wildlife, including two-thirds of the state's salmon.
The delta's problems began several decades ago, when state and federal officials sought to dig a new canal to divert more water away from the river system to the urban areas of Southern California. Environmentalists and others, warning that the canal could have a devastating impact on the lower reaches of the delta, fought vigorously and successfully to stop the construction.
But that just began a new era of hand-to-hand legal combat over every water proposal. Not a single comprehensive water project has gone forward since then, and in the meantime water quality has declined, a number of species have become endangered, including salmon and the delta smelt, and the farmers and cities have complained that they have had to make do with less water.
Realizing that only compromises and sacrifices could break the logjam, more than a dozen federal and state agencies, as well as agricultural groups, urban water districts and environmentalists, began, starting in the early 1990's, a long process of study and debate.
Last summer they reached a historic consensus, agreeing to spend $8.6 billion in the first seven years, and more over the next two decades to revitalize the delta water system. The majority of the money would come from the federal government, and the rest from the state. The plan envisions that over time the users of the water, particularly farmers, will pay the full cost of their allotment without subsidies, but this is uncertain. 
The agreement, called the Cal Fed program, contains gains and sacrifices for just about everyone. Farmers would get less water than at times in the past, but the deliveries would be more reliable. Urban areas would get cleaner water, but less of it. Environmentalists would see areas like the lower McCloud inundated, but the tradeoff would be more clean water flushing through the lower delta, helping revive endangered species. There would also be better flood control, more water for use in droughts and new money for water conservation and recycling.
"The Bay Delta system is clearly being maintained at a very low level, and everyone recognizes that we don't know if it can sustain another serious drought," said Patrick Wright, the Cal Fed director. "So everyone wants to move forward, and they're willing to consider things they would never have thought about before as long as it all moves forward together."
But the fragile consensus is being strained. Many of those involved are troubled by the compromises, and some groups have gone to Congress, which would have to rule on legislation to carry out the program, to try to regain some of what they had given up in the Cal Fed framework.
Supporters of the program say that because it relies on a vast web of compromises, picking apart pieces of it could bring the effort down.
"This is the most sweeping water policy and restoration policy program ever in this state," said Mary Nichols, the state's secretary for resources. "We're committed to the whole program rather than pieces. If not you run the risk of running off the rails, which would lead us back toward the old water wars, even within the federal government."
The last major dam built in California was the New Melones Dam on the Stanislaus River in the 1970's, which environmentalists fought. Since then, not only have a handful of smaller dams been torn down, but the few new dams have generally involved a new generation of technology; water is diverted from rivers, usually just at flush times, and stored in off-stream reservoirs, causing less disruption to the ecosystem. Many of the Cal Fed dams would fit this model.
One subject of debate is how quickly the dam projects should be built. Initially, two bills were introduced in Congress, by Senator Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat, and by Representative Ken Calvert, a Republican. Both have been harshly criticized by environmental groups that accuse them of moving too swiftly on the dams. 
By contrast, the Cal Fed program proposes studies of the expansion of the Shasta and several other dams, and construction only if the economics and environmental issues balance out. And while the program generally offers the agricultural groups only commitments to try to provide a steadier flow of water, the two bills offer statutory guarantees.
Representative George Miller, a Democrat whose district east of Oakland includes one of the dams that would be enlarged, has now offered a third bill that he says would bring the legislation closer to the Cal Fed agreement. But even Mr. Miller, who has solid environmental credentials, admitted that the dams and their destructive consequences, have to be seriously considered.
"It may be a price that has to be paid," said Mr. Miller, referring to the impact on the McCloud. 
It is still hard for some people to imagine paying that price. On a drizzly morning on the lower McCloud, not far from where it spills into the huge Lake Shasta, a majestic scene that plays out day after day unfolded. A bald eagle suddenly appeared, patrolling the narrow canyon from above, while wild brown trout darted under the perfect crystal blue waters. If the dam is raised and the canyon flooded there would be more room for houseboats and more lake beaches.
"This is not an economically vibrant area, so we could use the jobs," said Mr. Knight, the regional manager for California Trout. "But look at this, look at what you'd lose. And I can tell you, people here hate the idea of inundating a couple miles of river just to send the water to Southern California. They hate it."
Tom Graff, the regional director for Environmental Defense, a group that has fought on water policy for years, said he thought the program was simply too complex to work. "There's this idea that everybody can win," Mr. Graff said. "We'll clean the delta and get more water to urban districts and the farmers. I think that that's just wrong. You can't do that."
And some of the most powerful farm groups are already threatening the equivalent of a nuclear strike, litigation, if they do not get the guarantees they have been demanding.
"That is a question I'd rather not have to think about," said Stephen Birmingham, the general manager of the Westlands Water District, a powerful San Joaquin Valley agricultural group, when asked how he would respond if his efforts to obtain more water were dropped from the bills. "I don't think it's a question of what we would be prepared to do. It's what we would have to do."
That kind of talk worries people like Mr. Miller.
"For the first time in 100 years of California water wars we had a consensus process," he said. "It invited a lot of people to the table who had not had a place before. The consequences are huge if this process comes apart."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Curtis Knight, an environmentalist, at part of the McCloud River that could be inundated by Lake Shasta. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Shasta Dam in California was built from 1938 to 1945, creating Lake Shasta. The dam and the lake would grow under a plan to help the state meet its rising demand for water. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. 14) Map of California highlighting Lake Shasta and surrounding areas: California is considering an ambitious water management program. (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); RIVERS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); WETLANDS (72%); IRRIGATION (68%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (53%) WATER; DAMS AND DIKES 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) CALIFORNIA; SAN DIEGO (CALIF); MCCLOUD RIVER (CALIF); SAN FRANCISCO BAY; SACRAMENTO RIVER; SAN JOAQUIN RIVER

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



202 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL: NOTEBOOK; 
N.F.L. Enjoys Stability, But Problems Remain

BYLINE:  By MIKE FREEMAN 

 BODY:
While the economy waffles, and sports organizations like Major League Baseball ponder the possibility of a work stoppage, the National Football League has undoubtedly entered what some league officials are calling a second golden age.
 The first was probably when the league realigned three decades ago, beginning the formation of modern football. Now, the N.F.L. is enjoying the kind of success -- steady and long-term success -- that most companies dream of. 
 Commissioner Paul Tagliabue deserves a lot of the credit for the league's current state. Two of the main things he emphasized beginning in the early 1990's have stabilized the league now. Tagliabue felt that strengthening the relationship between management and the players union, and maintaining revenue sharing, were two of the most important agendas the league needed to accomplish to secure a stable future. 
"We've demonstrated that those two aspects are key in maintaining a strong league," Tagliabue said.
The past few months have seen the league make a number of key decisions that support the contention of a new golden age:
*Tagliabue said he expected to have an extension of the collective bargaining agreement completed soon. The extension could go through the 2006 season.
*Owners have made instant replay, which has worked very well, a permanent part of the league.
*The league realigned in May for the first time in three decades. The last realignment in 1970 was contentious, but as a sign of how well owners in football are getting along now, the recent debate took about an hour and could not have gone more smoothly.
*The N.F.L. beat the Oakland owner Al Davis's $1.2 billion lawsuit over the rights to the Los Angeles market.
*The quality of play in the N.F.L. remains strong.
Television ratings for the league over all are solid, assistant coaches have better retirement and health packages, and players are earning their college degrees in record numbers thanks to the league's player development program (20 players earned their degrees this off-season alone, including Jerry Rice and Eddie George).
Of course the league is not perfect.
The N.F.L. needs to take better care of injured, older, retired players, some of whom end up with painful injuries and penniless because benefits for them have dwindled. And punishment for players who get into trouble off the field, especially in domestic violence cases, needs to be tougher.

Rice Inspiring Raiders
The move by the Oakland Raiders to sign the former San Francisco great Jerry Rice is already paying off.
Signing Rice, even though he turns 39 in October, could turn out to be one of the smartest personnel decisions of the off-season. He is already having an effect on Raiders players as they watched his relentless work ethic in recent spring practices.
Rice has had a career-long habit after making a catch in practice of sprinting 30 or 40 yards as if he were breaking for a touchdown. Every catch. Every practice. It has caught on with some of the Raiders receivers, who were imitating Rice in the team's workout late last month.
Rice no longer possesses scary speed, but where he will be valuable to the team is that he still loves to go across the middle. Not that other Raiders wide receivers do not, but Rice remains among the best at it.

Super Bowl to Unemployment
Remarkably, some six months after winning a Super Bowl with the Baltimore Ravens, quarterback Trent Dilfer is still looking for a job. In a conference call with reporters last week, Dilfer expressed dismay that he was still unemployed, but optimism that he would be quarterbacking for a team by the start of the season.
"Obviously, circumstances have not worked out the way I thought they would," Dilfer said. "I'll take the same approach last year when I was a backup, then got ready to play in Baltimore. I'm not going to let the circumstances dictate how I prepare, or how I play the game or what I'm focused on. I'll be playing football next year, I'm pretty confident of that."
Dilfer was 7-1 as a starter in the regular season last year and threw for a touchdown in the Ravens' 34-7 Super Bowl victory over the Giants. Those numbers should be enough for Dilfer to get a job as a backup for a premier team, at the least.
But nothing solid has come his way. He has received interest from teams like the Washington Redskins and the Kansas City Chiefs, but the talks always disintegrate. And Dilfer says he rejected the overtures of the sorry Cincinnati Bengals to become a starter there.
Part of Dilfer's problem, according to a team that was interested in him, is that his demeanor is too low-key in interviews. What also seems to hurt Dilfer is the notion that it was Baltimore's defense -- and not Dilfer or the offense -- that won the Super Bowl. Adding credence to that is Dilfer did not complete more than 12 passes in any of Baltimore's four postseason games.
"I'm very proud that I'm one of 22 quarterbacks to win a Super Bowl, but at the same time, I was a victim because I sat back and didn't ask for credit," Dilfer said.
Then Dilfer summed up his current predicament, and probable future, this way.
"There has been some interest," he said, "There will be some desperate teams. There will be injuries. There will be teams that find out that the guys they have aren't the guys they thought they were."

Rookie Absentee Control
When one player skipped the recent N.F.L. rookie symposium with what a person familiar with the situation called an unexcused absence, it was not entirely unusual. The N.F.L. gets a 99 percent turnout to its mandatory symposium each year, but there is always a person or two who skips the event.
But the N.F.L. feels even that small a number is too many. So the league is considering taking more drastic action to prevent rookies from being missing in action.
One thing the N.F.L. might do is increase the fine for missing the symposium with an unexcused absence from $10,000 to twice that amount, or even more.
The problem with setting a fine at a much steeper amount is that the players' union might balk.
But the N.F.L. think that a stiffer penalty might be worth it because officials believe that the symposium, a life-skills seminar, is that important to players.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerry Rice regularly sprints 30 or 40 yards after making catches in practice. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); STRIKES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); SPORTS INJURIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ETHICS (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); LITIGATION (67%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (63%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (50%) FOOTBALL 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%)

INDUSTRY:  SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS; 

PERSON: FREEMAN, MIKE 

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



203 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Move to Curb Biotech Crops Ignores Poor, U.N. Finds 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, July 6 

 BODY:
Opposition in richer countries to genetically modified crops may set back the ability of the poorest nations to feed growing populations, according to a new United Nations survey. 
 A movement against these crops, genetically changed for various reasons -- including higher yield, more nutritional value and pest or disease control -- is strongest among Western Europeans and to some extent Americans. 
 "The current debate in Europe and the United States over genetically modified crops mostly ignores the concerns and needs of the developing world," according to the survey, the Human Development Report 2001. It is published by the United Nations Development Program and will be released on Tuesday in Mexico City. 
"Western consumers who do not face food shortages or nutritional deficiencies or work in the fields are more likely to focus on food safety and the potential loss of biodiversity," the report states, but "farming communities in developing countries are more likely to focus on potentially higher yields and greater nutritional value, and on the reduced need to spray pesticides that can damage the soil and sicken farmers."
The report draws a comparison to successful Western-led efforts to ban the use of the industrial pesticide DDT worldwide, which has allowed a resurgent population of mosquitoes to devastate tropical countries with several virulent strains of malaria. 
Still, the United Nations remains concerned about the consequences of genetic advancements, too. In Geneva on Friday, the World Health Organization and the Food and Agriculture Organization jointly recommended that governments test all genetically modified organisms before they enter the market, looking especially for the potential to cause allergic reactions. 
Mark Malloch Brown, administrator of the United Nations Development Program, which publishes the 11-year-old annual survey, said the report moved in a new direction this year by challenging some cherished opinions about what the third world needs. The 2001 report looks at three areas -- food, medicine and information systems -- where high-technology can be made relevant and useful to poor countries, as long as risks are well managed.
Mr. Malloch Brown recommended a closer look at recent history and a move away from what he called "an anti-technology bias." He added that advances in food production -- the "green revolution" of the early postcolonial years -- were based on crop science.
Turning to information technology, the report created a new technology achievement index that ranks countries in four categories: leaders, potential leaders, dynamic adopters and the marginalized. The new index offers some surprising findings based on factors such as inducements to innovation, prevalence of old technologies like telephones and general educational levels. 
While India, for example, has islands of high technology, it ranks at the bottom of the dynamic adopters category, just above marginalization -- not only well below China by virtually every measure, but also far behind Southeast Asia, Latin American and parts of Africa and the Arab world. At the other end of the scale, Japan and Korea rank fourth and fifth on the leaders list, which is led by Finland, the United States and Sweden. Singapore outranks a majority of European countries.
The core of the 2001 report remains the broad human development index, devised in 1990 by the late Mahbub ul Haq, a Pakistani economist. This year, Norway rose to the top of the index that measures quality of life very broadly. Australia, Canada, Sweden, Belgium and the United States followed. 
At the bottom of the list is Sierra Leone, in last place among 162 nations surveyed. Of 36 nations considered lowest in human development, 29 are African. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (94%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); NUTRITION (90%); PESTICIDES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); CROP RESEARCH (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); AGRONOMY (78%); ALLERGIES (78%); FARM LABOR (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); MALARIA (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (76%); PRODUCT SAFETY (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (74%); FOOD CHARITIES (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); RANKINGS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); FOOD SAFETY (69%) AGRICULTURE; GENETICS AND HEREDITY; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; PESTICIDES AND PESTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (57%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (54%); FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (54%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (56%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



204 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan's Hard Times Rekindle 'One China' Debate 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, July 7 

 BODY:
For a 78-year-old pensioner with heart trouble, Lee Teng-hui is not easing up. When Mr. Lee, the former president of Taiwan, came home from a visit to the United States this week, he greeted well-wishers by grabbing a megaphone and bellowing, "Let's all have confidence in our Taiwan."
 Those seemingly benign sentiments have propelled Mr. Lee into the white-hot center of Taiwanese politics. 
 Fourteen months after he stepped down, the economy here is sputtering, and the government is paralyzed. China, meanwhile, is growing stronger by the day. Polls indicate that as their fortunes diverge, the idea of uniting Taiwan with its fast-growing neighbor is gaining ground here.
For the man who spent his career trying to fashion a separate identity for Taiwan -- often drawing Beijing's wrath in the process -- this gradual drift toward China is alarming. And it has prompted Mr. Lee to set off on an emotional, some say quixotic, campaign to restore the hope of his people.
"He thinks people are putting China's interests ahead of Taiwan's," said Huang Chu-wen, an adviser of the former president. "We feel that emphasizing Taiwan's indigenous culture should be our No. 1 priority."
Last month, Mr. Lee threw his support behind Chen Shui-bian, the pro-independence opposition leader who succeeded him. That enraged Mr. Lee's comrades in the Nationalist Party, who were swept out of power in that election after a half-century of rule.
And now, Mr. Lee is lending his prestige to efforts to start a new party, one that would ally with Mr. Chen against the Nationalists in legislative elections this December.
Mr. Lee's moves have far-reaching implications, not just for Taiwan's politics but also for Taiwan's relationship with China and the United States. Experts here say it could fuel latent animosities between people of mainland Chinese descent and native Taiwanese who share this island. Mr. Lee and Mr. Chen are both native Taiwanese.
It could also draw a jagged line between those who support or oppose unification with China.
"He is appealing to people who believe in Taiwanese independence," said Wu Nai-jen, the secretary general of Mr. Chen's party. "He is whipping up nationalist feeling, not a rational discussion of the issues.'
Political discourse has been uncommonly heated for the last few weeks. Some of Mr. Lee's Nationalist colleagues are howling for his expulsion, while newspapers and talk shows debate his motives.
But critics and defenders of Mr. Lee agree that he has accurately gauged the public mood. The collapse in the global technology industry has devastated Taiwan's economy, pushing growth to its lowest level since the early 1970's and unemployment to a nearly two-decade high. As times become tough, more people believe that maybe Taiwan should cast its lot with China.
Two recent surveys reported a spike in the percentage of Taiwanese who say they could accept "one country, two systems," the arrangement under which China took possession of Hong Kong from Britain in 1997.
While those who favor one country, two systems are still in a minority, the number has almost doubled, to 33 percent, since the last polls in 1999. 
"People suddenly have doubts about Taiwan's long-term economic and political future," said Chu Yun-han, a professor of political science at National Taiwan University.
In this gloomy atmosphere, China beckons. Taiwan companies are flocking to Shanghai to open factories. Unlike the past, when investors used China's cheap labor to make sneakers and other low-end goods, factories now churn out advanced chips and notebook computers.
For many college students here, China is replacing the United States as the land of opportunity. "All my classmates think they are going to work in China," said Chou Ju-yi, 21, an electrical engineering major at National Taiwan University. "They think they will have no choice, because the economy here is so bad."
Ms. Chou said she opposed unification. But her boyfriend, Hsu Chieh, said he believed that integration was inevitable, and desirable. "China is getting stronger and stronger," said Mr. Hsu, who is 21 and studies botany. "To survive, we will have to integrate our economy into China. And to do that, we have to have political integration."
Such attitudes run deep in Taiwan's business establishment. One of the island's most powerful industrialists, Wang Yung-ching, recently called on President Chen to accept Beijing's demand that Taiwan recognize a single China of which it is a part. Mr. Chen's refusal to do so has angered Beijing.
The Nationalist Party, which under Mr. Lee took a confrontational approach toward Beijing, has changed course and begun to cultivate ties with China's leaders. A former Nationalist prime minister recently visited Beijing while the mayor of Taipei went to Hong Kong.
The chairman of the Nationalists, Lien Chan, denies that his party has tilted toward Beijing. But he makes no apologies for the visits. 
"The majority of the people here do not agree with the idea of Taiwan independence," said Mr. Lien, who served as vice president under Mr. Lee. "We have to make this clear to the leaders in Beijing."
It was the Nationalists' shift toward China that precipitated Mr. Lee's break with his party. Mr. Lee had anointed Mr. Lien as the party's presidential candidate in 1999. But experts say the former president secretly preferred Mr. Chen. In the end, Mr. Chen trounced Mr. Lien.
Despite the bad blood, Mr. Lien said he was aghast that Mr. Lee appeared to have switched sides. He speculated that other people were exploiting the former president's name to further their own goals.
Mr. Lee declared recently that he would die as a Nationalist Party member. But he has met with former Nationalist lawmakers who are thinking of running in the new party being formed by Mr. Lee's adviser and protege, Huang Chu-wen.
Mr. Huang said his goal was to win 35 seats in Taiwan's 220-seat Legislature. If he does, and if Mr. Chen, with Mr. Lee's implied blessing, can increase his party's seats to more than 75 seats, from 66 now, Mr. Chen's party and its allies would gain a majority. In the past, his government has been stymied because the Nationalists control the assembly.
Political oddsmakers say the chance of both those things' happening is slim. But Mr. Huang said Mr. Lee has a broader agenda. He is trying to stem the tide of pro-China sentiment. If he fails and Taiwan lets its identity erode, he said, the island will be powerless to ward off Beijing.
"The mainland would be quite happy to let this situation continue," Mr. Huang said. "They figure maybe Taiwan will collapse by itself."

GRAPHIC: Map of Taiwan highlighting Taipei: Taipei's political discourse has become unusually heated recently. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%) CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TAIWAN; PUBLIC OPINION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; LEE TENG-HUI 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%) TAIWAN; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



205 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Economic Cooperation Planned 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: ROME, July 7 

 BODY:
Finance ministers of the seven leading industrial nations appeared uncertain at a meeting in Rome today about whether the worst of the world's faltering economy has been reached, but agreed to draw back from sharpening differences and focus on greater cooperation.
 "We were not here to throw rocks at each other," said the treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, briefing reporters after the day of talks at the 16th-century Villa Madama here. 
 Mr. O'Neill said the ministers agreed to try to identify structural weaknesses in individual countries, so that working on those problems would "raise potential sustainable real growth in the world economy." 
The ministers were gathered to lay the groundwork for a meeting of the leaders of the Group of 7 countries in Genoa, Italy, in two weeks. The G-7 countries are Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States.
Earlier this week, Mr. O'Neill appeared to criticize Europe and Japan for not doing enough to live up to their roles as "locomotives" of world growth. But on Friday, the French finance minister, Laurent Fabius, contradicted Mr. O'Neill, suggesting that the two main reasons for the faltering world economy were higher oil prices and the slowdown in the United States.
Today Mr. O'Neill appeared to backtrack, explaining that freight trains in the United States are not pulled by one, but by "two or even three locomotives."
For their part, European ministers stressed the interdependence of the world's three largest economic zones -- the United States, Europe and Japan. "The international slowdown is undeniable," Mr. Fabius said at a meeting with reporters. "No area has been spared."
Part of the toning down appeared motivated by the conviction that the image of sharp differences hurt consumer attitudes, reinforcing the slowdown. "It is possible to talk people into a sour mood," Mr. O'Neill said. Mr. O'Neill stressed strong auto sales and housing starts as indications that the American economy is not as sick as it is often described and said he told the finance ministers he was moderately optimistic for the remainder of the year, expecting more than 2 percent growth in the last quarter, and "something over 3 percent" in all of 2002.
But European officials were more skeptical. French officials said they believed the United States could experience a slight rebound later this year, but were unsure it would be sustainable. They admitted that Europe had not pulled its weight this year, but said the possibility of declining oil prices improved Europe's prospects in 2002. 
The German finance minister, Hans Eichel, said he saw "little reason to give in to pessimism." But he admitted that international interdependence "proved much greater than we had imagined previously." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (74%); TRAINS (72%); TRENDS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GROUP OF SEVEN 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (93%); FRANCE (93%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%) ROME (ITALY)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



206 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: A STRONG DOLLAR CLOUDS PROSPECTS FOR QUICK REBOUND 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 7 

 BODY:
More than six months after the Federal Reserve began battling to reverse the economic slowdown in the United States, economists and business executives say an unexpected rise in the value of the dollar is complicating the prospects for a rebound.
 Despite six interest rate cuts by the Fed this year -- an effort that would typically be expected to weaken the dollar -- the American currency has strengthened against the world's two other major currencies, the euro and the Japanese yen. As a result, American products have become more expensive when sold abroad. 
 At the same time, economic growth appears to be decelerating in Europe, and Japan is again flirting with recession. That weakness is dampening demand from abroad for American goods and services, making it even harder for the domestic economy to emerge from its doldrums. 
"The global slowdown that's becoming more visible in the economies of our trading partners and the surprisingly strong dollar are going to be a drag on the recovery," said James Glassman, an economist at J. P. Morgan in New York.
The faltering world economy was a primary topic of discussion for finance ministers from the seven leading industrial democracies meeting today in Rome. But Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill and his counterparts from Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan showed little inclination to take any coordinated, concrete steps to stimulate renewed growth or to weaken the American currency. Page 10. 
In the last few weeks alone, several prominent companies -- including DuPont, Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, Coca-Cola and Nike -- have cited the strong dollar in explaining profit shortfalls or reductions in their earnings expectations.
Traditionally by this point in an economic cycle, a weakening currency would make American goods less expensive in foreign markets, helping offset the slump at home by bolstering demand from abroad and elevating corporate profits.
But with the dollar having risen this year rather than fallen, many companies based in the United States are reporting disappointing foreign sales or are failing to meet their profit targets because money they earn in foreign currencies is worth less when translated back into dollars.
Complaints from exporters about the dollar are a staple of economic policy debates. And a strong currency has numerous benefits, including helping to hold down inflation by making imports less expensive -- not to mention making foreign travel less expensive.
Moreover, the overall outlook for the economy is generally more affected by domestic factors like consumer confidence and spending by businesses on technology and other equipment than by international developments.
But in this case the squeeze on exporters from the dollar is combining with weak demand from slumping economies at home and abroad to put particularly intense pressure on American manufacturers, which have borne the brunt of the slowdown. In response, industrial companies have laid off hundreds of thousands of workers since last summer and have been the main contributors to the rise in the unemployment rate, which reached 4.5 percent last month, up from a low of 3.9 percent in October.
"For large manufacturing corporations," said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, "the impact of the high dollar and slower growth abroad is the No. 1 problem they have to deal with."
It is not just big companies that have been hit. The Electron Energy Corporation of Landisville, Pa., makes magnets that are used in radar and satellite communications equipment. It has only 100 employees, but it has customers all over the world.
With the dollar so strong, said Michael Walmer, the company's president, sales in Germany and France are down 30 percent.
"It's a great time to travel there," Mr. Walmer said, "but I'd rather have it be a great time to sell our products."
The dollar's rise this year, especially against the euro, has surprised most analysts. But it appears to reflect nothing more than a continued belief by investors and business executives that the United States offers a better climate for investment than anywhere else.
Even at a time when the stock market has stalled, companies are scaling back on capital spending and the United States is struggling to avert a recession by reducing interest rates, economists said investors still seemed to prefer holding dollars or property in the United States over taking a chance on buying stocks and bonds or factories in Europe or Asia.
That is especially true when, as now, the economies of other countries are faltering.
"Foreigners know that if the United States is in trouble, then their own countries will be in worse trouble, because the U.S. is the global engine of growth," said James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management, an investment firm. "Holding dollars is the safest place to be. It's hampering the Fed's efforts to restart the U.S. economy."
On Friday, the dollar was worth just under 126 yen, compared with 114 yen just before the Fed started cutting interest rates in January, a rise in the dollar's value of 10.5 percent.
Similarly, it cost about 84 cents to buy a euro on Friday, compared with about 94 cents in early January, a change of 10.6 percent.
Earlier this year, analysts expected Europe to post higher economic growth rates than the United States would. But Europe has slowed abruptly in recent months; Germany's economy, the Continent's biggest, has been hit particularly hard.
Mr. Glassman said J. P. Morgan estimated zero growth in the second quarter among the 12 countries that have adopted the euro as their currency, and that growth for the full year in Europe would only be 1.7 percent. Japan, he said, is likely to grow only 0.4 percent this year. 
The consensus forecast for growth in the United States this year is around 1.8 percent, with an extremely weak second quarter followed by a steady pickup in the second half of the year.
The United States has cut interest rates and taxes in an effort to head off a recession. But the European Central Bank has held rates steady and national governments in most of Europe have been unable or unwilling to cut taxes.
Japan has already cut its short-term interest rates almost to zero in an effort to pull itself out of its decade-long slump and has been running big budget deficits to give the economy a boost.
But it has made little headway addressing underlying problems like the huge volumes of bad loans that have crippled its banking system. And if the government in Tokyo aggressively pursues a proposed austerity policy aimed at clearing away the bad debts that have accumulated over the last 10 years, economic conditions could become worse before they become better. American officials are waiting for evidence that Japan's latest recovery plan will actually be implemented.
The slowdown in the United States, Europe and Japan is hurting economies elsewhere. In Asia, excluding Japan, growth is projected to slow this year to a 3.9 percent annual rate, half that of last year, according to J. P. Morgan.
"Virtually everywhere you look you're talking about subpar growth," Mr. Glassman said.
Some economists said the strong dollar and the weak global economy would have a limited effect on the prospects for a recovery in the United States, where the combination of the tax cut and the Fed's interest rate reductions is expected to provide a powerful stimulus in coming months.
"While at the margin it would always be better if they were growing faster or buying more, Japan's current problems are not going to affect the U.S. economic cycle in any major way," said Carl Weinberg, chief global economist at High Frequency Economics, a consulting firm. "Euroland takes at most 15 percent of our exports, maybe less, so it's not going to change the quality or character of the economic trajectory here."
But the developments have put new pressure on the Bush administration to rethink its adherence to a policy of support for a strong dollar. 
Business groups are trying to convince the Treasury Department that the dollar's strength is as much a result of speculation in the currency markets as of economic fundamentals, an argument that has not gotten a sympathetic hearing so far in Washington. The Bush administration, like the Clinton White House before it, has signaled that the only effective way for other countries to strengthen their currencies is to make their economies more competitive.
Still, manufacturers and other business constituencies are increasingly calling on the administration to signal that Washington does not want any further rise in the currency -- and that it would ultimately back an international effort to decrease the dollar's value in an orderly way.
"There is no reason to exclude international agreement and coordinated intervention as a means of dealing with an overvalued dollar, in part as a way to prevent an excessively sharp adjustment later on," Mr. Jasinowski, the manufacturers' representative, said.
In the meantime, companies like Sensormatic Electronics, a maker of antishoplifting tags and equipment in Boca Raton, Fla., are feeling the pinch. Per-Olof Loof, the company's president and chief executive, said earnings were running more than 10 percent behind expectations this year because of the dollar.
"It's not an easy problem to deal with," Mr. Loof said, "but it needs to be put on the agenda for the central banks and the politicians."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Slowing Down Everywhere"The economies in the United States, the European Union and Japan have all slowed significantly. But while official projections look forward to a general recovery, many experts worry that the unexpected strength of the dollar could hold back gains in the United States by making it harder for exporters here to compete. Charts show the Real Gross Domestic Product (year-over-year change) for United States, European Union and Japan from 1995 to 2000 with projections for 2001-2002. Charts show Exchange Rates (weekly closes) for euro and yen from 1999 through 2001. Scale Inverted To Show Rising Value Of The Dollar (Sources: Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS MFG (69%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%); INTEREST RATES (57%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: 3M CO (54%); COCA-COLA CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (54%); MMM (NYSE) (54%); MMM (FRA) (54%); KO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (54%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (54%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%)

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); ITALY (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CANADA (79%) JAPAN; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



207 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: AUTO RACING; 
Earnhardts Dominate The Night At Daytona

BYLINE:  By ROBERT LIPSYTE 

DATELINE: DAYTONA BEACH, Fla., July 7 

 BODY:
In an almost supernatural second act to Nascar's most dramatic race of the year, Dale Earnhardt Jr. roared to the lead in the final laps of the Pepsi 400 tonight to win on the racetrack where his father was killed.
 His teammate Michael Waltrip was second. Five months ago here, in the first race of the Winston Cup season, Waltrip won the Daytona 500 with the younger Earnhardt second. Dale Earnhardt Sr. was in third place when he crashed into the wall on the last turn of the final lap. 
 At the end of tonight's race, instead of steering his No. 8 Chevrolet into victory lane for the traditional photo opportunity, Dale Jr. drove onto the grass and spun his car in a mad pirouette of triumph. Waltrip followed him onto the grass and the two cars danced until both drivers jumped out of their cars, climbed atop Waltrip's No. 15 Chevrolet and hugged.
The crowd of 197,000 roared as Dale Jr. led through most of the race, then stood stunned afterward, unwilling to leave a feel-good turn to the tragedy that had absorbed the sport since Feb. 18. For the 38-year-old Waltrip, second place seemed far sweeter than February's victory, his first in Winston Cup competition. Dale Sr. had hired him for his racing team in a vote of confidence that his record seemed not to deserve. But his joy was short-lived.
Echoing what has become the legend of that race -- that Dale Sr. blocked the back so his protege and his son could finish first and second -- Waltrip said tonight, "Dale held for us, and I fought the battle and held them off."
Waltrip was referring to his third-place position behind Rusty Wallace until he saw a chance to pass and get right behind the 26-year-old Dale Jr.
By the middle of the 160-lap race, Earnhardt seemed to have taken control at the top of a pack of four that was widening a gap to three seconds over the rest of the field. Mike Skinner, Steve Park and Ricky Rudd were usually the three behind him. The crowd, sensing his victory, was in full roar.
With 20 laps to go, crew chiefs along pit road were calculating tire wear and gas consumption for a final pit stop. The only thing that could spoil the show now was the so-called Big One, the major accident that drivers have been concerned about in this tight, restrictor-plate racing.
What they got, though, was more than a Little One. As cars began peeling off for the final pit stop, someone dived too quickly off the track and started a 12-car chain reaction. It was during this third caution period that the lead changed hands in the restart. Dale Jr. dropped out of the top five.
But with five laps to go, he made a bold move that brought him back to the lead and his first victory of the year.
Elliott Sadler finished third, followed by Ward Burton and Bobby Labonte.
 While the racing teams have tried to play down the drama of tonight's race, saying they wanted to get past the tragedy, fans and the news media have been talking about the presence of Dale Earnhardt Sr. haunting the Winston Cup series's return to this speedway. After the race, his son also discounted the drama of the moment. 
"I felt if I did the right thing I'd win," Earnhardt said. "My car was the best car here." 
He added, "I didn't think about what happened here in February."
What happened was sports' equivalent of the deaths of Elvis and Diana, Princess of Wales, an opportunity for people who identified with Dale Sr., a hard-nosed outsider who intimidated his way to racing success, to grieve openly. Although Dale Sr. was important economically to the sport, he was not universally beloved by other drivers. His relationship with his son was not always smooth.
This week, Dale Jr.; his father's widow, Teresa; and others refused to give interviews about the death. The track promised a fireworks memorial after the race, but otherwise kept it to a low profile. 
"All year long people have been pushing for us to do well, you want to win for the fans, that's why I pulled down for them, to hear them cheer," Dale Jr. said, referring to his spins after the race. "I wanted to do some good doughnuts but looking at my marks now, not so good." 
But he was willing to admit, "You couldn't have written a better script."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dale Earnhardt Jr. capped an emotional night with a victory in the Pepsi 400. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); Mike Helton, the Nascar president, congratulating Dale Earnhardt Jr. on his victory. (Associated Press)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (97%); NASCAR RACING (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (73%); ATHLETES (72%); SPORTS CARS (69%) AUTOMOBILE RACING; PEPSI 400 (AUTO RACE); ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; DAYTONA 500 (AUTO RACE) 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN SPORTS CAR RACING ASSN 

PERSON: LIPSYTE, ROBERT; EARNHARDT, DALE JR; EARNHARDT, DALE SR 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



208 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE SHELF; 
When Disney Winked, Florida Swooned

BYLINE:  By ALECIA SWASY 

 BODY:
IN the summer of 1965, central Florida was buzzing with rumors about mystery land buyers who were snatching up thousands of acres of old citrus groves. A local television station, swept up in the excitement, issued a bulletin with a scoop: the station had received a telegram from Detroit confirming the Ford Motor Company as the buyer. Pity the reporter bamboozled by that hoax -- a second telegram arrived later saying Ford wanted the land to grow hay for its Mustangs. 
 The real buyer, of course, was Walt Disney, who had a clandestine team of lawyers and real estate agents plotting each day's acquisitions on a large map inside his movie studios in Burbank, Calif. Mr. Disney's team had ruled out 12 other locations, including St. Louis, Niagara Falls and the Baltimore-Washington area, and assembled 27,258 acres for his dream theme park in Orlando. 
 Since then, Orlando and the surrounding area have been blessed and burdened by the Walt Disney Company empire. That is the relationship chronicled by Richard E. Foglesong in "Married to the Mouse: Walt Disney World and Orlando" (Yale University Press, $27.95). 
Recent books have said much about Mr. Disney and his company, but Mr. Foglesong offers a different slice of life. His book is about those who courted the Mouse, as the Disney company is known by the locals, and which many think has grown increasingly ratlike in its behavior.
The author asserts that the state of Florida erred by giving what he calls overly generous powers to Disney in the 1960's, permitting it to create its own sort of government. The company is free to self-regulate land use and road building, among other basic services. State law even provided that Disney could build its own nuclear power plant or airport.
Of course, there is little wonder that lawmakers waived the magic wand for Disney: everyone wanted a new business in the area to ease its reliance on the boom-and-bust citrus industry and soften the effects of spending cutbacks on its military contractors.
Mr. Foglesong, a professor of politics at Rollins College in Winter Park, Fla., is a bit academic at times. But one of his book's greatest strengths is its rich detail about how a notoriously secretive company goes to great lengths to preserve its image as the home of the Magic Kingdom. He interviewed scores of elected officials and dug through property and court records.
He tells how Mr. Disney and his successors worked covertly to complete 47 land deals, sometimes courting individuals who held tiny plots worth $350 an acre. Buying such a huge overall tract was Mr. Disney's obsession after his 230-acre California theme park became surrounded by a "neon jungle" of fast-food restaurants and souvenir shops.
Mr. Disney's site selection, called Project X, showed the extremes reached by the company to avoid publicity. Disney emissaries checked into a Tampa hotel under assumed names. The company hired Donovan, Leisure, Newton & Irvine, a New York law firm whose lead partner, William Donovan, had directed the wartime Office of Strategic Services, a forerunner of the C.I.A., to help conceal the research project. Mr. Donovan procured business cards, letterhead and phone numbers in the name of Burke & Burke as a cover. When the Florida operatives needed to talk to Mr. Disney, they called the law firm, which connected them to Mr. Disney on the West Coast. Nobody at Disney was permitted to dial Orlando numbers, so as not to arouse suspicion.
THE author also criticizes Martin Andersen, who at the time of Disney's site selection was the publisher of The Orlando Sentinel. The author writes that Mr. Andersen knew something about Disney's land purchases but sought to suppress publicity about them. The paper's editorial page, which Mr. Andersen controlled, published an editorial that said secrecy about Disney was understandable -- an odd position for someone who is supposed to endorse telling people what's going on. 
Few officials kept an accurate accounting of what the Disney company promised at the time, versus what it built. Mr. Disney told the Florida Legislature that he would build Epcot as a community where 20,000 people "would live and work and play." In 1975, when Disney was about to build Epcot, Henry A. Kissinger, the secretary of state, even said that it would enhance world peace more than his shuttle diplomacy did.
Disney described Epcot as a city, in order to obtain power over its planning and zoning. But Epcot was built more like "a permanent world's fair," Mr. Foglesong writes. He again criticizes the media as fawning over Disney in its coverage of Epcot's opening in 1982. The television networks had live coverage of the event. 
While Disney was happy with that type of publicity, it showed a different personality if media coverage cast the company in a way it did not like. When The Orlando Sentinel wrote a tough story about Disney in 1985, nearly 20 years after Mr. Andersen had sold the paper and stepped down as publisher, the company removed The Sentinel's news racks from its properties.
The book also chronicles how people feared challenging Disney. Finley Hamilton, for example, owned the local Hilton hotel, near Disney's construction site. Disney officials asked if they could train their future hotel staff at the Hilton. Mr. Hamilton said his hotel lost money during the Disney management training, partly because the chef spent so much time preparing meals for company executives and the hotel maids were used to clean their homes. Mr. Hamilton complained in a letter to Disney but chose not to sue for fear of losing future business, Mr. Foglesong writes.
IN the years after Disney's arrival, smaller parks died, and Disney's self-regulated government gave it an advantage over rivals. Disney was the first to open a movie studio park, beating Universal Studios by 13 months, about the time it took that park to obtain land-use permits. Disney suffered no such delay because it effectively ran its own land-use department.
Mr. Foglesong also details how local law enforcement officials are often frustrated at Disney's behavior. One of Walt Disney World's security guards, for example, was involved in a traffic accident in which a 19-year-old man died; his family sued the company. The courts upheld Disney's refusal to release its records of the incident.
The author also writes that little information regarding serious crimes on Disney property, like burglary and rape, is reported to any law enforcement agency. 
The book further questions Disney's good-neighbor image in describing its use of a limited pool of bond money in central Florida. In the three counties eligible for the money, one possible use for the bonds would have been to help finance housing, something that some of Disney's own employees lacked. Instead, an application from Disney's government district was granted the money. Disney used the money to expand a sewage treatment plant needed for its expanding hotel empire.
To be sure, Disney put Orlando on the world map. Before it opened, 3.5 million tourists visited central Florida annually. By 1971, that number had climbed to 10 million. The current estimate for 2001 is 55 million. The area now has 100,000 hotel rooms, more than New York City or Los Angeles. The company employs 55,000 people at its parks and hotels. And Walt Disney World generates more sales tax revenue than any other Florida company.
Still, the author wonders if too many people have been "blinded by pixie dust." True to the title, he recommends therapy for the relationship between Disney and Orlando. "It has the potential," he says, "to transform this one-sided economic development marriage."

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITRUS GROVES (89%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); WRITERS (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (74%); HAY FARMING (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); BOOK REVIEWS (72%); LITERATURE (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (69%); ENERGY SITING (69%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (63%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (63%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (62%); FAST FOOD (60%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%); POWER PLANTS (50%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (50%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) AMUSEMENT PARKS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (94%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (55%) DISNEY, WALT, CO; DISNEY, WALT, WORLD (ORLANDO, FLA) 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (94%); FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (94%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (55%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%) SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION; 

PERSON: FOGLESONG, RICHARD E; SWASY, ALECIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (56%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) ORLANDO (FLA); FLORIDA

TITLE: MARRIED TO THE MOUSE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



209 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2839 words

HEADLINE: Yard Work 

BYLINE:  By TARA BAHRAMPOUR 

 BODY:
LAST Fourth of July, the day throngs of spectators flocked to the New York waterfront to watch giant ships glide in from around the world, 200 white-clad sailors and 400 civilians caroused on the roof of a building in the Brooklyn Navy Yard overlooking the docks. Some twirled dance partners to a swing band. Others feasted on strawberries and focaccia. After a hazy sunset, the revelers crowded along the railings to watch red, white and blue fireworks burst over the harbor's black waters.
 An admiral, surveying the pageant, approached the host. "Why did we give this place up?" he asked. 
 "I don't know," replied Marc H. Rosenbaum, the host and the president of the Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation. "But you can't have it back." 
To the uninitiated New Yorker, the enthusiasm might sound overblown. From the outside, the Navy Yard does not look welcoming. Along Navy Street and Flushing Avenue, two main bordering streets, cracked sidewalks skirt high brick walls and barbed wire. Signs read "No Trespassing" and "Warning: This installation is patrolled by military working dogs." Chain link fencing keeps vandals away from Admirals' Row, once-elegant officers' houses now so decrepit that trees push up through the rooftops. Bordered by the Farragut housing projects at the tip of Fort Greene and the elevated Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, the site is not usually seen as a viable link to the Brooklyn waterfront. If anything, locals know it either as the locus of Robert De Niro's failed bid to build movie studios or as the place to fetch towed cars.
Few people know that the Navy Yard -- 205 acres of land and 95 acres of water sandwiched between Williamsburg, Fort Greene and Vinegar Hill -- is no longer a navy yard but a city-run industrial park. It houses 86 structures, 40 of which are rentable buildings with a total of four million square feet of space. There are sparkling offices with digital subscriber lines and views of Manhattan; a 19th-century brick warehouse where sets for "Saturday Night Live" are built; and the 200-year-old Naval Hospital, which is a designated landmark. The yard contains 200 tenants and 3,500 workers, and its administrators hope it will one day bustle with three times that many jobs.
That hope rests on several factors, including the state of the economy, the interest the next mayor takes in the yard, and the yard's success in furnishing its tenants with adequate transportation. But however well these plans succeed, they are particularly poignant given the yard's rocky past, a period of decline that seemed to parallel that of all Brooklyn.
"We can really point to things the way Europeans can point to 1917 and say after this the world changed," Bernard Malamud wrote in a 1983 article about his home borough. "For us, it was the Dodgers leaving, the folding of The Brooklyn Eagle and the closing of the Navy Yard."
In Brooklyn, at least, change has been cyclical. After 45 years, the borough has a professional baseball team again. The Brooklyn Eagle, which folded in 1955, was resurrected in 1995. And celebrating its bicentennial this year, the Brooklyn Navy Yard is back, a brick and concrete Sleeping Beauty that has been harboring a quiet renaissance. 
In its two centuries, the yard has mirrored the history of an emerging nation. In 1801, the freshly minted United States Navy bought 41 acres of marshy farmland and docks from a private landowner for $40,000. Wallabout, the name of the deepwater bay, was Dutch for "bend in the river." Shipbuilding boomed there during the Civil War, when the yard produced the Intelligent Whale, an experimental submarine (it didn't work); it was also the birthplace of the battleship Maine, whose sinking in Havana in 1898 set off the Spanish-American War. 
The yard's peak came in World War II. Nicknamed the Can-Do yard, it quintupled its property, employed more than 70,000 and built and repaired thousands of Allied ships. The Arizona, sunk at Pearl Harbor, was Brooklyn-built, as was the Missouri, where the Japanese signed the surrender that ended the war. Feeding off the boom, nearby shops sold sailors' outfits, and bars and lunchrooms roared with activity.
But in the 50's, as traditional cargo shipping gave way to giant container ships and much of the area's trade moved to New Jersey, the yard began to fade. In 1966 the Navy left, taking away 9,000 workers, and in 1970, it sold most of the property to the city for $22 million. The following year, officials considered building a new industrial park, but the city's fiscal crisis halted that plan. With only two large shipbuilding companies still operating there and city money scarce, the yard began to deteriorate.
The Navy Yard still has four working dry docks, including a 150-year-old granite one that is a landmark and two as long as the World Trade Center towers are high. But with only three ship-related businesses, today's yard is not the same place where a teenage Pete Hamill worked as a sheet metal worker, or where Arthur Miller, fresh out of college, pulled 11-hour night shifts as a shipbuilder. Its scattered brick-and-concrete warehouses contain a lively patchwork of manufacturers that occupy 93 percent of the rentable space and turn out a diverse range of products.
Joining longtime tenants like Sweet'n Low and the Brink's armored car service, which with 500 workers is the yard's biggest employer, are companies like Scott Jordan Furniture, which makes custom tables and bed frames, and Capsys, which uses a cavernous 1940's brick building to make prefabricated houses. Modern Uprisings Studio captures the movements of New York City Ballet dancers and others in a computer modeling and animation studio. In a revamped 19th-century plumber and boiler shop the Great Harbor Design Center makes "ice stone," a marblelike substance made from recycled glass and used for walls, floors and decorative plaques.

Dressing Up the Image
A development corporation was formed in 1966 to help put the yard into local hands and reclaim some of the jobs lost when the Navy left, but for two decades it was mired in inefficiency and scandal. In 1993, to rehabilitate the yard's image, the group was renamed the Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation.
Things took a while to improve. The yard's reputation suffered when the city considered installing a giant waste incinerator; the idea was abandoned after protests. In 1996, the corporation's president was dismissed during an investigation into whether she had followed proper bidding procedures for buying $30,000 worth of office furniture. Later, as part of an agreement with the Manhattan district attorney to avoid prosecution for perjury, she admitted to lying under oath about details of the purchase.
Mr. Rosenbaum, a lawyer who describes his professional life until 1996 as "the steel and glass world of litigation," came to the Navy Yard in 1996. At that point, "the Navy Yard had a four- or five-year life span left in it," he said. "The piers were being undermined. The entire bulkhead was leaking to the extent that it was causing sinkholes in various places."
That was about to change.
"Giuliani recognized what a gem this place is," Mr. Rosenbaum continued. "We already had 30 businesses and 1,000 jobs, which would be lost unless money was put in." The city began investing heavily in the yard. It has committed $101 million since 1996, to last through 2004. Other public sources have added $27 million, for a total of $128 million. 
The nonprofit corporation, whose board consists of city appointees, community representatives and private individuals, sometimes trades money for people, accepting lower bids from companies that will bring jobs to the yard. 
The blond-bearded Mr. Rosenbaum, 53, revels in his gritty domain. 
"It's like somebody opened up a whole new life for me," he said, trotting energetically down a flight of stairs. He rattles off a list of the yard's attractions. "We're close to Manhattan, we have river access, we've got excellent security. We don't require a lot upfront for deposits, and we'll take chances on new companies that other landlords will not."
Three years ago, when Woodside Press was priced out of its Queens space, its owner, Andrew Birsh, considered leaving the city. Then a friend told him about the Navy Yard. "I took one look at this place and seized it," he said. He estimated his that rent in Manhattan or Woodside would have been around twice the $5.75 per square foot he now pays. 
At the yard, Mr. Birsh has also found an unusual camaraderie. "I went to a sheet metal guy by the dry docks," he said. "I said, 'You want a deposit?' He said, 'You're in the yard, so no.' That really wouldn't happen anywhere else."
Another incentive is low taxes. After the yard was designated a state enterprise zone in 1998, the sales tax was reduced from 8.25 percent to 4 percent. As a city property, the yard is free of real estate tax.
"If we quote $8 a square foot," Mr. Rosenbaum said, "that's what it costs." The range of amenities is wide. Today, $4 a square foot will get you a warehouse with no heat; $22 per square foot gets newly renovated offices with air-conditioning and D.S.L.
Natalie Hurwitz, a local commercial real estate agent, says that while in the early 90's the yard was going begging, recently, demand for space has soared.
"Now they're relatively full," she said, noting that the yard has been helped by the tightening local real estate market. "In Williamsburg and Greenpoint, we're losing industrial space very rapidly to other uses: high tech, retail and residential." The yard also offers unusual architectural features, like 30- and 40-foot ceilings. 
On the downside, the site is cut off from nearby communities. "It seems very isolated," she said, "even though there are people working there all the time." And while the yard has been known for low rents, "now they've been jacked up," she said.

Courting the Community
During Prohibition, when sailors were forbidden to use the Sands Street gate to keep them away from the area's houses of prostitution, the yard's walls were a barrier against the surrounding community. But the yard is working to shed its fortresslike image. Besides offering tours, it is courting residents to work there. Two years ago it set up an employment center that now places around 20 people a month, 30 percent of them within the yard.
"Over the last eight years or so, the nature of the yard has changed," said Bob Evans, chairman of Community Board 2. "I think it's become more of a partner in the larger community."
The improved relations were evident in May, when corporation officials presented the community board with a plan to deepen the adjacent water and use the silt to create four more acres of Navy Yard property. During the incinerator battle of the early 90's, Mr. Rosenbaum said, the community so distrusted the yard that some accused it of bringing in nuclear waste. But at the May meeting, the response was positive: dredging could start this fall.
The brick walls stay up, however, in large part to protect the public from the hazards of the remaining ship repair work. "At the same time that we're reaching out to the community, we have to honor boundaries," Mr. Rosenbaum said.
In any case, businesses prefer the high walls. "When we were in Greenpoint, every night there was some ringy-dingy trying to bust in there," said Scott Jordan, whose business employs 26 people. At the yard, he said, nothing like that has ever happened.
But the yard is hard to get to. The closest subway stations, the High Street stop of the A and C trains and the York Street stop of the F, are a 7- to 10-minute walk away, and city buses do not enter the compound. Access does not seem to be hurting business, however, judging from the high occupancy rate. In February, the yard began running shuttles to nearby subway stops. 
But Ron Shiffman, director of the Pratt Center for Community and Environmental Development, said the yard needed more than shuttles. "I think we have to build either a light rail system or higher-occupancy vehicles than those that now serve the Navy Yard," he said.
Mr. Shiffman believes the yard is going in the right direction. But a rosy future is not guaranteed. An economic downturn would affect the yard's fortunes, as will the mayoral election. A new administration might replace Mr. Rosenbaum with someone who has different ideas. "I'm always worried that there won't be the same commitment in a future administration," he said.
Then there are the movie studios. Plans for a major film studio in the Navy Yard were rumored to have died in 1999, when Robert De Niro's widely publicized bid fell through. But another studio entrepreneur, Louis Madigan, has been in contract with the yard since 1998. In partnership with Steiner Equities, a real estate developer, Mr. Madigan has completed demolition to make way for two enormous buildings that will house 11 sound stages. When finished, possibly as soon as next year, the $150 million 650,000-square-foot project, Steiner Studios, will be the nation's biggest outside Hollywood.
Some neighbors are not pleased. Early this year, members of the Williamsburg Hasidic community threatened a lawsuit to halt construction of the studios, which one rabbi likened to bringing Times Square into Amish country. 
"We'll do everything we can to make sure that's not the case," Mr. Madigan said, adding that the studios would bring 2,000 jobs to the yard.
Others question the viability of the project, especially when more movies are being made abroad and many use digital technology. Some worry that the yard's transportation problems will hurt the studios, given the large numbers of people they will employ.
Mr. Rosenbaum, noting that the studios can be used for making commercials or rented out for purposes other than moviemaking, said he was not worried. In the worst case, he said, "They'd default and we'd have some really beautiful air-conditioned warehouse buildings."
But he said he was confident that the studios will succeed. Smiling, he slipped a tape into his office VCR. A scene from "Mickey Blue Eyes" flickered on, showing Hugh Grant and James Caan burying a dead body along an industrial waterfront. "That was filmed right down there," Mr. Rosenbaum said proudly, pointing out the window.

The Outside Is Misleading
On June 1, completing a process that took years, the Navy signed over most of its remaining property, 28 scenic, grassy acres on the north end. Known as the annex, the area is dotted with mature trees and buildings in Greek Revival and French Second Empire style. The transfer had been delayed by asbestos removal and questions about human remains. The site had been a burial ground from the late 1700's until 1910, beginning when British prison ships moored there during the Revolution.
Today, plywood covers the annex's buildings, which include the Naval Hospital, an imposing three-story structure with frosty, whitewashed halls and basement cells that were used for Confederate prisoners. 
"The annex is a burden," Mr. Rosenbaum said. "Before we can develop it, we have to spend money on security. The hospital is a landmark, so we have to check with the state historic preservation office before we can do any work on it." Possibilities include leasing the area to an institution or using it as a back lot for the studios. Whatever it becomes, it will have to earn its keep.
The crumbling Admirals' Row, shrouded in weeds and mulberry trees, is still under the jurisdiction of the Army Corps of Engineers, which plans to turn it over to the city. Proposals have included recasting the six or so buildings as upscale food stores and community offices, but Richard Drucker, the yard's vice president of planning and development, estimates renovation of the deteriorated property could cost up to $30 million. (One officer's house that remains well preserved is the 1806 Commandant's Residence, a white clapboard manor house on the yard's south end. Now in private hands, the structure, a landmark, is said to have been designed by Charles Bulfinch, architect of the Capitol in Washington.)
The yard's image is another problem. It has convinced skeptics that it does not wallow in nuclear waste or lead paint. Still, most New Yorkers are unaware of it.
"Every time we're mentioned, people are surprised," Mr. Rosenbaum said. "I hear story after story of the derelict Brooklyn Navy Yard. We have 200 tenants, but still we're seen as obscure."
That might be helped by sprucing up the outside, which Mr. Rosenbaum acknowledged looks unappealing.
"I refer to it as having a postapocalyptic look," he said. "But the outside is the least of what we're concerned with. You're not going to waste your money on dermatology or plastic surgery if you have osteoporosis."
In fact, Mr. Rosenbaum seems to enjoy the contrast between the dilapidated exterior and the modern businesses it harbors, like pearls inside a crusty oyster shell.
"The theme," he said with a grin, "is, 'You can't judge what's going on in the Navy Yard from the outside.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: "We're close to Manhattan, we have river access, we've got excellent security," said Marc H. Rosenbaum, above, president of the Navy Yard Development Corporation. Work on ships, like the dry-dock paint job at left, is still a presence in the yard, but businesses now include such landlubber ventures as film studios, below left. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 1); SHIPS SHAPED -- The Brooklyn, left, sitting in dry dock at the Navy Yard in 1898. The yard still has four dry docks and three ship-related businesses. Above, the yard gates.; HOMES MADE -- Capsys Corporation workers assemble prefab houses in a cavernous building. (Richard Perry/The New York Times, above and below; R. Y. Young, left)(pg. 9) Chart: "AT A GLANCE: 200 Years of the Yard"Founded -- 1801Size -- 205 acres of land, 95 acres of waterPeak of operations -- World War II, with more than 70,000 workersToday's operations -- 200 companies, from the Sweet 'N Low firmto the Brink's armored car operation, employ 3,500 workersStructures -- 86, of which 40 are rentable buildings with a total of 4 million square feet.Ships built there -- U.S.S. Maine, whose sinking began the Spanish-American War; U.S.S. Missouri, site of Japan's surrender in World War II.Ships that moor there -- City Fire Department vessels and some Circle Line boatsShips that are repaired there -- Staten Island ferryMovies made -- "On the Town" (1949), "Donnie Brasco" (1997), "Mickey Blue Eyes" (1999)(pg. 9) Maps of Brooklyn highlighting the Brooklyn Navy Yard. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); NAVIES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); WORLD WAR II (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (74%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (67%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN NAVY YARD DEVELOPMENT CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (84%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (84%)

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (50%) BAHRAMPOUR, TARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN NAVY YARD (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



210 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: This Summer, Sale Britannia 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH SIANO 

 BODY:
IF President Bush had included Britain on his European itinerary last month, he might have saved enough to cover some tax-rebate checks. With weak bookings for summer, hotels, tour operators and other related businesses all over Britain are cutting prices. "I think there are a lot of them, particularly this summer," said Tim Lovell, vice president for the British Tourist Authority in the United States, referring to the deals. 
 July and August bring good weather, so it hardly seems like a time for a clearance sale on British tourism. But Mr. Lovell said that his office was projecting a drop of 10 to 15 percent in visits by Americans this year, versus last year. "Last year was a bumper year, and it's hard to follow up on that," he said. A few months ago, the foot-and-mouth epidemic -- since brought under control but not eradicated -- probably caused many Americans to wait before making plans to visit Britain in summer, said Tom Keefe, owner of Addison Travel in Andover, Mass. And Wall Street hasn't helped. "The people in e-commerce didn't get their bonuses this year, and the older people are nervous about their stocks," Mr. Keefe said. 
 Even Amberley Castle, which has stood fast near Arundel, 58 miles south of London, for nearly 900 years, has flinched. A midweek stay in its suites has been cut by $72 a night; rates are now $325 to $361 (at $1.44 to the pound); www.amberleycastle.co.uk.
Less-palatial accommodations are being discounted as well. Marriott offers a two-night weekend stay with breakfast from $143 a person at several London hotels through Aug. 31, for reservations made before July 31 through a travel agent or www.marriott.com. And the Francis in the Square, near the Roman spa in Bath, has cut midweek rates by $36 to $87 a person with dinner and breakfast until Aug. 30; weekends, $14 more. Call (44-870) 400-8223. In Edinburgh, the Howard, a town house hotel, has cut a two-night stay by $115 to $245 a person until July 31, with tickets to the Royal Yacht Britannia, moored nearby. Call (44-131) 557-3500.
The deals extend to transportation. Through July 31, BritRail is discounting its Classic Passes -- good for unlimited trips in increments of eight days to a month -- by 25 percent, an offer that extends to Scotland; (877) 677-1066. Virgin Atlantic will let children 11 or under fly free to London from Chicago, Miami, Boston and San Francisco, if parents buy a ticket by Aug. 31; (800) 862-8621.
Tour operators on this side of the Atlantic are getting into it as well. DER Travel Services of Rosemont, Ill., has extended a program that provides a one-week rental of an economy-class car (V.A.T. extra) in Britain with the purchase of two airline tickets to England or Scotland from DER. Bookings must be made by July 31, but the cars are available until Aug. 31; (800) 549-3737.
Recent efforts to lure Americans have included full-page advertisements in major newspapers by the British Tourist Authority. 
For hotel deals, www.londontown.com and www.all-hotels.com merit a look. The British Tourist Authority Web site is at www.travelbritain.org. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TOUR OPERATORS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (68%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (53%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (52%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH TOURIST AUTHORITY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) SIANO, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (78%); BOSTON, MA, USA (77%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SCOTLAND (79%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



211 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: When Free Markets Leave Workers in the Dust 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The column says any society that ignores the consequences of economic disruption on its citizens "undermines its own cohesion and adaptability."
 By that argument, President Bush receives credit for protecting steel workers in West Virginia and Pennsylvania through quotas. 
But why does he abandon California in the energy crisis? 
 Aren't people in California part of the American community? The column says it is human nature, and morally and economically defensible, to care more about people who are nearby over those who are far away. Still, as far as Mr. Bush is concerned, people who are "nearby" are only those who will vote for him.
Favoring potential supporters with blatantly hypocritical policies could further polarize the United States electorate, an electorate left sharply divided after the recent presidential race. It could help undermine the very sense of national community that Mr. Redburn wants to foster.

ALEXANDRA BALLANTINE
Brewster, N.Y., June 18


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); FACTORY WORKERS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%) STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); REDBURN, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



212 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Look Sharp; 
Trying to Run a Country Like a Corporation

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WHEN President Bush was sworn in nearly six months ago, Washington was awash with loose talk of a "C.E.O. presidency." The first president with an M.B.A. to his name, from Harvard Business School no less, would be the chairman of the board of the world's biggest conglomerate, his aides boasted, a leader who delegated to his cabinet of experienced C.E.O.'s. 
 They said his administration would apply business discipline to a bloated government. And cabinet sessions do look a lot like the Business Roundtable, the organization of chief executives that, a few weeks ago, held part of its annual meeting in the East Room. Next to the president sits Dick Cheney, late of Halliburton, and Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, fresh from Alcoa. Donald H. Rumsfeld is also at the table, in his second run as defense secretary, after running G. D. Searle & Company. 
 Lower level officials, too, look and sound like business folk. "We effectively are the C.E.O.'s of wholly owned subsidiaries of the Department of Defense," said Thomas E. White, who left Enron -- the Texas energy company that wields great influence here -- to become secretary of the army last month. 
But cracks are already beginning to mar the smooth veneer of Bush & Co.'s boardroom table. Part of the problem is Mr. Bush himself: He cast himself first as a Reagan-style figure -- though less detached -- who would define the missions his team would carry out. But on a host of issues, from energy, to stem cell research, to ending bombing exercises on the island of Vieques in Puerto Rico, Mr. Bush has second-guessed his C.E.O.'s and swept decisions back into the White House.
At Bush & Co., the strategic plans are beginning to collide, and polls suggest that shareholders are increasingly unconvinced by aspects of the business plan. 
One cause of the president's troubles may be that his C.E.O. approach to running the government conspicuously lacks what Washington demands: the flexibility required to appeal to a variety of constituencies and to horse trade (something Mr. Bush did quite well in Texas).
While Mr. Bush scored a quick, major victory with the tax cut, for example, his energy initiatives and his "faith-based" plan for federal aid to religious groups that perform social services have run into the kind of political cross-currents that are rarely seen in corporate America. 
IN both cases, the White House has shown little willingness to compromise and little ability to persuade voters to share its views. 
"They run the meetings on time but he doesn't have much emotional range in connecting these themes to the public," said Rahm Emanuel, a highly partisan aide to President Clinton, who never ran meetings on time but knew how to stir a crowd.
Mr. Bush's style has also vexed America's allies. They made it clear during his trip to Europe that they are tired of being treated like foreign subsidiaries of America, Inc. So Mr. Bush listened, and said he was humbled. But as soon as he got home, he boasted to The Wall Street Journal that 15 leaders of the European Union "told me how wrong I was" on global warming, but that he stood his ground because his position was "right for America."
Others say the problem is not Mr. Bush, it's the slowness of his C.E.O.'s to readjust to a world where they do not have the last word. It's a huge change, notes Peter G. Peterson, who moved from a chief executive's post to become commerce secretary in the Nixon administration, and who is now chairman of the Blackstone Group, the New York investment bank. 
In the private sector, he notes, Mr. Bush's successful former executives had "the undiffused power to implement their individual corporate visions." 
Not in Washington. "When you are a C.E.O., you observe, listen, and decide," Mr. Peterson said. "When you are a cabinet secretary, you observe, listen, testify, subject everyone to interagency review, get resistance from Congress, and then, more often than not, someone else decides."
That should have come as no surprise to Mr. Cheney, Mr. Rumsfeld or Mr. O'Neill, who all had previous experience in government. "And yet," said Thomas Mann of the Brookings Institution, "they seem like somewhere along the line they forgot what they learned, and they've made some severe errors in judgment."
TAKE Mr. Cheney -- former Congressman, former White House chief of staff, former defense secretary. To put together the administration's energy report, he drew on the best minds he knew from his life at Halliburton. Yet his reliance on one slice of his constituency -- his fellow energy executives -- only fed the perception that the Bush team is far too close to energy interests.
Now, in a classic Washington battle, the General Accounting Office is demanding to know who Mr. Cheney met with as his task force developed its policy in secret sessions, and he has refused to reveal the list, fueling suspicions about who has his ear. 
"It was less than politically adept," one of Mr. Cheney's close friends conceded last week. "But Dick had strong views, and they were reinforced by others he knew who had similarly strong views." 
Now Mr. Bush is trying to undo the damage, showing up in places like Sequoia National Forest, restoring $300 million in Federal money for energy conservation that Mr. Cheney cut out of the budget, and calling for Americans to use energy efficient devices that Mr. Cheney ignored. 
Similarly, Mr. Rumsfeld is backtracking from his go-it-alone approach. For months he left the Joint Chiefs in the dark about his missile defense plans, and conducted his top-to-bottom review in secret, with a few trusted aides. "It was very corporate," said one senior military official, "but we had no idea what he was doing, and he had no idea why we do things the way we do." He has begun to change, but some of the Joint Chiefs remain wary of him.
Then there is Mr. O'Neill, a longtime friend of Mr. Cheney and the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan. But it's unclear who is setting financial strategy -- Mr. O'Neill or the White House chief economic adviser, Larry Lindsey -- and that has many of America's economic partners unsettled. "Who makes dollar policy?" a top aide to Japan's new prime minister asked a reporter last week. So far, it's hard to say.
Mr. O'Neill has also shown a penchant for speaking more frankly than the White House would wish. For example, when asked if it was smart to keep pressing for the elimination of the corporate tax at a time the administration is under fire for being too cozy with corporate America, the former Alcoa chief dismissed the whole issue. 
The corporate tax, he said, "causes people to say we're getting those rotten bastards who are corporations, and we are taking money away from them." But "at the end of the day individuals pay all the taxes," he said, so by cutting taxes for Exxon, I.B.M. and Alcoa, he's really helping consumers. 
It is not an argument the White House wants to hear right now, and it seems to be looking for another way of doing business. The president is in the midst of what business schools might call a "strategic refocusing." 
Issues that one might have expected to be decided by the C.E.O.'s have been recalled to the White House. It was Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's political guru, who told the Pentagon that its days of bombing Vieques were coming to an end -- even though the military has no alternative site to train its fliers. The issue was just too important to Latino voters, or so Mr. Rove thought.
Similarly, the coming decision on federal funding for stem-cell research was sucked back into the White House as soon as it became clear that it involved not only science, but Catholics, anti-abortion groups and other key constituencies. 
Mr. Bush is likely to get into the middle of more decisions. With the surplus shrinking and government revenues declining, Mr. Rumsfeld is trying to figure out how to pay for missile defense and new conventional weapons, while Mr. Cheney wants funding for his energy agenda. 
AS Mr. Peterson says, "when the aggregate of these individual visions don't add up, something, and in particular somebody, has to give."
It's possible that these are the usual contortions any new team finds itself in as it struggles to its feet. But it's also possible that Mr. Bush, eager to apply the lessons of private enterprise to Washington, overestimated how transferable those lessons are.
"The problem isn't the model," insists Jeffrey E. Garten, the dean of the Yale School of Management and author of the recent book, "The Mind of the C.E.O." (Perseus, 2001.) "The problem is the Bush variant of the model.
"A good C.E.O. has to be able to execute the policy once it's set," he said. Mr. Bush, like many politicians, is already "compromising and backpedaling. The C.E.O.'s aren't accustomed to dealing with that. And so they get antsy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and Vice President Cheney display their concern for punctuality in a photo released by the White House to commemorate the administration's first 100 days. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (77%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (71%); ARMIES (70%); BOMBINGS (65%); ISLANDS & REEFS (63%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%); RELIGION (60%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (55%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (69%); ALCOA INC (56%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (57%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (69%); AAI (ASX) (56%); AA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (69%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (69%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (69%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (56%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); DICK CHENEY (88%); BILL CLINTON (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



213 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-10

Arafat Urges U.S. Help To Revive Hopes for Peace
Palestinian officials believe that Secretary of State Colin L. Powell's recent trip to the Middle East made no impact whatsoever on the deteriorating situation and that a far stronger American intervention is needed. Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, said in an interview that he sent a letter to President Bush on Thursday urging him to help Israelis and Palestinians "revive their hope in the peace process." 6

New Aim for Iran Economy
The reformist government of President Mohammad Khatami of Iran has set its sights on prying open the ailing economy, which was virtually sealed shut after the 1979 Islamic revolution. 8

Riot in Northern England
The police battled rioters early today in the northern English city of Bradford after at least two men were stabbed, 80 police officers were injured and 18 people were arrested in a fresh explosion of racial violence in the region. (Reuters)

Tribunal Indictments in Croatia
The reformist Croatian cabinet agreed to arrest and hand over two suspects sought by the United Nations war crimes tribunal in The Hague, Prime Minister Ivica Racan said. Three cabinet ministers and Deputy Prime Minister Goran Granic resigned over the decision. 8

Global Finance Officials Meet
Finance ministers of the seven major industrial nations appeared uncertain at a meeting in Rome about whether the worst of the world's faltering economy has been reached, but agreed to draw back from sharpening differences and focus on greater cooperation. 10

NATIONAL 12-19

Dams Making a Comeback To Meet California's Needs
The first federally financed dam construction in years is being proposed in California, a state with a seemingly limitless need for cleaner and more plentiful water. In a break with the past, the proposals have been worked out by the groups that had been fighting over dams for years. 1

Legal Citations on Trial
Some lawyers and judges have begun to use footnotes in their papers, instead of tucking case citations into the text. This flouting of tradition is irritating some colleagues and changing the look of documents. 1

Concerns About the Dollar
Economists say an unexpected rise in the value of the dollar is complicating the prospects for a rebound in the nation's economy. 1

Digital Actors on Film
Many in Hollywood believe digital production and distribution will revolutionize the way movies are shot and edited. The technology, which can create real-looking animated characters, worries some actors. 1

High-Tech Woes in Texas
Nearly 15,000 people have been laid off in recent months in Austin, Tex., which profited from the high-tech boom and is now feeling the decline. 12

Weighing Stem Cell Decision
President Bush, as he nears a decision about federal support of stem cell research, is surrounded by reminders of family and friends whom such research might have helped. 12

Third Interview for Condit
Investigators said Congressman Gary A. Condit satisfactorily answered questions on Friday night, and reiterated that he is not a suspect in the disappearance of Chandra Ann Levy. 12

NEW YORK/REGION 21-25

2-Tabloid War Intensifies As Post Changes Approach
Most people may not have noticed that the front-page nameplate is higher, or that the stories inside are more numerous and much shorter. But the Post is again trying to reinvent itself, with a more Australian approach to tabloid journalism in its quest to crush its chief competitor, The Daily News. So far that has meant less coverage of local politics and more coverage of celebrities. 21

Telemarketing Scam
The New York State Consumer Protection Board says it has uncovered the latest scheme in which a telemarketing organization is selling questionable and overpriced protection against telemarketing fraud to victims of telemarketing fraud by another organization. 24

Fresh Air Fund 24

OBITUARIES 28

Asoka Roy
A nurse-midwife who used the skills she learned abroad to help establish the field as a profession in the United States, and who delivered more than 5,500 babies, she was 85. 28

Chess 26
Weather 29
Sunday Q & A 16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); RIOTS (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); ARRESTS (74%); INDICTMENTS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); US DOLLAR (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); ANIMATION (69%); LAWYERS (68%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); WAR CRIMES (67%); FILM (64%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (64%); JUDGES (62%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (60%); RELIGION (54%); RACE & RACISM (53%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%); LAYOFFS (50%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) MUSIC; CORRECTION STORIES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); CROATIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ISRAEL (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



214 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3082 words

HEADLINE: The Heavyweight Goes In-House 

BYLINE:  By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

DATELINE: MIDDLETOWN, N.Y. 

 BODY:
BENEATH a sign that asks "What have you done for you lately?" the cosmetics section of the Wal-Mart store here is a hard-working shrine to eye shadow, face powder, nail polish, mascara and all the other products that help highlight, conceal, enhance and perfume.
 There are nationally advertised brands like Cover Girl and L'Oreal, each in its own alcove. There are popular lower-priced brands, like Jane. And then, at the end of one aisle, there is a newcomer: No Boundaries, a line packaged in silvery paper, decorated with brightly colored stickers and bearing whimsical names like Sheeny in a Bottle and Do Me a Flavor. 
 These lipsticks, mascara gels, shimmer crayons and nail enamels, which began arriving in stores in March, are the latest budget-priced, store-brand offering from Wal-Mart, the Bentonville, Ark., retailer that is the world's largest, three times the size of its nearest competitors. All the No Boundaries cosmetics cost $2.74, except for the nail polish, at $1.74. The prices are the same in every Wal-Mart in the country, including the store in Middletown, 60 miles northwest of New York City, where they are lower than all other similar products in the section, including Cover Girl nail polish ($2.46) and lipstick ($4.84) and Estee Lauder's Jane lipstick ($3.24). 
And No Boundaries products are available only at Wal-Mart.
Whether the category is makeup or cat food, Wal-Mart Stores is increasingly focused on developing and promoting its in-house, or private-label, brands across the vast acreage of its 2,634 stores and supercenters. The effort is part of a new strategy to bolster profits and assert the company's strength, as well as to attract certain kinds of consumers -- especially those free-spending teenagers -- who might not otherwise flock to Wal-Mart. The agenda was set a couple of years ago under David D. Glass, the former chief executive, and appears to be gaining momentum under the new chief, H. Lee Scott Jr.
It could be a smart strategy, one that the company is unusually well positioned to pull off. Many retailers, Wal-Mart included, worry about where their future customers will come from. If a teenager is not shopping in the store by, say, her 19th birthday, chances are that she never will, industry experts say.
"It is a very, very significant acknowledgment of a major problem on the part of Wal-Mart that they are now going to do this," said Kurt Barnard, a retail consultant. "It is extremely critical if they don't want to lose the future."
CREATING exclusive products, like cosmetics and apparel, that appeal to teenage shoppers is one reason to pursue a private-label strategy. But there are many others.
Private-label products are highly profitable. They can capture share from national brands and push down prices on those brands.
Still, putting too much emphasis on such merchandise can alter the character of a store -- and Wal-Mart, like all other retailers, must walk a fine line in terms of its customers' desires as well as its relationships with brand-name manufacturers. On the one hand, all manufacturers want to have their products sold by the biggest retailer in the country. On the other hand, they usually must answer to shareholders, and if they have to lower their prices to compete with a store brand, their profit margins will suffer.
Wal-Mart, which had $6.3 billion in profits last year, appears determined to have all its private-label products be the cheapest in the store. In areas as mundane but essential as laundry detergent, its prices are well below those of the national brands. Wal-Mart's private-label products include store brands, exclusive licenses and, more recently, other companies' brands that it has acquired. And its total sales of these products are rising.
Though the company declined to make executives available for interviews or to provide details about the strategy, citing competitive concerns, it has been discussing its plans with analysts and retail consultants in recent weeks. Late last month, the company's chief financial officer, Thomas M. Schoewe, said private-label growth meant that Wal-Mart was listening "to customers for a void."
One analyst, John R. McMillin of Prudential Securities, estimates that private-label products account for 5 percent to 8 percent of the groceries Wal-Mart sells in its supercenters -- discount stores combined with full-scale supermarkets. That number, while growing, is still lower than in the typical American grocery chain, where private labels account for 15 to 18 percent, Mr. McMillin added. 
Private-label sales, excluding groceries, in all mass merchandise stores rose nearly twice as much as revenue in the industry -- and, of course, Wal-Mart makes up most of the industry. Such sales reached $6.5 billion nationwide last year, up 12.2 percent, while the industry's overall revenue rose just 7.1 percent, to $62.3 billion, said Dane Twining, a spokesman for the Private Label Manufacturers Association in New York. Mr. Twining added that unit sales rose to 13.1 percent of total sales last year from 12.4 percent.
These days, private-label products, often packaged and displayed much more attractively and prominently than the generic products of the past, can help distinguish a retailer that wants to build shopper loyalty. Anyone who develops an affinity for No Boundaries cosmetics must to go to Wal-Mart to get them.
And private-label products are hugely profitable for their owners. There is no middleman and usually no advertising budget, and the manufacturers are often the same companies that make brand-name products anyway. Quality has improved in many cases, making comparisons based on price more likely. 
ALL retailers are feeling a pinch these days, as once-euphoric consumers trim their spending, period. While consumer spending has risen slightly in recent weeks, Americans are still nervous about the economy's prospects, as companies report weak earnings and lay off employees. Times like these make private-label brands even more appealing to retailers.
When the retailer in question is Wal-Mart, a behemoth that racked up $191.3 billion in sales last year, double its 1997 total, by being both the largest discount store and the largest supermarket chain in America, a private-label push can have huge implications for dozens of industries.
"Wal-Mart is being more aggressive on private label, especially in consumable areas and in health and beauty aids," said Emme P. Kozloff, a retail analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. "They are also being more aggressive about how they present it. It's no longer the stepchild. It's being presented as a solid alternative."
Starting in the early 1980's, Wal-Mart introduced private-label products intermittently. But in the last two years it has gone into overdrive. Besides rolling out its cosmetics aimed at teenagers, Wal-Mart has bought the White Cloud toilet tissue brand from Procter & Gamble and has introduced its own detergent under the Sam's Choice label. (The Sam is for Sam Walton, the company's founder, who died in 1992.)
It also paid an undisclosed amount in licensing fees to put the Mary-Kate and Ashley label, named after television's Olsen twins, on a line of clothing for preteen and teenage girls that is "blowing out of the stores," Ms. Kozloff said. The line joins an array of other Mary-Kate and Ashley offerings, whose sales to date are widely reported as approaching $1 billion.
In the typical Wal-Mart store, private-label offerings abound: Great Value cereal, cookies and pasta, which share shelf space with Kellogg cereals and Nabisco cookies; Great Value potato chips and other snack food alternatives; soft drinks, including Sam's Choice cola and other flavors; cat food, sold under the Special Kitty label; and Ever Active batteries. Many of the food and household products are also sold in Sam's Clubs, Wal-Mart's warehouse stores.
The Wal-Mart brand is unfailingly the cheapest one available. In the soft-drink aisle, for example, Sam's Choice cola costs 58 cents for a two-liter bottle, while Coke is $1.07 and Pepsi $1.08 for the same size. The name-brand and private-label products often appear on the same shelf, or very near one another. Sometimes, as in the case of Sam's Choice cola, the packaging resembles a national brand in both the label color and some of the graphics.
THE company has said consumers sometimes need to be "educated" about private-label brands, but once the education takes place, there seems to be solid results. Sales of private-label food products were up last year, compared with 1999, shareholders were told last month at Wal-Mart's annual meeting in Fayetteville, Ark. When the price of a bag of Great Value cookies was slashed to 88 cents from $1 last year, unit sales jumped 54 percent, the company told investors. If a company like Wal-Mart does not mind sacrificing a little profit, all kinds of possibilities emerge.
The company's stores and supercenters now carry 1,259 kinds of private-label products, up 12 percent from last year, Ms. Kozloff said, citing information provided at the shareholder meeting.
Wal-Mart says its private-label products are a response to consumer demand. "The market has really dictated every move we have made in private-label brands," said a spokesman, Tom Williams. "We create them to improve value to customers, which builds customer loyalty."
He added, "Some customers prefer name brands, some prefer private-label brands, and many customers purchase both."
Any move by Wal-Mart creates ripples far beyond the local supercenter, and the stepped-up emphasis on private labels is certain to affect the nation's consumer-products manufacturers. While most analysts and retail-industry experts contend that Wal-Mart will continue to emphasize low prices on national brands as a means of bringing shoppers in its doors, some say that over time, Wal-Mart could throw more and more weight behind its private-label products, creating a major shift in the way other companies make and market their soaps, soft drinks, cookies, crackers, potato chips, pet food and other products, and certainly affecting the prices charged for national brands. 
In at least one area, liquid laundry detergent, Wal-Mart's sales of its own brand already appear to be influencing sales of leading national brands. In others, analysts say, prices for national brands can be depressed by the presence of a Wal-Mart brand. Some company executives complain -- though not in public -- that they regularly lose money on the products they sell through Wal-Mart.
The giant retailer reveals to the outside world relatively little about activities in its stores. And it is about to reveal even less. In May, Wal-Mart announced that it would no longer make sales data from its cash registers and scanners available to companies that compile such data, saying that the practice helped its competitors more than it helped Wal-Mart. The change takes effect at the end of this month.
But Wal-Mart's size alone nearly always means big changes for any retail business it touches. "I've been to Bentonville, Ark., and it's not the end of the world," one food industry executive joked recently. "But when you get there, you see it."
After only 13 years in the supermarket business, Wal-Mart this year became the industry leader. "Wal-Mart has gotten 11 percent of the U.S. food industry by selling brand names cheaply, not by pushing private label," said Mr. McMillin of Prudential Securities. But "now that they are big, now that they have scale, they can do more," he added. "It bothers me, because they are so big and they put a lid on prices." Thinner margins on food products sold at Wal-Mart could affect a company's earnings.
And it is not just food makers that are facing the challenge. At an analysts' meeting last fall in Bentonville, one Wal-Mart executive cited eye drops as an example of an overpriced consumer product that the company might be able to correct with a brand of its own, Mr. McMillin recalled. "They sense opportunities," he said, "whether it's in dog food or in something else."
Sometimes, it is just a matter of timing. As the economy has cooled in the last six months, more shoppers appear to be turning to private-label products or the cheapest national brands. At the same time, manufacturers' costs have risen, with escalating fuel prices and increases in raw materials, and those costs are often reflected in higher consumer prices for brand-name products. Private-label competitors, meanwhile, remain at the lowest price.
"We believe Wal-Mart will effectively use its private-label merchandise to fill any value gaps left by vendors who decide to pass on price increases," one analyst, Shari Schwartzman Eberts of J. P. Morgan Securities, wrote in a note to investors last month. In that note, Ms. Eberts described Wal-Mart executives as concerned about rivals' pricing, apparently the most competitive in years. "Weaker consumer liquidity is also being displayed in the consumer's preference for opening price point" -- the lowest-price national brand -- "and private-label merchandise," she wrote. "Sales for both are significantly outperforming store averages."
WHILE many consumers are skittish about parting with their hard-earned cash, one group -- teenagers -- is less so. But Wal-Mart historically has not been a teenager's primary destination for clothes, accessories and other essentials. 
"One of the problems the stores are having is that teens have been turned off by department stores," said Allan Mottus, editor of The Informationist, a trade magazine for the cosmetics industry. "And as they get older, they are not department store shoppers."
Private-label offerings seem to be one way to change that, and the Mary-Kate and Ashley clothing brand developed by Wal-Mart, as well as the No Boundaries cosmetics, are aimed squarely at preteen and teenage girls.
As it woos teenagers, Wal-Mart has plenty of company. For years, Target has attracted style-conscious younger shoppers with various licensed designs. Recently, it introduced its Sonia Kashuk cosmetics line, named after a professional makeup artist, and even sprang for the line's own television advertisements. J. C. Penney has worked to create a teenage following for its Arizona jeans.
Wal-Mart was relatively late to join the private-label game, said George Strachan, a retail analyst at Goldman, Sachs. Among the company's first products, introduced in 1982, was its Ol' Roy line of dog food. Since then, there have been apparel lines (Kathie Lee, White Stag, Faded Glory), batteries, soft drinks, tools (Popular Mechanics), and a plethora of other products.
The Kathie Lee apparel came under attack when it was revealed several years ago that child laborers in Bangladesh were working on at least some of the products, though sales today are solid. The dog food was an immediate hit.
"They do these things, and some of them are home runs, and some are not," Mr. Strachan said. But for Wal-Mart, the real value of private-label merchandise may be its usefulness in driving down the prices for brand products.
"If you start devoting a lot of shelf space to a private-label product because you feel the branded price is not providing a good value to the consumer, it encourages the branded vendor to provide a lower price," Mr. Strachan said.
Though national brands are not likely to match or undercut private-label prices -- primarily, they say, because of their advertising budgets -- the presence of a store brand can push national manufacturers to cut their profit margins at the wholesale level. That translates into lower brand-name prices for consumers, set by the retailer.
Companies of all sizes, including the consumer products giants, are competing with the Wal-Mart brands. A 100-ounce jug of Sam's Choice Power Clean Formula liquid detergent, displayed front and center in the detergent aisle, costs $3.84 at the Middletown Wal-Mart. Down the row, the same size of Procter & Gamble's liquid Tide costs $5.88.
A Procter & Gamble spokeswoman said the company was not worried about comparisons, pointing out that Tide has been the market leader for most of its 55-year history. "We work with Wal-Mart as with all of our customers to help build their business and help build ours," said the spokeswoman, Kelly Anchrum. "We respect their decision to provide additional options for the consumer. We realize that they need to make decisions that go beyond our brands."
Information Resources Inc., a market research firm in Chicago that tracks sales in discount stores, has recorded a jump in sales of private-label detergent in the last three years. In 1998, the private-label share of the market was just 0.5 percent; by the end of last year, it was 1.5 percent. Tide and its variants, like Ultra Tide and Ultra Tide Free, meanwhile, slipped from 37.8 percent to 36.5 percent, according to Information Resources.
IN the toilet tissue aisle, price differences are equally obvious. A nine-roll package of White Cloud two-ply toilet paper, a brand that Wal-Mart acquired and began selling last year, costs much less than the nine-roll, two-ply Charmin.
Procter & Gamble owned the White Cloud brand and sold it east of the Rocky Mountains until about 1995, when the company decided to sell only the Charmin brand. Now it finds Charmin competing against its former brand in Wal-Marts everywhere.
Still, Procter & Gamble is betting that customers will choose its product over Wal-Mart's. "Value is two things: price plus performance," said a company spokesman, Terry Loftus. "We work hard to get that right so consumers will choose our brands." 
Other retailers have been building their private-label alternatives as well. At Kmart, licensed brands include Martha Stewart Everyday, Kathy Ireland, Jaclyn Smith and Sesame Street. The company also develops private-label foods and paper products, Michele Jasukaitis, a spokeswoman, said.
"We see them as a significant and important alternative for customers as far as price is concerned," Ms. Jasukaitis said. "The customers truly believe in our brands and trust them and like the fact that they are affordable."
In such a situation, of course, there are winners and losers. And one expert contends that private-label products often have the edge.
"For the consumer, private label offers comparable quality at a lower price," said Laurel Cutler, a marketing consultant in New York. "For the retailer, private label means a much higher margin. Who gets left out in the cold? The national brands."

GRAPHIC: Photos: One part of the Wal-Mart strategy is to buy nationally recognized brands, as it has done with the White Stag line of women's apparel and White Cloud toilet tissue.; Wal-Mart's new brands have taken off. They include Mary-Kate and Ashley apparel, No Boundaries cosmetics and Sam's Choice and Great Value food and beverages.; Wal-Mart brands echo some national competitors: Ripple Cut potato chips, Sam's Choice detergent and cola, Apple Express cereal and Ever Active batteries. (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. 9); Wal-Mart has stepped up its foray into private label brands. It now sells its own cookies, clothing, cereals, detergents and batteries under various brand names. (pg. 1) Chart: "Purveyor Or Producer?"Wal-Mart, the nation's leading seller of most everything from hair brushes to ham hocks, is trying to add to its bottom line by selling more private-label goods, undercutting some of its suppliers. PRODUCT TYPE: MakeupCOMPETITOR: Cover Girl Nailslicks nail polishPRICE*: $2.46WAL-MART BRAND: No Boundaries "Paint Me" nail polishPRICE*: $1.74 PRODUCT TYPE: MakeupCOMPETITOR: Jane Anti-Chap LipstickPRICE*: $3.24WAL-MART BRAND: No Boundaries "Do Me a Flavor" lipstickPRICE*: $2.74 PRODUCT TYPE: ColaCOMPETITOR: Coca-Cola, a dozen 12-ounce cans +PRICE*: $3.15WAL-MART BRAND: Sam's Choice, a dozen 12-ounce cansPRICE*: $1.87 PRODUCT TYPE: DetergentCOMPETITOR: Tide, 100 fluid ouncesPRICE*: $5.88WAL-MART BRAND: Sam's Choice, 100 fluid ouncesPRICE*: $3.84 PRODUCT TYPE: Toilet paperCOMPETITOR: Charmin, two-ply, 337.5 sq. ft.PRICE*: $4.98WAL-MART BRAND: White Cloud, two-ply, 519.7 sq. ft.PRICE*: $3.98 PRODUCT TYPE: Cranberry juice cocktailCOMPETITOR: Ocean Spray, 64-ounce bottlePRICE*: $2.20WAL-MART BRAND: Sam's Choice, 64-ounce bottlePRICE*: $1.97 PRODUCT TYPE: White breadCOMPETITOR: Wonder Bread, 22-ounce loafPRICE*: $1.78WAL-MART BRAND: Great Value, 20-ounce loafPRICE*: $1.05 *Last month at Wal-Mart in Middletown, N.Y.+Last weekend at all Wal-Marts (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); COSMETICS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); PRIVATE LABELS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); TEENS MARKET (76%); BUDGETS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (61%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (95%); L'OREAL SA (92%); ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WAL-MART 

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%); OR (PAR) (92%); OR (BIT) (92%); EL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (58%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (58%)

PERSON: H LEE SCOTT JR (78%); ASHLEY OLSEN (50%); MARY-KATE OLSEN (50%) HAYS, CONSTANCE L; GLASS, DAVID D; SCOTT, H LEE JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



215 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: BackTalk; 
The Yea and Nay of Beijing's Olympic Bid

BYLINE:  By RICK BURTON; Rick Burton is the director of the James H. Warsaw Sports Marketing Center in the University of Oregon's Lundquist College of Business.

 BODY:
It's time the Olympics went to China.
 If Ping-Pong diplomacy was the foundation of sport and politics between President Nixon's America and a closed China 30 years ago, then the Olympic Games represent the newer, more contemporary approach to China's global acceptance. 
 Beijing makes the most sense for the International Olympic Committee and its selection for the site of the 2008 Summer Games. There are more than a billion people in China and the world's businesses are eager to go there. Ideally, the Olympics can serve as a symbolic invitation to the world that China is open for business and ready for diverse political and cultural thought. 
It is why American business schools constantly hammer home the concepts of "global economy" and "economies of scale." China is the ideal case study for sport and capitalism.
In fact, General Motors signed a four-year deal with the Chinese Olympic Committee, and UPS recently created a print ad noting, "China's 1.26 billion people can't wait to get your products."
Even some professional sports organizations, like the National Basketball Association, are signing or trying to draft Chinese players. China's state-supported stance on sport is critical to its acceptance on the worldwide stage as "one of the guys." Business aside, there are Olympic politics to consider as well.
The I.O.C. members have increasingly developed an anti-North American stance that factors in issues like downed spy planes and periodic United States government antagonism.
In China's favor, certain issues are probably factors. The Olympics of 2004 and 2006 are committed to the European cities of Athens (2004) and Turin, Italy (2006). Beijing, Toronto and Paris are considered the front-runners for 2008; Istanbul and Osaka, Japan are the other finalists. To choose Paris is potentially too risky for certain voters who will want to avoid the appearance of favoring a particular continent.
And Toronto, considered by many to be the second most favorable choice, did nothing to improve its chances when Mayor Mel Lastman recently joked about fearing African snakes and cannibals. 
Additionally, there is strong reason to believe Beijing should have been the host for the 2000 Games in Sydney, Australia. Beijing lost that privilege by two votes. It was later disclosed that before the vote took place the Australian bid contingent pledged $35,000 each to the Olympic committees of two I.O.C. members from Africa.
Still, many Westerners struggle with the concept of Communist China, in which the indelible image is of one courageous man going toe to turret with a line of tanks. Without ever having visited China's largest cities, Westerners subscribe to a dated perception of the country's overcrowding and financial simplicity.
On the contrary, as one United States consultant working in China told me, "Shanghai is as capitalist as Cleveland."
His point was that the Chinese are truly members of the world's economic landscape. In fact, it is only a matter of time before China is given entry to the World Trade Organization. When that happens, sport, the universal language, will go to China in a hurry.
Sport is often said to be the great equalizer. Competitors may be racist, sexist or culturally unsophisticated, but in sport, many issues are cast aside in the interest of determining the fastest or the strongest.
China's willingness to serve as host of the Games and offer itself up to considerable scrutiny and potential ridicule is significant. As one of the few communist countries on a planet dominated by capitalistic interests, the Olympics would allow the world to see beyond the Great Wall.
Rather than guessing at issues like human rights, pollution and political leanings, sport, in the form of the Olympics, would send a withering array of news media members to investigate China for the next eight years. For the Chinese to stonewall these visits would only invite international scorn.
The alternative is that China would commit itself to improving global perceptions and cultural realities because sport, more than money, is the modern currency. The I.O.C. knows that. When it gathers on Friday in Moscow, the I.O.C. voters will weigh issues like the country's location, site development, athlete transportation, news media access and diversity.
Is China perfect for a Western orientation? No. The Chinese view human rights differently than Americans or Britons do. But America has children entering schoolrooms with guns, so it depends on whose news you are watching when you draw conclusions about other cultures.
The simple action of staging a range of competitions in Country A as opposed to Country B is only relevant if it entertains global spectators or facilitates the business of sports. That may appear simplistic, but these are athletic warriors, not militarized armies.
In a world where economies of global scale will increasingly matter, China is the obvious choice. Having the Olympic opening ceremony in Tiananmen Square or camera crews in the Forbidden City will reshape perceptions and force positive cultural and economic developments in the world's most populated country.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Beijing is trying to stimulate international support for its bid to be the host city for the 2008 Olympics with the presence of Michael Jordan in a downtown exhibition of sports sculptures. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (94%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); BASKETBALL (73%); CASE STUDIES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (86%); TURIN, ITALY (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (70%); OSAKA, JAPAN (53%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (86%); ITALY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



216 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
Rate Cuts Translate Into Gains for Bank Sector Funds

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
INVESTORS in bank stocks owe a lot to Alan Greenspan. Despite a gloomy stock market, banks are showing positive returns in the last few months, thanks to repeated cuts in interest rates by the Federal Reserve.
 As a result, the handful of mutual funds focused exclusively on banks have rebounded from a prolonged slump. These include the $3.2 billion John Hancock Regional Bank fund, up 4.6 percent in the first half of the year; the SIFE Trust, with $783million in assets, up 1.7 percent; and the Fidelity Select Banking fund, with $483 million under management, up 2.7 percent. That compares with a a 1.78 percent decline in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. 
 And the three funds' gains come on top of a strong performance last year, when each was up around 20 percent, as investors began to leave faltering technology investments and move into stocks with less risk. As the year progressed, banks were also popular with investors who anticipated the rate cuts. 
For James Schmidt, co-manager of the Hancock fund, the current boomlet in bank stocks conjures up memories of 1997, when his fund was up more than 50 percent and he was besieged by strangers asking about the next big bank merger. In 1998, a record $250 billion in mergers was announced among some of the nation's largest banks. "People were so interested in talking to me about this that it almost got to be annoying," Mr. Schmidt said.
So many people clamored to invest with Mr. Schmidt that he had closed the fund to new investors in 1997. But after merger fever faded in the summer of 1998, bank stocks declined, and money started to flow out of Hancock Regional Bank. Its assets tumbled some 60 percent from a peak of around $8 billion, according to AMG Data Services. (The fund reopened to new investors in November 1998.)
There may not be as as many mergers now as there were three or four years ago -- despite the takeover battle under way for the Wachovia Corporation and the planned acquisition of Dime Bancorp by Washington Mutual -- but bank and savings-and-loan stocks have been relatively strong performers. By now, the impact of declining rates has already been factored into prices, but a carefully selected portfolio of bank stocks could still outpace the market, said some fund managers and bank stock analysts.
"Banks are one of the few sectors of the stock market that are still experiencing earnings growth," said Lori Appelbaum, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs. She predicted a 6 percent increase in bank earnings for the second quarter, compared with an 11 percent decline in the earnings of the S.& P. 500.
Still, she said, investors will have to be more selective. "Earlier this year, tons of stocks looked cheap to us," Ms. Appelbaum said. "This is more of a stock picker's market."
Mr. Schmidt's fund, focused on banks, is likely to be more volatile than a diversified fund. "If your fund is less diversified, returns tend to bounce around a lot more," said Scott Cooley, an analyst at Morningstar Inc.
Another consideration is cost. Both the Hancock and SIFE funds have a 5 percent sales load, and Hancock has a hefty expense ratio of more than 2 percent. (SIFE's is 1.25 percent.) The Fidelity fund, meanwhile, carries a 3 percent load and a more modest expense ratio of 1.18 percent. 
The Hancock fund has one possible advantage: Mr. Schmidt has managed the fund since it began in 1985, while the Fidelity fund has changed managers every year or two. Still, that has not appeared to have hurt the Fidelity fund much: its 10-year return is 22.3 percent, annualized, about one percentage point better than the Hancock fund. 
The upswing in bank stocks began in March 2000, when they were selling at just 45 percent of the price-to-earnings multiple of the S.& P. 500, Mr. Schmidt said, close to where bank stocks sold in 1990, when many financial institutions were failing. These days, however, the banking industry is comparatively healthy.
Bank stocks dipped briefly last fall, after First Union and Bank of America announced that they were each writing off loans to a struggling company, widely believed to be the Sunbeam Corporation. The two banks had each loaned approximately $600 million to Sunbeam, which filed for bankruptcy soon after. Investors worried that, as the economy deteriorated, more companies would default on their loans.
But while problem loans have kept rising, they are nowhere near their peak a decade ago during the last recession, when banks had nonperforming assets equal to 3.5 percent of total assets. Mr. Schmidt said that in the second quarter, nonperforming assets would account for 0.85 percent of banks' total assets. "Even if that number goes up for the next couple of quarters, the news is pretty good," he said.
By December, thinking that the Fed would lower interest rates, investors began pouring money into weaker institutions, figuring they would soon benefit. That helped Bank of America shares climb by 31 percent in the first half of this year, and First Union by 26 percent. 
Managers of both the Hancock and Fidelity funds now say they are pruning their portfolios to focus on banks with fewer problem loans. "I don't know what happens to the economy, but I do want to play to balance-sheet strength," said Samuel Peters, manager of the Fidelity fund."I wouldn't stretch and play the bad names right now." Citing a Fidelity corporate policy, he declined to name specific stocks he was buying or selling.
The Hancock fund's managers have taken advantage of rising stock prices to swap out of weaker lenders and into the shares of banks with more conservative lending standards. "People were selling Wells Fargo and buying Bank of America," said Thomas Finucane, co-manager of the Hancock fund. "We were doing the opposite."
Wells Fargo's ratio of nonperforming assets to total assets is 0.54 percent as of the first quarter, while Bank of America's ratio is a much weaker 0.97 percent, Mr. Schmidt said. And Wells Fargo's earnings have been increasing at 14.5 percent a year, on average, over the last five years, in contrast to a 3.3 percent rate for Bank of America.
Another fast-growing bank favored by the Hancock fund is North Fork Bancorporation, based in Melville, N.Y. It has been opening branches and making acquisitions in New York City, particularly in Manhattan. The efforts appear to be paying off: North Fork's earnings have been growing 12.5 percent annually, Mr. Schmidt said.
The fund's managers also like Bank of New York. It gets 70 percent of its earnings from its securities processing business, which involves record-keeping and acting as a custodian for stockholders and mutual fund investors. The bank's shares were down 13 percent for the first half of this year. "It sold off with the other quality names, so it's a good opportunity to add," Mr. Finucane said.
The managers of the Hancock fund are closely watching the the battle for Wachovia. The fund owns shares in the company, based in Winston-Salem, N.C., as well as in the rival bidders: First Union and SunTrust Banks. "I am rooting for an economically rational deal," Mr. Schmidt said. "I don't think either side should raise their bid." 
Neither Mr. Schmidt nor Fidelity's Mr. Peters is betting that the Wachovia deal will usher in a new wave of takeovers. "The market is skeptical of deals right now," Mr. Schmidt said. "We need to see a few deals work out well before activity picks up." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MERGERS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); BONDS (79%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%) BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); AMG DATA SERVICES (53%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (52%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (52%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (52%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%) ATLAS, RIVA D 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2001 



217 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: The Ichiro Effect 

BYLINE:  By Masaru Ikei; Masaru Ikei, a professor emeritus in history at Keio University, is the author of "Baseball and the Japanese People."

DATELINE: YOKOHAMA, Japan 

 BODY:
It was six o'clock on the morning of July 3 in Toyko when the Japanese press broke the news that Ichiro Suzuki, the Japanese rookie right fielder for the Seattle Mariners, had gotten the most votes to play on the American League team in tomorrow's All-Star game. By evening, the good news was being touted all over Japanese television and on the front pages of the evening editions of respected national papers. Suzuki's success in America has fundamentally changed baseball in Japan -- but perhaps not for the better. 
 Ichiro Suzuki is not the first Japanese player who has enjoyed success in the American major leagues; Hideo Nomo and Kazuhiro Sasaki have each been chosen as rookie of the year in the United States. But while the Japanese public believed that Japanese pitchers like Nomo and Sasaki were capable of making it in the major leagues, many thought that Japanese position players, who play every game, would be ill-prepared for the major leagues. Japanese baseball fans feared that even though Suzuki is technically excellent (he holds seven successive batting titles in Japan), he would not be able to handle the major leagues' grueling playing schedule. But Suzuki's record has more than wiped out such fears. His "baseball of skills" -- the ability to hit, steal and field -- has clearly won over American fans, who had become used to baseball driven by power hitters and home runs. 
 American baseball has long been a part of Japanese culture. In the early 1870's Horace Wilson, an American hired to teach in Japan, introduced baseball to the country. In 1934 a select American team that included Babe Ruth visited Japan and organized games against an all-Japan team. This marked the beginning of pro baseball in Japan. During World War II, baseball was considered "an adversarial sport" and suppressed. The game was restored during the American occupation, and professional baseball quickly became a mainstay of popular entertainment in postwar Japan.
Yet before the daily satellite broadcasts that now allow the Japanese to watch Seattle Mariners games, the American major leagues were quite distant from us. The only way to keep track of American games was either by listening to radio broadcasts for American troops in Asia or by reading English-language newspapers. The advent of satellite broadcasting in 1987 brought American baseball closer to Japanese fans, though the American game was still perceived as something unrelated to Japanese baseball. But this psychological wall was demolished almost overnight by Hideo Nomo's success with the Los Angeles Dodgers.
Ichiro Suzuki's success has brought enthusiasm for American baseball to a new level, lifting spirits here at a time filled with news of economic recession and crime. But it has also created some new worries for fans of the Japanese game. Suzuki's experience may encourage more star players here to leave to join teams abroad. The major leagues, for their part, may expand their efforts to recruit Japanese players. This could deprive Japanese baseball of its best players, leaving it as moribund as the once-mighty Russian ice hockey leagues. Already, TV ratings for the once-popular Tokyo Giants have decreased by one-third. And the Orix Blue Wave, after losing Suzuki, has seen its attendance drop by a whopping 40 percent. Ichiro Suzuki's achievement has added excitement to America's pastime, but it may also mark a turning point for our own. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); SPORTS FANS (77%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (76%); SPORTS AWARDS (75%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); WORLD WAR II (62%) BASEBALL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ALL-STAR GAMES 

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE MARINERS (91%) SEATTLE MARINERS 

PERSON: SUZUKI, ICHIRO; IKEI, MASARU 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (77%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001 



218 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
Me-Zine Journalism for Fun and (Sometimes) Profit

BYLINE:  By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
Mickey Kaus, a former reporter for Newsweek, works out of his home off the beach in Santa Monica, Calif., looking at a blue sliver of ocean, drawing in the balmy beach air, his usual work attire a mismatched, rumpled sweatsuit.
 He writes his column between 11 p.m. and 2 a.m., for his three-year-old Web site, Kausfiles, a hodgepodge of his political opinions, rants from his readers, media critiques and links to other sites. 
 But the best part, Mr. Kaus says, is that in the six-month period through June his Web site has, unexpectedly, become profitable. Mr. Kaus said that after his expenses ($2,346), and considering his income ($1,000) from his one advertiser, Contentville, along with donations from readers, he has made a profit of $318.60. 
"So call me a mogul," he said.
Mr. Kaus is just one participant in a growing journalism format now known as the "me-zine," electronic magazines that feature the opinions of one man or one woman, writing alone, often late at night and often wearing pajamas, and indulging in the opinionated wordplay they all went into print journalism for and now find is much more fun -- and sometimes profitable, however slightly -- on the Internet.
The me-zine has been around in various formats since the Internet became popular; Matt Drudge's Drudge Report, drudgereport.com, went online in 1996, with no initial thought, Mr. Drudge said last week, to make money. Now Mr. Drudge has four advertising agencies selling space on his Web site.
More than ever, writers are choosing the electronic me-zine as their bully pulpit rather than, or in addition to, a column in the local newspaper or political magazine.
Two months ago, Slate magazine inaugurated a me-zine site, which links readers to andrewsullivan.com, j-marshall.com/talk, kausfiles.com and vpostrel.com, where columnists air their opinions on popular culture, politics and practically every other subject.
Sometimes they take pride in what they do not write. "For a number of reasons, I've tried to make these virtual pages a Condit/Chandra-free zone," said Joshua Micah Marshall, writer of the j-marshall.com/talk site, although the Web site commented over the weekend about the news media's coverage.
Virginia Postrel, a libertarian who writes the vpostrel.com site and a contributor to the Economic Scene column in The New York Times, said that she started the site in 1998 to promote her book "The Future and Its Enemies." But she said that she started making money only in the last year when she introduced a tip box, through which readers donate cash in an arrangement with Amazon.com. She has received about $1,200 in tips since February, she said.
"I think this enterprise is about self-expression," she said. "The money is an added benefit."
Visits to most of the sites are not measured by outside agencies. Andrew Sullivan, an editor at The New Republic and a contributor to The New York Times Magazine, said that since he introduced his site last year, the number of individual users visiting the site at least once had risen to 180,000 last month from 30,000, according to what he described as unsophisticated tracking software.
Rather than depending on advertisers, Mr. Sullivan depends on his tip box and sponsors. The site has raised more than $25,000 in donations since October -- $8,000 from the Amazon tip box since March -- he said, and has just signed its first corporate sponsor, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, a trade association.
"So far it has been pro bono, but eventually I would like to have a salary," Mr. Sullivan said, adding that the journalistic freedom of the site is its most attractive feature.
"You get to write things and you don't have to put all the substantiation you'd put in a print article in a little online posting," he said.
Mr. Sullivan said that freedom also comes with peril -- the ability to make mistakes, easily and often. "It is a little scary because you have no filters," he said. "If you make a mistake you must correct yourself at once or else you will alienate your readers."
And while the sites monitor themselves and it is difficult to get concrete statistics about the size of the audience, some authors do believe that the me-zine is a good format in which to advertise their books and to tap an audience as a reporting resource. Malcolm Gladwell, the author of "The Tipping Point" and a contributor to The New Yorker, makes his published work available on malcolmgladwell.com and provides links to buy his book. Last year, Edward Jay Epstein, the author of "Dossier: The Secret History of Armand Hammer" and "News from Nowhere," introduced his site, edwardjayepstein.com. He is researching a book about the business of Hollywood and occasionally gets a news tip from a reader that is worth reporting further.
There are technical drawbacks to popularity. Mr. Epstein's Web site started out as a link through Slate, but he withdrew from Slate when he started getting too many viewers. 
"I had to keep buying more and more bandwidth to accommodate them," he said. "It's like having a lot of visitors to your house. You have to keep building new roads to get them all there. I didn't want that many people in my house."
Mr. Sullivan said that after Rush Limbaugh read one of his Web columns on the air, "suddenly, Kazoom, our little wires were bursting." Mr. Sullivan said that he has added more bandwidth almost every month since the site has been up.
Mr. Kaus said that the me-zine sites can easily become profitable because there are usually no, or few, employees. He said that other Web sites were far overstaffed and that led to their demise.
"Pseudo.com, dead," Mr. Kaus said. "Feed, on ice. Inside, sold. Salon, dying. Kausfiles, profitable."
David Talbot, the editor in chief of Salon, said Mr. Kaus was plain wrong about Salon. "We're not dead yet, so he is getting ahead of himself," Mr. Talbot said.
David Patrick Columbia, the editor in chief of Quest magazine, introduced a Web site last fall called nysocialdiary.com, a daily column about New York social life that employs only Mr. Columbia and one assistant. Mr. Columbia has made about $3,000 in advertising revenue, he said, and has received enough requests to run ads that he hired two advertising salespeople who start at the end of the month. 
Mr. Columbia said he was an avid Internet reader, but that he is generally suspicious of political me-zines. "The only problem I see with andrewsullivan.com or any of the other serious me-zines is that it is all generally a lot of pontification without real reporting to back up the opinions," Mr. Columbia said.
Mr. Talbot of Salon added that he thinks of me-zines as "one-man vanity presses."
But Mr. Sullivan said that his readers understand his role as an opinionated filter. "They know that my job is to read everything I can and get irritated as much as I can and splutter for them on a daily basis," he said, adding that he provides links to everything he writes about.
Mr. Drudge provides links but he does not see himself as the proprietor of a me-zine. "I don't write my opinions," he said. "I consider myself more of a network, more like Rupert Murdoch, than some solitary guy. Does Katharine Graham run a me-zine?" 
"Oh, the ego," Mr. Columbia said. "The ego has landed."
Of course, there is an element of the egotist to most me-zine operators. Mr. Kaus said that although his three-figure profit does not mean he'll be test-flying Gulfstream jets, it is an opportunity for some seriously gratifying schadenfreude.
"That's $318.60 The New Yorker didn't make this year," he said.
Mr. Kaus said that he was not sure yet how he will spend his windfall.
"I was thinking of buying a used chair," he said, adding that he understood that Kurt Andersen, a founder of Inside.com, had a really nice Aeron chair for sale.
"I figure it's symbolic," Mr. Kaus said. "The Aeron chair was the symbol of the dot-com boom, and now that it's bust I hear you can get the chairs at fire-sale prices."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mickey Kaus runs kausfiles.com from his home in Santa Monica, Calif. With few expenses, the site had a small profit. (Kim Kulish/Saba, for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Samples from the journalistic format known as the me-zine, which feature one writer's opinions. (pg. C8) Chart: "Mission Impossible: Turn a Profit"How Mickey Kaus made more profit than The New Yorker magazine. Figures of Kausfiles.com for the first six-months of 2001: $1EXPENSES,416 for Lexis Nexis.$600 for server.$180 for phone bills.$150 for design fee. $1REVENUE,610.69 in readers donations through the Amazon Honors System.$1,000 from one advertiser (Steven Brill's Contentville).$53.91 in commission for items purchased by readers who access Amazon through Kausfiles.com. $2,346 $2TOTAL,664.60 $318TOTAL.60 TOTAL(Source: Mickey Kaus)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BEACHES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%) MAGAZINES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINANCES 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (50%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%)

PERSON: KAUS, MICKEY; KUCZYNSKI, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001 



219 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Some Lawmakers Urging U.S. to Speed Exports of Satellites 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 8 

 BODY:
Prodded by the satellite industry, members of Congress who demanded a tougher review of satellite sales around the globe just three years ago are now trying to speed up the process.
 The proposal has been put forward by two California representatives, Howard L. Berman, a Democrat, and Dana Rohrabacher, a Republican, each with strong aerospace constituencies. They are proposing a transfer of the agency responsible for approving satellite sales abroad, to the Commerce Department from the State Department. The measure is the latest twist in a debate over how rigorously Washington should protect American satellite technology. 
 In 1998, after critics charged that the Clinton administration let China learn the secrets of top American companies, Mr. Berman supported legislation that stripped licensing authority from the Commerce Department, which was seen as eager to promote sales, and gave it to the State Department, which treats satellites like weapons systems.
At the time, Mr. Rohrabacher said that because of what he called laxness by the Clinton administration, "every man, woman and child may well have been jeopardized."
Now he and the measure's other sponsors argue that an understaffed and overly cautious State Department has hamstrung an industry that is important to California's economy and to military readiness. 
"It was never my intention or Congress's intention that the high-tech industry should be hampered in their commerce by overregulation," Mr. Rohrabacher said.
The White House is studying the bill and has not formed its opinion yet, said Mary Ellen Countryman, a spokeswoman.
The bill would have the effect of providing fast-track licensing for members of NATO and other allies, while subjecting sales to China and other countries to more rigorous review. Mr. Rohrabacher portrayed the measure as fine-tuning. "I don't consider this at all a reversal of my position," he said.
Critics of the proposal say the State Department is best equipped to consider the broader implications of a satellite sale or launching. The critics include prominent Republican voices on military and security affairs, including Senators John W. Warner, Jesse Helms and Richard C. Shelby. 
"There is more of a national-security-based review that comes out of the State Department," said Gary Hoitsma, a spokesman for Senator James M. Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican who has criticized the bill. "That's our main concern."
Another critic, Representative Tom Lantos, Democrat of California, said it was "close to being an oxymoron" to designate the Commerce Department, a trade promotion agency, as the national security watchdog.
American aerospace companies have complained that they are losing their dominant share in a $56 billion annual market of sales and services. A decade ago, industry officials say, the American industry accounted for 75 percent of sales of commercial telecommunications satellites; that dwindled to 45 percent last year, as Europeans got more orders.
Industry officials attribute much of the problem to onerous procedures at the State Department. European companies sell with less red tape, advocates of the bill say. 
They note that revenues for foreign manufacturers climbed 11 percent last year, while that of American suppliers fell 9 percent. 
The American companies want the Commerce Department to approve or deny licenses within 30 days, or within 90 days if another department raises objections.
State Department officials admit that they have been swamped by license requests since taking charge two years ago. Last year, the department's staff of 23 licensing officers completed about 46,000 applications. By contrast the Commerce Department, with 51 officers, reviewed about 11,000 applications.
Despite the shortage of officers at the State Department, the General Accounting Office found that the average time required by both agencies to process licenses in general was similar: between two and three months for sensitive items that must be submitted for interagency review.
Lincoln P. Bloomfield Jr., assistant secretary of state for political affairs, said the State Department's performance would improve as new employees arrive. 
In 1996 President Clinton moved the licensing authority from the State Department to Commerce. At the time, Mr. Clinton was aggressively promoting American exports and pursuing better commercial and diplomatic ties with Beijing.
But two failed launchings in China in the 1990's highlighted the risk of technology transfer, and three American companies came under fire. The three -- Hughes Space and Communications, which was acquired last year by BoeingLoral Space and Communications; and Lockheed Martin -- faced charges that they had passed sensitive information or materials to China.
Loral is now the subject of a criminal investigation for possibly providing the Chinese with sensitive information about how to improve their rockets. And last year Lockheed Martin agreed to pay $13 million to the federal government because a company it acquired was accused of helping a Hong Kong company with ties to the Chinese government to perfect its rocket motors.
An investigation led by Representative Christopher Cox, Republican of California, concluded in 1999 that such incidents had compromised national security. The Cox commission unanimously recommended that the State Department be solely responsible for licensing satellites. By then, Congress had already ordered the shift. 
But in their rush to crack down on China, lawmakers approved legislation that did not distinguish between sales to close allies and sales to potential adversaries. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE INDUSTRY (94%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (87%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); SALES PROMOTIONS (78%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); SALES & SELLING (73%); LICENSES & PERMITS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (58%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SATELLITES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; STATE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: DANA ROHRABACHER (89%); HOWARD L BERMAN (88%); JOHN WARNER (58%); JIM INHOFE (58%); TOM LANTOS (58%) MARQUIS, CHRISTOPHER; BERMAN, HOWARD L (REPR); ROHRABACHER, DANA (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001 



220 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Officials Loath to Act as Water Meant for Endangered Fish Flows to Dry Western Farms 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: KLAMATH FALLS, Ore., July 7 

 BODY:
The sheriff will not arrest. The prosecutor will not prosecute. The local irrigation district has turned a blind eye.
 Desperate situations, they suggest, justify desperate measures. 
 Three times in the last week, people here have taken the law into their own hands, reopening a flow of irrigation water that the federal government has halted since April 7 to protect endangered fish. Three times, too, the local authorities have declined to intervene, leaving the task to the federal Bureau of Reclamation, whose officials say the situation here has deteriorated to a point unprecedented in the agency's 99-year history. 
"We've never ever been in a situation where we're unable to deliver water to anybody," said Jeffrey S. McCracken, a bureau spokesman. 
"And we've never been in a position where we've had to seek guidance from federal law enforcement to prevent destruction to our property."
It is no secret here just who has taken part in what sympathizers call civil disobedience. After the most recent incident, on the Fourth of July, their photographs were published in a local newspaper, and video footage of their actions was broadcast on local television.
But anger here runs deep in what is becoming a war over water, farms and fish. The county sheriff, Tim Evinger, who watched the latest illegal opening of the waterway from his patrol car, but declined to intervene, said this particular brand of lawbreaking was none of his business. The federal authorities, too, have not taken any action.
"Everyone understood the position this would put me in with my constituents," said Mr. Evinger, who added that he and federal authorities had agreed weeks ago that if it came to choosing sides over efforts to resume the water flow, it would be best if the county sheriff took a pass.
Because of the lack of cooperation from the local authorities, the Bureau of Reclamation has asked for help from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the United States Marshals Service. But even those agencies seem ambivalent about what to do. In a statement issued Friday, the F.B.I. said only that it would heed any request from the office of the United States attorney in Portland to investigate. The district marshal, Reginald B. Madsen, said in an interview from his office in Portland that none of his officers had been dispatched to Klamath Falls.
The United States attorney's office in Portland did not respond to a telephone message. 
The plight of the 1,400 farmers cut off from vital water here along the Oregon-California border has become a rallying cry among groups seeking to amend the Endangered Species Act, the 1977 law that ranks the interests of certain plants and animals over human economic interests. It was to adhere to the act that Bureau of Reclamation, which has provided irrigation water to farmers in this basin since 1907, decided this year that it could not permit the farmers any water at all, so that the endangered suckerfish and the threatened coho salmon could be guaranteed the maximum amount. 
The Interior Department is reviewing the biological opinion, by the Fish and Wildlife Service, about the fish that left the reclamation bureau no option but to carry out the water cutoff. The department is also studying a request from two area congressmen, Representative Wally Herger, a California Republican, and Representative Greg Walden, Republican of Oregon, along with the Pacific Legal Foundation, a nonprofit law firm in Sacramento that specializes in property rights cases, to address the rival claims to water by convening the Endangered Species Committee, a rarely used federal panel that has the power to overrule provisions of the law if it determines that human interests should be granted a higher priority. 
In a year of record drought, which has forced water issues to a head across the West, many people in the Klamath Basin also regard the Endangered Species Act as a foe. But here, along the Oregon-California border, the issue is anything but abstract: about 200,000 acres of farmland have been left parched by the water cutoff, and the people who depend on them say they have begun to revise their views of right and wrong.
"People in rural America, by and large, are true patriots," said Bob Grasser, who is the co-owner of a fertilizer business here, where revenues are down 85 percent from a year ago. "But we're not too patriotic here anymore. It feels like our freedom is being betrayed. We just can't believe that a great country would do this to our own people." 
The farmers, the police, and the federal government are not the only players in this drama. By treaty, local Indian tribes have rights to the fish, which they describe as playing an important cultural role, even though the suckerfish in particular, as a bottom-feeder, is not prized for its palatability. Far downstream, where the Klamath River meets the Pacific along the California coast, commercial salmon fishermen say that the years in which tremendous amounts of Klamath water were diverted for the farmers have all but destroyed their business. 
"If fishermen had crossed a line on the ocean into a closed fishing zone, you can bet federal and state agents would have swarmed down and arrested them," Zeke Grader, executive director of the West Coast's largest commercial fishing organization, the Pacific Coast Federation of Fishermen's Associations, said today. "The law is supposed to be enforced equally, but there were no arrests here and the local sheriff doesn't seem to understand that laws against breaking and entering and theft apply to everyone," Mr. Grader said. "Since when are a small group of water contractors above the law?" 
The three transgressions that have captured attention here began on June 30, when someone climbed a fence and opened one of the head gates closed for the season to prevent water from flowing from the Upper Klamath Lake into the irrigation canals on which farmers here have depended for nearly a century. 
In that case, and in each of the two that followed, the Klamath Irrigation District, which operates the gates under contract with the federal government, declined a written request that it shut the gates again, forcing the Bureau of Reclamation to dispatch its employees to carry out the job. The irrigation district manager says he should be in the business of supplying water to farmers, not refusing it. 
"As we read the responsibility, the Bureau of Reclamation should be the party to cut it off," David Solem, the manager, said.
The sheriff, Mr. Evinger, said his priorities were protecting lives and property, not dealing with trespassing and vandalism at a federal facility. The district attorney, Ed Caleb, did not return a telephone message, but told a local newspaper, The Herald and News: "The sheriff and I are still of the opinion that damage to federal property is a federal issue."
"These are law-abiding citizens who have reached a point where their frustrations are extremely high," Mr. Caleb told the newspaper.
Mr. McCracken, the reclamation bureau spokesman, said today that the damage caused to the dam in the three incidents had been relatively minor. But in each case, he said, federal employees have taken action to strengthen barriers to the vandalism, only to have them overcome the next time around.
"We recognize that everyone is in a very difficult situation," Mr. McCracken said. "We absolutely do not want to have to put anyone out there to protect the gates that have been providing water to people for the last 94 years. But it's appropriate to handle it the way we have, by seeking federal assistance."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A group of farmers and others in Klamath Falls, Ore., protested on the Fourth of July by opening irrigation gates that had been closed by the federal government to ensure a supply of water for endangered suckerfish. (Ron Winn/The Herald and News) Map of Klamath Falls highlighting the areas of drought in the Northwest: The federal government has cut off farm irrigation water from Upper Klamath Lake in Oregon despite a severe drought in the West.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (91%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (91%); FISHES (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); IRRIGATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MARSHALS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ANIMALS (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); BIOLOGY (71%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (67%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (67%) FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; AGRICULTURE; WATER; SUCKERFISH; SALMON; IRRIGATION 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF RECLAMATION (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION; BUREAU OF RECLAMATION 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%) OREGON, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) KLAMATH FALLS (ORE)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001 



221 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: Saudis Offer Veiled Welcome To Tourists of a Certain Age 

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: ABHA, Saudi Arabia 

 BODY:
With its bleak deserts and its moral code that makes the Pilgrims seem louche, Saudi Arabia has never exactly been one of those dreamed-about destinations whispering in the ear of every world traveler.
 There is just something -- be it that drinking a beer is illegal or that women are expected to walk around tented from head to toe in black or that convicted murderers get their heads lopped off on downtown squares -- that does not beckon most outsiders. 
 Nor did the conservative kingdom particularly want them. 
"When we first started talking about tourism here in Asir, people thought of it as something laughable," says Prince Khalid bin Faisal, governor of Asir, who began advocating the idea when he took up his post in this provincial capital in 1971. "Nobody thought we should even talk about tourism in Saudi Arabia." 
The laughter might not have subsided entirely, but times have changed. 
Saudi Arabia, unsettled by erratic oil revenues and a young population bulge, with an estimated 50,000 young men failing to find work each year, has hit upon tourism as an important future source of jobs and income.
The only outsiders once allowed into the kingdom were Muslim pilgrims -- restricted to the two holy cities of Mecca and Medina -- and expatriate workers. Now pilgrims can roam the entire country and a limited supply of previously nonexistent tourist visas is offered. 
The ruling Saud dynasty lent tourism its royal housekeeping seal of approval by establishing a special commission last year and appointing a handsome, charismatic prince to run it. 
"Saudi Arabia's fate, more or less, is to be open," says Prince Sultan bin Salman, 45, most famous as his country's first astronaut. He points out that the land that now constitutes the kingdom has accommodated millions of people over the centuries, Muslims from around the world making the annual pilgrimage to Mecca and Medina, the birthplace of their faith. 
The ideas for tourism are still sketchy, but the prince says the initial emphasis will be on persuading Saudis to dispose of more of their tourist riyals at home, rather than flitting off to Cairo, Marbella or Disneyworld. 
Then the country wants to encourage more Muslims who come for the annual pilgrimage or for umrah, the Arabic name for an off-season visit to the holy cities, to spend more time (and money) in the country. 
Given the doubts whether such visitors will want any sideshow to their religious trek, however, more standard forms of tourism are also under study. Although the country has not advertised yet, word has quietly gone out to a limited number of quality tour operators around the world that Saudi Arabia is open for business. 
More than 1,700 people came last year, with Japan, Germany and the United States sending the largest numbers. Saudia, the national airline, does the visa arrangements and a typical, everything-included, two-week visit costs upward of $7,000.
Tour operators think Saudi Arabia might have something rare to offer, given the globe's dwindling supply of exotic destinations. Aside from the ban on alcohol and the dress code for women, the country offers a variety of outlandish -- not to say bizarre -- traditions that might dispel the ennui of the most jaded travelers. 
To name a few: a man wearing shorts in public risks detention; mingling of the sexes is actively discouraged through practices like separate restaurant sections and banks and no movie theaters; couples must offer proof they are married before checking into a hotel; all commerce ceases several times daily for prayers. In addition, 105 degrees is not an unusual temperature at midnight in much of the country during the summer months. 
"It is a unique society," says Said Ahmed al-Zailai, the vice dean of a new hotel school in Abha, using what some might perceive as considerable understatement. "It is amazing to see. People look at this and look at that and say, 'Oh, my God!' "
The country rejects the idea of handing out tourist visas to all comers, fearful of the inevitable clashes with its conservative ways. The idea of a young, unmarried woman walking around with a halter top and backpack is basically the kingdom's vision of a nightmare. 
"To have this aspect of tourism that is individualistic, free-roaming and so on, well Saudi Arabia is not ready for that," says Prince Sultan. 
Instead, it seeks tourists who won't mind being shepherded around in small groups on carefully choreographed, educational visits that minimize the chances of a confrontation with the religious police. (A kind of roving morals squad, they enforce rules like a woman being chaperoned by her husband or a male relative.) 
In short, Saudi Arabia seeks the Elderhostel set. (The average age of American visitors is over 65.) 
The feeling is that older, educated tourists will be the least likely to object to things like Rule No. 7 at the sprawling weight room and indoor swimming pool of the Abha Palace Hotel. It states, "As per the laws of the kingdom, ladies are not allowed in the Health Club area."
The Abha Palace, like many hotels, has neither facilities nor hours for women. Tradition and custom are going to trump tourist norms whenever the two come face to face, officials repeat over and over again. 
"That's the way it needs to be in Saudi Arabia," says Prince Sultan. "We may, as a tourism organization, have to live with some things that we don't think are practical."
There are those in the kingdom who don't want to live with the idea at all. They use Web sites and screeds left outside mosques to attack the very idea of allowing foreigners, especially non-Muslims, into the hallowed country. 
The religious types, who constitute a sizable group, abhor the idea of preserving, much less visiting, any monuments that predate Islam. They are also convinced that opening the country to tourists will produce the kind of Sodom and Gomorrah conditions prevalent in other travel destinations in everything from clothing to the use of food banned by Islam to the spread of AIDS. 
"In Egypt, all tourist guides, women and men, are specialized in sexual entertainment," thundered one screed distributed outside a mosque in Riyadh, the Saudi capital, going on with dire this-could-happen-to-you warnings for 47 pages.
"If you enter resorts on the Red Sea, next to God's holy places, they will tell that it is a nude beach and you cannot enter unless you disrobe," the tract says. "Do not be shocked because this is one of the requirements for opening to tourists."
As proof, the pamphlet decries the effects of previous influxes of foreigners -- citing the employees of Saudi Aramco, the state-owned oil company, and Western troops. 
"We are suffering from Aramco, which is only one company, because it spread corruption, immorality, prostitution and alcohol," the pamphlet says, adding later that during the Persian Gulf war, "herds of armies came here and influenced our kids who started eating pork and ham fast food made for the soldiers."
The domestic opposition, Saudi's rulers will tell you, is mostly an image problem. 
"Western advertising for tourism is what made the idea unacceptable for a conservative, Islamic country," says Prince Khalid, Asir's governor. "When you see the ads, you see girls with bikinis; you see gambling and couples sitting in a bar. When you talk about tourism, the first thing that hits you is this image."
To try to get away from that, Saudia Airlines initially considered setting strict guidelines, including a ban on all single women. 
But tour operators for groups like the Smithsonian Institution and Stanford University alumni say they eventually relaxed that, even acceding to the idea that some of those grandpa and grandma types sharing hotel rooms might not be married. 
Those traveling to Saudi Arabia go through a virtual seminar on the do's and don'ts before they arrive. For example, Peter Voll Associates, a tour agency based in Palo Alto, Calif., sends everyone a copy of a 100-page book called "Saudi Customs and Etiquette" written by an expatriate living in the kingdom. 
Some of the advice borders on the esoteric, such as trying to avoid phrases like "put yourself in my shoes" during conversation because Saudis view shoes with distaste. 
But travelers who have completed the trip note that Saudi Arabia has a lot to offer, ranging from unusual Nabatean monuments to the startling desert majesty of the Empty Quarter to the stunning coral reefs of the Red Sea. 
Female sightseers are handed their black cloaks -- their abayas -- on their first day and most keep them as souvenirs. 
"So we had to wear the abaya and the scarf; it is a small price to pay to visit a country like Saudi Arabia," said Adrienne Mitchell, 73, who went earlier this year on a trip with her husband. "I got used to it. It didn't matter what you wore under it and the headscarf took care of a lot of bad hair days." 
Travelers noted they felt safe, although the country is not entirely free of the negative aspects of travel elsewhere: a visitor to Abha in June had hundreds of dollars stolen from his hotel room. 
One tour guide remembers taking an American tour group through the downtown Abha market, a place that specializes in the sale of woven baskets and the like, only to stumble across a public flogging. A young man was being whipped with a stick, his punishment for using drugs. 
"We don't hide anything from them," said Saad al-Juraid, the guide. "They liked it, especially since it was for drugs. One even said they wished they had this law."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two Saudi women at a potential tourist attraction, a lookout point over the Habala Valley in Asir Province. (Neil MacFarquhar/The New York Times)(pg. A4) Map of Saudi Arabia highlighting Abha: In Abha's hotels, there are few public facilities for women. (pg. A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (89%); ISLAMIC HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); HAJJ (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); AIRLINES (73%); FOREIGN LABOR (72%); TOUR OPERATORS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); TRENDS (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%); MURDER (56%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ISLAM; LABOR; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ROYAL FAMILY; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: SULTAN BIN SALMAN (PRINCE); MACFARQUHAR, NEIL 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (98%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (69%) SAUDI ARABIA; MEDINA (SAUDI ARABIA); MECCA (SAUDI ARABIA)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001 



222 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: That Guy From Seattle Enjoys His New Direction; 
Daniel Sullivan, the Toast of Broadway, Unveils His Latest Effort, a Shaw Revival

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
Pick a handful of the acclaimed plays of the last four years, and chances are Daniel Sullivan directed them: "Proof," winner of this year's Pulitzer Prize, for which he just collected his first Tony Award; "10 Unknowns," which is due to come to Broadway next season; "Dinner With Friends," which won last year's Pulitzer; "A Moon for the Misbegotten," which was nominated for best play revival last season.
 So if anyone in the theater was wondering how Mr. Sullivan had weathered his leap from low-key life as artistic director of the Seattle Repertory Theater, building it up to national prominence in his 18 years there, to his recent incarnation as hot New York director, the answer appears to be quietly. 
 Mr. Sullivan, 61, does not seem to be the sort of man who gloats over his string of critical or commercial successes, even about finally winning a Tony Award after being nominated three times before. 
Sitting in a room off the rehearsal hall where he was preparing a production of "Major Barbara" for the Roundabout Theater Company, this bearded, soft-spoken director -- who comes across more as a New England professor than a Broadway powerhouse -- said he simply did the work, picking one project after another because he liked the plays.
"It's just a little too random to be a career," he said. "I left Seattle and came to New York to direct plays. There's nothing else I can do, really."
Mr. Sullivan said it was the day-to-day burdens of raising money, his inability to build a repertory company because of the cost of carrying a full-time troupe of actors, and balancing creative risks with financial responsibility that ultimately made him crave a change.
It was a significant shift. Since leaving college, Mr. Sullivan had been connected to theatrical institutions from the Actor's Workshop in San Francisco, where he started out as an actor; to Lincoln Center Repertory Company, where he worked as both actor and director; to Seattle Rep, where he became resident director in 1979 and artistic director two years later. "I wanted to see what it would be like to strike out on my own," he said, "make the choice of what I want to do based on merits of the piece, not on a constituency of subscribers."
"So it's new to me," he added. "And sometimes it feels a little selfish."
Selfish is not among the adjectives used when playwrights and actors describe Mr. Sullivan. Enigmatic, maybe. Private. The kind of man who keeps his social life separate from his work, though he is not inaccessible, and he makes people around him laugh. To watch Mr. Sullivan watch a rehearsal -- only occasionally scribbling notes, his set mouth betraying nothing behind a dark beard -- is to wonder what he's seeing.
What makes Mr. Sullivan distinctive in the eyes of his industry is that he has plucked out new plays and given them life while he helped make careers in the process. His projects over the last 20 years have included "The Heidi Chronicles," "The Sisters Rosenzweig" and "An American Daughter" by Wendy Wasserstein; "The Substance of Fire" and "A Fair Country" by Jon Robin Baitz; and "I'm Not Rappaport" and "Conversations With My Father" by Herb Gardner.
"Proof" is perhaps Mr. Sullivan's biggest hit so far. But he hardly seemed sure of winning the Tony. He got to the podium in Radio City Music Hall without even a speech prepared (something he later lamented because he forgot to thank his mother). And the next day he was right back to real life, reporting for dental surgery and then returning to the Roundabout's rehearsal hall, where actors like Cherry Jones and Dana Ivey moved through the drawing rooms of Bernard Shaw's "Major Barbara," which is to open at the American Airlines Theater on Thursday.
He recalled that a director friend recently asked him how he planned to approach this production, and Mr. Sullivan told him: "You just do it. You find very good actors and you do it."
"I realized in saying it how it must have sounded to him," Mr. Sullivan said. "He was looking for what he could do to the play. I guess I don't think that way."
Playwrights say that Mr. Sullivan's understated, unspoken approach is what they appreciate about him. As a director he is not showy or self-serving, they say; he simply looks to excavate and develop and sharpen what is already there and then get out of the way. "His signature is only apparent because it isn't apparent," said Donald Margulies, who wrote "Dinner With Friends." "There is something Jesuit-like about Dan's approach to theater. It's internal and thoughtful."
That is why, actors and playwrights say, it is so difficult to describe what Daniel Sullivan actually does. They venture words like disciplined, efficient, economical. They say he is expert at casting, able to judge quickly not only which actor is right for a part but which actors will best blend or bump up against one another.
Ask Mr. Sullivan to break it down, and he says his priority is to develop the human relationships in a play. And in the plays he chooses, there are generally intricate ties: between spouses in "Dinner With Friends," colleagues in "10 Unknowns," family members in "Proof."
"I just find there is an energy that runs through a play that has to do with connections between characters," he said. "And finding that nuance and finding a way for the actors to understand the power of it is the thing that obsesses me the most.
"The heart of it is always human interaction, and how do you focus that, and how do you give that the most clarity."
Before a rehearsal period begins, Mr. Sullivan said, he does his homework, steeping himself in history relevant to a production. But once the actors are in the room with him, he said, he puts all of that bookish stuff aside. "Whatever is in my brain that is useful will emerge hopefully as I'm working," he said. "I make very little conscious use of that research."
At first, he said, he sits down with actors around a table, talking through the play. "I try to stay there until people are connected, so when they finally get to their feet, there are impulses that come from the actors," he said. "I try not to impose. Then you get into a kind of puppetry which is not interesting and doesn't have the power that an actor-owned experience will have."
David Auburn, who wrote "Proof," said he found this process demanding. "We spent about the first week just sitting at the table, ruthlessly interrogating every moment in the script with the cast," he said. "For me it was like taking a grueling exam. The actors ask questions, Dan asks questions of the actors and me. It's rigorous."
This back and forth, say actors and playwrights who have gone through it with Mr. Sullivan, is effective in stripping away the excess, answering uncertainties, making decisions. "He looks for the truth of a piece, and he continues to carve away at artifice," said Mr. Baitz. "I get snowblind by the massiveness of things, and I think working with Dan has made me on some level seem more reasoned and capable than I am."
"After the first reading of '10 Unknowns' I was at sea already, and he said, 'I think there's a play there,' " Mr. Baitz continued. "I do believe that had Dan not directed that production, it could have been a catastrophe."
Although Mr. Sullivan can be warm and wry, colleagues say, he rarely offers praise, a trait some actors find frustrating and to which he freely confesses. "If you need a lot of caretaking, I'm not a good director for you," he said. "I like it to be friendly and businesslike. I like actors to do their work, and I do my work, and the whole issue of approbation and strokes -- if I have a failing, it's probably there.
"But actors trust me to give an honest reaction. Once you get into an area of having to coddle or baby-sit, I find myself acting falsely."
Actors say they appreciate that the feedback they get from Mr. Sullivan -- to the extent they get any -- is genuine. And they say he comes through when it counts. Ms. Jones said that when she was having personal difficulties during rehearsals for "Moon," for example, in which she starred opposite Gabriel Byrne last season, Mr. Sullivan was patient and kind. "I was a little lost at that time," she said. "He didn't give up on me."
Given Mr. Sullivan's reticence, how do actors know when something is working? "He would say if it wasn't, and he does say if it isn't," said Mary-Louise Parker, who won a Tony for her performance in "Proof."
And what Mr. Sullivan does say, she added, is highly specific. "He'll come over and give you one amazing little bomb that explodes all over your performance," she said. "And suddenly a million things make sense."
Born in Wray, Colo., in June 1940, Mr. Sullivan was reared in San Mateo, Calif., and attended what was then called San Francisco State College. Divorced twice, he has three grown children.
Mr. Baitz suggested that this new chapter for Mr. Sullivan agreed with the director, that it had freed him up to concentrate on his artistic interests rather than administrative responsibilities. "The reason he's so successful now, it's pretty clear to me, is without the distraction of a having to run a theater he's able to focus on building these little cities, whatever the play happens to be," said Mr. Baitz, who has worked with Mr. Sullivan over the last 12 years. "So everything extraneous has been washed away."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Recent New York triumphs by Daniel Sullivan, above, include, from top left, "Proof," with Mary-Louise Parker and Larry Bryggman; "Dinner With Friends," with Matthew Arkin and Lisa Emery; and "Moon for the Misbegotten," with Cherry Jones and Gabriel Byrne. (Photographs by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E1); Daniel Sullivan and Cherry Jones during rehearsals for "Major Barbara," which opens on Thursday. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (92%); THEATER (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%) THEATER; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: ROUNDABOUT THEATER CO 

PERSON: DANIEL SULLIVAN (89%) SULLIVAN, DANIEL; POGREBIN, ROBIN; SHAW, GEORGE BERNARD (1856-1950) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (56%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: MAJOR BARBARA (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001 



223 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Hitachi Unit Is Said to Be Buying Consulting Firm 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER 

 BODY:
Experio Solutions, the consulting division of Hitachi Ltd., the global electronic and industrial products company, plans to announce today that it will acquire WaveBend Solutions, a consulting firm based in Los Angeles, for $17.5 million.
 Experio is the name Hitachi gave to the Internet consulting unit it bought last year from Grant Thornton, an accounting firm. WaveBend, with about 300 employees, will raise Experio's total work force to nearly 700. The deal is meant to give Experio greater expertise in customizing software and making software packages work together for medium-size and large corporate clients. 
 The acquisition of WaveBend, an arm of B.D.O. Seidman, the accounting and financial advisory firm, is one of various deals that Hitachi is planning, through Experio, as it builds the services side of its business, said Chuck Scoville, president of Experio. "Hitachi has given us basically a lot of money to become a global, billion-dollar-plus company," Mr. Scoville said.
The timing is right, analysts say. Established consulting firms are engaged in layoffs as their clients, hurt by the slowing economy, have reduced spending. That means that experienced consultants and small consulting firms are for hire or sale.
In trying to build its consulting business, Hitachi is following a trail blazed by I.B.M., which has turned services into an engine of growth for a company that was long considered only a hardware manufacturer. 
"If you are a product company, like I.B.M., Compaq, Hewlett-Packard, Sun, all on the hardware side, or Oracle, S.A.P. or Peoplesoft on the software side, it's inevitable that your product will become more and more a commodity," said Alden Cushman, vice president for research at Kennedy Information, which follows the consulting industry. All these companies want to sell clients more services, which have higher profit margins, he said. 
Hitachi's strategy follows advice given to it by McKinsey & Company, the consulting firm, to increase its service offerings to complement its product sales. "McKinsey said the way to get started is to buy a consulting firm," Mr. Scoville said. Buying Grant Thornton's consulting unit was the first step, he said.
The company's long-term strategy is to bolster Experio through both hiring and acquisitions and eventually to make a public offering of part of its stock, Mr. Scoville said. The company now has revenue of about $80 million, he said. WaveBend has revenue of around $30 million a year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (52%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: HITACHI LTD (94%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (85%); GRANT THORNTON INTERNATIONAL LTD (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HITACHI LTD; EXPERIO SOLUTIONS; WAVEBEND SOLUTIONS 

TICKER: 6501 (TSE) (94%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (94%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: GLATER, JONATHAN D 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001 



224 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Medical Journals Plan to Offer Far Lower Rates in Poor Nations 

BYLINE:  By MELODY PETERSEN 

 BODY:
Six major publishers of medical journals are expected to announce today that they have agreed to give researchers in developing countries online access to their publications free or at sharply discounted prices.
 The agreement covers about 1,000 of the world's top 1,240 medical journals. 
 The World Health Organization asked the publishers to reduce the journal prices so doctors and researchers in poor countries could obtain information to improve health care systems and develop new treatments. 
"You cannot do science without information," said Barbara Aronson, a librarian at W.H.O. who helped pull the agreement together. Researchers in some of the world's poorest countries, she said, will now have information equivalent to "a top-flight U.S. library."
The news comes just months after big companies making AIDS drugs agreed to sharply discount their products in Africa. Other companies, most prominently Coca-Cola, have recently offered their resources to combat AIDS in Africa.
The journal publishers include Blackwell Science, Elsevier Science, the Harcourt Worldwide STM Group, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Springer-Verlag and John Wiley & Sons. Harcourt and Lippincott have agreed to discount the prices of reading the journals online, while the other four publishers will provide access free.
The offers of free or sharply discounted journals will be available to medical schools and research institutions in more than 60 countries where the per-capita gross national product is $1,000 or less, Ms. Aronson said. Those countries range from Albania to Congo to Haiti. Lesser discounts will be offered to 30 other countries, she said. 
But more work needs to be done, W.H.O. officials said. Many medical schools and institutions lack the computers needed to access the journals, Ms. Aronson said. The organization plans to ask technology companies for help in getting more computers to researchers in developing countries, she said.
The agreement does not cover some key medical journals, including The New England Journal of Medicine and The Journal of the American Medical Association.
"Next, we will ask the big university presses" to join the effort, Ms. Aronson said. The British Medical Journal and The Lancet have been available free in poor countries for years, she said.
The rising price of many medical journals has become a concern around the world. An annual subscription to one journal can often cost $1,500 or more.
The six publishers are expected to announce the agreement today in London. 
The publishers said they hope to begin offering the free or greatly discounted access to journals in January. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (91%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (91%); PERIODICAL PUBLISHING (90%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (77%); ANTIVIRALS (76%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (76%); AIDS & HIV (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (57%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; MAGAZINES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RESEARCH; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; DISCOUNT SELLING 

COMPANY: LIPPINCOTT WILLIAMS & WILKINS INC (90%); COCA-COLA CO (56%); SPRINGER-VERLAG GMBH & CO KG (55%); JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (55%); ELSEVIER SCIENCE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (58%) BLACKWELL SCIENCE (CO); ELSEVIER NV; HARCOURT WORLDWIDE STM GROUP; LIPPINCOTT WILLIAMS & WILKINS; SPRINGER-VERLAG GMBH; WILEY, JOHN, & SONS INC 

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (56%); JWB (NYSE) (55%); JWA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (90%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: PETERSEN, MELODY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); HAITI (78%); ALBANIA (68%); UNITED KINGDOM (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001 



225 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Taxable and Tax-Exempt Debt Offerings Scheduled This Week 

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week includes today's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills and Wednesday's sale of 10-year Treasury inflation-protected securities, commonly referred to as TIPS.
 By the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 3.53 percent and on the six-month bill, 3.45 percent. In when-issued trading, the coming 10-year inflation note was offered at a price to yield 3.54 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAXABLE
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
EOP Operating L.P., $1 billion senior unsecured intermediate-term global notes. Banc of America Securities, J.P. Morgan and Salomon Smith Barney. 
Freddie Mac, $6 billion new issue of five-year reference notes due 2006. Bear, Stearns, Salomon Smith Barney and UBS Warburg.
(Source: MCM CorporateWatch)
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./ Fitch.

TAX EXEMPT
MONDAY
McKinney Independent School District, Tex., $65 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

TUESDAY
Arkansas, $185 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Alexandria, Va., $54.4 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Georgia, Series A, $60.9 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Georgia, Series B, $352.1 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Hennepin County, Minn., $52.5 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
University of California Regents, $131.9 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

WEDNESDAY
Maryland state and local facilities, $200 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Douglas County School District, Neb., $100 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

THURSDAY
Portland, Ore., $98 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Birmingham, Ala., $72 million of general obligation bonds and warrants. Salomon Smith Barney.
Bridgeport, Conn., $69.5 million of general obligation bonds. UBS PaineWebber.
California Housing Finance Authority, $70 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns.
City & County of Honolulu, $135 million of debt securities. Salomon Smith Barney.
City of Chicago, $120 million of Skyway special transportation revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
City of Muscatine, Iowa, $52 million of electric revenue refunding bonds. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. 
City of Philadelphia, $270 million of tax and revenue anticipation notes. PNC Capital Markets.
City of San Jose, Calif., $158 million of airport revenue bonds. Lehman Bros.
Colorado Housing and Finance Authority, $61.9 million of single family program senior and subordinate bonds. George K. Baum.
Harris County Health Facilities, Tex., $126.6 million of Development Corporation revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan.
Hillsboro County, Fla., $70 million of school district certificate of participation bonds. Salmon Smith Barney.
Illinois Health Facilities, $59.1 million of authority revenue bonds. Ziegler Capital Markets Group.
Illinois Housing Development Authority, $65 million of single family mortgage revenue bonds. Bear, Stearns.
Michigan Department of Transportation, $310 million of fixed rate state trunk line bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
Michigan Department of Transportation, $28 million of fixed rate comprehensive transportation refunding bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
Minnesota Housing Finance Authority, $72 million of single family mortgage revenue bonds. UBS PaineWebber.
Multi-Family Housing Revenue Bonds, Tex., $280 million of Aston & Woodstock Apts. Bonds. U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray.
New Hampshire Housing Finance Authority, $93 million of single family mortgage revenue bonds. UBS PaineWebber.
Borough of Swarthmore, Pa., $96 million of debt securities. UBS PaineWebber.
Tucson Airport Authority, $60 million of airport revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (86%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (75%); SUBSCRIPTION WARRANTS (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); AIRPORT OPERATION (69%); COMPANY REVENUES (69%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (69%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); COLORADO HOUSING & FINANCE AUTHORITY INC (62%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (55%); UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (52%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); ZIEGLER CAPITAL MARKETS GROUP (50%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (82%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (53%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001 



226 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Taxable and Tax-Exempt Debt Offerings Scheduled This Week 

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week includes today's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills and Wednesday's sale of 10-year Treasury inflation-protected securities, commonly referred to as TIPS.
 By the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 3.53 percent and on the six-month bill, 3.45 percent. In when-issued trading, the coming 10-year inflation note was offered at a price to yield 3.54 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAXABLE
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
EOP Operating L.P., $1 billion senior unsecured intermediate-term global notes. Banc of America Securities, J.P. Morgan and Salomon Smith Barney. 
Freddie Mac, $6 billion new issue of five-year reference notes due 2006. Bear, Stearns, Salomon Smith Barney and UBS Warburg.
(Source: MCM CorporateWatch)
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./ Fitch.

TAX EXEMPT
MONDAY
McKinney Independent School District, Tex., $65 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

TUESDAY
Arkansas, $185 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Alexandria, Va., $54.4 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Georgia, Series A, $60.9 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Georgia, Series B, $352.1 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Hennepin County, Minn., $52.5 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
University of California Regents, $131.9 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

WEDNESDAY
Maryland state and local facilities, $200 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Douglas County School District, Neb., $100 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

THURSDAY
Portland, Ore., $98 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Birmingham, Ala., $72 million of general obligation bonds and warrants. Salomon Smith Barney.
Bridgeport, Conn., $69.5 million of general obligation bonds. UBS PaineWebber.
California Housing Finance Authority, $70 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns.
City & County of Honolulu, $135 million of debt securities. Salomon Smith Barney.
City of Chicago, $120 million of Skyway special transportation revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
City of Muscatine, Iowa, $52 million of electric revenue refunding bonds. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. 
City of Philadelphia, $270 million of tax and revenue anticipation notes. PNC Capital Markets.
City of San Jose, Calif., $158 million of airport revenue bonds. Lehman Bros.
Colorado Housing and Finance Authority, $61.9 million of single family program senior and subordinate bonds. George K. Baum.
Harris County Health Facilities, Tex., $126.6 million of Development Corporation revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan.
Hillsboro County, Fla., $70 million of school district certificate of participation bonds. Salmon Smith Barney.
Illinois Health Facilities, $59.1 million of authority revenue bonds. Ziegler Capital Markets Group.
Illinois Housing Development Authority, $65 million of single family mortgage revenue bonds. Bear, Stearns.
Michigan Department of Transportation, $310 million of fixed rate state trunk line bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
Michigan Department of Transportation, $28 million of fixed rate comprehensive transportation refunding bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
Minnesota Housing Finance Authority, $72 million of single family mortgage revenue bonds. UBS PaineWebber.
Multi-Family Housing Revenue Bonds, Tex., $280 million of Aston & Woodstock Apts. Bonds. U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray.
New Hampshire Housing Finance Authority, $93 million of single family mortgage revenue bonds. UBS PaineWebber.
Borough of Swarthmore, Pa., $96 million of debt securities. UBS PaineWebber.
Tucson Airport Authority, $60 million of airport revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (86%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (75%); SUBSCRIPTION WARRANTS (75%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); AIRPORT OPERATION (69%); COMPANY REVENUES (69%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (69%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); COLORADO HOUSING & FINANCE AUTHORITY INC (62%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (55%); UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (52%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); ZIEGLER CAPITAL MARKETS GROUP (50%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (82%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (53%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001 



227 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
A natural marketing alliance finally takes some tentative steps: gays and sports.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
FOR decades, advertisers and agencies have used sports to appeal to the mass consumer market. For a far shorter time, advertisers and agencies have run campaigns aimed at the gay and lesbian market.
 Now, much as peanut butter and chocolate formed a serendipitous union in commercials for Reese's candy, those previously disparate elements are coming together as campaigns aimed at homosexuals begin to feature athletes and sports imagery, and campaigns intended for the general market begin to feature gay and lesbian athletes. 
 The nascent trend is indicative of efforts by marketers to sharpen and freshen sales pitches, particularly during tougher economic times when they seek to spend limited ad budgets more effectively and efficiently. Indeed, the increasing interest among mainstream marketers in the so-called pink dollar can be traced to the recession a decade ago. 
"It's a recognition that accomplishment has a lot of different faces," said Bob Witeck, a partner at Witeck Combs Communications in Washington, which specializes in corporate communications campaigns aimed at the gay and lesbian market for advertisers like the Coors Brewing Company division of the Adolph Coors Company.
One example of this new face of sports marketing is a print advertisement for Coors beer featuring Bruce Hayes, who has won medals swimming in the 1984 Summer Olympics and the 1994 Gay Games. Mr. Hayes is the first openly gay athlete included in the campaign, created by the Chicago office of FCB Worldwide, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Among the other athletes featured in the campaign, which carries the theme "Be original," are Joe Montana, Magic Johnson and Hank Aaron.
"The universe of corporations doing this is still pretty small, but progress is progress," said Mr. Hayes, a public relations executive in New York. "It's a good sign."
"I hope I'm not seen as an Olympic gold medalist who happens to be gay," he added, "but someone active in the community who's tied to sports."
Another example is a campaign appearing in mainstream media for the 2002 Subaru Forester, sold by Fuji Heavy Industries, featuring the tennis star Martina Navratilova, who had long expressed concern about losing endorsement contracts because she is a lesbian. Ms. Navratilova is one of three female athletes in the television and print campaign, carrying the theme "What are you made of?," by Temerlin McClain in Irving, Tex., also owned by Interpublic.
Two Major League Baseball teams, the Chicago Cubs and the San Francisco Giants, are starting to aim ads and promotions at homosexual fans. At least six teams in the Women's National Basketball Association are taking similar steps, to encourage lesbians to attend games and to thank those already buying tickets for doing so.
Then there's a print ad for the furniture sold by the Mitchell Gold Company, running in mainstream publications as well as magazines read by gay men and lesbians. The ad shows Corey Johnson, who attracted national attention after identifying himself as gay while playing football for a high school in Massachusetts. Mr. Johnson, now 19, peers from the ad, by Luquire George Andrews in Charlotte, N.C., as if poised for a big game, wearing a football uniform, shoulder pads and eye black.
"I've had people come up to me and say 'Did I see you in a furniture ad?,' " Mr. Johnson said, laughing.
"Gay professional athletes talk about a large reason why they don't come out is because they'll lose their endorsements," he added. "Here, you have an athlete who is gay, and the reason he is in the ad is that he's gay."
In a recent poll taken for ESPN, reported by Outsports.com, a Web site for gay and lesbian sports fans (www.outsports.com), 17.5 percent of respondents said that an endorsement by an openly gay or lesbian athlete would make them less likely to buy a product. But 79 percent said it would have no effect -- and 3.5 percent said they would be "more likely" to buy the product.
"When the economy is difficult, the brand and the connection people have to it become more important," said Mitchell Gold, president at Gold in Taylorsville, N.C., owned by the Rowe Companies. "I want our brand to stand for style, and for doing the right thing."
"If someone doesn't want to buy our furniture because of our use of gays and lesbians in advertising, that's O.K.," Mr. Gold said. So far, he added, supportive letters and e-mails have outweighed the few "nasty" ones. The responses came to the Johnson ad and another recent ad centered on a family composed of a child and two fathers.
"The stereotypes are breaking down, and that's a breath of fresh air," said Todd Evans, president and chief executive at Rivendell Marketing in Westfield, N.J., which sells ad space for newspapers and magazines read by gay men and lesbians.
Using sports to market to them makes sense, Mr. Evans said, when you consider "that one of the biggest categories of advertisers in local gay publications is health and fitness clubs."
The editorial coverage in those publications devoted to health, fitness and sports topics also makes them "a great place" to advertise related products, he added. For instance, the Coca-Cola Company plans to advertise KMX, a new energy drink aimed at men ages 19 to 29, in the magazines and newspapers represented by Rivendell.
One reason for the trend is that "the traditional stereotype of gay men as 'sissies' is being replaced with more athletic-looking images" as many of them become "very involved in sports and fitness, just like the rest of society," said Michael Wilke, executive director of Commercial Closet in New York. He operates a Web site (www.commercialcloset.org) offering an archive of marketing materials devoted to advertising for and about homosexuals.
Many episodes of television series with gay and lesbian characters, like "Will and Grace" and "Queer as Folk," include scenes set in gyms and fitness clubs, he added, depicting the main characters working out.
However, "some of this advertising is still pretty subtle," Mr. Wilke said, adding: "People looking at the Corey Johnson ad, unless they're well-read, might not know who he is. Though obviously Martina is much more familiar, and there's more awareness of the implications of her being part of the Subaru campaign."
And while "there remains quite a dearth of openly gay and lesbian athletes," Mr. Wilke said, "I would expect to see more, which would mean more depictions of athletes as part of the community."
Also abetting the trend, he added, laughing, would be "an increased willingness on the part of gay sports fans to be openly gay -- and openly sports fans."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruce Hayes, a gay swimmer who has won the Olympic gold medal, is featured in the Coors beer "Be Original" campaign. Marketers are finding that showcasing gay athletes can give their ads a fresh and sharper image in slow economic periods when budgets are short. The campaigns also reach for the so-called pink dollar. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); BASEBALL (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (87%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); BEER & ALE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); TICKET SALES (70%); TENNIS (65%) ADVERTISING; HOMOSEXUALITY; ATHLETICS AND SPORTS 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (92%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (83%); COORS BREWING CO (82%); MITCHELL GOLD CO (60%); FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (52%); TEMERLIN MCCLAIN (51%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (92%); TAP (NYSE) (83%); 7270 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (83%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (83%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (83%); NAICS337121 UPHOLSTERED HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2512 UPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (60%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%) ILLINOIS, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (86%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001 



228 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Hitting the Lottery as a Junior?

BYLINE:  By IRA BERKOW 

DATELINE: HACKENSACK, N.J. 

 BODY:
A STELLAR array of basketball cognoscenti that included scouts from almost every N.B.A. team and college coaches -- pads and pencils at the ready, projected mental insights awhirl -- flocked yesterday to see some 220 of the best high school players in the world showcased at Fairleigh Dickinson's Rothman Athletic Center. One player in particular, however, caught much of their attention. 
 He is a 16-year-old from St. Vincent-St. Mary High School in Akron, Ohio, who will be a junior in the fall. Many of the gathered connoisseurs believed that the lad, LeBron James, a 6-foot-7, 210-pound point guard, shooting guard and small forward -- sometimes he plays as if he is all three in one, a kind of hoops Swiss Army knife -- would have been taken in the first round of the most recent N.B.A. draft, possibly a lottery pick. 
 Hey, it was one thing for three of the first four picks in the draft to be high school seniors, for the first time ever, and four of the first eight -- but a high school sophomore potentially going pro? "And next year," said Sonny Vaccaro, founder and director of the Adidas ABCD four-day camp, which began yesterday, "LeBron could surely go in the lottery. He'll be bigger, stronger and smarter."
O.K., still, a high school junior making the jump? Got to be kidding? No?
Tom Konchalski, who evaluates high school players for his respected H.S.B.I. Report, said: "LeBron isn't an extraterrestrial athlete, but he has a tremendous feel for the game. He sees situations two passes ahead of the play. He's been compared to Vince Carter and Tracy McGrady. But I think he has a better feel for the game than they do." 
He meant than they did when they were James's age, right? "No, I mean right now," Konchalski said. "I doubt seriously if he's going to college." 
So LeBron James, in a yellow uniform and wearing No. 155, his hair tufted out and his pants baggy, began one of the four games going on at once, after the first round of four games had been completed. There were marvelous players on the courts, including 6-6 Lenny Cooke of Old Tappan, N.J., and 6-8 Carmelo Anthony of Baltimore, but none except James made first team all-America last season as chosen by USA Today, the first underclassman named to the first team in the 18 years that such authoritative selections have been made.
He tried his first shot, a 3-pointer from the top of the key, and it swished. His next shot was a 3-pointer from the corner. Swish. There was a fast-break dunk, a clever pass for a basket, a missed jump shot, then he snared a rebound and stuffed it with both hands behind his head.
"Wow," one of the other players in the stands said. "Wow," said nearly everyone else.
James's mother, Gloria, watched her only child play. She is an enthusiastic fan of LeBron. 
"What I want for LeBron is his happiness," said Gloria, who has worked in accounting and sales but is now unemployed. "He loves basketball. But I would like to see him graduate with his class from high school, at least. But we'll make a decision when the time comes. He's a level-headed boy. He's never given me a lick of problems. He's mannerable and respectful."
LeBron James, a solid B student, said that he wasn't sure what he planned to do. "College is important," he said, "you can't play basketball all your life. You should prepare for something else, too." To be safe, his mother said she was taking out an insurance policy on him.
Kwame Brown, the No. 1 pick by the Washington Wizards last month, received a $12 million contract for three years. "That's a lot of money," James said. "But we've struggled this long, a couple more years won't make that much difference."
Billy Donovan, head coach at Florida, had signed Brown to attend his university. "And he wanted to go to college," Donovan said. "But he made a decision that he thought was best for him, and his family. I can't fault him for that. "
Ernie Grunfeld, general manager of the Milwaukee Bucks, was in attendance, primarily, he said, because his 6-6 son, Danny, who will be a senior, was playing -- he's a good player but not a pro prospect, yet. "I wish all the kids would go to college first," Grunfeld said. "But I also don't think you should prevent someone from trying to earn a living. I just hope the kids who do skip college have the emotional and physical maturity to succeed."
Among the players, 6-7 Demetris Nichols from Barrington, R.I., who will be a junior, dreams about an N.B.A. future, like many of his peers, but is also realistic. "We talk more about college than the pros," he said. He also thought there was substance in the talk that Kobe Bryant gave to the group Saturday night. Bryant, the Lakers' star, jumped from high school to the pros. "Kobe said: 'Go to college. You have something to fall back on. If you break a leg, then where are you?' " Nichols said.
But Kobe -- who, like Brown, is an alumnus of this camp -- didn't go to college. "He's good," Nichols replied, with emphasis. He added that he has to be careful: "Everybody wants a piece of you. If somebody tells me I should go pro, I'm going to make sure he knows basketball."
From appearances, that could be somebody like LeBron James, counsel also to himself.

GRAPHIC: Photo: LeBron James stood out in a showcase for high school players. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (93%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (89%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%) BASKETBALL; ADIDAS ABCD BASKETBALL CAMP 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (89%) BERKOW, IRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: AKRON, OH, USA (57%) OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001 



229 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
A natural marketing alliance finally takes some tentative steps: gays and sports.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
FOR decades, advertisers and agencies have used sports to appeal to the mass consumer market. For a far shorter time, advertisers and agencies have run campaigns aimed at the gay and lesbian market.
 Now, much as peanut butter and chocolate formed a serendipitous union in commercials for Reese's candy, those previously disparate elements are coming together as campaigns aimed at homosexuals begin to feature athletes and sports imagery, and campaigns intended for the general market begin to feature gay and lesbian athletes. 
 The nascent trend is indicative of efforts by marketers to sharpen and freshen sales pitches, particularly during tougher economic times when they seek to spend limited ad budgets more effectively and efficiently. Indeed, the increasing interest among mainstream marketers in the so-called pink dollar can be traced to the recession a decade ago. 
"It's a recognition that accomplishment has a lot of different faces," said Bob Witeck, a partner at Witeck Combs Communications in Washington, which specializes in corporate communications campaigns aimed at the gay and lesbian market for advertisers like the Coors Brewing Company division of the Adolph Coors Company.
One example of this new face of sports marketing is a print advertisement for Coors beer featuring Bruce Hayes, who has won medals swimming in the 1984 Summer Olympics and the 1994 Gay Games. Mr. Hayes is the first openly gay athlete included in the campaign, created by the Chicago office of FCB Worldwide, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Among the other athletes featured in the campaign, which carries the theme "Be original," are Joe Montana, Magic Johnson and Hank Aaron.
"The universe of corporations doing this is still pretty small, but progress is progress," said Mr. Hayes, a public relations executive in New York. "It's a good sign."
"I hope I'm not seen as an Olympic gold medalist who happens to be gay," he added, "but someone active in the community who's tied to sports."
Another example is a campaign appearing in mainstream media for the 2002 Subaru Forester, sold by Fuji Heavy Industries, featuring the tennis star Martina Navratilova, who had long expressed concern about losing endorsement contracts because she is a lesbian. Ms. Navratilova is one of three female athletes in the television and print campaign, carrying the theme "What are you made of?," by Temerlin McClain in Irving, Tex., also owned by Interpublic.
Two Major League Baseball teams, the Chicago Cubs and the San Francisco Giants, are starting to aim ads and promotions at homosexual fans. At least six teams in the Women's National Basketball Association are taking similar steps, to encourage lesbians to attend games and to thank those already buying tickets for doing so.
Then there's a print ad for the furniture sold by the Mitchell Gold Company, running in mainstream publications as well as magazines read by gay men and lesbians. The ad shows Corey Johnson, who attracted national attention after identifying himself as gay while playing football for a high school in Massachusetts. Mr. Johnson, now 19, peers from the ad, by Luquire George Andrews in Charlotte, N.C., as if poised for a big game, wearing a football uniform, shoulder pads and eye black.
"I've had people come up to me and say 'Did I see you in a furniture ad?,' " Mr. Johnson said, laughing.
"Gay professional athletes talk about a large reason why they don't come out is because they'll lose their endorsements," he added. "Here, you have an athlete who is gay, and the reason he is in the ad is that he's gay."
In a recent poll taken for ESPN, reported by Outsports.com, a Web site for gay and lesbian sports fans (www.outsports.com), 17.5 percent of respondents said that an endorsement by an openly gay or lesbian athlete would make them less likely to buy a product. But 79 percent said it would have no effect -- and 3.5 percent said they would be "more likely" to buy the product.
"When the economy is difficult, the brand and the connection people have to it become more important," said Mitchell Gold, president at Gold in Taylorsville, N.C., owned by the Rowe Companies. "I want our brand to stand for style, and for doing the right thing."
"If someone doesn't want to buy our furniture because of our use of gays and lesbians in advertising, that's O.K.," Mr. Gold said. So far, he added, supportive letters and e-mails have outweighed the few "nasty" ones. The responses came to the Johnson ad and another recent ad centered on a family composed of a child and two fathers.
"The stereotypes are breaking down, and that's a breath of fresh air," said Todd Evans, president and chief executive at Rivendell Marketing in Westfield, N.J., which sells ad space for newspapers and magazines read by gay men and lesbians.
Using sports to market to them makes sense, Mr. Evans said, when you consider "that one of the biggest categories of advertisers in local gay publications is health and fitness clubs."
The editorial coverage in those publications devoted to health, fitness and sports topics also makes them "a great place" to advertise related products, he added. For instance, the Coca-Cola Company plans to advertise KMX, a new energy drink aimed at men ages 19 to 29, in the magazines and newspapers represented by Rivendell.
One reason for the trend is that "the traditional stereotype of gay men as 'sissies' is being replaced with more athletic-looking images" as many of them become "very involved in sports and fitness, just like the rest of society," said Michael Wilke, executive director of Commercial Closet in New York. He operates a Web site (www.commercialcloset.org) offering an archive of marketing materials devoted to advertising for and about homosexuals.
Many episodes of television series with gay and lesbian characters, like "Will and Grace" and "Queer as Folk," include scenes set in gyms and fitness clubs, he added, depicting the main characters working out.
However, "some of this advertising is still pretty subtle," Mr. Wilke said, adding: "People looking at the Corey Johnson ad, unless they're well-read, might not know who he is. Though obviously Martina is much more familiar, and there's more awareness of the implications of her being part of the Subaru campaign."
And while "there remains quite a dearth of openly gay and lesbian athletes," Mr. Wilke said, "I would expect to see more, which would mean more depictions of athletes as part of the community."
Also abetting the trend, he added, laughing, would be "an increased willingness on the part of gay sports fans to be openly gay -- and openly sports fans."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruce Hayes, a gay swimmer who has won the Olympic gold medal, is featured in the Coors beer "Be Original" campaign. Marketers are finding that showcasing gay athletes can give their ads a fresh and sharper image in slow economic periods when budgets are short. The campaigns also reach for the so-called pink dollar. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); BASEBALL (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (87%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); BEER & ALE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); TICKET SALES (70%); TENNIS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (92%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (83%); COORS BREWING CO (82%); MITCHELL GOLD CO (60%); FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (52%); TEMERLIN MCCLAIN (51%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (92%); TAP (NYSE) (83%); 7270 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (83%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (83%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (83%); NAICS337121 UPHOLSTERED HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2512 UPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (60%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%) ILLINOIS, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001 



230 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Finance Chiefs Show Concern About Faltering Economies 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: ROME, July 8 

 BODY:
Finance ministers from the big industrial nations who met here this weekend showed concern over the prospect that their economies could continue to lose steam. The bright side was that they agreed that steps could be taken to restore growth.
 The talks were to prepare for a meeting of leaders of the Group of 7 major industrialized countries in Genoa, Italy, in two weeks. After the talks, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill said, "There was no one who said, 'We are very satisfied with the rate of growth we have.' " 
 President Bush will attend the Genoa meeting. Mr. O'Neill would like to be able to tell him that Europe and Japan, which form a triangle of world industrial nations with Canada and the United States, support the American efforts to rebound from a slowdown that continues to cause concern despite six interest-rate cuts this year by the Federal Reserve.
Japanese and European ministers said they were prepared to help, though European officials also sought United States support to bolster their failing currency, the euro. Moreover, uncertainties remain because of political obstacles in Europe and Japan to enacting fundamental change.
The Group of 7 nations are Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States.
Mr. O'Neill said the ministers had been told about Japan's plans for structural changes and monetary measures to strengthen the country's flagging economy. But European officials said they were discouraged by Japan's lack of political unity. Some leaders gave priority to restructuring and others to monetary reform, they said. Japan's continuing malaise, one official said, "is bringing the rest of Asia down."
European ministers explained their own policy proposals to revive growth. Though growth in Europe is now more robust than in the United States, the mood here has become markedly gloomier in recent months. Germany, which accounts for one-third of Europe's economy, teeters on the edge of recession.
Some European officials voiced concern about the euro, whose weakness pushes up the cost of commodities that Europe imports, notably crude oil, which is priced in dollars on world markets. Central bankers did not join the talks, and Mr. O'Neill said afterward that there was "no conversation about currency." 
But a European adviser said the euro's appreciation "in an orderly way" was very much on European minds. To achieve it, he suggested, central banks in Europe, Japan and the United States could do more to talk up the euro.
On Monday, the finance ministers of the European Union will meet in Brussels to discuss possible structural changes, particularly in European labor markets and tax and social benefit systems.
But political obstacles to change in Europe are considerable. In France, the announcement of layoffs as a result of slowed growth brought widespread threats of labor action and a call by Communist ministers in the cabinet of the Socialist prime minister, Lionel Jospin, for laws to ban layoffs by profitable companies.
The ministers also expressed concern about the spillover of a slowdown into the world's poorer countries and continuing protests against the policies of Western financial institutions, like the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, that are intended to help them. 
The ministers proposed that the leaders in Genoa approve a fund to help Africa and other underdeveloped areas to fight serious illnesses, like AIDS.
But representatives in Rome of Jubilee 2000, a group that seeks to reduce the debt of developing countries and is organizing protests in Genoa, complained that the amount proposed, $1 billion, was equal to only one month of the debt repayment by sub-Saharan African countries to Western creditors. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRENDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); RECESSION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (56%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (94%); JAPAN (94%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%) ROME (ITALY); GENOA (ITALY)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001 



231 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: White House Memo; 
Amazing Amazement in Bush at Play

BYLINE:  By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: KENNEBUNKPORT, Me., July 8 

 BODY:
Reporters learned many things about President Bush on his first summer vacation. Perhaps the most interesting was his amazing capacity for amazement.
 On Friday, Mr. Bush's 55th birthday, he was suffused with wonder by the realization that he and an Associated Press reporter who was marking his own birthday would share that connection again. 
 "The amazing thing," Mr. Bush said, was that "we'll have our birthday on the same day again next year."
On Saturday, what astonished him was that even here, in a craggy seaside resort so far in spirit from Washington, he could not quite leave the capital behind. His morning golf game was to be followed by work-related talks with his national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, and his chief of staff, Andrew H. Card Jr.
"The amazing thing about this job," the president said as he played at Cape Arundel Golf Club, "is the job seems to follow you around."
What is more amazing to many Bush watchers is how easily he seems to ditch it. Although the three and a half days he spent here with his parents at the family's waterfront compound was a longer break than usual, it was hardly the president's first weekend away.
If his helicopter rides to and from Camp David yielded frequent flier miles, he might be close to a free round-trip domestic ticket by now. If his flights to and from his ranch in Crawford, Tex., were added to the equation, he might be nearing business class to Europe.
But Mr. Bush's activities this weekend proved that policy meetings and his workday were not the only things he occasionally sprinted through. He and his father managed 18 holes of golf on Friday morning in about 2 hours and 15 minutes. They took only a few minutes more when they returned to the fairways on Saturday morning. In each case, they were done well before 10 a.m. 
As for a dinner on Saturday night at the Lobster Pot, that, too, was no cause for lingering. Mr. Bush, several friends and an array of relatives, including his parents, were in and out in an hour and a half.
The degree to which the family is worshiped around here is positively amazing, and there were reminders of it everywhere. At the Lobster Pot, a 9-year-old girl stood across the street holding a sign that said, "Mr. Bush, you're doing a great job," and the owners of a Great Dane had saddled it with a Bush/Cheney campaign sign.
Local drugstores and souvenir shops sell more than a half-dozen kinds of postcards celebrating the Bush connection to Kennebunkport, with photographs that bathe the family home in a beatific light. People stroll or drive slowly past the Bush compound with their gazes fixed on the property, like bird-watchers eager to log at least one George, perhaps a Barbara or a Laura and maybe even a Jeb.
Tonight they had the additional possibility of a Gorbachev. Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the former leader of the former Soviet Union, was due to arrive to pay a social visit to former President George Bush, and was to stay until Tuesday.
The current President Bush left late this afternoon, after a day that involved fishing but, alas, no golf. It was replaced this morning by his attendance at a 55-minute church service that began at 8 a.m.
Mr. Bush does not come here all that often and expresses a greater affection for the sweltering plains around Crawford, which has fewer tees, is less twee and better bolsters his presentation of himself as an earthy, unpretentious guy.
Kennebunkport offers little assistance in that regard. The golf club at which Mr. Bush played on Friday and Saturday has a membership roster that reads like a family tree -- Bushes and Ellises and Pierces and a Walker -- and underscores the privilege of his pedigree.
Ditto for the photographs and television coverage of his vacation. On Friday, as new unemployment figures painted a newly troubling portrait of the American economy, Mr. Bush placed himself in the same scenes -- golfing and fishing in a New England paradise -- that once caused his father electoral grief.
Simply amazing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. M.L. Agnew, left, and the Episcopal bishop of Maine, Chilton Knudsen, greeted President Bush; his wife, Laura; and their niece Gigi Koch yesterday at Saint Ann's Episcopal Church in Kennebunkport. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOLF (88%); RESORTS (73%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (73%); BIRDING (67%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (65%); HELICOPTERS (65%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (53%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BRUNI, FRANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%) KENNEBUNKPORT (ME)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001 



232 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Hitting the Lottery as a Junior?

BYLINE:  By IRA BERKOW

DATELINE: HACKENSACK, N.J. 

 BODY:
A STELLAR array of basketball cognoscenti that included scouts from almost every N.B.A. team and college coaches -- pads and pencils at the ready, projected mental insights awhirl -- flocked yesterday to see some 220 of the best high school players in the world showcased at Fairleigh Dickinson's Rothman Athletic Center. One player in particular, however, caught much of their attention. 
 He is a 16-year-old from St. Vincent-St. Mary High School in Akron, Ohio, who will be a junior in the fall. Many of the gathered connoisseurs believed that the lad, LeBron James, a 6-foot-7, 210-pound point guard, shooting guard and small forward -- sometimes he plays as if he is all three in one, a kind of hoops Swiss Army knife -- would have been taken in the first round of the most recent N.B.A. draft, possibly a lottery pick. 
 Hey, it was one thing for three of the first four picks in the draft to be high school seniors, for the first time ever, and four of the first eight -- but a high school sophomore potentially going pro? "And next year," said Sonny Vaccaro, founder and director of the Adidas ABCD four-day camp, which began yesterday, "LeBron could surely go in the lottery. He'll be bigger, stronger and smarter."
O.K., still, a high school junior making the jump? Got to be kidding? No?
Tom Konchalski, who evaluates high school players for his respected H.S.B.I. Report, said: "LeBron isn't an extraterrestrial athlete, but he has a tremendous feel for the game. He sees situations two passes ahead of the play. He's been compared to Vince Carter and Tracy McGrady. But I think he has a better feel for the game than they do." 
He meant than they did when they were James's age, right? "No, I mean right now," Konchalski said. "I doubt seriously if he's going to college." 
So LeBron James, in a yellow uniform and wearing No. 155, his hair tufted out and his pants baggy, began one of the four games going on at once, after the first round of four games had been completed. There were marvelous players on the courts, including 6-6 Lenny Cooke of Old Tappan, N.J., and 6-8 Carmelo Anthony of Baltimore, but none except James made first team all-America last season as chosen by USA Today, the first underclassman named to the first team in the 18 years that such authoritative selections have been made.
He tried his first shot, a 3-pointer from the top of the key, and it swished. His next shot was a 3-pointer from the corner. Swish. There was a fast-break dunk, a clever pass for a basket, a missed jump shot, then he snared a rebound and stuffed it with both hands behind his head.
"Wow," one of the other players in the stands said. "Wow," said nearly everyone else.
James's mother, Gloria, watched her only child play. She is an enthusiastic fan of LeBron. 
"What I want for LeBron is his happiness," said Gloria, who has worked in accounting and sales but is now unemployed. "He loves basketball. But I would like to see him graduate with his class from high school, at least. But we'll make a decision when the time comes. He's a level-headed boy. He's never given me a lick of problems. He's mannerable and respectful."
LeBron James, a solid B student, said that he wasn't sure what he planned to do. "College is important," he said, "you can't play basketball all your life. You should prepare for something else, too." To be safe, his mother said she was taking out an insurance policy on him.
Kwame Brown, the No. 1 pick by the Washington Wizards last month, received a $12 million contract for three years. "That's a lot of money," James said. "But we've struggled this long, a couple more years won't make that much difference."
Billy Donovan, head coach at Florida, had signed Brown to attend his university. "And he wanted to go to college," Donovan said. "But he made a decision that he thought was best for him, and his family. I can't fault him for that. "
Ernie Grunfeld, general manager of the Milwaukee Bucks, was in attendance, primarily, he said, because his 6-6 son, Danny, who will be a senior, was playing -- he's a good player but not a pro prospect, yet. "I wish all the kids would go to college first," Grunfeld said. "But I also don't think you should prevent someone from trying to earn a living. I just hope the kids who do skip college have the emotional and physical maturity to succeed."
Among the players, 6-7 Demetris Nichols from Barrington, R.I., who will be a junior, dreams about an N.B.A. future, like many of his peers, but is also realistic. "We talk more about college than the pros," he said. He also thought there was substance in the talk that Kobe Bryant gave to the group Saturday night. Bryant, the Lakers' star, jumped from high school to the pros. "Kobe said: 'Go to college. You have something to fall back on. If you break a leg, then where are you?' " Nichols said.
But Kobe -- who, like Brown, is an alumnus of this camp -- didn't go to college. "He's good," Nichols replied, with emphasis. He added that he has to be careful: "Everybody wants a piece of you. If somebody tells me I should go pro, I'm going to make sure he knows basketball."
From appearances, that could be somebody like LeBron James, counsel also to himself.

GRAPHIC: Photo: LeBron James stood out in a showcase for high school players. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (89%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AKRON, OH, USA (57%) OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001 



233 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-7

Saudi Arabia Is Offering Veiled Welcome to Tourists
Muslim pilgrims were once the only outsiders allowed into Saudi Arabia. The country, unsettled by erratic oil revenues and unemployment, has begun to offer tourist visas and word has quietly gone out to select tour operators that Saudi Arabia is open for business. A1

Tensions Rise in Croatia
Croatia's Western-leaning government confronted collapse and potential civil unrest after it decided to send two of its citizens to the international war crimes tribunal. A3

Ulster Violence Averted
In Portadown, British troops and police erected a steel barrier and blocked Protestant Orangemen from completing their annual march through a Roman Catholic neighborhood, usually a flashpoint event. A6

Race Riot in Northern Britain
A race riot in the town of Bradford was the worst so far in a tense summer in Britain's restive north. A6

Wagner Performance in Israel
A prominent conductor, Daniel Barenboim, caused an uproar by leading a German orchestra in a piece by Wagner, Hitler's favorite composer, during a concert at Israel's most prestigious arts festival. A4

Hamas Threatens Violence
The militant group Hamas threatened to send suicide bombers against Israel in revenge for the killing of an 11-year-old Palestinian boy. A4

Push to Sell More Satellites
Members of Congress who demanded a tougher review of satellite sales around the globe three years ago are now trying to speed up the process, after prodding by the industry. A7

Bolivian Leader Is Ill
President Hugo Banzer of Bolivia, suffering from lung and liver cancer, will begin chemotherapy today, said doctors at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. (AP)

NATIONAL A8-13

Criticism of McCain Mounts As Finance Debate Nears
House Republican leaders stepped up their attacks on the chief Republican sponsor of the campaign finance legislation in the Senate, John McCain of Arizona, as the House prepared to open what may be a climactic debate on overhauling the nation's rules on political donations. Their accusations centered on what they described as Senator McCain's bullying effort to convince House Republicans to vote for the bill. A8

Missing Intern Case
Representative Gary A. Condit, the California Democrat who has been drawn into the case of a missing federal intern, will not talk about what he has told the police because he wants to protect his privacy while cooperating with the investigation, his lawyer said. The lawyer, Abbe D. Lowell, said that Mr. Condit did not know what happened to the missing woman, Chandra Ann Levy. Neither the police nor Mr. Condit's representatives have publicly said what he told the police about his relationship with the woman when they interviewed him for a third time. A10

Retirement Savings Shake-Up
For the first time in the 20-year history of the popular 401(k) retirement savings plan, the average account lost money last year, even after thousands of dollars of new contributions. The trend is exposing years of mistakes by employees, raising some questions about proposals to permit Americans to manage part of their Social Security accounts and clouding the future of many employees' nest eggs for retirement. A1

Deal Would Create Cable Giant
The Comcast Corporation, seeking to become the nation's biggest cable television company, has offered to buy AT&T's cable operation for $44.5 billion in stock. If successful, the move will create a cable television giant serving about 22 million subscribers, or about one of every five homes in the United States. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Albers's 'Manhattan' Mural Barred From MetLife Lobby
A giant red, white and black mural that the artist Josef Albers designed as his homage to New York was passed by tens of thousands of people for years as they crossed the lobby of the MetLife Building on their way to Grand Central Terminal. With the lobby building undergoing a renovation, the sleek abstract work, "Manhattan," has been stored away for months. Officials at MetLife say they have no intention of putting it back in the lobby. "While we appreciate its importance in the art community," a company spokesman said, "it just doesn't work for us anymore." A1

Scrutiny of Hallucinogenic Herb
An obscure herb from Mexico is gaining a toehold in the world of recreational drugs, prompting law enforcement officials to increase their scrutiny of the plant, which is legal, and moving health experts to issue cautions. The herb, Salvia divinorum, is a type of sage plant that can cause intense hallucinations, out-of-body experiences and, when taken in higher doses, unconsciousness and memory loss. B1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

Wimbledon Revisited
Venus Williams claimed her second Wimbledon title in two years, defeating Justine Henin 6-1, 3-6, 6-0. A year ago, Williams became the first African-American woman to win Wimbledon since Althea Gibson took it in 1958. Now, she has matched Gibson's back-to-back titles in 1957 and 1958. D1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Trapped by Mental Illness
Thousands of mentally ill children and teenagers in the United States are trapped in psychiatric hospitals and in other institutions for lack of treatment programs outside, doctors, advocates and officials say. A1

Third World Medical Journals
Six major publishers of medical journals are expected to announce today that they have agreed to give researchers in developing countries online access to about 1,000 publications free or at sharply discounted prices. A3

AIDS Drug in Jeopardy
Immune Response, a company founded by Dr. Jonas Salk, creator of the Salk polio vaccine, has not produced convincing evidence, after more than a decade of testing, that its AIDS vaccine helps patients. Now Pfizer has delivered a possibly crippling blow, saying it is pulling out of a partnership to develop the drug, called Remune. "This came out of the blue," an Immune Response spokesman said. C2

AIDS-related deaths in prisons have fallen sharply because of better treatment, but increasing numbers of inmates have tested positive for H.I.V., which causes the disease, according to a Justice Department study. (AP)

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Faith in Fiber
The fiber-optics industry has created a glut of installed but unused fiber, but the current market morass has not undermined the widespread belief in the communications industry that optical networks are still in the early stage of an enormous expansion and researchers are pursuing radically new technologies. C1

Really Big Shows
The leading practitioner of reality television, Mark Burnett, is in Africa preparing a third round of the CBS hit "Survivor." His rival at the Fox network, Mike Darnell, is counting on new formats to put Fox ahead of the game -- programs like "Murder in Small Town X," a mix of reality and a movie plot about a serial killer, and "Love Cruise," with singles becoming romantic on a cruise ship. C8

Consulting Firm Sale Is Seen
Experio Solutions, a division of Hitachi Ltd., the global electronic and industrial products company, plans to announce today that it will acquire WaveBend Solutions, a Los Angeles consulting firm, for $17.5 million. C2

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES B6

Tove Jansson
A Finnish author and artist whose tales for children about a family of trolls called the Moomins have been popular in many lands, she was 86. B6

ARTS E1-8

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Last push on campaign finance; Barry Bonds chases a record; Tina Rosenberg on a newspaper in Bosnia.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E5
Public Lives A8
Crossword E6
TV Listings E7
Metro Diary B2
Weather A13

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RIOTS (90%); HAMAS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); MISSING PERSONS (84%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (78%); FESTIVALS (77%); ARMIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (75%); TERRORISM (75%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (74%); RELIGION (73%); TOUR OPERATORS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); WAR CRIMES (70%); CANCER (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); HEALTH CARE (68%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (67%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (67%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (66%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (65%); LUNG CANCER (64%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (64%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (61%); US 401K PLANS (60%); PERSONAL FINANCE (60%); LIVER DISEASE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (82%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) CROATIA (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001 



234 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1795 words

HEADLINE: Physicists Unite, Sort of, on Next Collider 

BYLINE:  By JAMES GLANZ 

DATELINE: SNOWMASS VILLAGE, Colo., July 7 

 BODY:
The directors of major physics laboratories in Europe, the United States and Japan gathered at this mountain resort this week to make plans for a new particle accelerator they all agreed would be so large, powerful and expensive that it could be built only if they all cooperated on a scale without parallel in scientific history.
 The machine could cost more than $6 billion, would measure roughly 20 miles from one side to the other and would require so many advanced technologies that no single country could supply them all. Its goal would be to mine the areas opened up by evidence indicating that ultrapowerful new accelerators may be crucial in explaining not just the nature of matter and energy but also the birth of the universe and the structure of space and time themselves. 
 According to some theories, the machine could see evidence for previously unknown dimensions, beyond the usual four, lurking right under humanity's noses. Elusive particles that account for most of the mass of the entire universe -- the so-called dark matter -- could also turn up. 
Scientists also hope to test theories that describe how the universe may have behaved in its first explosive instants and to work out the detailed properties of a particle called the Higgs boson. Believed to be the key to why other particles have mass, the Higgs, if it exists, may be discovered by accelerators now operating or being built.
The lab directors, here with more than a thousand other scientists for a three-week conference on the future of particle physics, agreed easily on the science at stake. But they were divided over more mundane but equally complex issues, like the design of the accelerator, where it would be built and who would supply the extraordinary amount of money needed to pay for it.
The technical debate involves questions like whether the particles should be accelerated in a straight line or on a circular racetrack, whether electrons or their much heavier cousins, protons, should be smashed together and just what technologies should be used to push the particles to the tremendous energies that would be necessary.
The laboratory directors, who tend to favor a linear collider involving electrons but are still divided on the best technical approach, argued that the transformation of particle accelerators from mere probes of matter to cosmic discovery machines justified the expense of a gigantic new device, assuming that nations agree to pool their resources. "It is forced on us by the richness of our science and the cost of our science," said Dr. Jonathan Dorfan, the director of the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, or SLAC, in California. Nations can no longer afford to duplicate one another's efforts, he said.
One thing that apparently will not change is the lengthy lead time needed for big particle physics experiments. The most powerful machine now operating is the newly upgraded Tevatron accelerator at the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory near Chicago. It will be several years before the Tevatron collects enough data to have meaningful results.
Then, by 2006, the much more powerful Large Hadron Collider, or L.H.C., is scheduled to be finished in Geneva at CERN, the leading European particle physics laboratory. The two machines use protons for collisions -- one reason the directors are behind an electron collider, which they say would provide crucial complementary information.
The new machine, which would be by far the most powerful such collider ever built, could not be ready to collect data until 2011 or 2012 at the earliest, assuming that construction could begin by 2004 or 2005.
Unlike the Large Hadron Collider, which CERN designed before inviting the participation of Japan and the United States, the new approach is to include all participants at every stage. The United States is contributing $531 million to the $4 billion hadron collider.
"I think what we're looking at is a way for the international high-energy-physics community to come together and develop its own plan," said Dr. S. Peter Rosen, associate director for high-energy and nuclear physics at the Energy Department's Office of Science. That will require new ways to carry on global collaborations so the host country does not benefit at the expense of the other participants, said Dr. Albrecht Wagner, director of DESY (pronounced "daisy"), a particle physics laboratory in Hamburg, Germany. 
Dr. Wagner has proposed building a kind of accelerator that can be operated almost entirely remotely -- from control rooms at Fermilab or the KEK accelerator laboratory in Japan, say, if the machine was in Germany. A team led by DESY has already come up with a detailed design for a linear collider.
In Dr. Wagner's plan, elements of whatever machine is constructed would be built at scattered sites around the world before being assembled in one spot, a strategy designed partly to avoid favoring the host country's manufacturers.
Several factors have already impinged on those rather utopian perspectives. For one thing, the backing of the United States, as the historical leader in high-energy physics and the world's leading economy, would be a central requirement for any successful plan. Lack of United States support "will kill the project," Dr. Wagner said.
As it happens, both of the top scientific players in the United States -- Dr. Dorfan and Dr. Michael S. Witherell, director of Fermilab -- strongly favor building the machine on American soil and, in fact, somewhere near their own laboratories.
Despite their own calls for the globalization of the machine, Dr. Dorfan and Dr. Witherell believe that the particle physics community in the United States may atrophy without a new front-line device to look forward to. They also fear that the highly specialized cadre of engineers and physicists who design and build new accelerators, not only for high-energy physics but also for medical and industrial uses, may leave the country to work at the new machine if it ends up abroad.
With the Large Hadron Collider now under construction in Europe, Dr. Dorfan said, "I think it's our turn to be the host to the next major facility."
But the American approach is already creating stark disagreements even by the standards of particle physics, a field not known for social niceties. This week, for example, Dr. Hirotaka Sugawara, the director of KEK, denounced Fermilab's bid to be the site for the project.
Dr. Sugawara said the collider should be built in Japan, near SLAC in California or some other place in the Pacific Rim -- which he defined, in so many words, as a region from which the Pacific Ocean can be seen.
"And people in the state of Illinois cannot do that," he said pointedly as Dr. Witherell sat in the front row.
Dr. Witherell, looking stunned, went to the podium to respond.
"If we were dealing with something that cost a billion dollars, of course we wouldn't be in this situation," Dr. Witherell said, referring to how the multibillion-dollar price tag is forcing the collaboration. "I think for many reasons it would be right to build the machine; it would be right to build it at Fermilab."
But in an interview, Dr. Sugawara raised the darkest specter in the recent history of particle physics in the United States: the death of the Superconducting Supercollider. He pointed out that after the United States got financing from other countries for the collider, a large accelerator that would have been built in Waxahachie, Tex., Congress killed the project in 1993 amid delays and cost overruns.
"There was damage to U.S.-Japan relationship," Dr. Sugawara said, explaining that large amounts of political capital had been spent in Japan to get the country involved. "Not just among scientific officials but also government officials," he said.
In reply, Dr. Witherell said in an interview that the Superconducting Supercollider was now being used as a model of how not to conduct a scientific collaboration. For example, he said, seeking international partners so late in the game was incorrect, as was placing the collider far from any existing lab that could take responsibility for it.
One reason he is offering Fermilab as a site, Dr. Witherell said, is that the underground tunnel for the accelerator could be built very close to the lab or -- unlike the SLAC proposals -- even pass through its grounds.
Compared with the political complexities, the scientific and technical ones may seem positively simple.
Assuming that some agreement is reached and the financing for a linear machine is forthcoming, scientists will still have to choose between the German design, dubbed Tesla -- which features superconducting materials in the cavities that accelerate particles -- and the Next Linear Collider, a more conventional design.
Several physicists at the meeting said Tesla could probably produce more intense particle beams, leading to a higher rate of collisions, while the Next Linear Collider could ultimately reach higher energies.
"It comes down to which one do you think is more important," said Dr. David Burke, a SLAC physicist who is project director of the Next Linear Collider, which he favors.
Even if that question can be ironed out, some physicists favor quickly leaping ahead to a Very Large Hadron Collider, involving ultrapowerful collisions between protons, rather than building an electron machine in this country at all. A proponent of the Very Large Hadron Collider, Dr. Peter Limon, head of the technical division at Fermilab, described the machine at a plenary session here.
The two kinds of machines work quite differently because electrons are pointlike particles while protons are bundles of more fundamental particles called quarks and gluons. Although the energies of the two machines are not directly comparable, proton colliders are seen as brute-force probes of the energy frontier; electron colliders are often more suited for precision measurements.
Because the host country would be expected to pay 50 to 60 percent of the cost of any machine, some physicists oppose building a linear collider in the United States because its financial demands would squelch other interesting projects for decades.
"I have a hard time believing there would be money for anything else," said Dr. Andrew Sessler, a physicist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and a proponent of a new project to study the nearly massless particles called neutrinos.
For all those skirmishes, though, some scientists said the maneuvering, including Dr. Sugawara's statements, should be seen mostly as the opening moves in a field in which long-term strategies have -- by necessity -- become an art form.
"The lab directors are thinking ahead to the end game," said a particle physicist at the meeting. "I think Sugawara moved his queen out last night."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Physics laboratory directors gathered in Colorado included, from left, Maury Tigner of Cornell's nuclear studies lab , Michael S. Witherell of Fermilab, Alessandro Bettini of Gran Sasso, Jonathan Dorfan of the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, Albrecht Wagner of DESY and Hirotaka Sugawara of KEK. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. F2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICS (91%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (90%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); HIGGS BOSON (78%); RESORTS (78%); MOUNTAINS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%) PHYSICS; PARTICLE ACCELERATORS; FINANCES 

PERSON: GLANZ, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



235 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Official Warns Asia About Barriers to Recovery 

BYLINE:  By DON KIRK 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, July 9 

 BODY:
A senior official for the International Monetary Fund warned today that the structural reforms demanded by Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan could undermine long-term regional efforts to recover from the economic crisis of 1997 and 1998.
 Stanley Fischer, the second-highest official at the fund, said Mr. Koizumi's proposals for cutting public works and shutting down financially weak banks and companies might "deal with the problems in the short run" but they risk adding to the problems of a region already hurting from economic problems in the West as well as Japan. 
 As Asian countries teetered on the edge of a new economic slump caused by declining stock markets and faltering exports, Mr. Fischer said in an interview that "the role of the Japanese economy in this region should not be underestimated."
The Japanese, he said, "should be out there running a more expansionary policy" to soften the impact of the cutbacks in public spending and massive credit that are the cornerstone of Mr. Koizumi's program.
"With Japan weak, with export markets weak, it's very hard for the countries that were in crisis four years ago," said Mr. Fischer, who as the fund's first deputy managing director has been responsible for many of the programs that braced up Asian economies.
"It's going to be a tough time before export markets turn around," he said, citing the weak market for semiconductors as one factor. "Semiconductors affect East Asia very badly."
Mr. Fischer, visiting Korea today and Japan tomorrow on his last look at the region before he leaves the I.M.F. in September, discussed Korea's problems as high-tech stocks continued an alarming decline.
In Tokyo, Kyocera, the largest company on the Nikkei, declined 2.7 percent, helping to drive the exchange down half a percent to 12,239.68, its lowest closing since March 19. In Seoul, Samsung Electronics, Korea's largest electronics firm, fell 3.5 percent, while the Korea composite index declined 3.2 percent to 560.00.
Although chronic slow growth in Japan and a declining stock market in the United States were partly to blame for market troubles here and in other Asian countries, Mr. Fischer berated Korea for prolonging its own difficulties by providing easy credit for companies that should either merge with competitors or go out of business.
"I'm really worried about aspects of what Korea is doing," he said. "They've got to get themselves out of the financial sector. They've got to stop guaranteeing things front, right and center."
Mr. Fischer declined to cite specific examples, but others have criticized government support for such troubled giants as Hyundai Engineering and Construction, part of the Hyundai Group, and Hynix Semiconductor, both of which are saddled with several billion dollars in loans maturing this year.
Mr. Fischer also criticized government ownership of banks, some of which have taken over companies unable to pay their debts. He said he hoped the government would soon sell SeoulBank, which it has repeatedly supported with public financing to cover its debts.
Mr. Fischer, who coordinated the fund's negotiations with Korea, rated Malaysia as second to Korea in carrying out reforms but said Thailand had "begun to run out of steam," the Philippines "has some tough going with uncertainties" and Indonesia needed "strong political leadership" to realize its potential.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stanley Fischer said Japan's reforms could hurt other countries. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TRENDS (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (74%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); ENGINEERING (73%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; FINANCES 

COMPANY: HYUNDAI GROUP (60%); SK HYNIX INC (54%); KYOCERA CORP (53%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (52%); HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION CO LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

TICKER: HY9H (FRA) (54%); 000660 (KSE) (54%); KYO (NYSE) (53%); 6971 (TSE) (53%); SMSN (LSE) (52%); 005930 (KSE) (52%); 000720 (KSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC1623 WATER, SEWER, PIPELINE, & COMMUNICATIONS & POWER LINE CONSTRUCTION (50%)

PERSON: KIRK, DON; FISCHER, STANLEY; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (97%); ASIA (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



236 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: The Declining Terrorist Threat 

BYLINE:  By Larry C. Johnson; Larry C. Johnson is a former State Department counterterrorism specialist.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Judging from news reports and the portrayal of villains in our popular entertainment, Americans are bedeviled by fantasies about terrorism. They seem to believe that terrorism is the greatest threat to the United States and that it is becoming more widespread and lethal. They are likely to think that the United States is the most popular target of terrorists. And they almost certainly have the impression that extremist Islamic groups cause most terrorism.
 None of these beliefs are based in fact. While many crimes are committed against Americans abroad (as at home), politically inspired terrorism, as opposed to more ordinary criminality motivated by simple greed, is not as common as most people may think. 
 At first glance, things do seem to be getting worse. International terrorist incidents, as reported by the State Department, increased to 423 in 2000 from 392 in 1999. Recently, Americans were shaken by Filipino rebels' kidnapping of Americans and the possible beheading of one hostage. But the overall terrorist trend is down. According to the Central Intelligence Agency, deaths from international terrorism fell to 2,527 in the decade of the 1990's, from 4,833 in the 80's.
Nor are the United States and its policies the primary target. Terrorist activity in 2000 was heavily concentrated in just two countries -- Colombia, which had 186 incidents, and India, with 63. The cause was these countries' own political conflicts.
While 82 percent of the attacks in Colombia were on oil pipelines managed by American and British companies, these attacks were less about terrorism than about guerrillas' goal of disrupting oil production to undermine the Colombian economy. Generally, the guerrillas shy away from causing casualties in these attacks. No American oil workers in Colombia were killed or injured last year.
Other terrorism against American interests is rare. There were three attacks on American diplomatic buildings in 2000, compared with 42 in 1988. No Americans were killed in these incidents, nor have there been any deaths in this sort of attack this year.
Of the 423 international terrorist incidents documented in the State Department's report "Patterns of Global Terrorism 2000," released in April, only 153 were judged by the department and the C.I.A. to be "significant." And only 17 of these involved American citizens or businesses.
Eleven incidents involved kidnappings of one or more American citizens, all of whom were eventually released. Seven of those kidnapped worked for American companies in the energy business or providing services to it -- Halliburton, Shell, Chevron, Mobil, Noble Drilling and Erickson Air-Crane.
Five bombings were on the list. The best known killed 17 American sailors on the destroyer Cole, as it was anchored in a Yemeni port, and wounded 39. A bomb at a McDonald's in France killed a local citizen there. The other explosions -- outside the United States embassy in the Philippines, at a Citibank office in Greece, and in the offices of Newmont Mining in Indonesia -- caused mostly property damage and no loss of life. In the 17th incident, vandals trashed a McDonald's in South Africa.
The greatest risk is clear: if you are drilling for oil in Colombia -- or in nations like Ecuador, Nigeria or Indonesia -- you should take appropriate precautions; otherwise Americans have little to fear.
Although high-profile incidents have fostered the perception that terrorism is becoming more lethal, the numbers say otherwise, and early signs suggest that the decade beginning in 2000 will continue the downward trend. A major reason for the decline is the current reluctance of countries like Iraq, Syria and Libya, which once eagerly backed terrorist groups, to provide safe havens, funding and training.
The most violent and least reported source of international terrorism is the undeclared war between Islamists and Hindus over the disputed Kashmir region of India, bordering Pakistan. Although India came in second in terms of the number of terrorist incidents in 2000, with 63, it accounted for almost 50 percent of all resulting deaths, with 187 killed, and injuries, with 337 hurt. Most of the blame lies with radical groups trained in Afghanistan and operating from Pakistan.
I am not soft on terrorism; I believe strongly in remaining prepared to confront it. However, when the threat of terrorism is used to justify everything from building a missile defense to violating constitutional rights (as in the case of some Arab-Americans imprisoned without charge), it is time to take a deep breath and reflect on why we are so fearful.
Part of the blame can be assigned to 24-hour broadcast news operations too eager to find a dramatic story line in the events of the day and to pundits who repeat myths while ignoring clear empirical data. Politicians of both parties are also guilty. They warn constituents of dire threats and then appropriate money for redundant military installations and new government investigators and agents.
Finally, there are bureaucracies in the military and in intelligence agencies that are desperate to find an enemy to justify budget growth. In the 1980's, when international terrorism was at its zenith, NATO and the United States European Command pooh-poohed the notion of preparing to fight terrorists. They were too busy preparing to fight the Soviets. With the evil empire gone, they "discovered" terrorism as an important priority.
I hope for a world where facts, not fiction, determine our policy. While terrorism is not vanquished, in a world where thousands of nuclear warheads are still aimed across the continents, terrorism is not the biggest security challenge confronting the United States, and it should not be portrayed that way. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); TRENDS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); RELIGION (71%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (69%); OIL EXTRACTION (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (64%) TERRORISM 

COMPANY: ERICKSON AIR-CRANE INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%)

TICKER: EAC (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532411 COMMERCIAL AIR, RAIL & WATER TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (51%); SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (51%)

PERSON: JOHNSON, LARRY C 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); YEMEN (79%); FRANCE (78%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



237 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Destiny Revisits the Great Plains 

BYLINE:  By Richard Manning; Richard Manning is the author of "Grassland: The History, Biology, Politics and Promise of the American Prairie."

DATELINE: LOLO, Mont. 

 BODY:
As the Fourth of July holiday week began, I was stuck with driving through Yellowstone National Park, because the most direct route to Wyoming is through the park. I don't normally visit Yellowstone by choice. Montanans don't suffer traffic well, but I am even more vexed by the sight of American tourists videotaping museum-piece megafauna. Confining bison to a park is an admission of defeat.
 One can get a better picture of the West, however, outside of Yellowstone, in more open plains country, across the northernmost tier of counties in Montana. I drove there on Independence Day, and while others may have been cursing holiday traffic, I cruised a 54-mile stretch of highway in mid-afternoon and encountered precisely three other vehicles. The plains are empty. 
 It is just as easy, though, to miss the story here as in Yellowstone. The view opens to grassy hills rolling to the horizon in all directions, no buildings for miles, just fences and a few cattle. Easy to think this is unchanging, but it is as man-made as Yellowstone, and changing far more rapidly. The plains, from Montana and North Dakota south into Texas, are coming to terms with more than a century of mistaken agricultural policy. Today's debates on federal farm legislation have to wrestle with that legacy and, perhaps, seize the chance to improve on it.
Manifest Destiny meant that the plains would be populated with yeoman farmers. Native Americans were to be removed, the bison eliminated and the grass plowed under. With a lethal combination of greed and Sharps rifles, our nation accomplished much of this in the last quarter of the 19th century. Then the settlers came, settled -- and almost immediately began unsettling. Most rural plains counties peaked in population near the beginning of the 20th century and have been declining ever since. The decline in recent years is even more pronounced.
The central lesson was written on a sign left by an unsettler as he abandoned a plowed-up chunk of Nebraska's Sandhills: "God made this country right side up. Don't turn it over." This was learned by every defeated settler throughout a century, which makes it even more curious that we have yet to learn it as a nation -- an ignorance that last year carried a price tag of over $22 billion for federal taxpayers. That was the total farm subsidy for the nation, but by and large it covered three items, two of critical importance on the plains: paying farmers to grow wheat, or paying farmers not to grow wheat on lands deemed highly erodable.
Cattle ranching -- the other major use of plains land -- is not directly subsidized, but most calves go to feedlots to be fattened on Midwestern corn, another big-ticket item in the federal farm bill. 
We regard farming as a permanent condition of rural life, but in the arid West it is a brief experiment of 100 years. From the outset it began failing, a destiny now manifest. Without federal subsidies, the wheatfields would move east to a more appropriate environment.
That is not to say that the West cannot have population or an economy. It had both for thousands of years. History remembers the Plains Indian wars because they were the fiercest, and they were the fiercest because the natives were supported by an economy based in bison, one that was always in motion and fit its context. We can have that again by encouraging grazing, not farming. Grass-fed cattle will work, but bison are better.
There is an exception to the trend of shrinking population in Western places: Indian reservations are growing. There is an exception to farmers and ranchers either going broke or depending on subsidy. The bison business is small but growing. That unique plains species -- so patiently designed by evolution to suit this harsh place -- was narrowed to fewer than 50 animals in Yellowstone and a few in zoos. Now, however, there are 300,000 of them, not in parks but on working bison ranches. At the core of this renaissance is a coalition of 30 Indian tribes bringing back the bison and, with them, elk, prairie dogs, ferrets and hawks and, especially, the grass.
During the next few months, Congress will write a new farm bill. The tractor makers, seed companies, fertilizer manufacturers and food processors will probably prevent federal policy from aiding the grassland renaissance. Perhaps, though, a coalition of wildlife interests, ranchers, taxpayers and unsubsidized farmers can at least persuade government to stop impeding it.
One late night of our drive, under a full moon, my wife surveyed a sea of wheatfields near Shelby, Mont. Wheatfields are about as hostile to wildlife as parking lots, but standing in the center of this biological desert was a single, enormous bull elk, who knows why -- perhaps a Meriwether Lewis among elk. They may not be visible to a tourist's camcorder, but patient forces much bigger than federal policy are at work here.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Warren Linn) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); MAMMALS (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); AGRICULTURE (70%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (70%); WHEAT FARMING (70%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (56%) AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: MANNING, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (94%); WYOMING, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



238 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: NCR Says Quarterly Results Were Weaker Than Forecast 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: DAYTON, Ohio, July 9 

 BODY:
The NCR Corporation said today that its second-quarter earnings and sales missed forecasts.
 NCR attributed the shortfall to clients' canceling orders for data-analysis computers and software, which it said in May would be its fastest path to profit growth. 
 Profit was 35 cents to 37 cents a share, NCR said, while the average estimate was 57 cents among analysts polled by Thomson Financial/ First Call. Sales rose 3 percent, to about $1.5 billion. During the day, shares of NCR dropped as much as 15 percent, their second-worst fall since the company was spun off by AT&T on Dec. 31, 1996. 
The Teradata division of NCR makes data-warehousing systems, which manage, cross-reference and interpret customer information for companies like Wal-Mart Stores. Teradata's sales rose 21 percent, to $236 million, in the first quarter, making it NCR's fastest-growing division. The group's sales growth slowed to 2 percent last quarter, NCR said.
"Warehousing is a driving force, and investors reward that; that's why the reaction is significant today," said Erick Brethenoux, an analyst at Lazard Freres. "Large deals are a problem to sign. NCR is feeling the heat that the general economy is feeling."
Shares of NCR, the largest maker of automated teller machines, closed at $38.70, down $6.07, or 14 percent, in regular trading. In late trading, they fell to $38.39. They have declined 21 percent this year.
Customers of NCR, which is based in Dayton, include Kmart, Publix Super Markets and Lowe's Companies. Most of the order cancellations came from customers in North America, the company said.
NCR is trying to increase software sales in part because sales of A.T.M.'s, which contribute the most profit, may have little room to grow in the United States market, executives and analysts say.
Mark Hurd, Teradata's chief operating officer, was named president, NCR said. The company also said it had hired Howard Lance as a president and as chief operating officer of NCR's retail and financial group.
Sales in the most recent quarter rose 7 percent for the retail store automation and financial self-service divisions, NCR said. The company plans to release full results on July 17. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); COMPUTER PERIPHERAL MFG (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); DATA WAREHOUSING (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (75%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (73%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (67%); APPOINTMENTS (65%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: NCR CORP (95%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%); LOWE'S COS INC (66%); WAL-MART STORES INC (56%); TERADATA CORP (56%); PUBLIX SUPER MARKETS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NCR CORP 

TICKER: NCR (NYSE) (95%); LOW (NYSE) (66%); WMT (NYSE) (56%); TDC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (95%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (66%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (66%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (54%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (54%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: HOWARD LANCE (58%); MARK HURD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (67%) OHIO, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



239 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Consumers' Jobs Concerns Helped Slow May Borrowing 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 9 

 BODY:
Consumers, worried about their jobs in the face of layoffs, were a bit tightfisted in May, borrowing money at the slowest pace in the last 19 months.
 Consumer credit rose a seasonally adjusted $6.5 billion in May -- a 4.9 percent annual rate, the Federal Reserve reported today. That was a much smaller increase than the $9.5 billion rise in credit that many analysts had expected. 
 The 4.9 percent growth rate was the slowest since a 4.7 percent rate of increase registered in October 1999.
May's pace of borrowing was less than half the pace in April, when total consumer credit rose at a revised 10.5 percent rate, or $13.7 billion.
The slowdown in borrowing "reflects job insecurities and the impact of actual layoffs, which are making consumers more cautious," said Paul Taylor, chief economist at the National Automobile Dealers Association.
To stave off recession, the Federal Reserve has cut interest rates six times this year, driving down borrowing costs as a way to spur consumer spending and business investment, things designed to bolster economic growth.
the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, has said one of the biggest factors determining whether the economy slips into recession is how well consumers hold up during the slowdown. Consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of all economic activity and has been a key force in keeping the struggling economy afloat.
Still, some analysts worry that should the employment situation worsen seriously in the coming months, consumers might sharply cut back spending and tip the economy into a recession.
In May, demand for revolving credit, like that used for credit cards, rose $3.2 billion -- an annual rate of 5.5 percent -- compared with $9.2 billion and a 16 percent rate in April.
Nonrevolving credit, like loans for new cars, vacations and other big-ticket items, grew $3.3 billion -- an annual rate of 4.5 percent. That compared with $4.5 billion and a 6.1 percent rate the month before.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Consumer Borrowing"Chart shows net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding; in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted* since December 1999. Annual Rates of ChangeMay: +4.9%April: +10.5March: +5.7 *Figures for Oct. and Nov. 2000 include adjustments for previously unreported debt.(Source: Federal Reserve Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); NEW CAR DEALERS (53%) CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (56%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY:  SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



240 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
A campaign for an online brokerage firm promises to eliminate the 'middleman.'

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
AT a time when online trading volume is contracting and most Web-based brokerage firms are cutting their advertising budgets, a new online brokerage firm is seeking to generate awareness among and business from potential customers with a television, print and online campaign.
 Because the effort by Brokerage America, a division of Andrew Garrett Inc., comes as interest in trading stocks -- by yourself or through a broker -- is waning, the timing of the campaign, by a New York agency named Dirty Water Integrated, is either as smart as selling the Nasdaq short when it reached 5000 or as foolish as buying shares of Pets.com as they kept falling. 
 The intended strategy is one that often turns up in economic downturns: advertise when your competitors reduce or eliminate their ad budgets, to gain what is known as share of voice, not to mention take advantage of lower rates for advertising time and space.
That could help Brokerage America make headway in a crowded field in which the top 10 firms already control more than 90 percent of the market, particularly when Brokerage America is so late to the party -- or is it a wake? 
Yet the number of households trading online "is still expected to grow" in the coming years, said Drew Sykoff, co-chairman and chief executive at Brokerage America in New York.
"And another good reason to launch now is that we're getting 3 to 10 times more in buying power for the ad dollars we spend," he added, "whether on the Web, in print or on TV."
The campaign for Brokerage America carries the theme "Cut to the trade," meant to emphasize what Mr. Sykoff described as a principal "difference between us and our competitors," which is that Garrett, as a market maker in 1,100 Nasdaq stocks, will use its own operations to execute orders, in addition to offering free trades as many other online brokerage firms have done or still do. By working with Brokerage America, the campaign asserts, investors will be working with a market maker and doing away with "an invisible middleman" who was "taking a cut on every trade."
That thought is brought to life in a comically exaggerated way in two television commercials, which begin running this week. They show middlemen intruding in other everyday commercial transactions, like ordering dinner at a restaurant and buying groceries at a supermarket.
The idea is to dramatize the concept that "you don't tolerate a middleman in other aspects of your life, so why tolerate one here," said Peter DePasquale, chief executive of Dirty Water, which was opened in April 2000.
That "gets right at the heart of the heavy users of online brokers who are still active even though the market is contracting," he added. "We've lost the casual online investor; what's left is the core."
Advertisers -- and agencies, too -- can make money in a slowing or declining economy, Mr. DePasquale declared, "if your promise is compelling" for that core frequent customer.
The commercials were preceded by print and banner ads, some of the "teaser" variety, asking computer users to visit real Web sites with fanciful addresses like www.youronlinebrokerisafatcatgettingfatter.com and, evocative of an episode of "The Sopranos," www.isyouronlinebrokerdippinghisbeak.com.
"You would think, 'Why would the world need another online broker?' " asked Rob Austin, partner and creative director at Dirty Water.
You might ask the same question of the world needing another campaign for an online brokerage firm, particularly one speaking with a sassy, worldly wise, even world-weary tone of voice heard so often from other companies in the category.
"It's humorous and has a little bit of an edge to it, to get the point across," Mr. Sycoff said of the Brokerage America campaign, especially to "the savvy self-directed investor."
"At a time when people are reeling from losses and looking for added value," he added, "there's never been a better time" for that.
Brokerage America plans to spend $7 million on the campaign. That is more than some large, established online brokerage firms spent to advertise in the first three months of 2001, according to CMR in New York, a unit of Taylor Nelson Sofres that tracks ad spending.
For instance, the Morgan Stanley Dean Witter online brokerage unit of Morgan Stanley spent $5.5 million to advertise in the first quarter of this year, CMR reported, compared with $20.6 million in the corresponding period of 2000.
Other online brokerage firms spent far more than that, but still reduced their spending considerably. For example, according to CMR, Ameritrade Holding spent almost $30 million in the first three months of 2001, compared with $45.7 million in the same period last year, and the E*Trade Group spent $10.9 million in the first three months of 2001 compared with $30.4 million in the first three months of 2000.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brokerage America tries to show that Americans would not tolerate "middlemen" in transactions like ordering dinner at a restaurant. (Dirty Water Integrated) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE TRADING (96%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); BUDGETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (63%); RESTAURANTS (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; ADVERTISING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: IPET HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: DIRTY WATER (AD AGENCY) 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



241 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1864 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Farmers Look Back...; 
...and See Soy Growers In Brazil Shadowing Them

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER L. RICH 

DATELINE: ITACOATIARA, Brazil 

 BODY:
The blazing midday sun dances off the long line of bright gold barges preparing to disgorge their cargo, Asia-bound soybeans, at this tiny but up-to-date Amazon River port. The barges, lashed nine tight, made the uneventful 600-mile journey down the Madeira River from the heart of Brazil's soybean country in less than 48 hours, cutting almost a week off the traditional overland route. That translates into a considerable savings that can be passed along to the beans' buyers.
 Meanwhile, 4,000 miles north of here, on the Mississippi River, 15-barge configurations loaded with Iowa- and Illinois-grown soybeans often wait in line for hours to pass through a series of creaky 80-year-old locks that will lower them down to the sea at New Orleans, where they will be transferred to freighters bound for foreign ports. Each hour of delay costs American farmers an estimated $500. 
 In the race to move soybeans to the global marketplace, Brazil, Argentina and China are gaining and the United States, the longtime champ, is faltering. 
As they watch competitors invest heavily to reduce shipping time and costs, American farmers say that the river that once helped make United States agriculture the low-price leader is now costing them about $100 million a year in delays.
Against objections from environmentalists and some economists, a farmers' group is clamoring for taxpayers to pay at least part of the bill of more than $1 billion to lengthen and upgrade the locks.
The contentious question of Mississippi River improvements cuts to the heart of a larger issue: how do third- or fourth-generation American farmers compete against more agile entrepreneurial rivals like those here in Brazil, where land is plentiful and cheap, and government regulators are distant?
Much of the Brazilian soy is already cheaper to produce than its counterpart in Iowa by as much as $1.50 a bushel, or around 20 percent.
While a number of American agricultural exports face such threats, the soybean situation is among the most glaring. Over the last five years, the United States' share of world soybean exports has fallen 27 percent, to about 53 percent of the global market. In that time, the Brazilians have more than doubled their share of the soybean export market.
One big problem for American soy farmers is that they no longer receive set-aside payments to limit production and help support prices. But since the 1996 farm bill did away with such supports, presuming that farmers would export their way to prosperity, world demand has not been high enough and bumper crops have sent prices spiraling to 30-year lows, making every penny of competitive advantage count.
That is why Tim Burrack, an Iowa soybean and corn grower, went home spooked from a fact-finding trip to the port at Itacoatiara earlier this year. The port was the brainchild of Blairo Maggi, one of Brazil's largest soybean producers, with around 125,000 acres under cultivation in the central-western state of Mato Grosso. After trying in vain to have the Brazilian government move ahead with promised infrastructure projects, Mr. Maggi used $20 million of his own money and $40 million from the state of Amazonas, where Itacoatiara is situated, to turn the Amazon-feeding Madeira River into a viable waterway.
When low tides threatened to run his towboats aground, he imported sonar equipment from the United States to map the riverbed. When logs floating downriver from timber-cutting operations upstream threatened to poke holes in their hulls, he equipped his boats with high-powered propellers used by Finnish icebreakers. At the port, he uses a Swedish vacuum pumping technology not yet found in the United States to unload the barges and then load the beans into 50,000-ton freighters at 25 tons a minute.
Since the port opened in 1997, soy shipments on the Madeira River have quadrupled, to more than a million tons a year. In the process, Mr. Maggi's shipping costs fell 20 percent.
Meanwhile, the long-awaited Mississippi River decision is on hold because of doubts raised about an eight-year cost benefit analysis and environmental impact study by the Army Corps of Engineers that favored upgrading the locks. The study data is now being reviewed again, and a final decision may not come for years.
"We are in danger of losing everything unless we wake up," Mr. Burrack, the Iowa farmer, warned his fellow growers. "Down there, they are entrepreneurs. They tell the government to get out of the way. They do it themselves. In the U.S., we farmers are going to the government and asking for more."
Critics of the river upgrade say that it amounts to a billion-dollar taxpayer subsidy to agribusiness concerns -- Cargill, Archer Daniels Midland and others -- that are themselves investing heavily in expanding their operations in Brazil and elsewhere to take advantage of lower-cost production.
They say that even if the project is completed, it will be impossible for American farmers to cut their costs as sharply as Mr. Maggi has, because the American grain transport system over all is already highly efficient. American producers, they say, should look elsewhere to improve competitiveness.
One vast difference between the two countries is the cost of land. Iowa soybean farmers pay $2.38 more for enough land to grow a bushel of soybeans than do their counterparts in Mato Grosso, according to an Iowa State University study. Mike Duffy, an economist at the university and an author of the study, thinks the difference in land prices will shrink over time as the relative value of the countries' crops converge.
But the country's center-west region already produces soy for 20 percent less than in Iowa. And once the Brazilian government liberates the use of genetically modified beans, a decision widely expected but tied up in the courts pending the results of environmental impact studies, production costs may fall even further.
Paradoxically, the soybean boom in Brazil came largely at the hands of the United States. In 1980, after President Jimmy Carter banned agricultural commodity sales to Russia for 16 months in response to the invasion of Afghanistan, farmers in the southern states of Rio Grande do Sul and Parana began switching to soybeans to meet the new world demand.
The Brazilian government offered incentives for people to move into a vast, unoccupied area called the "cerrado" -- the scrubby flatlands of Mato Grosso -- to prepare the land for agriculture.
Many original settlers of this new frontier, who had initially planted rice or raised cattle, went broke by the 1990's, when the country opened up to global trade and a new economic scheme stabilized hyperinflation but cut into their profits. The cleared land was snapped up by experienced soybean growers.
There are now about eight million acres of soy under cultivation in Mato Grosso, according to the government-funded agricultural research agency Embrapa Soja, and another 125 million acres of land -- about the size of Illinois, Iowa and Kansas combined -- readily available in the cerrado region alone. In the last decade, Mato Grosso has become the country's leading producer of soybeans and cotton, the second-largest rice grower and the fourth-largest in terms of cattle.
"There is a huge amount of land, the soils run deep, they are easy to work, easy to clear, they've got good drainage; it's land that lends itself very well to agriculture," said Randall Schnepf, senior economist at the United States Department of Agriculture's Economic Research Service. "The question has generally been infrastructure access to that region."
Mr. Maggi's spiffy new facilities handled only a small portion of the nine million tons of beans harvested in Mato Grosso this year. Indeed, around the country, 68 percent of the soybean crop travels the old, expensive route: by truck, over thousands of miles of unreliable roads.
The Brazilian government has been promising a system of paved roads and navigable waterways to reduce the costs of agricultural production in the cerrado and Amazon regions, but chronic economic instability and high budget deficits have held up the works.
Now, private capital is filling some gaps. A consortium of Brazilian pension funds and outside investors like GE Capital and Chase Capital Partners is working to complete the long-promised Ferronorte railroad, which would eventually give growers in the interior of Mato Grosso a straight shot to the port of Santos in Sao Paulo, cutting transport costs by as much as half.
The rail line, which has already reached the state border, is expected to haul three to five million tons of soy this year, and should eventually carry as much as 12 million tons when it is completed around 2004.
But the project that causes the greatest anticipation among Brazilian growers and the greatest fear among American producers like Mr. Burrack is the eventual paving of a 1,200 mile stretch of highway from the Mato Grosso state capital, Cuiaba, to Santarem, on the edge of the Amazon River in the northern state of Para. The road, which is currently unpassable most of the year because of flooding, would not only reduce costs for current production; it might open up a big new region to agriculture.
The government, though, has yet to follow through on a 20-year-old promise to pave the stretch. As the country grapples with an energy crisis that has turned the focus of investment toward power generation, the road's completion seems even more distant.
Still, in anticipation, Cargill, the Minneapolis food conglomerate, and Bunge, its Argentine counterpart, bought the port at Santarem.
Some American growers say that though the threat from Brazil is real it has been overblown. Among other things, the Brazilians have to contend with a heavy tax burden, and they have no United States-style farm support program to help them cope until prices rebound.
And even though Brazil's currency has weakened considerably this year, making the country's exports seem cheaper, many of the necessary farm supplies are paid for in dollars, which mostly cancels out the gains.
American optimists also say that environmental regulators inside Brazil have finally started to legislate against the type of large-scale land clearing that was common in the last decade. Additional infrastructure projects, like the creation of connecting waterways, are encountering resistance.
Still, Mr. Burrack and other American farmers are warning their compatriots to beware. "I figure we've got 10 to 15 years to get ourselves in position to compete on a low-scale commodity business, or we need to move forward on something that is more value-added," Mr. Burrack said in a recent phone interview.
The Brazilians have the same goal in mind. Embrapa Soja, the world leader in tropical soybean research, is busily upgrading its patented bean and developing new products for the export and domestic market.
Brazilian soybean producers say that there is room in the international market for everyone. But with more scrub turned into farmland every day, their aspirations are looming larger.
"We would be very nervous," Mr. Schnepf of the United States Department of Agriculture said, "if they can do the same thing with corn."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brazilian workers, above, load a ship in Itacoatiara with soybeans for an overseas market. Below, the Amazon River port has become the nation's hub for shipping its beans to all parts of the world, but the major growing region is about 600 miles up the Madeira River, a 48-hour journey. (Photographs by Alberto Cesar Araujo for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Soybeans are loaded on a ship at Itacoatiara, Brazil. Soy from Brazil is 20 percent less expensive to produce than its Iowa counterpart. (Alberto Cesar Araujo for The New York Times)(pg. C2) Chart: "Counting Beans"Five years ago, Americans dominated the export trade for soybeans. But cheaper shipping and low-cost production on newly cleared land has helped Brazil gain market share. SHARE OF SOYBEANS EXPORTS1995-96*Brazil: 11%Argentina: 7%Paraguay: 5%United States: 73% 2000-01* EstimateBrazil: 26%Argentina: 12%Paraguay: 5%United States: 53% *Marketing year, October to September(Source: U.S. Department of Agriculture) Map of Brazil highlighting Itacoatiara: The Ferronorte railroad would cut soybean transport costs by half. (pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (92%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); EXPORT PRICES (87%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); SOYBEAN FARMING (78%); RIVERS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (74%); MARKET SHARE (73%); AGRICULTURE (72%); FAMILY FARMS (72%); DEREGULATION (72%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (72%); CORN FARMING (67%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%) SOYBEANS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FARMERS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (59%)

PERSON: RICH, JENNIFER L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); AMAZON RIVER (88%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); ARGENTINA (93%); ASIA (92%) BRAZIL; ARGENTINA; CHINA; MISSISSIPPI RIVER

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



242 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Needy Workers Wait for a Kansas Plant to Reopen 

BYLINE:  By JOHN W. FOUNTAIN 

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, Kan., July 3 

 BODY:
The cluster of white buildings and steel bins rises above these cattle-covered plains like a miniature city of skyscrapers. But the giant Con Agra beef processing plant here is still these days. Gone are the rows of workers' cars that used to fill its parking lots, and gone, too, is the bustle of business from sunrise to sundown.
 A fire on Christmas night that started on the kill floor and took 18 hours to extinguish closed the plant, and six months later, it is still closed, leaving many of the 2,300 workers with a growing sense of desperation. 
 Several hundred of them have found other jobs. But most have not. Unemployment in Finney County, of which Garden City is the seat, is about 11 percent, up from 3 percent to 4 percent in the last decade. For many people, unemployment compensation ran out last month and their savings are gone. Deepening the uncertainty, ConAgra has said nothing about the plant's fate.
With the economy slowing and unemployment rising across the Midwest, the plant's closing could not have come at a worse time. And living in sparsely populated western Kansas only worsens the outlook for the ConAgra workers. 
"A lot of families stated they were holding on until their kids got out of school, and they didn't want to interrupt their children's education," said Harold Frost, of the Salvation Army, which has helped hundreds of families. "I'm really surprised that they haven't picked up and moved on."
Many are unlikely to stay through the summer.
"It's hard with no job," Christina Felix, 21, said this week in a white frame building known as Emmaus House. It is a local shelter for the homeless and a food bank, where Ms. Felix and others out of work have come in recent months for baskets of free food.
"It's hard with no job," she said. "I have three daughters and no husband."
For the time being, Ms. Felix has a job cleaning potatoes at a plant near Garden City, seasonal work for two months at $6.20 an hour, considerably less than the $9.50 an hour she earned cleaning the ConAgra plant. When the potato job ends, she does not know what she and her daughters, ages 3, 4 and 5, will do. An uncle has already moved to work in ConAgra's plant in Dumas, Tex., and Ms. Felix is wondering whether she will have to do the same.
Others can relate to her plight. Sylvia Aniles, 34, said she had had no luck finding a job. At ConAgra, Ms. Aniles made $9.75 an hour, cleaning cattle hooves. She said she had worked at the plant for two years. The $179 a week in unemployment benefits she has been getting is about to run out, and she worries about how she will pay the $340 monthly rent on the trailer where she and her three children live.
"It's very, very difficult," Ms. Aniles said just before she and her children carted away a box at Emmaus filled with powdered milk, cereal, green beans, chicken, frozen cherries, beans and rice.
Like Ms. Felix and Ms. Aniles, most of the other former ConAgra workers are Mexican immigrants. Mostly unskilled laborers, they had been able to support their families in this city of around 28,000 people, about 60 miles west of Dodge City.
For miles around, the smell of feedlots floats on the Midwestern summer breezes. People have grown used to the smell of cattle manure; the most pragmatic, like Mayor Jim Wharton of Garden City, call it the smell of money. Mayor Wharton, 85, is worried about the welfare of a sizable portion of the Garden City's work force and the financial well-being of the town.
"It has affected everybody," he said. "The whole town is down quite a little bit.
"Our sales tax, as of now, is still holding," he said, but he added that he was not sure how much longer that would be the case.
About 80 percent of the city's expenses are financed by sales tax revenues, which will decline as people who have lost jobs spend less.
Here in cattle country, fields of sunflowers, golden grain and emerald alfalfa bask in the sun. This iswhere lawmen like Wyatt Earp and Bat Masterson and saloon-rowdy gunslingers once roamed. There seems to be little that is not touched in some way by the cattle industry. Indeed, Garden City is part of a golden triangle for the beef industry that includes Dodge City and Liberal, 70 miles south of Garden City. Until the ConAgra plant closed, the meat-packing industry in the three cities cleared about 20,000 head of cattle a day, officials said.
Despite the loss of ConAgra, Garden City still claims as its own what officials say is the largest beef packing plant in the world, IBP, although it is three miles west in Holcomb. Despite its size, that plant can absorb only so many workers.
Most laid-off ConAgra employees spend their days filling out job applications. Jorge Perez, 38, knows the routine. Mr. Perez, a father of two, said he had held a variety of jobs doing "everything, construction, whatever" since the plant closed.
Working at a meat packing plant is not easy. The industry has long been criticized for hazardous conditions. Some workers, wielding sharp knives in close quarters under pressure to be fast, have lost fingers and limbs or worse. But the wages and benefits have great appeal, many here say, especially among people with little formal education.
Officials at the ConAgra Agri-Products Company, which is based in Greeley, Colo., and is a unit of Con Agra Foods Inc., concede that the company has been slow in deciding whether it will rebuild the Garden City plant.
"We realize that the decision making process has taken longer than anticipated," said Karen Lynn, a company spokeswoman, who added that ConAgra had not received a settlement from an insurance claim on the fire, which the authorities said was caused by spontaneous combustion.
A network of local churches and charities is trying to help those out of work. The Salvation Army has spent more than $45,000 subsidizing rent and helping to pay utility bills. It has also provided about 350 families with food, Mr. Frost said. The United Methodist Mexican American Ministries in Garden City has spent $65,000 on rent and mortgage subsidies for ConAgra families, Penny Schwab, the director, said. And at Emmaus House, more than 180,000 meals have been served to families in the first six months of the year. Emmaus House served 111,000 all of last year.
Since the closing, about 20 percent of the Garden City workers have been hired by ConAgra plants in other cities, including Grand Island, Neb., and Dumas, though Garden City officials and former workers say many have returned here, unable to find housing or reluctant to uproot their families.
"We're mad and sad," said Ms. Aniles, the mother who is still looking for work. "We're mad because we don't have a job. We're sad because we don't hear anything."

GRAPHIC: Photos: George Hopkins, left, an optometrist who is a volunteer at a clinic sponsored by the United Methodist Mexican American Ministries in Garden City, examined Jesus Garcia, a former ConAgra plant employee.; Jim Wharton, mayor of Garden City, Kan., at the ConAgra beef processing plant, which employed 2,300 people before a fire on Dec. 25 closed it. (Photographs by Steven Hausler for The New York Times) Map of Kansas highlights Garden City: Garden City was one corner of the beef industry's golden triangle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (91%); FAMILY (90%); BEEF (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); SEASONAL WORKERS (77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); CHRISTMAS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); CHILDREN (71%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (71%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); FOOD CHARITIES (67%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (65%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (52%) MEAT; FIRES AND FIREMEN; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS 

ORGANIZATION: THE SALVATION ARMY (54%) CONAGRA INC 

PERSON: FOUNTAIN, JOHN W 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) GARDEN CITY (KANSAS)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



243 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Corning and Alcatel Announce Large Cutbacks

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER with SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
Corning and Alcatel, two companies that had flourished in recent years making the building blocks of the communications industry, announced severe cutbacks yesterday, including plant closings, new layoffs totaling 3,500 workers and, in the case of Corning, the suspension of dividend payments.
 The actions came in response to a glut of installed fiber optic capacity and hundreds of millions of dollars of fiber optic equipment in warehouses that has not yet been sold. Corning executives said yesterday that most of its inventory would become obsolete before it could be sold. 
 The announcements are the latest examples of turmoil in the communications industry. A sharp decline in spending by start-up carriers, slowing spending by large established phone companies and a drought in financing for expansion of existing networks have contributed to a reversal of the industry's fortunes in the last year. 
Corning, based in Corning, N.Y., is taking a $300 million second-quarter write-off for that excess inventory and writing off another $4.8 billion related to its acquisition of the Pirelli optical components business and the NetOptix business based in Natick, Mass. -- a plant that is now being closed. In addition, Corning is closing two other plants, including one completed just a year ago in Benton Township, Pa., and one still under construction in Nashua, N.H.
As John Loose, the chief executive of Corning, said in a conference call after the markets closed yesterday, "Last December, we were planning and budgeting for a very different world than the one that confronts us today."
In addition to the $5.1 billion in second-quarter charges, Corning executives said the company would take a $300 million to $400 million charge in the third quarter, most of it related to the layoff of 1,000 workers. The company is also eliminating dividend payments on its common stock from the third quarter onward.
Standard & Poor's, the credit rating agency, lowered Corning's corporate credit rating yesterday by one notch, to A-/A-2, from A/A-1, and Moody's Investors Service put the company's debt under review for a possible downgrade.
Alcatel, whose main North American site is in Plano, Tex., announced yesterday that it would lay off 2,500 of its workers in this country, or one-sixth of its work force in the United States. The announcement comes after Alcatel's failed effort to acquire another ailing communications equipment company, Lucent Technologies, in May.
Serge Tchuruk, Alcatel's chief executive, said last month that the company planned to sell most of its factories to cut costs. Alcatel, which is based in Paris, has already cut 2,000 jobs in the United States this year. The company has also offered buyouts to 9,000 employees in the United States.
Mr. Loose of Corning said he did not except the United States economy to rebound before the end of this year, at the earliest. The telecommunications business, he said, would lag the rest of the economy, and would turn around no earlier than a year to 18 months from now.
Shares of Corning closed at $15.10, down 3 cents, but dropped below $14.40 in after-hours trading. American depository receipts of Alcatel closed at $16.25, down 27 cents. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); GLASS MFG (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); FIBER OPTICS (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (85%); CREDIT BUREAUS (85%); PRESSED & BLOWN GLASSWARE MFG (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); DIVIDENDS (77%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (76%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (76%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); COMMON STOCK (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); CREDIT 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (85%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%)

ORGANIZATION: ALCATEL SA; CORNING INC; STANDARD & POOR'S CORP 

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (85%); ALU (NYSE) (85%); ALU (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (85%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (85%) SIC3229 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS; 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY; ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHUA, NH, USA (54%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



244 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Cities and Their Suburbs Are Seen Growing as Units 

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 9 

 BODY:
The vast majority of new jobs and economic wealth created in the United States over the past decade were generated within metropolitan areas, a new analysis for the nation's mayors shows. 
 Cities have long been home to industries that fueled the nation's economic growth, from automobiles to computers. But urban cores combined with suburbs have formed world-class metropolitan regions that accounted for more than 80 percent of the country's growth in income, employment and production of goods and services during the 1990's, the study says. 
 Were the New York metropolitan area a country, its $437.8 billion economy would rank 14th in the world, just behind South Korea, but ahead of Australia and Taiwan, says the report to the United States Conference of Mayors, which is to be released here on Tuesday. 
Still seeking to shake the stigma of urban decay or suburban sprawl, cities and adjacent counties are mounting a campaign backed by the nation's mayors to pressure state and federal governments to invest more resources into metropolitan areas that city leaders say are driving the nation's economy.
"The challenge is getting everyone to understand the interdependency between cities and suburbs," Mayor Marc H. Morial of New Orleans, the conference's president, said in a telephone interview. "We're not talking about regional government. That's where people get hung up." 
Beginning in September, Mr. Morial said he and other mayors would tour the cities to highlight the features, including a skilled work force, affordable housing, strong infrastructure and low crime rates, that they say make metropolitan areas economically competitive. 
The report underscores an urban renaissance under way in many of the country's major metropolitan areas. The nation's largest cities grew nearly twice as fast in the 1990's as in the 1980's, with three out of every four urban centers gaining population, analyses of the 2000 census figures show. In most cases, suburbs grew even faster than nearby cities. 
Just as governors have long promoted trade to build their state's economies, the nation's mayors and regional economic development boards are playing a more active role in the global economy. Denver has opened trade offices in London and in China. Akron, Ohio, has struck deals with three German machine companies that brought 70 new jobs to the region. 
In addition to New York, the metropolitan areas of Los Angeles-Long Beach, Calif. ($363.7 billion), and Chicago ($332.8 billion) would rank among the world's top 20 economies were they countries, according to the study. The New York region included New York City and some northern suburbs, but Nassau and Suffolk Counties and Newark were counted separately. 
The mayors' report, compiled by DRI-WEFA, an economic forecasting company in Lexington, Mass., computed the total value of goods and services produced in each of the nation's 319 largest metropolitan regions. 
The overall gross metropolitan product increased to $8.5 trillion in 2000 from $4.8 trillion in 1990, an average annual gain of 5.8 percent, the study said. The share of the nation's economic output produced in metro areas nudged up to 84.7 percent in 2000 from 84.3 percent in 1990, and the study's authors projected the share to reach nearly 87 percent by 2025. 
Of the 22.2 million jobs created in 1990's, 84 percent were generated in metropolitan areas. Last year, the average metropolitan area worker collected $38,000 in wages and benefits, compared with a nonmetropolitan area worker who earned $24,800. In a troubling sign, the income gap between metro and nonmetro workers has increased to $13,200 per worker from $4,600 in 1985. 
Urban analysts said the statistics illustrated the increasing interdependency of metropolitan economies as well as the sheer size of the economic output.
"This helps people think regionally, which is a more realistic measure," said Robert Lang, an urban analyst with the Fannie Mae Foundation, an independent research organization. "Economies don't stop at a city's edge." 
Indeed, the Fannie Mae Foundation recently released a list of 53 rapidly growing cities on the edge of larger cities, like Mesa, Ariz., and Arlington, Tex., that it called "boomburbs." 
But sprawl, congestion and declining schools have accompanied rapid economic growth, and the mayor's report called on state and federal officials to help address these problems. 
"The more successful these regions are, the more they're stuck in traffic, the more they're gobbling up open space, and the more disconnected the working poor are from jobs," said Bruce Katz, director of the Brookings Institution's Center on Urban and Metropolitan Policy.
Mr. Katz said that with the exception of places like Portland, Ore., and Minneapolis, most metropolitan areas do not have strong advocates in government. 
"Metropolitan areas are the step-children of American governance," said Mr. Katz. "These regions face enormous challenges and they don't have their own voice." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Marc Morial of the United States Conference of Mayors. (Associated Press) Chart: "PERSPECTIVE: If U.S. Metro Areas Were Countries..."A report for the United States Conference of Mayors found that the economy of the New York Metropolitan area, measured by its gross output of goods and services, would have been the 14th largest economy in the world in 2000. Here are the other countries and United States metropolitan areas that would make up the top 30: Chart lists gross product in billions for 1999 and 2000 for various countires and metro areas.(Source: DRI-WEFA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); CRIME RATES (70%); CENSUS (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%) URBAN AREAS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SUBURBS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (93%) UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS; DRI-WEFA 

PERSON: MORIAL, MARC (MAYOR); SCHMITT, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); AKRON, OH, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



245 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Bergen Officials Call for Ambitious Rail Service Expansion 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT HANLEY 

DATELINE: HACKENSACK, N.J., July 9 

 BODY:
Bergen County officials called today for creation of an expanded multibillion-dollar rail system that would include three new train lines in the county and links between them and three existing commuter lines.
 The county executive, William Schuber, said the broader, integrated network would include construction of the first new train stations in Bergen in 50 years. He said it would ease highway congestion, spur economic growth and provide the first rail links between communities in the western and eastern halves of the county and the Meadowlands sports complex in East Rutherford. 
 In a news conference here with the county's director of planning and economic development, Chester P. Mattson, and Assemblywoman Rose M. Heck, Republican of Lodi, Mr. Schuber called on state legislators and mayors in Bergen, New Jersey's most populous county, to join them in seeking approval of the plan. 
The system they outlined was basically identical to an expanded rail plan proposed for Bergen that New Jersey Transit, the state's mass transit agency, will hold public hearings on this week and next.
The main difference is the timetable. Mr. Schuber called for simultaneous creation of the three new lines and five transfer stations connecting them and existing lines. New Jersey Transit has not committed itself to anything so ambitious.
"The key to the economic future of both the Meadowlands and the county," Mr. Schuber said, "is the immediate and guaranteed investment in a comprehensive rail network plan -- not a piecemeal plan, not a single line today and hopes of something bigger tomorrow."
In an apparent effort to persuade local officials to prod New Jersey Transit, Mr. Schuber said the future of the county's economy could not be left "in the hands of others."
"We must take an active part in creating our own destiny," he said.
New Jersey Transit would not comment on the proposal. For now, the agency has not backed the construction of any of the three proposed new rail lines or any transfer stations linking them and existing lines.
The public hearings that are to begin Tuesday are the first phase of a study of the costs and the environmental impact of a broader system, and New Jersey Transit said it did not plan to endorse any segment of it until the study was done.
"Each line will be studied on its own, but in conjunction with the others," said an agency spokesman, Michael Klufas. He said the studies would include possible interconnections between new and old lines.
Mr. Schuber said his proposed system would cost several billion dollars and take at least 10 years to build. Mr. Klufas said projected costs would not be known until the studies were finished. The federal government would provide the bulk of the money for any expanded system, New Jersey Transit officials said.
The three proposed new lines once carried commuter trains but are used now only to haul freight.
One, the Northern Branch, would link the Englewood-Teaneck area with New Jersey Transit's main train terminal in Hoboken. Another, the New York, Susquehanna and Western, would run from Hawthorne in Passaic County through Bergen to Hoboken. Commuter service on both ended in 1966. Light rail lines similar to the new, trolley-like Hudson-Bergen line between Bayonne and Jersey City are proposed for both routes.
The third proposed line, the West Shore, would run from West Nyack, N.Y., in Rockland County, through eastern Bergen to Hoboken. Commuter trains last ran on it in 1959. 
Under Mr. Schuber's plan, the three lines would be linked to the county's three existing lines -- the Valley Line, the Bergen Line and the Main Line -- by new transfer stations built near track intersections in Hawthorne; East Rutherford, where the sports complex is situated; Hackensack, Ridgefield Park; and Fairview in the county's southeastern corner. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (92%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); TRAINS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); APPROVALS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (55%) RAILROADS 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT; SCHUBER, WILLIAM (COUNTY EXEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) BERGEN COUNTY (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



246 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 930 words

PERSON: Cheryl J. Hurley 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
The (Mostly Late) Greats, in New Circulation

BYLINE:  By ROBIN FINN 

 BODY:
THIS country does a crummy job as guardian of great books by its dead authors. Or it used to. Edmund Wilson voiced that criticism 40 years ago, crankily and accurately. And Cheryl J. Hurley, the blond-coiffed, high-heeled, ladies-who-lunch look-alike (the resemblance ends there) who is chief executive of the Library of America, is relieved that he did. 
 If not for him, she might have missed her life's calling, rescuing books as the head of a patriotic nonprofit publishing house that was created by a committee of scholars in 1979 and is still going gung-ho. It recently dusted off Longfellow's reputation after a half-century of neglect; it will sponsor a reading of maritime works July 17 at the South Street Seaport; and in September it will revive the writings of Dawn Powell, the urbane, underappreciated New York novelist whose prose packs Dorothy Parker pungency. 
 If not for Wilson, Ms. Hurley would be childless -- she calls the 124 omnibus volumes published during her 22-year tenure her children, remembers them in her will and hopes philanthropists with cash to burn are bitten by the book bug, too. For $50,000, a bookworm can adopt a volume in the Library of America series, guaranteeing that Frost or Fitzgerald (they're already sponsored) or Stowe, Steinbeck or Hammett (they're still available) remain in print in perpetuity. The Library of America doesn't just restore the country's literary heritage to print, it keeps it there.
"We're not only a publisher, we're a cultural institution," observes the impeccably groomed Ms. Hurley as a rosy flush -- she doesn't mean to brag, she's just convinced of her mission's virtues -- creeps upward from the lapels of her double-breasted jacket. "Who's looking after our literature, not just the greatest hits, but the shorter, earlier, quieter writings? To provide a comprehensive selection of an author's work, that's our passion and motivation," she recites, sounding zealous and then, after hearing of her interlocutor's ignorance about L.O.A., sounding miffed. "We've got to do a better job of getting the word out."
Ms. Hurley used to explain an author's eligibility for Library of America publication this way: he or she had to be great, American-born and dead. But when the Library of America found its own rule too fusty, it broke it: Vladimir Nabokov was included (Ms. Hurley considers "Lolita" the "quintessential American novel"), and so was Eudora Welty, the first living author to make the cut.
"She has been a great friend to us, and we wanted to do something to make her happy, and this did," Ms. Hurley says.
WHAT else makes the Library of America indispensable? Ms. Hurley jumps up and -- Want evidence? Here's evidence -- snatches several volumes from her shelves. She publishes the authentic version, be it the poetry of Frost or the elliptical prose of Faulkner, as the author intended it. Richard Wright's "Native Son" is the most dramatic case in point. It seems some passages packed a double whammy of provocation, racial and sexual, in the 1940's that prompted the Book-of-the-Month Club to delete them. "And the author agreed," she says sympathetically, "because he just wanted to get his book published and seen." But the two L.O.A. versions of Mr. Wright's works, early and late, are printed intact, just as he wrote them. If originality offends, so be it. It also sells, and garners front-list reviews. 
"We have to sell a lot of books in order to survive," notes Ms. Hurley, whose Ford Foundation and National Endowment for the Humanities seed money ran out decades ago. "But we have a higher purpose." Like bringing the observations of the Boston historian Francis Parkman out of terminal hibernation, which she calls "an important rescue." These days the budget is $7 million, with eight releases each year and annual sales of 250,000 units. It is, she says, a break-even pace, but she worries that only 40 of her titles have found sponsors. "Eight new orphans a year," she frets.
Although Ms. Hurley, 53, claims to love all her children equally, she admits to loving the early Henry James a tad more passionately. He monopolizes a dozen volumes of the black dust-jacketed series filling the built-in bookcases in her charming office (French doors, bay window) in a likewise charming 1905 Beaux-Arts building at 14 East 60th Street. Her favorite haunts, the Grolier Club and the Alliance Francaise, are nearby. Her Francophile leanings developed as contrast to the Pittsburgh suburbs where she grew up, with her nose in a book. She was thrilled that, as Wilson had hoped, the Editions de la Pleiade, a compendium of French classics, was agreed on as a model for L.O.A. She had read them while pursuing a master's degree in French at the University of Michigan.
Ms. Hurley, who lives in Manhattan and Bridgehampton with her husband, Kevin, an economist and hedge fund specialist, came to L.O.A. with zero publishing experience but ample connections after seven years at the Modern Language Association. Two decades after Wilson raised the alarm, Richard Poirer, Jason Epstein, Dan Aaron and Tom Tanselle, literary heavyweights all, accumulated $1.8 million in start-up grants, and Ms. Hurley was enlisted "to find the office space and buy the Xerox machine and all the rest."
"They did what any group of men does when they want something to happen: they hire a woman," she said. "For the first five years, we called this 'the project.' We didn't know what it would become; we just wanted to get some books out.
"By the way, please take a book when you leave," she suggests.
Old habits die hard.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cheryl J. Hurley (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); CHARITIES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); HARBORS & PORTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (56%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF AMERICA 

FINN, ROBIN; HURLEY, CHERYL J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines 

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



247 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: West Virginia Is Beset by Record Floods and Mudslides 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: MULLENS, W.Va., July 9 

 BODY:
Mud filled thousands of homes today and kept drivers stuck on mountain roads after flash floods washed through the narrow valleys of southern West Virginia, carrying off mobile homes and forcing residents to their rooftops.
 At least one person was killed in southern West Virginia as thunderstorms sped through the region on Sunday. Three people were killed in neighboring eastern Kentucky, more than two dozen families were evacuated in southwestern Virginia, and thousands lost power in West Virginia, Indiana, Ohio and North Carolina. 
 Officials said that as many as 3,000 homes had been damaged by water or mudslides and that some had been destroyed. State officials estimated damage was more than $20 million.
The police would not let anyone drive into Mullens today because so much mud filled the town after record flash flooding. Down the Guyandotte River, mud blocked the roads into the town of Pineville.
"I've been in some of these homes," said Lacy Wright Jr. "There's mud two feet thick. There's instances where they don't even know where their homes are."
Gov. Bob Wise, whose helicopter was used to lift people off roofs, declared a state of emergency in eight counties.
Flooding after heavy rain is routine in the region. Most homes, roads and railroad tracks are squeezed together along creeks and rivers at the bottom of narrow valleys.
Nearly eight inches of rain fell at Mullens, 55 miles south of Charleston, the National Weather Service said.
The Guyandotte peaked on Sunday at 18 feet in Pineville, passing the 1997 record of 17.7 feet. A flood gauge in Welch quit working when the Tug Fork River hit 17.8 feet, more than 4 feet above flood stage, the weather service said. 
The United States Geologic Survey said flooding on parts of the Guyandotte exceeded the 100-year flood level, the estimated maximum expected in such a period.
"It's never happened here like this," said Bill Wade, who is 82. "I saw a school bus completely covered in water. I saw a casket floating down the street. I saw motor homes and mobile homes floating in front of me."
Repeated storms from May 15 to June 11 caused millions of dollars in damage. Sixteen counties were eligible for federal disaster assistance from that flooding, including most of those flooded again on Sunday.
"I might leave now," said Doug Acord, 47, in Corinne, where the Guyandotte River normally is around 6 inches deep but ran about 20 feet deep on Sunday. "We just cleaned up a couple of months ago and now this is worse. I'm getting tired of this."
The region's employment and population have plunged in the past 10 years, partly because new machinery has meant fewer people are needed to work in the coal mines that dominate the economy.
Wyoming County has lost 11 percent of its population since 1990 and now has 25,708 residents, according to the last census. McDowell County has lost 22 percent. McDowell's unemployment rate was 7.9 percent in May and Wyoming's was 6.4 percent, compared to a state rate of 5.1 percent. Many of those who remain in the area are elderly.
In the McDowell County town of Kimball, stores were covered with mud, windows were broken and wooden fronts were caved in.
"We're just completely in shock. This whole town is gone," said Donna Gianato, 36, who operates Gianato Hardware with her husband.
Asked if his town would rebuild, Mayor Jack Premo of Kimball said: "I would put a big question mark beside that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nearly eight inches of rain on Sunday swelled rivers in parts of southern West Virginia to record levels, contributing to mudslides and leading to damage of as many as 3,000 homes. Sam Lilly Jr. reviewed the damage yesterday to his parents' property in Glen Ferris. (Chip Ellis/Charleston Daily Mail, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (91%); FLOODS & FLOODING (91%); LANDSLIDES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RIVERS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%); COAL MINING (50%) WEATHER; FLOODS 

PERSON: WISE, BOB (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (79%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) WEST VIRGINIA

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



248 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 82 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing United Nations: Program For Iraq Extended Unchanged 

BYLINE:  By Barbara Crossette (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Iraq formally agreed to a five-month extension of the existing "oil for food" program after the United States and Britain were blocked by Russia from making the program more generous for the civilian population while tightening controls on Iraqi smuggling outside United Nations supervision. Iraq, which stopped exporting oil in early June to protest possible changes in the program -- but failed to push oil prices way up -- may resume exports in a matter of days. Barbara Crossette (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (86%); OIL & GAS PRICES (85%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (85%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) IRAQ; RUSSIA; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



249 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1684 words

HEADLINE: Decaying Depots On the Tracks to Freedom; 
New Interest in the Underground Railroad Inspires an Effort to Preserve Its Landmarks

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

DATELINE: BUFFALO 

 BODY:
In a bathroom stall in the basement of the oldest black church here, Bishop William Henderson pulls away a framed poster and pokes his head into a dank, musty hole, revealing a crawl space. He breathes in the air and pulls out the history.
 "The slaves they brought in here were the weakest," the bishop said, beginning a walk though the Underground Railroad past of the Michigan Street Baptist Church. "They would hide them from the bounty hunters here. There was a false wall here they could remove. They would feed them and clothe them. I can still feel the spirit of the whole thing. I can still feel it." 
 Like many of the remaining vestiges of the Underground Railroad, a clandestine network of safe houses and trails that helped slaves flee the South before the Civil War, the church is awash in history and one step away from ruin. It has a sagging roof that is a heavy snowfall away from collapse, a crumbling facade and a dwindling congregation of 25 people who are struggling to raise the $2.5 million needed for a renovation. 
Now, after more than a decade of quiet progress by dozens of historians and researchers in identifying and verifying sites on the Underground Railroad, efforts are under way to save dozens of the sites, many of them, like the church, on the brink of being lost forever. What is not clear is how much money can be raised to save dozens of old buildings with a dramatic history that are, for the most part, modest, decaying structures.
The interest extends beyond New York, where 69 potential sites have been identified, to other states that played pivotal roles in the Underground Railroad, mostly in the North or along the Mason-Dixon line. The National Park Service has been at work for a decade on a project to determine the authenticity of sites. Last month it released a list of the first 10 that will be officially designated on a national "Network to Freedom" roster. 
Tours of locations have begun, and commissions are studying what to do with the sites, including the possibility of promoting them as tourist attractions.
In Cincinnati, the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center, a $102 million museum, is scheduled to open in 2004.
"The Underground Railroad seems to incite the imagination of people of all races," said Charles Blockson, a Temple University historian who traces his interest in the subject to his grandfather's singing of spirituals depicting the flight of slaves. "It was a clandestine organization, and it conjures up images of soft knocks on doors, whispers, trapdoors. It rivals anything in a book by Agatha Christie or in James Bond. It has intrigue, suspense, heroes of all races. It is what I call an American epic to rival the civil rights movement."
Much of the effort is at the grass roots. Kevin E. Cottrell, an amateur historian and preservationist, is leading the effort to repair Michigan Street Baptist Church and make it the crown jewel in a revitalized African-American historic district. 
Residents of Fulton are rallying to save a house, scheduled for demolition, that once belonged to a noted abolitionist. Just before an old Syracuse church building was sold for conversion to a restaurant, conservators painstakingly cut out sculptures from a basement wall that are thought to be the work of escaping slaves who hid there. 
And in April, the city of Peekskill removed an abandoned building from the auction block after discovering evidence that it was a safe house for escaping slaves in the early 19th century. Community activists hope to make it a museum.
The very secrecy of the Underground Railroad -- slaves and those helping them risked prison or death if caught -- has proven an impediment to documenting or corroborating the history of some locations. Myth and legend are mixed with truth and reality; ties to the Underground Railroad are claimed for many an old farmhouse.
But little by little, historians both academic and amateur have made headway in the past decade in buttressing oral history passed down for generations, with diary entries, old newspaper accounts and letters found in historical and church archives.
"This interest is being generated by the public; we scholars are chasing this train to catch up," said Judy Wellman, a historian at the State University of New York College at Oswego. She has been active in researching and preserving sites, including the house scheduled to be torn down in Fulton, which once belonged to the abolitionist Charles Case.
One site on the National Park Service list is Murphy Orchards near Buffalo. It is a financially struggling apple farm, but on it is a barn with a subterranean room that historians believe harbored escaping slaves.
"I would hope that the prestige and credibility offered by being part of the Network to Freedom would inspire the community to do something to preserve what is here," said Carol Murphy, the owner of the farm, who allows Mr. Cottrell to conduct re-enactments of a slave hunt on it.
A New York State commission began work two years ago to establish a "freedom trail" of sites -- it is examining 69 so far -- related to the Underground Railroad and early African-American history in the state. The trail would include markers at key sites, and commission members hope that they would be promoted as tourist stops. The commission is also writing a fourth-grade curriculum on the Underground Railroad for use in schools.
(The New Jersey Historical Commission expects to issue a report this summer on Underground Railroad sites, and on efforts to preserve them.)
Separately, Assemblyman Arthur O. Eve, a Buffalo Democrat, has tried for the past few years to have Harriet Tubman honored by having the date of her death, March 10, designated a state holiday. Tubman, called the "Moses of her people" for her rescue of hundreds of slaves, lived in Auburn and is buried there; the black church that owns her farm there is seeking to raise $1.8 million to refurbish the buildings. The latest state holiday measure has passed in the Assembly and is awaiting action in the Senate, which has rejected previous measures.
Scholars say the renewed interest in the Underground Railroad can be traced to the civil rights movement, and to the subsequent burst in interest in African-American genealogy and history and in the Civil War era. At the same time, many communities are researching local history as part of a boom in heritage tourism.
Monroe Fordham, a history professor at Buffalo State College and editor of the journal Afro-Americans in New York Life and History, said he saw the interest in the Underground Railroad as an outgrowth of "the community or public history movement of the past three or four decades."
It has, he said, "helped to shift our attention to the histories of ordinary people, and heretofore overlooked groups and topics. That phenomenon has helped to make social history and related topics more attractive -- hence more attention to topics like reform movements, histories of women, ethnic groups, etc."
But preserving such history is still largely the province of local historical and preservation societies and grass-roots campaigners who are often short of cash. Gov. George E. Pataki recently announced that $1 million would go toward preserving historical sites, but people involved in restoration efforts say millions more would be needed to rehabilitate decrepit buildings and turn at least some into museums.
There have been some close calls. A few years ago, Douglas V. Armstrong, an archaeologist at the Maxwell School of Syracuse University, got a call about some interesting sculptures a developer planned to tear out of a basement wall in the Wesleyan Methodist Church building, which was being renovated. 
Mr. Armstrong found seven crude clay sculptures, depicting faces, etched onto the walls; historians, noting the abolitionist activity of the Syracuse church, surmised that they were made by escaping slaves. 
"Nobody has ever seen anything like it," Mr. Armstrong said. He added that the sculptures were removed two years ago for display at the Onondaga Historical Association. 
With the renewed interest has come some tension over how such a heritage should be honored. Preservationists and grass-roots historians, who have sought to preserve and restore original sites on shoestring budgets, sneer at such things as the money going to the Freedom Center, which endured some controversy for removing a slave pen from a Kentucky farm for its exhibition hall. 
The congregation at the Michigan Street church chafed at early plans to locate a museum in the basement, going so far as returning a state grant that was to have been used to help repair the church.
"I think the congregation felt things were slipping out of our hands," Bishop Henderson said. "Even though it is a historical landmark, we want to maintain it as a place of worship."
Bishop Henderson said the church eventually came around after plans for the basement museum were dropped. 
Many preservationists think that the key to ensuring the survival of treasured sites, particularly in economically depressed upstate cities, is to promote heritage tourism, which could bring fresh attention to long-overlooked history and help pay for the sites' upkeep.
Mr. Cottrell, who wears period dress and conducts tours of Underground Railroad sites, is a leader in the drive to recognize the Michigan Street church and other sites in New York. "A lot of these places are not on the beaten path," he said. "They don't have a docent. They don't have a gift shop. So the tourist bureaus say they are not marketable."
Some Underground Railroad sites, including the Michigan Street church, have landed on the National Register of Historic Places, making demolition difficult, if not impossible. The designation, however, does not ensure the sites will be well maintained or actively promoted.
Bishop Henderson, who opens Michigan Street Baptist for scheduled visits, said the church would be satisfied as long as the building is shored up and kept as a church.
"We don't want to see it collapse," he said. "It's vital. It's a living memorial. And it's a church."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, a student from Nyack, N.Y., snaps a photo of a space once used to hide escaped slaves in the Michigan Street Baptist Church in Buffalo, right.; Carol Murphy in the underground room at her orchard believed to have once harbored escaped slaves.; Kevin E. Cottrell wore period dress to give pupils a tour of the Michigan Street Baptist Church. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times) Chart: "History Preserved: The Underground Railroad"Some of the sites that may be included in a freedom trail. WESLEYAN METHODIST CHURCHA center of abolitionist activity; historians salvaged sculptures attributed to slaves. CHARLES CASE HOUSEFormer home of the noted abolitionist known to harbor slaves. JOHN BROWN'S HOMEThe home and burial place of the famous antislavery crusader. 1112 MAIN ST.Former home of the Greens, a black couple who aided escaping slaves. WEEKSVILLEA free black community, and a haven for black refugees. HARRIET TUBMAN MUSEUMNamed for the fugitive slave who led more than 300 slaves to freedom. MICHIGAN STREET BAPTIST CHURCHAn Under-ground Railroad stop, the last before Canada.(Source: New York State Freedom Trail commission report)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); HISTORY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); SLAVERY (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); NATIONAL PARKS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (62%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (62%) SLAVERY; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL UNDERGROUND RAILROAD FREEDOM CENTER 

PERSON: ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C 

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%) CINCINNATI (OHIO)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



250 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Pinochet Unfit for Trial, A Chilean Court Rules
An appeals court ruled that Gen. Augusto Pinochet, 85, is mentally unfit to stand trial on charges that he covered up the killings of political opponents by a death squad shortly after he seized power in Chile in 1973. Human rights lawyers plan to appeal. A1

Colombian Rebels Criticized
Human Rights Watch said the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, the largest rebel group, regularly violated noncombatants' rights by attacking civilians, kidnapping for ransom and recruiting children. A4

Mexico Pressed on Torture
Amnesty International, in a report to be published today, will urge President Vicente Fox to fulfill his promises to end the use of torture and the concocting of confessions by the police, and it will ask him to review cases it cites as prominent victims of trumped-up political charges. A4

Japan Firm on Textbooks
The government said it would order no further revisions of textbooks that many critics say whitewash Japan's record of imperial-era atrocities in East Asia. There were immediate protests in China and South Korea. A3

Indonesian Leader's Threat
President Abdurrahman Wahid said he would declare a state of emergency and call new elections unless Parliament dropped plans to begin proceedings to remove him from office. A8

Palestinian Homes Destroyed
Israeli crews demolished 14 homes at the edge of a Palestinian refugee camp in East Jerusalem. Mayor Ehud Olmert said the structures had been built without permits. A8

U.S. Rebuff on Small-Arms Pact
The Bush administration warned that it would not join a pact to curtail the international flow of illegal small arms if it infringed on the American right to own guns. A8

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A10-16

Pentagon to Seek Funds To Test Missile Defense
The Pentagon is preparing to ask Congress for money to build a missile defense test site in Alaska that could also become the command center for a working antimissile system as early as 2004, military officials said. If it became operational, the site would violate the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty. A1

Caution on Soft-Money Bill
Sponsors of legislation to rewrite campaign finance laws said they were uncertain that they could hold together a House coalition to pass a ban on unlimited, unregulated political donations. Debate begins today. A1

Bush Appeal on Patients' Bill
President Bush urged Congress to pass a patients' rights bill that addressed his concern for limiting lawsuits, portraying himself as a proponent of -- not an obstacle to -- legislation most Americans support. A14

California Power Talks Fail
A federal mediator ended two weeks of negotiations about California's demands for electricity refunds, with the state and power suppliers seemingly no closer to a settlement than when the talks began. The talks' failure shifts the burden of resolving the yearlong dispute to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. A14

Urban Economic Engines
The vast majority of jobs and economic wealth created in the United States in the past decade were generated within metropolitan areas, an analysis for the nation's mayors shows. Were the New York metropolitan area a country, its $437.8 billion economy would rank 14th in the world, just behind South Korea, but ahead of Australia and Taiwan. A10

Hearing for Ex-Klansman
A judge in Birmingham, Ala., confronted with conflicting psychiatric evaluations, began hearing evidence on whether Bobby Frank Cherry, 71, a former Ku Klux Klansman, is competent to stand trial as the final defendant in the 1963 church bombing that killed four black girls. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Staten Island Power Plant Can Operate, Judge Rules
A state judge in Staten Island refused to halt operation of a new minipower plant in the borough, ensuring that the generator and nine others central to a Pataki administration plan to avoid summer blackouts in New York City would be used, at least for now. A state appeals court is still to rule on whether the New York Power Authority skirted its own requirements in building the plants. B1

Medical License Regained
Dr. Steven J. Bier, the owner of a Bronx radiology clinic who was accused of failing to diagnose breast cancer because of faulty tests, regained his license in a settlement of state charges, but he must undergo retraining before practicing mammography again. Retesting has found cancer in 25 of his patients. B3

ARTS E1-10

SCIENCE TIMES F1-12

Genome Effort Gets a Customer
Celera Genomics said it had signed an agreement with the National Cancer Institute that would give the institute's researchers access to Celera's genome database. The institute is part of the publicly financed consortium that is Celera's rival in the race to decode the human genome. A13

Health & Fitness F7

FASHION B7

OBITUARIES A17

SPORTS D1-8

Ivanisevic Prevails
Goran Ivanisevic, the wild-card entry from Croatia, beat Patrick Rafter of Australia, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3, 2-6,
9-7, in the men's Wimbledon final. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Online Grocer Shuts Down
Webvan, which epitomized the buoyant optimism that the Internet could revolutionize even the most entrenched industries, closed after spending nearly all the $1.2 billion put up by investors, saying it would seek bankruptcy protection. A1

Time Executive to Lead CNN
Walter Isaacson, 49, the editorial director of Time Inc. and a former managing editor of Time magazine, was named to succeed Tom Johnson, who resigned two weeks ago as chairman and chief executive of CNN, which is battling Fox News Channel, MSNBC and CNBC. C1

Assessing Proposed Cable Deal
AT&T cable subscribers would probably see a more efficient operation if Comcast acquired AT&T's cable operation, analysts said, though that efficiency might not translate into lower prices or better programming. C1

Comcast shares dropped 7 percent, to $39.30, as investors absorbed the company's unsolicited $44.5 billion offer for AT&T's cable business. C4

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Reform's "killer amendments"; welcome to New York, Mr. President; legalizing abuses in Colombia.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); TORTURE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); LEGISLATION (87%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (85%); FALSE IMPRISONMENT (78%); APPEALS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (76%); LAWYERS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (73%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (72%); REFUGEES (72%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (57%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (57%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (57%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); EHUD OLMERT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) COLOMBIA (94%); CHILE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (79%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); CHINA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



251 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1949 words

HEADLINE: A Ravaged Musical Prodigy At a Crossroads With Drugs 

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
The judge in State Supreme Court in Manhattan stared sternly through her glasses at the defendant, whose body trembled. "You have been around this planet for a long time, and you've been using drugs for a fairly substantial amount of time as well," she said. "What I want is for you to go and get some help with this problem."
 She was giving Gil Scott-Heron a choice. He could go into a lengthy drug rehabilitation program. Or he could go to state prison. 
 Mr. Scott-Heron, the musician, writer, spoken-word poet and activist whose politically pointed lyrics in the 1970's helped give rise to rap, reached a crossroads on July 2. After years of reports about his drug use, and after 10 days in jail, the gaunt 52-year-old pleaded guilty to felony possession of cocaine, and agreed to enter a residential treatment program in September. 
In return, Mr. Scott-Heron, the onetime prodigy whose albums full of anthems about race, economics, love and addiction have found fans across several generations, was allowed to leave the country for a European tour that was already supposed to have been under way.
That moment of courtroom reckoning has inspired dismay among friends who see him as a victim of punitive drug laws, and hope among others who want him to get help, but little surprise. Mr. Scott-Heron has always denied having a drug habit, and continues to do so, adamantly. "Most of the people who comment, I've never smoked a joint with," he said. But friends, relatives, fans and professional associates have concluded differently. Cocaine, they believe, particularly crack cocaine, has had him in its grip for years.
His body, if nothing else, would seem to give him away. His cheeks are sunken, many of his teeth gone, his physique emaciated, his deep, rumbling voice sometimes slurring into unintelligibility. A reviewer described him as "a raggedy old man." A fan wrote on the Internet last week: "Life, and the elements within, has beat the brother down pretty bad, as many of you who have seen him perform recently will attest."
Mr. Scott-Heron is certainly not the only famous person to battle addiction, or even the best known. His case, like that of Robert Downey Jr. or Darryl Strawberry, shows how fame adds an excruciating public cast to private disintegration, but also how it can insulate a person against the worst consequences of his habit. Drug user or not, Mr. Scott-Heron is still a profitable commodity to many people, whether promoters, publishers or band mates, who know that to confront him about his drug use could mean losing his favor.
Mr. Scott-Heron said in an interview last week: "The people who have the most access to me -- people who I've played music with for 20 years -- the fact that they're still around, either they have the I.Q. of a plant or I don't have a problem." He pleaded guilty, he said, only because he had to keep his tour commitments: "I had to say what I had to say to go where I needed to go."
When he began his career with an explosive brilliance, there was no hint that a judge would be deciding his fate 30 years on. Born in Chicago, raised in Tennessee and New York, he won a scholarship through his writing to the prestigious Fieldston School in the Bronx. He went on to Lincoln University in Pennsylvania, and at 19, wrote his first novel. At 21, he released his first album, which included the iconic "The Revolution Will Not Be Televised." He was, wrote Nat Hentoff, the columnist, a "protean phenomenon."
He set angrily political poems about black pain and what he regarded as American hypocrisy to funk. He wrote of the race into space in "Whitey on the Moon":
A rat done bit my sister Nell.
(with Whitey on the moon)
Her face and arms began to swell.
(and Whitey's on the moon)
I can't pay no doctor bill.
(but Whitey's on the moon) . . . 
He penned lyrics about Watergate, illegal immigrants, and, in one of his biggest hits, "Johannesburg," apartheid. He rapped about Ronald Reagan in "Re-Ron."
And he empathetically addressed addiction's cost and chokehold. "You keep sayin' kick it, quit it, kick it quit it! God, did you ever try to turn your sick soul inside out so that the world could watch you die?" he wrote in "Home Is Where the Hatred Is."
People said hearing his music changed their lives. In 1975, he was the first artist signed to the Arista label, where he made 11 albums. He was seen as a legend in the making.
Today, although rappers like Chuck D of Public Enemy cite his early work as a major influence, he is seen as someone who did not make it as far as his talent merited. Many artists become less productive or reliable over time even without drugs, and many struggle with record labels, as Mr. Scott-Heron has. (He was abruptly dropped by Arista in 1985.)
But it seems likely that some of his promise was squandered through drugs. Since 1984 he has made only one new studio album, the 1994 "Spirits." He has continued to tour regularly, and sell out shows often, but also has earned a reputation for failing to show up for concerts. And he has been arrested on drug charges in England, Canada and Australia as well as New York.
"Has anyone seen Gil Scott-Heron?" one fan wrote on the Internet after Mr. Scott-Heron did not appear for a performance.
Another fan wrote, "This happens a lot when Gil is supposed to play," adding, "Go and see him before it's too late."
Still, Mr. Scott-Heron has maintained enough function, including writing a nonfiction manuscript that he says is 800 pages, to cite it as evidence that he is not a regular drug user. "It's hard to have a habit when you're working all the time," he said at the apartment in a drug-infested part of Harlem where he lives.
Prickly when the subject of drugs arises, he is otherwise charming and funny. An avid sports fan, he said of the Mets, "I think they're having a worse year than I am."
To his younger half brother, Denis Heron, that ability to get by is the problem. "I guess we were hoping he would hit bottom, and we could jump in," Mr. Heron said. "But he's a survivor. He's learned how to hover right above crashing."
The challenge that his situation has posed for his family, friends and the criminal justice system is whether, and how, to force help on someone who denies that he needs it.
"I sort of lost interest," said Mr. Heron, who barely sees his brother anymore, adding that he saw nothing to do "short of grabbing him and throwing him in a room and saying, 'One of us isn't walking out until we're both sober.' "
In the end, Justice Carol Berkman of State Supreme Court did resort to coercion -- threatening prison to force treatment.
"He didn't want to do this, he had to be pushed," said Mr. Scott-Heron's Legal Aid lawyer, Robert Kitson. "He had to be put in jail and threatened with the end of his tour before he went into rehab."
Outside the courtroom, the person pushing the hardest has been Mr. Scott-Heron's former girlfriend Monique de Latour. She has confronted his band mates for their failure to act. She has urged promoters not to book him, saying that supplying him with cash supported his habit. She has pressed prosecutors to put him in treatment. And on July 2, she faxed Justice Berkman a letter arguing for rehabilitation, not prison.
Many of Mr. Scott-Heron's friends see her as a woman scorned venting her fury. They say that she is trying to ruin his life, and that she has betrayed him by publicly discussing his drug use and helping ensnare him in the criminal justice system.
Ms. de Latour is "vicious and malicious," said Alistair Abrahams, Mr. Scott-Heron's manager in Europe, who was busy last week trying to reassemble the pieces of a tour. Mr. Scott-Heron said he had not seen Ms. de Latour in 18 months, and called her a "very unhappy woman."
Ms. de Latour, an artist whom Mr. Scott-Heron met in Australia in 1995, is undeterred. "If they want to blame me, that's fine, if it's going to get Gil some help," she said. His band mates "think he needs to be on stage, whatever it takes," she said. "My point is, he may drop dead next week, and then you won't have anyone to be on stage."
His band mates talk not about drugs, but about Mr. Scott-Heron's generosity. Larry McDonald, who plays in Mr. Scott-Heron's band, Amnesia Express, said, "No matter how people perceive someone with problems like this, he is one of the nicest people I've ever been around, and probably the closest I've come to working with true genius."
Mr. Scott-Heron's case poses a question: does friendship mean helping someone to live as he wishes or forcing him to live as he should? Some friends see drug use as a personal choice. "I think someone should be free to do to themselves what they wish," said Jamie Byng, publisher of Canongate Books, which is reissuing Mr. Scott-Heron's novels and poems in the United States. He blamed "the absurd war on drugs" for Mr. Scott-Heron's plight.
Mr. Scott-Heron's lawyer agreed, pointing out that his client now has a felony on his record for possessing 1.2 grams of cocaine.
Mr. Byng did say that he has so worried over Mr. Scott-Heron's health over the years that he feared getting a call saying he was dead. But, he and others said, it was not their problem to solve.
"I didn't realize that playing God was something I was supposed to do," said Larry Gold, the owner of S.O.B.'s, the club in Manhattan where Mr. Scott-Heron often plays.
Some argue that there has always been a connection between drugs and art. And some wonder how sobriety would affect Mr. Scott-Heron. "There's certainly the possibility that when somebody sobers up they're not as vital, not as creative, not as charismatic," said Anuj Desai, editor of Black Book magazine, which published a rhyming piece by Mr. Scott-Heron this month.
It is hard to assess Mr. Scott-Heron's creativity now, because so little of it has been made public of late. The manuscript of his latest book, "The Last Holiday," which he has been working on for at least eight years, has just been delivered to his publisher. It is his extended riff on a tour with Stevie Wonder in the early 1980's to help make the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday a national holiday.
The success of an 18-to-24-month rehabilitation program, the length the judge suggested, is hard to predict. Long-term treatment is considered the most effective, but coerced treatment has yielded mixed results.
Last week, Mr. Scott-Heron, overjoyed to be free, and free to tour, seemed unconcerned. In September, he said, he would try to convince the judge that she had been wrong about him. If not, he would agree to her conditions -- rehab or prison.
Asked if he had ever been in a program before, he replied, "I was on 'Saturday Night Live.' "

Life and Lyrics
From "Give Her a Call" on the "Spirits" album, 1994.
My life is one of movement
I been running as fast as I can
I've inherited trial and error directly from my old man
But I'm committed to the consequences
Whether I stand or fall
And when I get back to my life
I think I'm gonna give her a call
She's been waiting patiently
For me to get myself together
And it touches something deep inside
When she said she'd wait forever
Because forever's right up on me now
That is, if it ever comes at all
And when I'm back to my life
I think I'll give her a call.
From "Don't Give Up," same album.
It didn't matter whether it was a child or an adult
There was absolutely no one I could not insult
So that I could isolate myself somewhere off to the side
And continue to juggle all the possible whys
The warmth I want to generate so well
Turned into a frozen hell
And all of the discouraging injustices I felt
Pinned me somewhere inside a drug-infested self
Where those who told didn't know and those who knew didn't tell
And I could continue to feel sorry for myself. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gil Scott-Heron during an interview last week at his Harlem home. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Gil Scott-Heron at the Bottom Line in Greenwich Village in 1981. (Ebet Roberts)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); COCAINE (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); WRITERS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); FELONIES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (75%) MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE; FINES (PENALTIES); SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC 

PERSON: SCOTT-HERON, GIL; WALDMAN, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



252 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: Layoffs Planned By The Journal 

 BODY:
The Wall Street Journal is laying off 16 journalists from its staff of 636, most of them connected to the specialized coverage of small business and entrepreneurship, according to Steven Goldstein, a spokesman for Dow Jones & Company.
 The layoffs come as the newspaper, like the industry, continues to lose advertising; ad linage in The Journal through May is down 34 percent, compared with the first five months of 2000 -- a period that was near the peak of the advertising boom. 
 In a memo informing his staff of the layoffs, The Journal's managing editor, Paul E. Steiger, wrote that despite the layoffs, "We will aggressively pursue stories on small business from a wide range of beats and perspectives. We will continue regular weekly reports on economic and regulatory developments and trends affecting entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship. . . ."
Among those laid off were three editors and 12 reporters, three of these in New York and six others in national bureaus, including San Francisco, Chicago, Atlanta, Pittsburgh, Washington and Orlando.
Last fall, The Journal closed its four regional editions and laid off 20 people. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); WRITERS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); TRENDS (88%); PRINT ADVERTISING (87%) NEWSPAPERS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (93%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (93%)

ORGANIZATION: WALL STREET JOURNAL 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



253 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Autodesk Is Planning to Reacquire Its Spinoff, Buzzsaw.com

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 9 

 BODY:
Plucking its former spinoff from the shark-infested waters of Internet start-ups, Autodesk Inc. on Tuesday intends to announce that it will reacquire Buzzsaw.com, a provider of Internet services to help manage construction projects. The move comes less than two years after Autodesk sent the company out on its own.
 Autodesk, which makes software used in computer-assisted design work, said it would spend $15 million to buy the 60 percent of Buzzsaw shares it does not already own. The company said the acquisition would allow Autodesk to add as customers not only designers, but also the construction managers and workers who use designs. 
 The acquisition ends Buzzsaw's pursuit of an initial public offering. Autodesk, which had invested $22.5 million in Buzzsaw since spinning it off in November 1999, said the struggling capital market made it more sensible to buy Buzzsaw than to keep financing it.
"Autodesk has rescued its errant child," said David Metcalfe, an analyst with Forrester Research.
The acquisition is expected to close in August. Autodesk, which has a market capitalization of $1.82 billion, said it will not take a charge. In fact, the company increased its earnings forecast for the current quarter, saying that it no longer has to complete another planned investment in Buzzsaw.
Carol Bartz, chief executive and president of Autodesk, said she expected the company to report earnings of 44 to 54 cents a share, a 4 cent increase from her previous forecast.
Autodesk shares gained $1.06, or 3.1 percent, to close at $34.86. 
Buzzsaw's software allows construction companies to exchange documents over the Internet and to share those documents with subcontractors and architects, saving time and courier fees. It was financed by Crosspoint Venture Partners, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, Banc of America Securities and Impact Venture Partners.
Executives from the two companies said they entered the dot-com feeding frenzy to test Buzzsaw's business model and possibly land a lucrative initial public offering. Autodesk's headquarters are in San Rafael, Calif., a small city on the edge of Silicon Valley, but Buzzsaw set itself up in the heart of San Francisco.
"We did that on purpose, to put them right in the middle of dot-com mania and let them go," Ms. Bartz said. "The whole idea was to say: 'You are a different kind of company. You live and die by those rules.' "
Though Autodesk managed to survive by those rules, reporting sales of $5.3 million in its first year, the game around it changed. The well of money for public offerings dried up. But the executives said Buzzsaw is making strong headway, winning contracts to manage such large construction projects as the 110,000-square-foot Toys "R" Us scheduled to open in Times Square in September.
Carl Bass, chief executive of Buzzsaw, said the site has 125,000 users, who transfer as many as 75,000 files a day for construction projects.
"I'm more convinced than I was even two years ago that this is the model by which people will be exchanging documents, in this industry and others," said Mr. Bass, who will become an executive vice president when the acquisition is completed.
But the construction industry is adopting the changes much more slowly than many venture capitalists would like, said Mr. Metcalfe, the analyst. Financial expectations for technology companies exceeded the industry's willingness to adopt those technologies.
"They just threw too much in way too early and didn't let them form naturally," Mr. Metcalfe said.
Ms. Bartz said some potential customers had been scared away by concerns that Buzzsaw would close shop. The acquisition will allow Buzzsaw to use Autodesk's international sales force and more closely integrate its software with Autodesk's, she said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 11, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the plans of Autodesk Inc. to reacquire Buzzsaw.com, a provider of Internet services, misstated which company reported sales of $5.3 million in its first year. It was Buzzsaw, not Autodesk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); STARTUPS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); CONTRACT AWARDS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (76%); COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN (76%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: AUTODESK INC (96%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); CROSSPOINT VENTURE PARTNERS (53%); TOYS 'R' US INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AUTODESK INC; BUZZSAW.COM 

TICKER: ADSK (NASDAQ) (96%); MS (NYSE) (56%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (50%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (50%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: CAROL BARTZ (58%); CARL BASS (58%) GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (85%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



254 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Online Grocer Calls It Quits After Running Out of Money
Webvan, the online grocer that epitomized the buoyant optimism that the Internet could revolutionize even the most entrenched industries, closed and will seek bankruptcy protection.
 Webvan ran out of money before it could hope to turn a profit, burning through nearly all of the $1.2 billion put up by investors. Its search for a buyer or source of additional cash was fruitless. Page A1. 

Autodesk to Buy Back Buzzsaw.com
Autodesk intends to announce today that it will reacquire Buzzsaw.com, a provider of Internet services to help manage construction projects, less than two years after sending the company out on its own. Autodesk will spend $15 million to buy the 60 percent of Buzzsaw shares it does not already own. Its shares gained $1.06, to $34.86. C9.

Mars Is Expected to Buy Royal Canin
Mars, the pet food and candy company, is expected to announce today that it is buying part of Royal Canin, the French pet food maker, according to executives close to the deal. C7.

Aventis Ready to Sell CropScience
Aventis has entered into exclusive negotiations to sell its agrochemicals business to Bayer for $3.4 billion plus the assumption of $1.7 billion in debt. Obstacles complicate such a deal, including the fact that Schering owns 24 percent of the unit, called CropScience. C11.

Survey About Accountability Online
The first major study of public attitudes about accountability online, to be released today by the Markle Foundation, found that Americans would like to have significantly more input into the rules that govern the Internet. The report found that 63 percent of American adults go online, up from 39 percent in 1998. C9.

Key Stock Gauges Gain Modestly
Stocks gained modestly because of bargain hunting and news of an unsolicited bid for AT&T's cable TV business. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 46.72 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,299.40. The Nasdaq composite index rose 22.55 points, or 1.1 percent, to 2,026.71, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 8.19 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,198.78. C11.

It's About Timing for Ad Campaign
As interest in trading stocks is waning, Brokerage America, a new online brokerage firm, has started a $7 million advertising campaign. The timing of the campaign, by a New York agency named Dirty Water Integrated, is either as smart as selling the Nasdaq short when it reached 5,000 or as foolish as buying shares of Pets.com as they kept falling. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C6.

I.M.F. Warning on Asian Recovery
Stanley Fischer, a senior official for the International Monetary Fund, warned that the structural reforms demanded by Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan could undermine long-term regional efforts to recover from the economic crisis of 1997 and 1998. World Business, Section W.

Consumers Slow Pace of Borrowing
Consumer credit rose a seasonally adjusted $6.5 billion in May -- a 4.9 percent annual rate, the Federal Reserve reported, much less than expected. Consumers, worried about their jobs in the face of layoffs, borrowed money at the slowest pace in the last 19 months. C7.

Cutbacks for Corning and Alcatel
Corning and Alcatel, which had flourished in recent years making the building blocks of the communications industry, announced severe cutbacks, including plant closings and new layoffs totaling 3,500 workers. Corning also suspended dividend payments. C9.

Cathay Pacific Fires 49 Pilots
A labor dispute abruptly escalated in Hong Kong as Cathay Pacific Airways dismissed 49 pilots a week after the pilots' union began a work slowdown against the carrier. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart shows Autodesk's stock progress since last Monday. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,299.40 up 46.72Nasdaq composite -- 2,026.71 up 22.5510-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.34% down 0.02The euro -- $0.8478 up 0.0001The dollar -- 125.45 yen down 0.40

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (90%); PET FOODS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (85%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (84%); ONLINE TRADING (79%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); PET FOOD MFG (68%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (68%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS MFG (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (55%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (51%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AUTODESK INC (84%); ROYAL CANIN SA (56%); SANOFI SA (55%); IPET HOLDINGS INC (51%)

TICKER: ADSK (NASDAQ) (84%); SNY (NYSE) (55%); SANF (BIT) (55%); SAN (PAR) (55%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2047 DOG & CAT FOOD (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



255 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs; 
Policy by Obituary

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Let's do a quick test. I'll mention a name and you tell me what comes to mind. Ready? Secretary of State Colin Powell . . . Quick -- what comes to mind? Well, actually nothing.
 Now the fact that Mr. Powell's tenure so far doesn't conjure up anything doesn't make him a failure as secretary of state. It's way, way too early for such judgments. Sometimes the best policies involve doing nothing, because there's nothing to be done. But there are two basic ways to do nothing. One is to rely on biology, the other is to rely on creative diplomacy, and for now the Bush foreign policy is more biology than diplomacy. 
 A biological foreign policy means that you have run out of ideas or political room to maneuver for how to deal with a certain foreign leader, so your whole approach is waiting for that leader to die. Biology!
The most obvious case of biology in U.S. foreign policy today is Cuba, where nine U.S. presidents have been boycotting the country and waiting for Fidel Castro to die. But the fact is, the Bush foreign policy is also to wait for Saddam Hussein, Yasir Arafat and Kim Jong Il, the leader of North Korea, to die and be replaced by more pragmatic figures.
One problem with a biological foreign policy is that bad guys can live long: Mr. Castro is said to have given up smoking cigars and is eating yogurt; Mr. Arafat takes regular naps and puts only honey on his cereal. Another problem with biology as foreign policy is that it enables these leaders to divert attention easily from their actions to ours. So the U.S. is blamed for starvation in Iraq, lack of development in Cuba or the breakdown of Israeli-Palestinian peace. 
If the Bush team prefers to do nothing in certain places, let's at least do nothing creatively, so the pressures are on the rogues, not us.
On Iraq, let's stop messing around with "smart sanctions" designed to let more goods into Iraq while weeding out military items. The states surrounding Iraq that would have to impose such smart sanctions have no economic incentive to do so. And the Arab world wouldn't give America any more credit for smart sanctions than dumb ones. It's a half-measure. If we're not going to go to war against Saddam, let's at least put a serious offer on the table that puts all the focus on him: let's offer Iraq full diplomatic relations with the U.S. in return for full intrusive U.S. inspections of Iraq's weapons facilities.
The real issue is weapons inspections, and it has gotten totally and dangerously lost. If we are just going to wait for Saddam to die, let's at least create a context in which all the world sees that it is his insistence on developing and hoarding weapons of mass destruction that is the problem.
On the Arab-Israel front, a great power like the U.S. does not belong arranging cease-fires. This has allowed Mr. Arafat to turn everyone's attention away from the fact that he rejected a peace plan put forward by the Clintonites that offered Palestinians 95 percent of what they wanted. The Bushies should say to Mr. Arafat that the U.S. will get re-engaged if he accepts the Clinton plan, or a Bush adaptation of it. The focus should not be on whether Mr. Powell is serious about mediating but on whether Mr. Arafat is serious about a deal.
On Cuba, we should long ago have lifted the embargo so Cubans could see that the reason their economy is so backward is not because of the U.S. blockade but because of Mr. Castro's idiotic Marxism. On North Korea, the Bushies have raised the bar so high in their talks with Kim Jong Il -- to restrict his missile production -- that it appears they don't really want a deal and are just waiting for him to die. Mr. Kim can export a lot of missiles while we wait for him to die. 
The one area where the U.S. did not rely on biology -- but on force, incentives and creative diplomacy -- was in Serbia. There we created a context where all the focus was on whether the Serbian people would allow Slobodan Milosevic to be their leader. Slobo wanted to make us the issue, and we made him the issue.
The U.S. can't choose the leaders of Cuba, Serbia, North Korea, Iraq or Palestine, but we can do more than wait for them to die. We can create a context that puts greater pressure on these leaders to make better choices, a context that puts all the blame on them, not us, if they don't and a context that may not solve any of these problems but at least strengthens us with our allies and the people in these countries. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (94%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); BOYCOTTS (73%); STARVATION (72%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (71%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (87%); FIDEL CASTRO (71%); KIM JONG IL (58%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (53%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); KIM JONG IL; ARAFAT, YASIR 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) CUBA; IRAQ; ISRAEL; NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



256 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Effects of the Tax Cut 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Missing from Paul Krugman's assessment of the budget predicament produced by President Bush's oversize tax cut (column, July 6) is the impact of the impending shortfall on average, struggling Americans.
 Disproportionately, Americans with disabilities (about one-fifth of the population) are below the poverty line, are not working, lack adequate health insurance and are the first to feel the impact of economic downturns because we tend to rely heavily on government spending to survive. 
 As Congress and the administration get out their budget-cutting axes, we see the likely impact: more homeless people on the streets, Social Security privatization proposals that will lower monthly benefit checks, draconian welfare reform proposals and inadequate federal support for critical investments like special education, affordable housing, accessible transportation, assistive technology, vocational rehabilitation and home and community-based long-term care. 

ANDREW J. IMPARATO
President, American Association
of People With Disabilities
Washington, July 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); BUDGET CUTS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (87%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (87%); PROSTHETIC & ASSISTIVE DEVICES (87%); POOR POPULATION (87%); DISABLED PERSONS (87%); PRIVATIZATION (87%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); HOMELESSNESS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%) HANDICAPPED; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSN OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); PAUL KRUGMAN (88%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); IMPARATO, ANDREW J; KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



257 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: If Comcast Buys AT&T Cable, Efficiency Is Likely to Improve 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
AT&T cable subscribers would probably see a more efficient operation if Comcast acquires AT&T's cable operation, analysts said yesterday. But those efficiencies might not translate into lower prices or enhanced programming.
 The combination would create the nation's largest cable-television outfit, reaching about 22 million subscribers. The companies now have little geographic overlap. Comcast is strong in the mid-Atlantic region, while AT&T's cable operations are spread across the country, with a big presence in cities like Denver and Dallas. 
 Comcast is considered to be at the technological forefront of the cable industry and is expected to bring the other service in line if the deal is done. AT&T has been criticized for failing to bring the cable systems it acquired from companies like Media One and TCI up to the same level as competitors. 
In an interview yesterday, Comcast's president, Brian Roberts, emphasized his company's operating margins and its long history in the cable business.
"Consumers will benefit from a golden age of new products we'll introduce, from video on demand to television commerce," Mr. Roberts said.
AT&T's investors welcomed the offer, pushing the stock up nearly 12 percent, while Comcast's stock fell 7 percent on concerns about the price tag -- $44.5 billion plus the assumption of $13.5 billion in debt.
Some analysts expect that a larger Comcast will have greater economies of scale, enabling it to purchase equipment and services at lower prices.
In theory, these price efficiencies could be passed to consumers. Consumers could also gain access to a wider variety of programming, albeit it at Comcast's choosing, and find problems like billing discrepancies kept to a minimum.
But the real impact is anything but clear. Comcast could wield considerable influence over the cable-television industry on matters like operating software, set-top boxes and, especially, programming. 
Comcast, which controls most of the rights to programming from Philadelphia's sports teams, has used political influence and legal arguments to keep competitors at arm's length there, according to Jeff Chester of the Center for Digital Democracy in Washington. 
When satellite broadcasters sought to enter the Philadelphia market, Comcast refused to provide them with broadcasting rights for local sports games, citing a law that prohibits such programming from being transmitted by satellite, said Pantelis Michalopoulos, a lawyer who represented EchoStar, one of the satellite companies affected.
"If a behemoth controlling 30 percent of the cable market is created, the impact on consumers would be severe," Mr. Michalopoulos said.
A person close to Comcast's dealings in Philadelphia said the company's commitment to wire every home, in poor as well as rich neighborhoods, helped to influence city officials in their decisions to limit competitors' access. And Comcast's dealings with satellite companies in Philadelphia is limited to that city, the person said, citing agreements to provide programming to satellite broadcasters in other cities.
Some analysts expect consumers will wind up paying more.
"As in other big deals, consumers will pay for the premium Comcast is offering to buy AT&T Broadband," Mr. Chester warned. "Who else will foot the bill?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); BROADBAND (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (78%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (78%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); CITIES (70%); SPORTS (66%); NEW PRODUCTS (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION (66%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (61%) TELEVISION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TELEVISION AND RADIO PROGRAMMING 

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP (95%); AT&T INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP; COMCAST CORP 

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (95%); CCV (NYSE) (95%); T (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%) SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TV SERVICES; SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: BRIAN L ROBERTS (85%) ROMERO, SIMON; ROBERTS, BRIAN L 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



258 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: Bush Seems to Ease His Stance On the Accountability of Schools 

BYLINE:  By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 9 

 BODY:
With a joint committee yet to tackle differences in the House and Senate education bills requiring annual nationwide testing of public school students, the White House appears to be favoring the Senate's weaker demands for state accountability for educating poor, black and Hispanic children. 
 As governor of Texas and candidate for president, George W. Bush touted his success in raising educational achievement for all groups of students in Texas. A key to that effort was the state's practice of not only reporting test scores by race, ethnicity and poverty level, but also penalizing schools in which initially one quarter, and eventually half, of all students in each subgroup did not reach proficiency. 
 The House education bill adopted Texas's insistence on mastery of the basics of reading and writing by all groups. It leaves states to define the minimum that children need to know, but outdoes Texas in toughness by requiring all children in each subgroup to reach mastery in a dozen years, a goal the White House now deems impossible. 
A Senate version of the education bill, which the White House favors, backs away from such strict accountability. It allows states to report achievement as an average of the scores among all groups, weighting for some groups of students more than others. Critics contend that the Senate version would allow states to avoid penalties if, say, middle-class white students do very well while minority children lag far behind. 
Sandy Kress, the White House's educational adviser, denied that Mr. Bush had moderated his stand on the importance of reporting test scores by racial and economic groups.
"The president did believe and still does believe that data should be disaggregated," Mr. Kress said. But he said the administration wanted a law that would spur improvement without labeling all schools as failures, as he contended the House bill would do.
Critics, however, accuse Mr. Bush of caving in to political pressures from states wary of the tougher standards, and they note that some 22 Republican governors face re-election battles next year.
In their broad outlines, the education bills agree on annual testing in reading and math for all children in grades three to eight, and on imposing penalties that could include shutting down schools that fail to educate children year after year and reopening them under new leadership.
But education experts from both the right and left are warning that Washington's ability to deliver on the promise of President Bush's ambitiously named blueprint, "No Child Left Behind," will hinge on upcoming negotiations over questions initially set aside to propel the education bill's swift passage. 
They include where states should set the bar for student achievement and what kind of progress is "adequate." How much time should schools have to show improvement, particularly for poor, black and Hispanic students? Who will pay for the new testing and reporting regimes? 
With conference committee members yet to be named, the Democratic leadership in the Senate appears to be cooling its collective heels, awaiting some commitment on spending from the administration. Mr. Bush's plan increased the education budget to $19 billion from $18.3 billion, but the House is seeking $23 billion, and the Senate $31.3 billion. Some here predict nothing will leave the conference committee until after the appropriations process in September.
"It makes a lot of sense for the Democrats to just sort of let it sit," said David L. Shreve, senior committee director of the National Conference of State Legislators. 
The president, for his part, needs to start the clock ticking on school accountability if he plans to show results by the 2004 elections. In an apparent bid to kick-start the conference committee's work, at a Rose Garden ceremony this morning, he urged Congress to deliver an education bill to his desk before its August recess. 
When Mr. Bush unveiled his plan in January, it spoke of tests that would measure the "adequate yearly progress" of all students, regardless of race, ethnicity or economic status. The plan continued to allow states to define proficiency, as either mastery of a given body of knowledge or as a measure of a child's performance relative to the average of others taking the test. But the plan said a federal test, the National Assessment of Educational Progress, would be used to confirm the state results.
Under the House bill, states would have 12 years to raise all students to proficiency in reading and math, and they could face cutbacks in federal aid or even school closures long before then if students are not on track to reach those goals. Under both bills, states would have to break out scores by gender and for students with limited English, as well as by ethnicity, race and poverty.
The Senate requires proficiency in 10 years, but only holds states accountable for a composite score averaging different racial, ethnic and economic groups. States may weight scores of the group showing the most progress and the one that performs worst, although the bill does not say by how much. The Senate would require each group of students to improve at least 1 percent a year -- a dubious goal, given the variability of test scores.
While the House bill specifies that states must measure proficiency in specific skills by grade level, the Senate allows states to continue using tests that measure progress in relation to the performance of other students, as a handful now do. 
Critics say the Senate's complicated formula for reporting scores and determining penalties will frustrate parents and students who could use clearer information to demand change. 
"There's more room for game-playing," said Amy T. Wilkins, education policy analyst at the Education Trust, a nonprofit group that lobbies for schools in poor districts. "Because what you have to do is meet a composite score, you could get a lot of gain from your white kids and a little gain from black and Latino kids, and still be O.K."
Ms. Wilkins said the Senate initially proposed using only a composite score, adding the 1 percent requirement -- "the absolute minimum they could come up with" -- only under pressure. "Talk about 'the soft bigotry of low expectations,' " she said, recalling a catchphrase of Mr. Bush's campaign.
Critics of the more transparent House plan, which avoids statistical manipulation by ethnicity or income, say it is politically unworkable. Surprisingly, given President Bush's initial insistence on tough accountability, those critics now include Mr. Kress.
Mr. Kress said the House's stricter standards would label most states failures. When Mr. Bush pledged as a candidate to crack down on education, he meant "true, persistently failing schools," Mr. Kress said. "He was not talking about nearly every school in America."
Mr. Kress insisted that the Senate bill was not lax. "All groups have to jump over the bar," he said. "The question is where the bar should be set."
He continued: "Do you set it at a level where the most troubled schools would be slated for serious corrective action, or have a standard that most schools across the country would fail?"
Others suggest that the White House did not want to undermine the standing of Republican governors. 
The administration, which negotiated the education legislation largely as a three-part dance with the House and Senate, now faces criticism from several quarters, and has few outside allies. The conservative Heritage Foundation called its recent analysis of the education bills "Still Leaving Children Behind." Though preferring the House to the Senate bill, the foundation considers it only slightly better than the status quo.
Krista Kafer, the author of the analysis, cited national test scores showing that more than 60 percent of poor black and Hispanic fourth-graders could not read at a basic level.
"If you can't do reading or math, your opportunity for the American dream is nonexistent," Ms. Kafer said in an interview. "And that trumps local control. It's greater than union concern about private school."
The two chambers must also decide which tests will confirm the state results and determine penalties or rewards. The Senate bill requires using the National Assessment of Educational Progress, a test that 41 states currently give to a sampling of fourth- and eighth-grade students. The House would allow this test or another, like the Stanford 9.
Critics worry that using a variety of confirming tests would hinder parents' efforts to compare their state with others. But conservatives in the House, concerned about eventually establishing a national curriculum, fought against making the National Assessment mandatory several years ago. 
A final battle looms over a provision known variously as Charter States or Straight A's. It gives states or localities unprecedented flexibility with some federal money, provided test scores do not fall short three years in a row. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILDREN (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ETHNICITY (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING; BLACKS; STATES (US); MINORITIES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) TEXAS; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001 



259 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Workplace; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Sorting Out a Future After Dot-Com 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN STELLIN 

 BODY:
When Rebecca Bregman was laid off from an Internet company in March for the second time in a little over a year, she decided to put the turmoil of the technology industry behind her. 
 "Twice is enough," she said. "I didn't want to be one of those people who got laid off five times." 
 As the casualty list of defunct dot-coms grows, so does the number of workers who have collected multiple pink slips and who are concluding that it was not this job or this company that did not quite work out, it was this industry. And for them, the question of what to do next looms large. 
Although much has been written about dot-com carpetbaggers returning to the banks and law firms they left to join the Internet gold rush, for many disillusioned dot-com workers, the future involves more complicated choices. Those who joined Internet companies just out of college rarely have other careers to fall back on. Others simply find themselves at a loss, exhausted by long hours and the disappointment of being part of a boom that went bust.
For Ms. Bregman -- who was laid off from the online entertainment company Pseudo.com in February 2000, only to be given another pink slip about a year later from Conde Nast's online unit -- the short-term solution was to return to a prior career as a production coordinator for films. "Even in the Depression, people went to the movies," she reasoned. "So that's what I decided, I had to get back into film."
Since March, Ms. Bregman has been the coordinator on a Nickelodeon special and the assistant coordinator for a feature film. She says she does not especially enjoy the long days on the set or the anxiety over finding another project every few months. "But it's better than working at a dot-com," she said. "I just don't know what dot-com I'd even want to work for -- there's not a lot of sites that interest me anymore."
The disappearance of many of the industry's more entertaining sites, not to mention the culture of fun that brought beanbags and foosball tables into once-staid offices, is one of the reasons some Internet workers have decided to move on.
"It's an entirely different culture, entirely different expectations," said Ben Clemens, who left his job in August as director of information architecture at Rare Medium, a Internet consulting firm in New York, when the company shifted away from Web site design toward more technical systems integration projects. "The kind of people who do that work are not bad," he said. "They're just different."
Mr. Clemens spent several months working for an Internet company in London before returning to New York this spring. Now, he faces the challenge of mapping out a new career without a clear focus. "I'm what is rapidly becoming a cliche," he said, "the person who was doing this stuff who is not doing it anymore who really doesn't know what to do with their life."
For some, that quandary comes up even before their job actually ends, as the company's bank account heads toward zero and additional financing is uncertain.
"It sort of reminds me of the last few months of college when you realize, 'This is all ending, and I'm going to have to get a real job,' " said Garret Glaser, vice president for marketing at a start-up that makes software to run online marketplaces. He said the company has been looking for "another round of funding in an increasingly unforgiving market," which had created an atmosphere of uncertainty for employees.
If the company does not survive, Mr. Glaser said he had 10 years of experience in advertising and brand management to fall back on. But that is not necessarily his first choice. "I've kind of looked at this," he said, "as an opportunity to take a left turn and do something completely different."
But one concern is whether his recent work experience will be attractive to prospective employers, as dot-com becomes the resume equivalent of last year's bell-bottoms. "When all of a sudden it isn't trendy anymore, it looks like the wrong thing to be wearing," Mr. Glaser said. "This is kind of along the same lines. I'm sort of quick to say we're not really a dot-com."
That sort of revisionism has even spread to the Web site that once chronicled the less glamorous aspects of working for an Internet company, Netslaves.com. The site recently changed its tag line from "Horror stories of working the Web" to "Undertakers of the New Economy," partly in response to changes in the industry, said Steve Baldwin, one of the site's founders.
Mr. Baldwin described what he sees as "a kind of cocooning going on" among laid-off Internet employees as they reassess their lives, live off their severance and perhaps take a break. "You're never going to see more backpacking former dot-commers in Europe," Mr. Baldwin said. "They're trying to figure it out, clear their heads and hopefully come back with a plan."
But coming up with that plan may require making some concessions to the reality of the post-new economy, which has reintroduced the workplace trade-off between making a lot of money and having a job that could be described as fun.
"Even though a lot of companies have been downsized, in a lot of cases egos have not been," said Bonnie Halper, founder of the recruiting company SendResume.com. Ms. Halper, who primarily recruits for Internet and technology companies, said many laid-off Internet workers had not adjusted their expectations to the market.
"I tell them to be realistic. I say, 'Listen, you have a year's experience; you're not going to go in with a V.P. title,' " she said. "They walk away disheartened; they still expect six-figure salaries."
But for those who have not yet given up on the industry, she offers some words of hope. "There are still jobs," she said. "There are actually profitable companies. It's just finding the right thing at the right time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: After being laid off by two dot-com companies in New York, Rebecca Bregman returned to a career as a production coordinator for films. "I just don't know what dot-com I'd even want to work for," she said. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (92%); LAYOFFS (91%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SYSTEMS INTEGRATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%); FILM (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

PERSON: STELLIN, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



260 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Seoul Defends Itself Against I.M.F. Criticism 

BYLINE:  By DON KIRK 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, July 10 

 BODY:
The official charged with overseeing Korea's financial industry defended the government's record today against criticism that it unwisely pressured Korean banks to extend credit to troubled companies.
 Lee Keun Young, chairman of the Financial Supervisory Commission, responded angrily to criticism from Stanley Fischer, the International Monetary Fund's second-highest official, of the government's role in approving huge loans. 
 Mr. Lee said the I.M.F. official demonstrated a "misunderstanding of the situation" when he said in a visit here Monday that the government should get out of the financial sector and "stop guaranteeing things front, right and center." 
Even though the government owns a majority stake in most banks, said Mr. Lee, "there is a clear distinction between management and ownership" and "decisions are based on the banks' own interests."
Mr. Lee's remarks put the government in the position of confronting the I.M.F., which has itself been a target of criticism since it pieced together a rescue package of $58.5 billion at the height of the Asian economic crisis in December 1997.
The issue of credit to floundering companies is important here because the economy is coping with falling exports and a declining stock market exacerbated by difficulties in the United States and Japan, Korea's largest trading partners.
In Tokyo today, Mr. Fischer, the fund's first deputy managing director, called for "a more expansionary monetary policy that would lower the value of the yen," making it easier for Japanese companies to export, bringing money into Japan and improving the economy of the region by increasing imports.
In Korea, Mr. Fischer saw "a conflict between the government as owner and the government as supervisor" of the banks. That remark appeared as a rebuke of Mr. Lee, who also serves as governor of the Financial Supervisory Service, set up in 1999 to oversee a banking system mired in nonperforming loans.
Mr. Lee, talking to journalists, said that loans to debt-ridden Hyundai companies, including Hynix Semiconductor and Hyundai Engineering and Construction, were based on "decisions by relevant banks."
He also defended the failure to sell SeoulBank, which the government took over in the economic crisis. Although the I.M.F. had set the sale of SeoulBank as a condition of its 1997 rescue plan, he said, "there is lack of interest with investors." Mr. Lee said he had granted a three-month extension to SeoulBank while it pursued what may be its final opportunity in current negotiations with Deutsche Bank.
The government would also "look for ways to sell the government stake" in other banks through a "gradual process." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); TRENDS (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); ENGINEERING (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); JAPANESE YEN (64%); GOVERNORS (58%); MONETARY POLICY (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); SK HYNIX INC (58%); HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION CO LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); HY9H (FRA) (58%); 000660 (KSE) (58%); 000720 (KSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); SIC1623 WATER, SEWER, PIPELINE, & COMMUNICATIONS & POWER LINE CONSTRUCTION (52%)

PERSON: LEE KEUN YOUNG; FISCHER, STANLEY; KIRK, DON 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%) NORTHERN ASIA (94%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) SOUTH KOREA; JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



261 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2573 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
London's Bad Boys Grow Up, and the Scene Does, Too

BYLINE:  By William Grimes 

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
IT'S easy, looking across the ocean, to see London as a distorted reflection of New York. The key industries are the same, the fashions and the slang overlap, and the dining scene, to an uncanny degree, seems to follow the same script: all boom, no bust. The pound is weak, financial markets are unsettled, but nothing seems to slow down the food economy. Restaurants keep opening, diners keep filling them, and no one can figure out how long the boom can continue, what the next food trend will be or who all these people are. 
 Nonstop activity does not equal creativity. That's true of New York, too. But London still generates a fizzy kind of excitement. It has a few surprises up its sleeve, and no shortage of interesting new restaurants. 
 When Richard and Peter Harden created their restaurant guide, Harden's, a decade ago, they reported 34 noteworthy restaurant openings -- noteworthy meaning visible enough to merit inclusion in the guide. The figure last year was 120. In recent years, openings have exceeded closings by at least two to one. (In New York, by comparison, the Zagat Survey reported 311 noteworthy openings last year and only 89 closings.) 
In sheer numbers, in other words, the culinary explosion that propelled London to the front rank of international dining cities hasn't slacked off since the peak years of the mid-1990's. 
One difference now is that with the pound weak against the dollar, Americans can feast to their hearts' content. And New Yorkers, in particular, accustomed to tipping in the neighborhood of 20 percent, will discover a pleasant surprise at the bottom of the bill. In virtually every restaurant, optional tipping has given way to the Continental model, with a service charge automatically added on. It is a mere 12.5 percent. 
As in New York, the percolating restaurant economy can be deceiving. Increasingly, it's hard not to feel that Londoners are getting more, and still more, of the same. There is restless activity and bustling commerce, but little sense of forward movement.
The colorful names that gave the dining scene a sense of danger now seem quiescent. The bad-boy chefs have no trouble keeping their names out of the tabloids these days. 
Gordon Ramsay, having earned a third Michelin star, now seems intent on empire-building. He has opened Amaryllis in Glasgow, his hometown, and in September will open Gordon Ramsay at Claridge's, a three-star bid at one of London's most venerated dining rooms. Marco Pierre White has retired from the kitchen to concentrate on running his restaurant group. Gary Rhodes has kept his spiky hair but acts more and more like an elder statesman. Jamie Oliver, the Naked Chef, may be the last soldier in Britain's long, strong line of kitchen shock troops. His type does not quite fit into the smoothly organized, mature market of 21st-century London, where, to a much greater extent than in New York, well-financed restaurant groups like A-Z, Belgo, Savoy and Groupe Chez Gerard define the upper-middle and top end. Many newer restaurants seem like one more model rolling off the assembly line or a shrewdly calculated effort to diversify the portfolio.
An exception is Drones, Mr. White's newest restaurant. The name should ring a bell, for two reasons. It was at the Drones that P. G. Wodehouse's Bertie Wooster spent quality time doing nothing in particular, other than ordering a Lizard's Breath cocktail when the mood hit him. Drones is also familiar to Londoners as an old Belgravia standby that fell on hard times. The original Drones, created in 1973 by David Niven Jr., was a society-celebrity hangout. Food was emphatically not the point, and when the celebrities drifted away, Drones had only its name to recommend it.
Mr. White changed that. He kept the name, redecorated the place in an odd way and turned the menu into an attractive homage to old-school, fuddy-duddy British cooking, with a few fusty French classics added -- the kind of food that suits a place called Drones. It was a shrewd move. New British cuisine has become so firmly entrenched that its early champions, chefs like Stephen Bull and Alistair Little, now seem like remote historical figures rather than revolutionaries. New British seems so old, in fact, that old British seems new.
The menu proudly embraces old standards like potted shrimp, updated with a light layer of lemony mayonnaise on a densely packed mass of tiny North Sea shrimp. Kipper pate gets a swift kick from a splash of whiskey, and salade a la russe makes an appearance, fitted out with a mound of fresh crab and a dollop of mayonnaise sauce. It's as old-fashioned as a pair of spats. Black pudding cannot be avoided on a retro-minded English menu, which is fine with me. Pig's trotters are welcome, too, and if both of them are in the same dish, as at Drones, even better.
The roster of old favorites includes asparagus with hollandaise sauce, escargots a la bourguignonne and grilled lobster with bearnaise sauce, but two main courses stood out. The first was a succulent roast chicken with, of all things, bread sauce, a less than attractive, pasty-looking blob rising, like a repressed memory, from the English culinary id. It is improbably delicious, an unrepentant mixture of bread crumbs and onion-flavored milk seasoned with cayenne pepper and nutmeg. Roast rump of lamb with clams stopped me for a moment. But it's a close cousin of beef with oysters, and the lamb, hugely flavorful, in a concentrated jus persille, put doubt to rest.
The design at Drones is indecipherable. An older English guest, looking around the dining room, said, "In a way, this reminds me of the Grill Room at the Dorchester Hotel, circa 1948." I defer. The walls are hung with black-and-white glamour portrait photos from the 1940's that don't lend any glamour. I stared hard at a marble pillar for some time before I realized that the marble was a patterned adhesive paper. Patterned paper also accounts for the stained-glass effect on the windows at the rear of the dining room. In the center of the room, giant pieces of white coral rest in a museum-style case, just because. In the Wodehouse world, strange things happen all the time, and no one seems very surprised. 
With star chefs twinkling less brightly these days, the return of Richard Neat counted as big news here. Mr. Neat, who at 26 had won two Michelin stars at Pied a Terre, skipped off to the Riviera in 1996, opened a restaurant and immediately earned a Michelin star. Evidently, too much sun can be a bore. With great fanfare, Mr. Neat settled into the Oxo Tower, south of the Thames near Blackfriars Bridge. 
The building has one famous resident already, fabulously successful and critically despised Oxo Tower, operated by the Harvey Nichols Group. Mr. Neat occupies 10,000 square feet on the second floor, where he has opened a brasserie, a formal restaurant named Neat and a Champagne bar on the third floor, with prime views across the river. British critics welcomed the long-lost Mr. Neat with open arms. The Evening Standard dished out a hefty three stars about five minutes after Neat opened.
I found it intermittently top-rate, more often slightly off and overall a mild disappointment. It struck me as a restaurant that needed another month to find its footing. The compact menu is immensely appealing, with a fresh, modern flavor and an unforced creativity in dishes like turbot served with a lasagna of gray shrimp and surrounded by an insistent, earthy mushroom jus. Roasted scallops are matched, surprisingly, with the ubiquitous black pudding, this time tossed with scrambled eggs and served with caramelized apple, making it a homey, two-for-one bistro fusion. Perhaps most startling was a firm, rich rillette of mullet with prune puree and almond cream, a reminder that Mr. Neat, a big influence on Paul Liebrandt at Atlas in Manhattan, can be a wild man.
Somewhat tamer, and among the best dishes I tried, were powerfully gamy pigeon breasts, served with white-bean gnocchi and an aromatic pea veloute, and lamb cutlets with a ballotine of offal, a gelatinous package not for the faint of heart but bliss for the rest of us. The visual pleasure is all in the view. The blandly modern interior, as one British critic put it, would be just about right for the Dubai Hilton. Out the window, it's another story, with St. Paul's close enough to be the centerpiece on the table.
Prime views are also on the menu at Smith's of Smithfield, a rollicking scene restaurant that would fit right into Manhattan's meatpacking district. This makes perfect sense, because it's already in the London equivalent, across from the Smithfield meat market. Smith's has a cafe on the ground floor, a brasserie on the second floor, a lounge on the third and a restaurant on the fourth, and even so it's nearly splitting at the seams as young Londoners try to push their way in. The cafe, which dishes out decent pub food (I have fond memories of a chicken and leek pie stuffed with huge pieces of tender meat), is a free-for-all. You don't reserve. You just join the scrum and leap for a table when it becomes available, or failing that, you make new friends and sit down at an occupied table. This is not a joke. The waitresses actually broker these awkward partnerships.
On the top floor, with its wraparound terrace, calm prevails. Mad cow or no mad cow, the accent is on beef -- British beef, identified by point of origin, down to the actual farm. The pedantry serves a dual purpose. It assures diners that they are getting flavorful, tender boutique beef, rather than the mass-produced variety. It also sends the reassuring message that the feed is carefully controlled and that eating the meat, therefore, will not result in a painful, lingering death 10 years after the meal.
The nonbeef dishes roam freely from hearty British to hearty Italian and points between. Black pudding and scallops turn up, unexpectedly, with celeriac mash. The British accent fades in and out. Grilled turbot with bubble and squeak comes with a salsa verde. Yorkshire pudding is paired not with roast beef, but pan-fried sweetbreads.
The beef I tried, a longhorn sirloin supplied by Gilbert McTaggart on Islay, did not impress me deeply. On the anemic side and mealy textured, it made me want to stand up and deliver a jingoistic speech on the excellence of American beef and its superiority to that of all other countries. But then again, I did not try the 21-day T-bone from the Orkneys or the shorthorn beef rib aged 25 days in muslin.
Desserts have an exuberance that leaps off the page. The menu at Smith's changes daily, but typically includes roast stone fruit with chilled grappa, Sauternes custard with Armagnac prunes or vanilla pudding with rhubarb and vanilla cream.
One of the longest-running acts in London dining is Nico Ladenis, chef and owner of Chez Nico. Mr. Ladenis created a stir last year when he simplified his menu, cut his prices and asked the Guide Michelin to unlist his restaurant, which had carried three stars since 1995. Mr. Ladenis, one of the city's more tempestuous personalities, preferred to settle into a relaxed, casual mode at Chez Nico (now cheznico), and he continues in that vein with Incognico, his new restaurant in the West End, just a few steps from the Ivy. 
Incognico will feel instantly familiar to New Yorkers. It has the cool air, dark wood and high ceilings that spell downtown. The atmosphere falls somewhere between cafe, saloon and club. The food is perfect for the setting -- well-executed, streamlined bistro fare with no airs. The place, consequently, is packed.
Salt cod wrapped in batter, fried to a deep brown and served with a thick aioli is a characteristic appetizer, uncomplicated but on the money. Things don't get a lot more involved. The appetizers run to dishes like smoked salmon with horseradish cream, braised prawns with Russian salad, seared scallops with garlic butter and arugula. 
It does not make for inspired reading. Eating is something else. In my dreams I relive the baby Dover sole, grilled and served with tartar sauce. The veal kidneys with mustard sauce occasionally break into the reverie, but it's that fish that disturbs my peace of mind.
The desserts at Incognico don't sound special either, but apple tart on a paper-thin crust delivers the goods. So does chocolate marquise with creme anglaise. One good index of a restaurant's intentions is the bread. Incognico has very good bread. And good bread-and-butter pudding too.
Perhaps the most distinctive new restaurant here is the Cinnamon Club, an ambitious attempt to put a modern face on traditional Indian food. In no time, it has earned the nickname Posh Spice, in part for its fancy dishware and French-style service, in part for its setting, in the Old Westminster Library on a quiet street near Parliament Square. 
The dining room is impressive in a peculiar way. The books have been left in place along the back wall and the mezzanine, and the bright lighting adds to the sense that the library staff is still running things and that the food will come down from the stacks.
The food is wildly hit or miss. When it's good, like a tangled nest of asparagus tips and okra with spiced yogurt, it's very good. When it's bad -- a swampy bowl of steamed mussels with pickled carrot and beets comes luridly to mind -- it can be awful. Some are both at once, like a dehydrated lump of duck surrounded by a thick Goan spice sauce and semolina flavored with curry leaf. Rabbit loin with cottage cheese and dried fruit intriguingly balances chewy textures with the fine-grained smoothness of rabbit meat. Chopped mustard leaves with garlic and chili have the punch and heft of a main course. 
The play of spices and chilies at the Cinnamon Club is kaleidoscopic, but the main point never gets lost, which is to bolster flavor rather than bury it. There's a subtle hand behind the enormous prawns coated in a complex mustard sauce, just hot enough, served with a fragrant saffron kedgeree.
For whatever reason, desserts seem to respond best to reinvention. A cumin yogurt dressing, creamily spicy, cuts the sweetness of tightly packed cakes of shredded, toasted coconut. Steamed mango rice cakes are opulently fruity but lightweight, and cardamom adds just the right blast of exotic spice to a plain carrot samosa. The waiters seem permanently confused.
If you had to pick a symbol for London dining today, you could do worse than the Cinnamon Club, a French-English-Indian restaurant doing business in a former library. No neighborhood is beyond the reach of serious food these days. What food that might be is up for grabs. No one even expects the next big thing. But everybody knows for a certainty they can count on at least one medium-size thing every week of the year, all year long. New Yorkers know the feeling. 

Restaurant Crawl
 Here are some of the distinctive new restaurants in London. Prices are for a three-course dinner for one, not including wine.
DRONES -- 1 Pont Street SW1; (011) 44-20-7235-9555. About $40.
NEAT RESTAURANT AND BRASSERIE -- Barge House Street, Oxo Tower Wharf SE1; (011) 44-20-7928-5533. $70 (three-course prix fixe).
INCOGNICO -- 117 Shaftesbury Avenue, Cambridge Circus WC2; (011) 44-20-7836-8866. About $45.
SMITH'S OF SMITHFIELD -- 67-77 Charterhouse Street EC1; (011) 44-20-7236-6666. About $55.
THE CINNAMON CLUB -- The Old Westminster Library, Great Smith Street SW1; (011) 44-20-7222-2555. About $40.

GRAPHIC: Photos: WHAT FOG? -- A wraparound terrace draws diners to the top floor at Smith's of Smithfield, above right, where post-dinner cigars are sold, above left. The Cinnamon Club, top left, moved into a former library and kept the books.; THE BOOM CONTINUES -- In London, from left, Smith's of Smithfield, pan-fried escalope of foie gras with brioche and orange at Incognico in the theater district, and the kitchen at Neat in the Oxo Tower. (Photographs by Robin Laurance for The New York Times)(pg. F1); WHAT THEY'RE EATING, OVER THERE -- Chefs prepare a roast rump of lamb with clams, top left, at Marco Pierre White's updated version of Drones restaurant in Belgravia. Jellied oysters, top right, are served with a dollop of watercress puree at Neat, Richard Neat's restaurant on the south side of the Thames. Diners are greeted by a bowl of petals, right, at the entrance to the Cinnamon Club, below, near Parliament Square. On the menu is modern Indian fare. At Incognico, bottom, Nico Ladenis, the chef and owner, serves streamlined bistro food like salt cod wrapped in batter and veal kidneys in mustard sauce. (Photographs by Robin Laurance for The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); TRENDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%) RESTAURANTS 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (58%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%) LONDON (ENG); GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



262 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Singapore Says Economy Is in Recession 

BYLINE:  By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, July 10 

 BODY:
Singapore said today that its economy had slipped into recession, becoming the first of what economists predict will be a long list of export-dependent Asian countries that will suffer from the economic slump in the United States.
 Preliminary estimates by the Trade and Industry Ministry indicated that Singapore's economy shrank 0.8 percent in the second quarter compared with the first three months of this year, its second consecutive quarterly decline. The new data mark the first time that Singapore's economy has fit the technical definition of a recession since the height of the Asian financial crisis in 1998. The news helped send the Singapore dollar to an 11-year low against the United States dollar. 
 The ministry blamed slower growth in the United States, especially in the electronics industry, for the deteriorating performance of the Singapore economy. It said the downturn in the United States had also dimmed the outlook for exports to Europe and the rest of Asia. "With all the three main external engines faltering, Singapore's growth in 2001 will be significantly affected," the ministry said. It lowered its forecast for economic growth this year to 0.5 percent to 1.5 percent, down from an earlier estimate of 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent.
With no natural resources and a population of about four million, Singapore has little to shelter it from the global technology downturn. The electronics industry accounts for most of Singapore's exports, and the United States is one of Singapore's largest trading partners, so Tuesday's numbers came as little surprise to economists or financial markets. "This is going to be a bad year for Singapore," said Liew Chih Wai, an analyst at Standard & Poor's in Singapore.
The more populous economies in Asia, like China's, have sizable domestic economies to insulate them from a downturn abroad; less-developed economies, including Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines, are buffered to some extent by large agricultural sectors and revenues from other resources, like natural gas and oil.
Even so, Singapore's well-manicured economy is unlikely to be the last to slip officially into reverse this year. Economists say the Japanese economy has almost certainly begun to shrink, and many expect Taiwan, Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines to show recessionary trends once they release their own second-quarter data.
Economists also warn that even those Asian economies still posting statistical growth, notably Indonesia, have entered "recessionary environments," with growth rates too low to prevent joblessness from rising. Sluggish economic reforms have left Asia's banking industry mired, retarding the growth of domestic opportunities and combining with political instability to deter foreign investment.
"These economies are in a holding pattern," said Song Seng Wun, an economist at G. K. Goh Securities in Singapore. Until exports to the United States recover, he said, foreign investment and economic reforms will continue to suffer.
Mr. Liew, the Standard & Poor's analyst, and economists here said that affluent, authoritarian Singapore was relatively well-prepared to ride out the downturn. With at least $75 billion in foreign currency reserves and no external government debt, Singapore's economists have ample room to soften the recession's impact on citizens.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 12, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in World Business yesterday about the economy of Singapore slipping into recession misstated the gross domestic product for the second quarter compared with the first quarter. It declined 10.1 percent, at an annualized rate, not 0.8 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A retail store at a mall in Singapore recently offered storewide discounts. The Singapore economy, which shrank 0.8 percent in the second quarter, has succumbed to global pressures, its government said. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); RECESSION (93%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TRENDS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (86%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); AGRICULTURE (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTRONICS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (99%); ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); MALAYSIA (92%); THAILAND (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); INDONESIA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%) SINGAPORE; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



263 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Soft Money's Scanty Leftovers 

BYLINE:  By Donna Brazile; Donna Brazile managed Al Gore's presidential campaign.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
If politicians really cared about efforts to get out the vote in America, they would stand up on the House floor this week and support real campaign finance reform: the ban on soft money in the Shays-Meehan bill.
 As a Democratic activist and an African-American who has worked all my life to increase the number of people who vote on Election Day, I was dismayed to hear some members of Congress are falling for the false argument that a ban on soft money would hurt minority candidates and grass-roots get-out-the-vote efforts. Just the opposite is true. 
 A ban on soft money would strengthen the hand of those who are out there in the community, shaking people out of their beds, greeting them in churches and meeting them in factories. I cut my teeth on grass-roots politics and have spent the last 20 years getting out the vote -- not just in safe or rich districts, but in marginal and poor ones as well. 
The Shays-Meehan bill will help take big money out of the picture. As long as we keep big money in the system, it will control the message -- through millions spent on expensive television advertising -- and the politicians, with big-dollar help for their campaigns. Big money makes a sham of the precept that ours is a government of, by and for the people.
Big money -- with its power over politicians and public perceptions -- hurts issues and causes that a majority of Americans care about. It blocks passage of health care reform. It protects polluters. It stymies provision of prescription drug treatments for older Americans. It keeps needed government programs for low- and middle-income Americans from being adequately financed.
Big money shuts young people and people of color out of the system and encourages cynicism. When I speak on campuses around the country, young people tell me there is no point in voting or getting involved because big money controls Washington.
Nor does soft money really help the democratic process in minority communities. Most of the big soft money that candidates spend all their time chasing after is spent on television ads or on media consultants, who typically advise candidates that campaigns are never won on the ground, but only with the help of services like theirs. Only scanty leftovers remain for increasing voter turnout and participation among minorities and in poor communities.
It's particularly distressing that some minority lawmakers, at this late hour, may block reform. With few exceptions, African-American and Hispanic members of Congress represent safe districts in which most voters belong to ethnic minority groups. According to the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, members of the Congressional Black Caucus won their elections in 2000 with an average of 79 percent of the vote. Campaign finance reform would not deprive these lawmakers of the ability to hold onto their seats. But it would open up the political pipeline by making it easier for new, modestly financed candidates to compete. It would allow more women and minority challengers (many of whom cannot get funding in the current political system) to run for office.
At the state and local level, a ban on soft money may force parties to build grass-roots programs, using volunteers, to work in the upcoming elections. Now, more than ever, we need candidates to campaign willingly in black and Latino communities, and not just late at night after they have spent all day in wealthy neighborhoods raising money. It is time to go back to the basics of knocking on doors, meeting people in the communities where they live and encouraging young people to help revitalize our ailing democracy.
In light of what took place in the presidential election, it is clear that we also need to overhaul our election laws. There is no place in our democracy for malfunctioning or broken voting machines, untrained poll workers or confusing ballots. There is no place for the purging of legally qualified citizens from voter rolls or any of the other barriers that kept Americans from casting their ballots.
The Senate has already passed the McCain-Feingold soft money ban, and the House ought to act immediately on the nearly identical Shays-Meehan bill. Members of Congress should oppose the Ney-Wynn bill being offered as an alternative; it is not true campaign finance reform. And both the House and the Senate have a responsibility to move quickly on comprehensive reform of our election processes. There is no cause for obstruction or delay on either front.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Milan Trenc) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); ETHNIC GROUPS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (65%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) ELECTIONS; MINORITIES (US); FINANCES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (58%) BRAZILE, DONNA; SHAYS, CHRISTOPHER (REPR); MEEHAN, MARTIN T (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



264 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Ousted Philippines President Officially Charged With Plunder 

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: BANGKOK, July 10 

 BODY:
Under heavy guard against possible street protests, the former president of the Philippines, Joseph Estrada, was arraigned today on a charge of plundering the country while in office. 
 The case could last for years, causing a political diversion at a time when the Philippines is struggling, against mounting difficulties, for stability and economic revival. 
 Subdued and unsmiling, Mr. Estrada, a former movie actor, endured the limelight of dozens of camera flashes as he took his seat in a special antigraft court in Manila, according to reports from the scene. The judges entered a plea of not guilty for him when he refused to enter one. The charge carries the death penalty, although it is highly unlikely that he will be sentenced to death if convicted. 
Despite concerns about disorder, the streets were generally peaceful, with thousands of police officers and soldiers guarding the court.
Mr. Estrada, 64, is accused of stealing or misusing $76 million during his truncated two-and-a-half-year presidency, accusations similar to those that touched off impeachment proceedings against him late last year.
When it appeared in January that he would survive the impeachment moves, public anger against him exploded in huge street demonstrations. The Supreme Court quickly ruled that he had lost his legitimacy and the military escorted him from the presidential palace.
He was replaced by his vice president, Gloria Macapagal Arroyo. His conviction would shore up her assertions of legitimacy after her irregular accession to power.
Mr. Estrada was elected to a six-year term in 1998 with the largest plurality of any president in recent times. He continues to enjoy widespread support among the poor, who make up a majority of Filipinos. 
Although many in the political and business elite said Mr. Estrada's removal was essential to restore stability and confidence, it has for the moment led to a period of uncertainty. On May 1 his supporters tried to storm the presidential palace, and Mrs. Arroyo has warned repeatedly of possible coups and assassination attempts. The peso has fallen to its lowest rate in memory, less than 2 cents.
The government has also been diverted by an aggressive Muslim separatist insurgency in the south that has included repeated kidnappings.
Officials say the trial is a mark of political maturity, signaling that high-level corruption will no longer be tolerated. Graft and patronage still pervade life in the Philippines, untouched by legal constraints.
When President Ferdinand E. Marcos was driven from power in 1986, he fled to Hawaii and was never tried. Very little of the billions of dollars he stole has been recovered by the government.
Mr. Estrada's courtroom ordeal may well last longer than his presidency. He faces separate trials on charges of perjury and graft.
Already his lawyers are calling for postponements on the charge of plunder, defined as the systematic theft from the state on a huge scale. One of their arguments is that the plunder law is unconstitutional, despite the fact that Mr. Estrada himself voted in favor of it when he was a senator.
Prosecutors said that Mr. Estrada's lawyers had filed 41 motions covering 70 issues, and that the hearing today had already been delayed by 84 days.
There are several co-defendants, including Mr. Estrada's son, Jose Ejercito, who has just ended a term as mayor of San Juan, a Manila suburb. 
Though he refused to enter a plea, Mr. Estrada did have some words for the court. When he was asked to stand, he objected to references to him in the charge sheet as Asiong Salonga, a movie character he had played, and as Jose Velarde, a pseudonym he is accused of using on secret bank accounts.
He said he should be referred to by his titles in political office, as either a former mayor, former senator, former vice president or, as he still insists, as the serving president.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former President Joseph Estrada at his arraignment in Manila. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); IMPEACHMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SENTENCING (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); ASSASSINATION (73%); ETHICS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); COUPS (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (65%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS 

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (58%) MYDANS, SETH; ESTRADA, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%) HAWAII, USA (79%) PHILIPPINES (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) PHILIPPINES

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



265 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Rise in Wholesale Inventories In May Was Biggest in Months 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 10 

 BODY:
Sales at wholesalers fell in May and inventories rose more than at any time in the last six months, a sign that businesses may be reluctant to order more goods until the economy picks up.
 Wholesale inventories rose 0.2 percent, led by an increase in stockpiles of drugs, food and clothing, after increasing 0.1 percent in April, the Commerce Department reported today. 
Sales fell 0.1 percent, the third drop in the last four months. 
 That pushed the inventory-to-sales ratio, a measure of the time goods remain unsold, up to 1.32 months in May, the highest level since April 1999. As a result, wholesalers are struggling to keep stockpiles in line with sluggish demand.
The report "isn't good news for the economy because it suggests continued weak production as companies work off the inventory glut," said Tim Rogers, chief economist at Briefing.com in Boston. The May increase in inventories was the largest since a 0.4 percent increase in November.
Wholesalers account for about one-quarter of all business inventories. Retailers and factories account for the rest.
Some wholesalers say they have been able to reduce inventories. Computer equipment inventories were unchanged in May, as sales increased 3.6 percent, the Commerce Department said.
"We haven't had to make dramatic moves in our inventory levels," said Brooke Powers, vice president and general manager for purchasing at Tech Data, a large computer distributor in Clearwater, Fla.
The inventory-to-sales ratio has been rising since the beginning of 2000, when it was at 1.28 months, as sales slowed and stockpiles increased. In February 1997, the ratio fell as low as 1.23 months.
Inventories of nondurable goods, like clothing, drugs, food and paper, rose 2 percent after a 1 percent increase in April. Sales of nondurable goods fell 0.2 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (92%); INVENTORIES (91%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMPUTING EQUIPMENT WHOLESALERS (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); RETAILERS (74%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SALES; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

COMPANY: BRIEFING.COM (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



266 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Sour News From Corning Pushes Shares Down Sharply

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
News of a slowdown at Corning set off another sell-off on Wall Street yesterday, as investors' hopes for a business turnaround in 2001 dissipated further.
 Analysts said the market was waiting -- so far in vain -- for companies to say the outlook for future revenues and earnings was improving. 
 "Underlying this all is a feeling that the malaise in earnings isn't over yet," said Charles Pradilla, chief investment strategist at SG Cowen Securities. "The market is saying that those who thought there was going to be a considerable rebound in the third or fourth quarter this year were wrong." 
The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 123.76 points, or 1.2 percent, to close at 10,175.64.
The Nasdaq composite index fell 63.92 points, or 3.2 percent, to 1,962.79, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 17.26 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,181.52.
Corporate profits were again the focus on Wall Street. Investors punished Corning after it reduced its earnings forecast and said it would close three manufacturing plants and cut another 1,000 jobs from its photonic technologies division because of an abrupt slowdown. Shares of Corning fell 98 cents, to $14.12.
The sour mood spread to other technology issues, which suffered on similar concerns about future results. I.B.M. dropped $2.76, to $101.96, on worries it will miss second-quarter estimates.
The market also pounded Genentech, which fell $8.26, to $43.85, on news that its asthma drug might not get federal approval.
Financial stocks were weak, too, reflecting investors' uncertainty about growth prospects. J. P. Morgan Chase dropped $1.98, to $42.01, and American Express fell $1.20, to $37.
Analysts have said investors are waiting for second-quarter results later this month before taking any big steps. The market has been in a slump the last several weeks, with occasional rallies that have failed to spark any larger advances.
The Federal Reserve's six interest rate cuts this year had raised hopes of a turnaround by the end of the year. But the more than 700 earnings warnings ahead of second-quarter reports, which begin this week, have all but wiped out hopes of a recovery before next year.
"We're waiting for second-quarter reports. And the key aspect coming out of those reports isn't the earnings, but what a company's timing and prospects for a recovery are going to be," said Bryan Piskorowski, market commentator at Prudential Securities.
Also yesterday, Triton Energy rose $14.53, or 48 percent, to $44.43, on news that it was being acquired for $2.6 billion by Amerada Hess. Hess fell $2.01, to $77.35. --------------------

Treasury Prices Rise
By Bloomberg News
Treasury bond prices rose yesterday as declining stocks increased demand for the relative safety of United States government securities. Concern that Argentina may default on its debt also bolstered Treasuries.
Investors are "unwilling to jump in and catch a falling knife" in the stock market as earnings disappointments persist, said Richard Madigan, who manages $600 million in emerging market debt for Offitbank Funds. That helps a "flight-to-quality bid" for Treasuries, he said.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 19/32 , to a price of 98 2/32 . The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 5.26 percent from 5.34 percent on Monday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 19/32 , to 96. The bond's yield fell to 5.66 percent from 5.70 percent on Monday.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 12, 2001

 CORRECTION:
The "Hot and Cold" table in Business Day yesterday, listing stocks with large percentage gains and losses on Tuesday, misstated the change for the Cintas Corporation. Its shares rose $3.16, or 7.2 percent. They did not fall by that amount.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); ASTHMA (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); HESS CORP (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); HES (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



267 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Economic Troubles Worsen in Argentina 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Argentina's financial troubles deepened yesterday as the government had to offer 14.01 percent interest to attract investors to its three-month Treasury bills.
 The rate, on $827.7 million of securities, was the highest since the government began issuing such bills in 1996 and well above the 9.10 percent paid on similar securities just two weeks ago. 
 The government also sold $22 million in one-year securities with a yield of 15.96 percent. Analysts said that because investors were unwilling to take on this modestly longer-term risk, the government was unable to sell more of the one-year securities rather than the shorter-term bills. 
Investor caution about Argentina, which has been in recession for three years, is beginning to spread to other emerging markets, where problems are being aggravated by a slowing world economy. The slowdown is making it hard to sell exports and to raise capital abroad.
Each jump in interest rates makes the financial road bumpier for Argentina. Its domestic and foreign debt becomes more costly to service. But tax revenues remain weak, making it hard to pay for government programs and meet debt payments. Investors fear that Argentina might wind up in default if the government does not cut spending.
"The situation is deteriorating very rapidly, and the political situation is very tense," said Jose Barrionuevo, director of emerging markets strategy at BNP Paribas.
Disputes within the governing alliance may block further spending cuts. The prospect of elections in October also does not help, Mr. Barrionuevo said, citing the political pressure to maintain various programs. There was speculation last week that Argentina's economy minister, Domingo Cavallo, would announce some spending cuts soon, but he has not done so. 
The poor reception to the Argentinian debt auction helped send the stock market lower, with the Merval index down 6.1 percent. The price of benchmark bonds also fell. The price of the floating-rate bond maturing in 2005 fell to $74.55 from $77.99 Monday, according to Bloomberg News. The yield jumped to 23.88 percent, from 20.87 percent. The price of the bond maturing in 2008 fell to $66.75, from $71.15, with the yield jumping to 19.3 percent. The bonds have a par value of $100.
Investor jitters about Argentina spread to Brazil, where the currency fell to its lowest level since it was allowed to trade freely in January 1999. In late trading in New York, the real was at 2.4915 to the dollar, down 1.6 percent from Monday and 21.7 percent for the year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); BONDS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); POLITICS (65%); CURRENCIES (64%); STOCK INDEXES (62%) GOVERNMENT BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (56%); BNP (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (97%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



268 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY: Market Place; 
Despite cost-cutting, Compaq is facing declining earnings and sales.

BYLINE:  By Chris Gaither 

 BODY:
THE Compaq Computer Corporation, the world's second-largest personal computer maker, said yesterday that it expected to report lower-than-projected earnings and sales for the second quarter and that it would eliminate 1,500 more jobs than previously announced.
 Despite progress in cutting costs, Compaq said a sharper-than-expected slump in the European business market caused worldwide sales to decline 9 percent from the first quarter, to about $8.4 billion from $9.2 billion. The company had told Wall Street to expect sales of $9 billion. 
 "It is now clear that the economic slowdown is spreading overseas," Michael D. Capellas, the company's chief executive, said in a statement. "We will therefore move more swiftly and go even deeper in our structural cost reduction programs." 
Compaq said that profits and gross margins also suffered because the company lowered prices to remain competitive with its rivals in the personal computer market, particularly the Dell Computer Corporation.
Compaq, based in Houston, said it expected to post earnings of 4 cents a share for the second quarter ended June 30. This matched Wall Street's expectations, but fell one penny short of the company's forecast in April. Compaq will report its final results on July 25.
In April, the company said it would eliminate 7,000 jobs, or 10 percent of its work force, through 4,500 layoffs and the attrition of an expected 2,500 employees. 
But with a slowing economy and fewer high-technology jobs to be had than in the boom times of recent years, Compaq's workers stayed put. As a result, the company yesterday said it would eliminate those 2,500 through severance, as well as an additional 1,500. The job cuts, expected to come both in the United States and abroad, bring the total to 8,500, or 13 percent of Compaq's workers. 
For the quarter, Compaq said it would take a restructuring charge of $490 million to cover the severance packages and to close plants that make the Alpha line of semiconductors for top-of-the-line server systems. Compaq announced last month that it would discontinue the Alpha line and use chips made by Intel.
Jeff Clarke, Compaq's chief financial officer, said the company should complete most of its restructuring by the end of the year.
"We now expect the payback, upon completion, from the combined restructuring programs to be approximately $900 million on an annualized basis," Mr. Clarke said. 
Compaq shares dropped 44 cents, or 3 percent, to close at $13.76 amid a widespread sell-off in technology stocks. The announcement, which came after markets closed, pushed the company's stock up to $14.10 in after-hours trading.
As the personal computer market slows, Compaq is trying to insulate itself by asking more from its Global Services division. The company, which lost the worldwide sales lead to Dell last quarter, is aggressively trying to sell more server systems and the technical services that accompany them. Even as it shed jobs in other parts of the company, Compaq added 750 employees to its services division during the quarter. The shift in focus puts Compaq in direct competition with services giants like I.B.M..
In the meantime, computer makers are trying to cut costs to keep profits steady. Compaq said it reduced its operating expenses by $100 million last quarter but was unable to meet its forecasts. The company said it was hurt by the declining value of the euro, as well as weaker-than-expected sales in Britain, Germany and Switzerland, especially in June.
Kevin A. McCarthy, an analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston, said he expected similarly disappointing earnings reports from other computer makers in the coming weeks. 
Some investors still hope that corporations will increase their spending on information technology and that sales of Microsoft's new XP operating system could help increase computer sales near the end of the year.
"But nobody's betting on that right now," Mr. McCarthy said. "In this environment, it's hard to see out even one quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); NETWORK SERVERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SEVERANCE PAY (64%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINANCES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SALES 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (96%); DELL INC (82%); INTEL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (96%); DELL (NASDAQ) (82%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: MICHAEL CAPELLAS (58%) GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) EUROPE

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



269 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Gap Found in Funeral Home Inspections 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, July 10 

 BODY:
The discovery of five decomposing bodies in a funeral home's garage here last month has led to yet another finding: Connecticut has not had an inspector for funeral homes for more than a decade.
 Officials of the State Department of Public Health acknowledged on Monday that the Wade Funeral Home -- which ceased operations on June 27, the day the bodies were found -- had not been inspected since 1988 and had been operating without a license for a year. They said the lack of routine inspections held true for the rest of the estimated 300 funeral homes in the state. 
 The revelation concerning inspections came after a hearing on Monday in which the embalming licenses of Wade's president, Michael Wade, and an employee, Monica Hammie-Richardson, were suspended; the home has been cited for numerous health violations. The partly embalmed bodies, which had gone unburied for three to five years, were found by the police after a complaint. 
A health department spokesman, William Gerrish, said the inspections stopped when the part-time funeral inspector, Thomas Dowling, retired in 1989. He was not replaced, Mr. Gerrish said, and financing for the position had been withdrawn.
"Our priority now is to make sure that funeral homes are inspected properly," said Mr. Gerrish, who added that the state would consider re-establishing the position.
The co-chairwomen of the Connecticut General Assembly's Public Health Committee said today that they were shocked by the absence of a funeral home inspector. One, Senator Toni Harp, Democrat of New Haven, said she would seek financing for an inspector at a meeting with state health officials on Wednesday.
"I'm hoping the only case of mismanagement and lack of procedure and protocol is here in New Haven, but we have no way of knowing that," Ms. Harp said. "This is a whole sector of our economy that has the potential of horrible things happening if we don't know the cleanliness of these facilities." The other chairwoman, Representative Mary U. Eberle, Democrat of Bloomfield, said she planned to introduce a bill next year to mandate inspections. The state now inspects homes only when they open, change management or face a complaint.
The executive director of the Connecticut Funeral Directors Association, John Cascio, said he would welcome such a bill. 
"We have been lobbying for this position for a number of years," said Mr. Cascio, whose group represents 222 funeral homes around Connecticut, though not the Wade Funeral Home.
"We take pride in our ownership and believe that an inspector should be responsible for randomly checking homes, making sure they're clean facilities with only licensed personnel," he said.
Mr. Cascio said that Mr. Wade, who faces another hearing Aug. 8 on whether his license will be revoked, was well respected in the industry.
Mr. Wade did not return several phone calls to his office today. 
State officials said that they had identified one of the five bodies as that of Fred Carmon, an elderly victim of a stabbing in 1998. The other bodies remain unidentified. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSPECTIONS (92%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (90%); FUNERAL HOMES & SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); FUNERAL INDUSTRY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LOBBYING (77%); LICENSES & PERMITS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LEGISLATION (69%) FUNERALS 

ORGANIZATION: WADE FUNERAL HOME (NEW HAVEN, CONN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW HAVEN (CONN); CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



270 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Compaq to Miss Forecasts And to Cut 1,500 More Jobs
Compaq Computer said it expected to report lower-than-projected earnings and sales for the second quarter and that it would eliminate 1,500 more jobs than previously announced.
 Compaq blamed a sharp slump in the European business market for a 9 percent drop in worldwide sales. Profits and gross margins also suffered because of price competition at home, the company said. Page C8. 

Conflict of Interest Rule at Merrill
Merrill Lynch barred its stock analysts from buying shares of the companies they cover, going a step further than the industry standard to remove a potential conflict of interest. A1.

Amerada Hess in $2.6 Billion Deal
Amerada Hess will buy Triton Energy for about $2.6 billion in cash, the companies said. The deal has the support of the buyout firm Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst, which owns 38 percent of Triton. Shares of Triton soared $14.53, or 48.6 percent, to $44.43. Shares of Amerada Hess fell $2.01, or 2.5 percent, to $77.35. C2.

StarLink Passes Government Test
Virtually all the food samples collected from consumers who complained of allergic reactions to StarLink corn did not contain the genetically modified corn at all, government tests have found. C8.

Malone Resigns From AT&T Board
John C. Malone, the cable television magnate who is one of AT&T's largest individual shareholders, resigned from the company's board earlier than planned after he was excluded from talks related to Comcast's offer to buy AT&T's cable systems. C11.

Banker Is Nominated for the Fed
President Bush plans to nominate Mark W. Olson, a former American Bankers Association president, to the Federal Reserve Board. C4.

Dow and Nasdaq Drop in Sell-Off
News of a slowdown at Corning caused another sell-off on Wall Street. The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 123.76 points, or 1.2 percent, to 10,175.64. The Nasdaq composite index fell 63.92 points, or 3.2 percent, to 1,962.79, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 17.26 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,181.52. C12.

Surviving a Bombing at Work
William Parrett, president and managing partner of Deloitte & Touche, said the toughest crisis he ever faced was the bombing of the World Trade Center in 1993. "Our offices were on the top five floors," he said. "Normally I parked in the underground lot where the bomb exploded, but by coincidence, my car was in the shop that day so I rode with someone else." The Boss. C6.

Makeover for the Interpublic Group
Interpublic Group is being made over in what may be the largest reorganization on Madison Avenue. Stuart Elliot: Advertising. C8.

Argentina's Financial Crisis Deepens
Argentina's financial troubles deepened as the government had to offer 14.01 percent interest to attract investors to its three-month Treasury bills. The rate was the highest since 1996 when it began issuing such bills. C4.

Bush to Call for Changes in Medicare
President Bush will call later this week for major changes in Medicare, and as an interim step, he wants to offer drug discount cards to the elderly, so they can immediately get lower prices at pharmacies, officials said. A1.

Britain Regulators Block Bank Deal
Britain's competition regulator blocked Lloyds TSB's $26 billion bid for Abbey National. World Business, Section W.

Car Renters Won't Be Monitored
Most car rental customers can relax. The top companies have no plans to monitor speeders. Joe Sharkey: Business Travel. C11.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,175.64 down 123.76Nasdaq composite -- 1,962.79 down 63.9210-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.26% down 0.08The euro -- $0.8570 up 0.0092The dollar -- 125.37 yen down 0.08 Graph shows Triton Energy share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); BOARD CHANGES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (68%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (68%); ALLERGIES (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (81%); HM CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC (69%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (62%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); HESS CORP (56%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (53%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (81%); HES (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (81%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (69%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (69%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (62%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (62%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS813910 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (53%); SIC8611 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%); JOHN MALONE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



271 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: Calls for Change in an Ancient Occupation 

BYLINE:  By EVELYN NIEVES 

DATELINE: MOJAVE, Calif. 

 BODY:
The shepherd was deep in the desert, eight miles from the nearest road and more than four miles of rocky brush past the closest sign of civilization, a landfill. It was midafternoon, 110 degrees, and the 500 sheep he tends 24 hours a day, seven days a week were sleeping. But with nothing else to do, he was watching them anyway, pacing the parched earth with two panting border collies by his side.
 Two years and eight months into a three-year contract as a shepherd under a federal guest worker program, the 40-year-old Peruvian said he was still waiting for a day off. He lives in a 6-by-12-foot trailer with no running water, no electricity, no phone, no toilet. 
 "This is my bathroom," he says with a toothy smile, holding up a long-handled garden shovel. 
The man, who would not let his name be used for fear of angering his employer, is typical of shepherds in the United States, about 800 of whom toil in California. Mostly from Peru and Chile, they live isolated, nomadic existences here, dependent upon their employers for food, mail and all contact with the outside world.
Aside from tinny radios or tiny televisions that some keep in their trailers, they live much as shepherd have always lived, in the middle of nowhere with no human contact save for when their bosses come to move the trailer to a new grazing spot or bring their weekly rations of food and water.
In the universe of migrant farm labor, shepherds make up the tiniest sliver and are so invisible that with a few exceptions they have had no advocates to call for reform.
As federal guest workers, they are brought here because their employers, the sheep ranchers, could find no Americans willing to be shepherd, even here in California's farm belt, where unemployment in some counties is over 15 percent.
That may be not only because their living conditions make migrant farm workers seem pampered, but also because under a quirk in federal labor laws, shepherds are excluded from minimum wage regulations. Until July 1, when California's Industrial Welfare Commission, which regulates working conditions, ordered sheep ranchers to increase herders' wages by $150 a month, shepherds, who are essentially on duty 90 hours a week, made $900 a month.
Still, shepherds in California, the largest sheep ranching state after Texas, are the lucky ones. They make the most money. In other states, the pay is $600 to $800 a month.
Shepherds are also on the legislative map. When the state Industrial Welfare Commission refused to set working conditions for shepherds, such as overtime pay and rest periods, State Assemblyman Paul Koretz, a Democrat from West Hollywood, drafted a bill that would require rest periods and basic amenities, such as toilets, lighting, water and regular access to phones.
The bill, which has passed the Assembly and is expected to be reviewed by a State Senate committee today, would require shepherds to be given a 30-minute meal break in a five-hour work period if someone is available to relieve them. It would also require employers to provide housing that includes toilets, heating, lighting, water, stoves and refrigerators. 
"It's logical that at some point their conditions would have to change from the days of the Old Testament," Mr. Koretz said. "I'm generally trying to bring them up to the 20th century."
But passage of Mr. Koretz's bill is in no way assured. Ranchers vehemently deny that shepherds are mistreated, and lobbyists for the sheep ranching industry say that new regulations would kill an ailing industry. 
Over the last 20 years, sheep ranchers have seen their profits steadily erode. In 1999, California ranchers made 35 cents a pound for wool, 30 cents less than in 1994. Lamb meat wholesales for 82 cents to 83 cents a pound. In 1997, it was 91.6 cents.
With the erosion of profits, the herd in the state has steadily declined. From 1994 to 2001, according to the United States Department of Agriculture, the number of sheep produced in California dropped by a third, to 840,000, and the number of farms with sheep has dropped by 45 percent.
Officials of the Western Range Association, a lobbying organization representing ranchers in 11 states, did not respond to calls seeking comment. But in an article in The Fresno Bee, James Holt, an agricultural economist with the association, said the sheep ranchers had been trying to make it clear to legislators that the money to pay for any added benefits or amenities to herders is simply "not there."
"We've tried to be responsible and responsive" to shepherds, Mr. Holt said.
Dennis Hollingsworth, a Republican assemblyman from Temecula who voted against the bill, said he thought it would do more harm than good. The shepherds, he said, do not really need rest periods.
"Most of the time they are resting, unless there is a danger," he said. "Most of the time, it's just watching the flock."
Mr. Hollingsworth added that the impact of the bill "will not be better wages or working conditions for sheepherders. The impact will be that wool growers will leave this state and there will be less jobs for sheepherders to have in California."
Mr. Koretz said that he was trying to be sensitive to the industry, and that if necessary, he would moderate his bill so it could land on Gov. Gray Davis's desk and be assured his signature. But a small, persistent group of advocates for the shepherds say that modest goals for shepherds should not be compromised.
"We're not asking for Jacuzzis," said Chris Schneider, executive director of Central California Legal Services and a crusader for improved conditions for sheepherders for over a decade. "When an industry is going through a low period, we don't lower the minimum wage or say it could force their workers to work without getting paid."
Last year, the Fresno-based legal aid group published a report on the conditions of 41 shepherds in the lower Central Valley counties of Fresno and Kern, which contain most of the sheep ranches in the state, and found that 90 percent of the shepherds had never had a day off and more than 95 percent had no toilets. The report also said that many shepherds were not allowed visitors, and that they were threatened with deportation if they asked for such things as more food or clean water containers.
One former shepherd, Victor Flores, said he was dumped at a motel in Bakersfield when he asked his employer for more food. He said he was forced to take another job, as a dishwasher, and now, seven years later, works in a fruit packinghouse. He has formed an advocacy group, the Sheepherders Union, which documents the conditions and experiences of the shepherds.
"I never thought when I came here from Peru that this country would treat people as less than human," he said.
Ranchers say that the shepherds are paid much more than they would be making in their native countries, an argument that rankles those fighting for improved conditions.
"When someone comes to this country, we don't take their native country into consideration in how we treat them or pay them," Mr. Schneider said.
There is no denying that the shepherds live primitively. Visits to shepherds in Fresno and Kern Counties -- where finding just four herders took two days because of their remote locations -- found them in very old, dilapidated trailers, full of flies and mosquitoes. One shepherd had a plastic water barrel that was clearly full of fungi and smelled of rotted meat. One was spending a 113-degree afternoon in his 110-degree trailer, waiting for the sun to set so he could spend several hours putting up temporary fences to contain his sheep. All their dogs stayed in holes they had dug under the trailers to avoid the blistering heat.
The shepherd found in the Mojave Desert, the most remote location of any shepherd interviewed, will be moved in October during what is called the lambing season, to farmland outside of Bakersfield.
He said he looked forward to it, despite the backbreaking 13-hour days of caring for newborn lambs and their mothers, because then he has greater contact with the outside world. Two or three shepherds work together and occasionally go to stores to get supplies for the sheep. 
"I get depressed here very often," he said.
But he also considers himself fortunate. Once a week, a kindly man he met when he was stationed near Bakersfield during the six-month lambing season brings him a newspaper. And his employer comes to check on him every other day. Many shepherds do not see their bosses for a week or two, when they bring supplies. A few weeks ago, his employer replaced the shabby 6-by-8-foot wooden trailer he was living in with a newer, 6-by-12-foot one that has seating besides a bed.
And while he has never seen a movie, eaten at a restaurant, attended a church service or even spent a free hour walking around the one city in the United States he has glimpsed, Bakersfield, he said he would renew his contract and do the work for another three years.
"My sons are 11 and 12 and I want the best for them," he said. "That's what I keep remembering all the time while I'm here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Peruvian shepherd tended to his flock in the late-afternoon heat of California's Mojave Desert. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Many shepherds live in small trailers that lack electricity, toilets and running water, like this one in a remote area in Fresno County, Calif. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (90%); FARM LABOR (90%); SHEEP FARMING (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (89%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (77%); OVERTIME (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); MINIMUM WAGE (75%); MIGRANT WORKERS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (74%); DOGS (73%); DESERTS (73%); LANDFILLS (72%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (67%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (61%) LIVESTOCK; LABOR; SHEEP; FOREIGN LABOR; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: NIEVES, EVELYN; KORETZ, PAUL (ASSEMBLYMAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); MOJAVE DESERT (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); PERU (93%) CALIFORNIA; FRESNO COUNTY (CALIF); MOJAVE DESERT

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



272 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Homeowners' Suit Says They Are Victims in Deceptive Sales Scheme 

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER 

DATELINE: CARLE PLACE, N.Y., July 10 

 BODY:
They are nurses and police officers, minority couples and families, most of them from working-class New York City neighborhoods. And they say they listened avidly to the offers of affordable suburban houses on tree-lined streets near country clubs, beaches, lakes and good schools for their children.
 But one Bronx couple seeking their dream home say they were duped into buying in a Suffolk County neighborhood plagued by drug dealers and prostitutes. A family from Brooklyn say they paid $171,000 for a house worth at least $50,000 less. And in every case, they say, monthly mortgage payments soared by up to $1,000 within a year after they moved in, as their foundations cracked, siding rusted and floorboards warped. 
 Those were just a few of the complaints in a class-action civil rights lawsuit filed today in Federal District Court in Central Islip against a long list of builders, bankers, appraisers and mortgage brokers who the suit says conspired to sell poorly constructed new homes at inflated prices, and to deceive buyers into believing that property taxes would be deferred or reduced. 
Federal prosecutors say that 20 people have been criminally charged in their continuing investigation into the scheme and that 13 have pleaded guilty to charges. 
The suit, brought by four named plaintiffs, claims to represent about 400 black and Hispanic families who bought homes from $160,000 to $200,000 -- 300 of them in Suffolk County and 100 in Staten Island.
It says that minority buyers were targeted in newspaper ads, featuring fake endorsements from black celebrities like Maya Angelou, Whoopi Goldberg and David N. Dinkins, and offered deals with no down payment. Many were told that they would be moving into a white or ethnically diverse area, the suit says, only to discover that their new neighborhood was segregated. 
They were also promised that they would pay no property taxes for the first year, the suit says. But mortgage payments were later raised to make up for that, and 80 homes have been foreclosed on -- though the lenders were protected, the suit says, because the mortgages are insured by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development.
"The American dream was turned into the American nightmare," the families' lawyer, Lenard Leeds, said after a news conference at his offices in Carle Place. "Everyone thought they were going to provide a better life for their families, and now they are facing bankruptcy and foreclosures of their homes."
The suit names 25 individuals, including the builders and their corporate entities, mortgage brokers and five banks. It seeks compensatory and punitive damages, as well as a stay on further foreclosures. 
Mr. Leeds said the number of plaintiffs makes this the largest class-action lawsuit in New York State charging racism in real estate practices. A spokesman for the state attorney general could not confirm that.
Over the last 18 months, 20 people have been criminally charged by the federal authorities in connection with the scheme, said James E. Tatum Jr., an assistant United States attorney, who is prosecuting the case. Mr. Tatum said that the 13 who have pleaded guilty have acknowledged that they used false documents to obtain mortgages insured by HUD.
They include Isaac Toussie, one of Long Island's largest residential developers. Mr. Toussie, who is free on bail, is scheduled to be sentenced in September and faces up to five years in prison.
Mr. Leeds said that Mr. Toussie and his father, Robert, who is also a developer, headed the scheme.
Isaac Toussie's lawyer, Matthew J. Rosenblum, said he had not seen the lawsuit, and could not comment on its specifics, but said it was disheartening "to realize that people are taking advantage of his legal situation to try to benefit themselves financially."
Mr. Rosenblum said that when his client pleaded guilty to mortgage fraud he told the judge that home buyers, to qualify for HUD loans, would lie about their income and that he would help them to do it.
"If these very same people are the ones coming forward saying they were misled, well then, I have a real problem with that," he said. "It is really disgusting."
Mr. Leeds said the families deny that they colluded in any scheme. "They claim that in the scheme, Toussie said that this is what has to be done and that it is always done like this and that it is required and proper," Mr. Leeds said. "He said they should just listen to him and everything would be fine."
One homeowner in Gordon Heights, Pamela Jones, said she was "freaked out" when her monthly mortgage payments jumped to $2,500 from $1,700 after her first year. But just as troubling, she said, was the realization that her Suffolk County house was near a block where drugs were sold.
"My son kept saying one thing that stuck in my head: 'I don't see any white people out here. The ad says we are going to be in a mixed neighborhood. I only see black people,' " said Ms. Jones, a registered nurse.
She said she was "stuck," because she can get only about $80,000 for the house, which cost her $188,000.
A named plaintiff in the suit, Juan Quintanilla, a New York Police Department detective, said he and his wife, Leticia, and their four children have struggled emotionally and economically since they moved from Richmond Hill in Queens to their house in Medford on Long Island.
"They have shot at my house because they know I'm a cop and I'm increasing the police presence by going to the cops and telling them, 'Look what's going on,' " said Mr. Quintanilla. "Now we are being harassed. They are calling me names, like Rat."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roberto Sanchez said shoddy construction caused problems, like this foundation crack in his Middle Island, N.Y., house. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); FAMILY (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CLASS ACTIONS (88%); RACE & RACISM (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); CITIES (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); CONSPIRACY (76%); DAMAGES (76%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (75%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%) HOUSING; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; SUITS AND LITIGATION; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; MORTGAGES; PROPERTY TAXES; MINORITIES (US) 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: BAKER, AL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



273 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: Camp David: Ruins on the Ground 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Robert Malley (Op-Ed, July 8) did a great service in trying to educate us about how complex the stakes are in the Middle East. 
 America is the moral leader in the world. 
It set the standard in postwar Europe; we refer to it as the Marshall Plan. The plan did not dictate an outcome but allowed for a process that led to self-government and balanced power. What the Marshall Plan did was to create a climate where democratic institutions and free-market ideas could grow without fear of state-sponsored reprisals. 
Maybe a Powell plan for the Middle East can be brought to the table for Congress and the American people to begin the debate. If we start now, maybe the next generation of Israelis and Palestinians will be debating a Middle East economic union rather than blowing each other to pieces.

AHMED MOHSEN
Ridgecrest, Calif., July 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (83%)

PERSON: MOHSEN, AHMED; MALLEY, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (91%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



274 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS; 
Beijing Must Wait, Worry, and Not Mess Up

BYLINE:  By JERE LONGMAN 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, July 10 

 BODY:
Having arrived here as strong favorites to secure the 2008 Summer Games, leaders of the Beijing bid must now survive a peculiar 72-hour Olympic malady -- the agony of the front-runner.
 Recent Olympic history is fraught with candidate cities who seemingly held a hefty advantage, only to fritter it away in the final days before members of the International Olympic Committee held their vote. Beijing was favored over Sydney for the 2000 Summer Games, but lost by two votes, just as Athens's expected victory for the 1996 Olympics evaporated into a triumph for Atlanta. 
 Beijing is still perceived as the desired choice on Friday by a majority of the 119 voting I.O.C. delegates. But the days before the vote are always anxious moments, what Francois Carrard, executive director of the I.O.C., calls a time of "rumors, rumors, rumors, intoxication and manipulation." In the aftermath of its victory, Sydney admitted that its slim victory margin came after delegates from Kenya and Uganda were offered $35,000 apiece the night before the vote for the 2000 Games. 
Unfailingly, favorites seem to lose steam, while the challengers -- Toronto and Paris, in this case -- appear to gain momentum. Lobby sitting in the I.O.C. hotel becomes the skillful art of negotiation. A certain buzz can overcome logic in the perceived order. "Some of it is that some members grow resentful at being told by the media how they're supposed to vote," Dick Pound, an I.O.C. delegate from Montreal, said.
Of course, much of this is a mental exercise. Most of the delegates aren't even here yet. But it is an accepted rule in Olympic voting, as it is in Olympic running, that it is often better to be chasing until the homestretch than leading.
"History shows, the last couple of days you can't win very much, but you can lose it all," Thomas Bach, a German delegate, said. "You have to avoid mistakes."
Paris and Toronto are counting on the winds of change that have blown through the I.O.C. since the Salt Lake City bribery scandal. Ten corrupted members resigned or were removed. Another three dozen delegates have been added, most of them athletes and the heads of international sports federations. Presumably they are more independent, less predictable and clubby in their voting.
Also, delegates have been prohibited from visiting the candidate cities, purportedly to shield them from receiving excessive gifts and favors. What this is supposed to mean is that the merits of the bids will prevail over jewelry and scholarships for the families of delegates. One Olympic official confided privately and proudly Monday night that only favors seemed to be changing hands this time, not money.
Just in case someone would try to illicitly leverage the electronic ballot on Friday, the I.O.C. will have three delegates scrutinize the voting.
"If we win, a significant part will be because of the reforms," the head of the Toronto bid, John Bitove, said.
Of course, Toronto and Paris remain underdogs. Short of some drastic action by the Chinese or an official protest from the officially neutral Bush Administration, Beijing is likely to prevail, several delegates said today.
Kim Un Yong, an influential delegate from South Korea and a member of the South Korean Parliament, said that Beijing would have to really mess up, "or the U.S. Congress would have to pass a binding resolution."
"The U.S. can't tell the I.O.C. what to do, but it could cause big repercussions," Kim said. "But America is neutral. They never won by force in Cuba or Vietnam. Look at what Nixon did. He went to China and then good relations started. If you push too hard, sometimes you solidify a place against outsiders. Bush knows this. His father knows this. And American business is waiting to do business in China."
There are five interlocking Olympic rings, not one, Kim said, meaning all the countries who participate in the Olympics, not just American and European countries, should have an opportunity to be host to the Games.
"If Beijing gets it, it will be because of universality," Kim said when asked how the I.O.C. might be thinking generally. "It is a country of 1.3 billion people. It's a great sports country. It deserves to have the Games. There is hope that they will open the country and improve human relations and the economy and that China will become a good member of the international community, as happened with Seoul and South Korea in 1988."
Still, Toronto and Paris appear confident about their chances. Paul Henderson, an I.O.C. delegate from Toronto, said that his city offers certainty when the Olympic committee is already in an uncertain period about Athens's preparation for the 2004 Games and is about to enter an uncertain period on Monday when it replaces Juan Antonio Samaranch as president after two decades. Perhaps the I.O.C. will not want to enter yet another chancy period by awarding the 2008 Games to Beijing, Henderson said.
"We don't have any political dogma to shove down anyone's throat," Henderson said. "We're nice people. Sydney proved that to be a pretty good recipe for success. Do you want risk or no risk?"
The Olympics are a sporting event, and are not likely to "change the political direction or dogma of a country at all," Henderson said.
Toronto is basing its bid on an inviting compactness. Twenty-five of 28 sports would be contested in an area of about three miles along the waterfront. The bid is "sneaky smart," Pound said.
"What we have heard the last 60 days from people in support and not in support of us is that we have the best bid," Bitove said. "Then some say, 'Yes, but there's politics.' Hopefully, they'll do what's right for sport and the athletes. That's what the goal should be for the Olympics."
Paris is offering the beauty and culture of one of the world's great cities, and is seeking, as it did with soccer's 1998 World Cup, to unite a diverse ethnic population with a common sporting goal. Claude Bebear, the head of the Paris bid, said he had been told by one delegate that "if they let the wives vote, Paris would win 99 percent."
Bebear has previously criticized the Beijing bid, saying, "If you read the Olympic charter closely, you'll find on nearly every line a reference to human rights." But he backed away from those remarks this week. Both Prime Minister Lionel Jospin and the soccer star Zinedine Zidane will be brought in to rally the French vote.
Paris and Toronto have their weaknesses. Paris faces the obstacle of geography, because the next two Olympics will be held in Europe -- Athens in 2004 and Turin, Italy, in 2006. I.O.C. delegates are also concerned about potential police raids on athletes suspected of using performance-enhancing drugs, in the same way that French authorities conducted raids on the Tour de France three years ago. As for Toronto, it may have damaged its chances with intemperate remarks about Africa by its mayor.
When asked today whether Beijing appeared to be losing ground, Wang Wei, the bid leader, said, "I don't believe so."
Only one thing is certain about Friday's vote, Jacques Rogge, a delegate from Belgium, said. "There will be no recount."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A 2,000-square-foot mural in Toronto advertises the Canadian city's bid for the 2008 Olympics. (Associated Press)(pg. D1); Young men playing soccer in front of the Eiffel Tower, where the beach volleyball competition will be held if Paris gets the 2008 Games. (Associated Press)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BALLOTS (72%); SCANDALS (68%); CORRUPTION (65%); BRIBERY (60%) OLYMPIC GAMES; SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS); OLYMPIC GAMES (2008) 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (83%) INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE 

PERSON: LONGMAN, JERE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (87%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (54%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (87%); GEORGIA, USA (57%); QUEBEC, CANADA (54%) CHINA (94%); FRANCE (90%); CANADA (87%); UGANDA (79%); KENYA (79%); UNITED STATES (57%) BEIJING (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



275 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Ferrer Opposes Surtax Cut, Saying City Needs Revenues 

BYLINE:  By DEXTER FILKINS 

 BODY:
Taking a politically tricky step in his campaign for mayor, Borough President Fernando Ferrer of the Bronx continued yesterday to promote the repeal of a recent city tax cut -- an idea that is setting him apart from his rivals. 
 Mr. Ferrer, speaking at a mayoral forum in Midtown Manhattan, said the revenue that the city would lose from the recent rollback of a surcharge on the personal income tax would be better spent on after-school programs. 
 Mr. Ferrer said the tax cut, included in the latest budget, would save a typical New York family only about 4 cents a day. Altogether, Mr. Ferrer said, that rollback would deprive city residents of about $800 million in services over the next four years. 
"If you ask an average working family in this city, 'What would you rather have, 4 cents extra a day in your pocket or after-school programs in 200 middle schools?' " Mr. Ferrer said, "I think I know the answer most New Yorkers would give: 'Save the 4 cents a day and give me the services.' "
Mr. Ferrer, who has built his campaign on criticizing Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, also chided the current administration for the possibility of spending as much as $500 million in public money to help build sports stadiums or improve existing ones. "This is soaking taxpayers," he said. 
Mr. Ferrer's musings drew little enthusiasm from the other mayoral candidates in attendance -- Herman Badillo, City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, City Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone and Public Advocate Mark Green, who arrived late. The event, at the Metropolitan Club on East 60th Street at Fifth Avenue, was sponsored by the Forum Club, a group of business professionals. 
Two candidates, Mr. Hevesi and Mr. Vallone, promoted what they contended were their low-tax and pro-business records and vowed to wage a business-friendly economic strategy if they made it to the mayor's office. As the audience picked its way through a lunch of stuffed chicken and zucchini, Mr. Vallone reeled off a list of taxes he said he had either abolished or reduced. 
"There is no way that anybody should be talking about raising taxes again in order to keep this a safe city, to make it a smart city and to have affordable housing," Mr. Vallone said.
Mr. Hevesi saluted the many business tax cuts enacted in recent years and urged the repeal of the city's commercial rent tax. He proposed that the city government do a better of job of identifying -- and then enacting -- the agendas proposed by New York's major industries. 
The city government's proper role in the economy is "assisting business to come here and prosper here and then to get out of the way," Mr. Hevesi said.
Mr. Green, who did not speak about taxes at the forum, favors delaying the reduction of the tax surcharge, said his spokesman, Joe DePlasco. Mr. Green also opposes the city's recent rollback of the commercial rent tax, Mr. DePlasco said. Another mayoral candidate, Michael R. Bloomberg, skipped yesterday's forum and spent the time meeting with development officials in Queens. Mr. Bloomberg, who has not attended most of the other forums so far, said his time was better spent meeting voters. 
"My objective is to go to every single neighborhood and shake every hand," he said. 
Back at the Metropolitan Club, whose opulent setting formed the backdrop for the forum, the absence of Mr. Bloomberg, a wealthy financial news media executive, became the subject of good-natured quips. 
"He's not here," said Mark Simone, a radio and television host who presided over the forum. "I guess he just felt out of place in a room full of wealthy businessmen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayoral candidates at a forum yesterday, from left, Mark Green, Herman Badillo, Fernando Ferrer, Alan G. Hevesi and Peter F. Vallone. (Justin Lane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); MAYORS (92%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (60%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; RENTING AND LEASING; HOUSING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) FILKINS, DEXTER; FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER); VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



276 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: FedEx Freight Rates to Rise 

BYLINE:  Dow Jones News 

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif. 

 BODY:
 The FedEx Corporation's freight companies are planning to increase rates 5.9 percent next month, amid higher costs for service centers, safety programs and World Wide Web based data systems. The move, effective Aug. 6, comes one week after Yellow Freight System, a unit of the Yellow Corporation, said it would raise trucking rates 4.9 percent on Aug. 1, defying the nation's slow economy. FedEx said the rates will increase at its less-than-truckload carriers Viking Freight, based in San Jose, Calif., and American Freightways, based in Harrison, Ark., which FedEx acquired in February for about $1.2 billion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (90%); TRUCKING (90%); GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (90%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (88%); AIR FREIGHT (86%) DELIVERY SERVICES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (93%); YRC WORLDWIDE INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDEX CORP 

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (93%); YRCW (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (93%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (93%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (93%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (84%) SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



277 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Won't Block China's Bid for Olympics 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 10 

 BODY:
The Bush administration, uncertain that it could effectively oppose China's bid for the 2008 Olympics, has decided to remain silent on the issue. But in doing so, it has come to believe that there could be advantages for the United States if Beijing prevails, officials said today.
 A victory for Beijing in the vote, to be held by the International Olympic Committee on Friday in Moscow, could cause the Chinese government to hesitate to use military force against Taiwan in the coming years, and could encourage an improvement in its human rights behavior, a senior administration official said. 
 In some ways the memory of the boycott of the 1980 Moscow Olympics hangs over the administration's calculations. Policy makers suggest that the prize of the Olympic Games and the fear of a boycott, similar to the one called by President Carter after the Soviet Union's invasion of Afghanistan in 1979, would probably ride high in the minds of Chinese leaders. 
"Clearly the Chinese leadership and people put enormous store in not just being awarded the Olympics but in showcasing China," an administration official said. "The last thing they would want is to jeopardize the Olympics in the way the Soviets did in the wake of Afghanistan." 
Bush officials acknowledge that Beijing's oft-stated goal of reuniting Taiwan with the mainland -- separated since the civil war of the 1940's -- is more important to the Chinese government than the Olympics. But they also say that being chosen for the 2008 Games could put a brake on any drastic action. "The Olympics is a factor on the side of restraint," the senior official said. 
Taiwan supports Beijing's bid, apparently as a way of buying time in the standoff between the two. 
The administration has argued that it is taking a neutral position on the host country, on the ground that the United States government has no vote on the International Olympic Committee. But the White House could make its displeasure known if it chose to, should Beijing be selected. 
Among the considerations in not voicing American opposition, officials said, was the fear of further stirring up Chinese nationalism.
After strained relations with China in the administration's early months, the White House is now trying to set the stage for President Bush's trip to Shanghai in October for the annual meeting of Asian and Pacific leaders. Mr. Bush plans to go on to Beijing, and the form and substance of that visit will be negotiated this month when Secretary of State Colin L. Powell makes his first trip to China. 
So, public opposition to China's bid for the Olympics would sour the atmosphere -- with no notable gain -- at a moment when the administration is intent on improving relations.
Yet the administration's willingness to go along with Beijing on the Games also carries some peril. If China is awarded the Olympics, any objectionable behavior would probably bring calls from some conservatives for a boycott, calls that would present a Republican administration with a difficult choice. 
But administration officials played that possibility down today, saying Beijing's conduct would have to be "egregious," as one official put it, to gather enough momentum for a boycott. 
The White House has been helped in its low-key approach by the muting of voices on Capitol Hill.
The most vocal critic has been a Democrat, Representative Tom Lantos of California, the ranking member of the International Relations Committee and a vigorous advocate of human rights. In the Senate, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware, has said it would be counterproductive for the administration to try to interfere with the choice of the Olympics city. 
A Senate resolution calling for a rejection of Beijing on human rights grounds has been bottled up in committee by Mr. Biden and will not be voted on before the decision on Friday in Moscow.
The administration's professed neutrality has also been helped by a split among human rights groups.
While Amnesty International is opposed to holding the Olympics in Beijing, other groups, like the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights and Human Rights Watch, have taken a middle-of-the-road position, urging the Olympics committee to monitor China's human rights behavior before and during the games.
In developing the theme that a victory for Beijing was not all bad, Bush administration officials also say the role of host would encourage China to concentrate on its most pressing domestic concern, economic growth.
"They need a decade of economic stability," said one senior Bush official. "China wants to calm things down. In this sense, the Olympics is very good for China; it will put them on their best behavior and will force domestic change."
In contrast to the Bush administration, the European Parliament passed a resolution last week opposing Beijing's bid, citing abuses of human rights. 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 12, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the Bush administration's view of China's bid for the 2008 Olympics misstated the stance of Amnesty International. It is not opposed to the Olympics being held there; it takes no position on the question.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CIVIL WAR (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%) OLYMPIC GAMES; OLYMPIC GAMES (2008); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%) PERLEZ, JANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TAIWAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) CHINA; BEIJING (CHINA); TAIWAN

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



278 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Alternative Bill Attracts Some Minority Support 

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 10 

 BODY:
To its supporters, a bill offered by the House Republican leadership to rewrite the nation's campaign finance laws is a common-sense alternative to legislation that would ban unrestricted soft-money donations to the national parties.
 To the supporters of broad campaign finance overhaul, the alternative, written by Representative Bob Ney of Ohio, seems designed to divide the coalition of House members who have voted in the past for campaign finance overhaul. 
 The choice between the two bills is at the heart of this week's campaign debate in the House, and few of the lawmakers who will lead the debate on the House floor are willing to predict the outcome of final votes. It is not clear which bill, if either, will pass. 
"It's a cliffhanger, but we have picked up tremendous steam in the last week," said Mr. Ney, whose bill is being cosponsored by a Democrat, Representative Albert R. Wynn of Maryland. "I'm optimistically cautious."
Mr. Ney (whose name rhymes with hay), has found support among black and Hispanic supporters who are wary of a blanket ban on soft-money fund-raising, which they say has proved useful in get-out-the-vote and voter-registration projects. Mr. Wynn, the bill's co-sponsor, heads the campaign finance task force of the Congressional Black Caucus.
The core of the broader bill, sponsored in the House by Representatives Christopher Shays, Republican of Connecticut, and Martin T. Meehan, Democrat of Massachusetts, is the ban on soft money, the unregulated, unrestricted contributions to national party committees that can be made by corporations, unions and wealthy individuals. In April, the Senate passed a soft-money ban as part of the McCain-Feingold bill.
Soft-money contributions rose to nearly $500 million in the last election, double the total in the 1996 campaign and more than 10 times the total in 1988, when soft-money fund-raising began in earnest because of a loophole in the federal election law.
The Shays-Meehan bill, which is similar to McCain-Feingold, would also place strict new limits on political advertising in the final weeks before an election.
The Republican leaders of the House last month came up with an alternative, the legislation sponsored by Mr. Ney, chairman of the House Administration Committee.
Mr. Ney's bill would not end soft money but would, according to its supporters, end the worst abuses of the system by capping the donations. 
Under the legislation, an individual donor could give an annual maximum of $75,000 to each of the six national political party fund-raising committees. That would allow a total of $450,000 a year if a donor wanted to give the maximum to both parties.
The bill would place far fewer limits on political advertising just before an election than would the Shays-Meehan bill, although it would require the public disclosure of the amount of money spent on the ads and the names of the officers of the group paying for them.
The two bills differ sharply on limits on so-called hard money, the regulated donations that unlike soft money can be directly used to aid individual political candidates.
Current law allows an individual donor to make total hard-money contributions of up to $50,000 to candidates and parties during a two-year election cycle.
Under the Shays-Meehan bill, the total would be raised to $75,000. Under Mr. Ney's bill, an individual donor could give many times that amount of hard money.
According to an analysis by Common Cause and Democracy 21, groups that have endorsed the Shays-Meehan bill, the Ney bill would allow total hard-money contributions of $435,000 in a two-year election cycle, with the money divided among individual candidates, political action committees and the six national party fund-raising committees. (The Democrats and Republicans have separate fund-raising committees for House candidates, Senate candidates and for the party organization, for a total of six committees.)
Opponents see the Ney bill as a move to split the bipartisan coalition of House members who voted for soft-money bans in both 1998 and 1999 but who now worry that a ban would limit their ability to raise money for re-election.
But Mr. Ney said that his bill "places reasonable limits on national political party soft money and requires disclosure of -- but does not restrict -- spending on issue ads."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "COMPARE AND CONTRAST -- New Challenge to a Familiar Bill"One bill to overhaul the campaign finance law, sponsored by Christopher Shays, Republican of Connecticut, and Martin T. Meehan, Democrat of Massachusetts, is competing with another one that was recently introduced by Representative Bob Ney, Republican of Ohio, and co-sponsored by Albert R. Wynn, Democrat of Maryland. SOFT MONEYThe largely unregulated and unlimited contributions by corpora-tions, unions and individuals SHAYS-MEEHANWould prohibit national parties from raising and spending soft money, and would restrict state and local parties to raising $10,000 each year per donor for get-out-the-vote and registration efforts. NEY-WYNNWould limit soft money contributions to each of the six national party committees to $75,000 a year per donor. Would not restrict state and local parties from raising and spending soft money. HARD MONEYMoney raised and spent according to the limits, prohibitions and disclosure requirements of federal election law SHAYS-MEEHANWould limit individual contributions to candidates to $1,000 a year for House races, and $2,000 a year for Senate and presidential races. Individual contributions to national parties would increase to $37,500 per year, from $25,000 currently. All these amounts would be indexed for inflation. NEY-WYNNWould leave limit on individual contributions at $1,000 for all federal candidates, and would index it for inflation. Limits on contributions to national parties would rise to $30,000, indexed for inflation. BROADCAST ADVERTISINGAbility of labor unions, for-profit corpora-tions and nonprofits to pay for television or radio advertising directly SHAYS-MEEHANWould require that any advertisement that referred to a federal candidate, reached at least 50,000 people within the candidate's electorate, and ran 30 days before a primary or 60 days before a general election must be paid for with hard money through a political action committee. NEY-WYNNWould not be restricted, although groups that ran advertisements mentioning a federal candidate and reaching his or her electorate within 120 days of any election would have to disclose its officers and the amount spent on the advertisement within 24 hours.(Sources: Congressional Quarterly; Congressional Research Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (63%) ELECTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (90%); ALBERT RUSSELL WYNN (78%) SHAYS, CHRISTOPHER (REPR); MEEHAN, MARTIN T (REPR); NEY, BOB (REPR); SHENON, PHILIP 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



279 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
Outside the Box

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
During last year's campaign, George W. Bush solemnly pledged that his tax cuts would not come at the expense of future retirees, that the reserve the Social Security system was accumulating to help it pay benefits to the baby boomers would be kept in a "lockbox" -- that is, that Social Security surpluses would not be used to cover deficits in the rest of the budget.
 Ever since Mr. Bush was sworn in, however, it has been apparent that he takes some of his promises more seriously than others. And so no sooner were big tax cuts for the rich in the bag -- an event followed, with breathtaking speed, by the revelation that revenue projections are in free fall -- than administration officials suddenly discovered that the lockbox is a silly idea. Here's what Mitch Daniels, director of the Office of Management and Budget, said last weekend: "There is no box, there is no mattress. Paul O'Neill doesn't have a hole in the backyard where this money goes. . . . What's unfair is to mislead the American people into thinking this money's in a box somewhere. It isn't. That box has nothing but promissory notes in it." (Thanks to Joshua Micah Marshall for that quote.) 
 Clearly, Mr. Daniels knows that because of the tax cut Mr. Bush will soon break his promise to protect the Social Security surplus. (I could have told you that would happen eventually. In fact, I did. But the truth is coming out ahead of schedule.) And he probably also knows that, administration claims to the contrary, the budget shortfall is not just a temporary consequence of the slumping economy. So now he needs to play down the significance of that breach of promise. 
The lockbox is, of course, not a literal box of cash. It is a rule, similar in spirit to the spending caps that conservatives love to impose, whose purpose is to protect politicians from temptation.
The need for the lockbox arises from two crucial facts about the federal budget. First, that budget is dominated by the retirement programs, Social Security and Medicare -- loosely speaking, the post-cold-war federal government is a big pension fund that also happens to have an army. Second, a decade from now the population served by those programs will explode, as the baby-boom generation reaches retirement age.
Because of those facts, merely balancing the federal budget would be a deeply irresponsible policy -- because that would leave us unprepared for the demographic deluge, with no alternative once it arrives except to raise taxes and slash benefits. To ease the burden we should run large surpluses for the next decade -- surpluses that will pay off the federal debt, and perhaps help purchase assets to back promised payments. 
If politicians were saints, we could count on them to run the needed surpluses without imposing a rigid rule. But in the real world politicians need an artificial backbone. And hence the concept of the lockbox. The Social Security system is currently taking in more money than it pays out; the lockbox says that this part of the overall budget surplus is not available for tax cuts or spending increases. 
Now economists who have examined the long-run U.S. fiscal situation uniformly find that even with this rule, tax increases or reductions in benefits will still be needed when the boomers retire. So maintaining the lockbox is not a high standard; indeed, a minimum standard would also put the surplus of the Medicare hospital insurance fund in the box.
The real problem with the lockbox is that it is too easily evaded -- that politicians can use creative accounting to get around it. And that is exactly what the Bush administration has done: its tax plan is a Rube Goldberg device of delayed provisions, expiring provisions, hidden costs, etc., all designed to preserve the illusion that Mr. Bush is keeping his promise to protect Social Security. It is a testament to how deeply irresponsible the plan really is that despite all this effort Mr. Daniels now feels the need to tell us that the lockbox is meaningless. 
So yes, it is crude and naive to picture Mr. Bush stealing money from the piggy bank and giving it to his rich friends. Refined, sophisticated analysts know that what he has actually done is to undermine America's fiscal integrity in order to provide big tax breaks to his rich friends. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); CONSERVATISM (72%); DEBT NOTES (70%); MEDICARE (68%) TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

PERSON: MITCH DANIELS (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); PAUL KRUGMAN (66%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KRUGMAN, PAUL; DANIELS, MITCH (DIR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



280 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
The Interpublic Group will revamp now that it is the world's largest agency company.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
IN what may be the largest reorganization on Madison Avenue, the Interpublic Group of Companies is being made over as it becomes the world's biggest agency company.
 The reorganization of Interpublic, based in New York, affects 60,000 employees who work on accounts with billings estimated at $68 billion. It comes less than three weeks after the completion of Interpublic's estimated $1.68 billion acquisition of True North Communications in Chicago. That deal made Interpublic first in worldwide billings and revenue as it leapfrogged the WPP Group in London. 
 The changes are centered on a realignment of Interpublic into four principal worldwide divisions. Several top executives assume new duties, several familiar agency names disappear through mergers and several giant new shops are formed in specialized services like public relations and media buying. 
"This is a significant change in how we need to be put together to ensure growth for clients and, therefore, growth for us," John J. Dooner Jr., chairman and chief executive at Interpublic, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
"The True North acquisition became the final piece in the puzzle to allow us to do this," he said.
In some instances, however, the revamping does not go as far as was speculated in trade publications. For instance, there is no widespread rollup of smaller agencies to form centralized regional shops; almost all the smaller local agencies will operate as autonomous units.
The realignment was in the works for nine months, a lifetime to the advertising industry as the economic slowdown, combined with the dot-com meltdown, substantially altered the environment in which Interpublic and its competitors like WPP and the Omnicom Group operate.
As a result, the stakes are far higher for Interpublic than they would have been, and not only because Interpublic has twice since March reduced the estimates it provides to analysts on future earnings.
"O.K., it's a tough climate, we accept that," said Michael J. Russell Jr., who follows agency stocks for Morgan Stanley in New York. "But fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, what's going on here?
"It's not, 'Show me,' as in I don't think you can do it," he added. "It's more like, 'Make us believe again.' "
Interpublic's stock is well off its 52-week high of $47.44. It fell 14.6 percent on June 15 when management warned analysts that spending cutbacks by clients would cause second-quarter earnings to fall short of estimates. The shares closed yesterday at $29.56, down 19 cents.
"What's past is past and what's future is exciting," said David Bell, the former chairman and chief executive at True North, who is now a vice chairman at Interpublic and will lead one of the four new principal units, named the Partnership.
"This is the best, most expedient way for Interpublic to chart its future," Mr. Bell, 58, said in an interview.
The Partnership will be formed primarily from the Lowe Group, which was one of Interpublic's three operating units before the reorganization. With billings estimated at more than $20 billion and about 17,000 employees, the Partnership will include the advertising agencies Lowe Lintas & Partners Worldwide and Lowe Health Care; the direct marketing agency Draft Worldwide; the public relations agency Golin/ Harris International; the sports marketing agency Octagon; and the media services agency Initiative Media Worldwide.
In addition, 11 other advertising agencies will report to Interpublic through the Partnership, some from True North, like the New York office of what had been the Bozell Group; Springer & Jacoby in Hamburg, Germany; Stein Rogan & Partners in New York; and Tierney Communications in Philadelphia. The rest come from Interpublic, including Carmichael Lynch in Minneapolis; Dailey & Associates in Los Angeles; Deutsch in New York; the Martin Agency in Richmond, Va.; Mullen in Wenham, Mass.; and Suissa Miller in Los Angeles.
The Partnership will be overseen by a management committee headed by Mr. Bell; there are to be no formal titles. Other senior partners include Donny Deutsch, chief executive at Deutsch; Howard Draft, chief executive at Draft; Rich Jernstedt, chief executive at Golin/Harris; Jerry Judge, chief executive at Lowe Lintas; and Louis Schultz, chief executive at Initiative.
Contrary to reports in trade publications, Sir Frank Lowe, who had been chief executive at the Lowe Group, will not be chairman of the Partnership, as there will be no such title. Nor, it turns out now, will he be a member of the management committee. He will, however, continue as chairman at Lowe Lintas and chief executive at Octagon and, said Barry R. Linksy, executive vice president for planning and business development at Interpublic, "he will continue to contribute his creative expertise and his relationship with key clients" to the Partnership.
Just as Sir Frank's absence on the committee may raise eyebrows, so, too, may Mr. Deutsch's presence. Since he sold his agency last fall to Interpublic for an estimated $265 million in stock, there have been persistent reports that he would be tapped for a major management role in the reorganization. Although the leaders of the 10 other advertising agencies aligned with the Partnership will not report to Mr. Deutsch, he is to "represent their interests" on the committee, Mr. Linksy said.
Many of the agencies that belonged to True North are being grouped in a division called the FCB Group, after the FCB Worldwide unit of True North. Brendan Ryan, who was chairman and chief executive at FCB Worldwide, becomes chairman and chief executive at the FCB Group, which will have about 10,000 employees and $11 billion to $12 billion in billings.
Mr. Ryan, 58, praised what he described as the benefits of being supported by "the broad shoulders of a big, terrific company with its best years coming up right now."
The FCB Group includes former True North holdings like Foote, Cone & Belding, the advertising agency recently known as FCB Worldwide; FCBi, an interactive and direct marketing agency; R/GA, for Web design and development; and Marketing Drive, for integrated marketing. TN Media, the True North media buying agency with which FCB Worldwide worked, will disappear into Initiative Media.
Campbell-Ewald in Warren, Mich., also previously part of Interpublic, will report through the FCB Group, as will Weber Shandwick Worldwide, the public relations agency being formed by the merger of Weber Shandwick, an Interpublic agency, with BSMG Worldwide, a True North agency.
The merger, effective on Sept. 30, will create the largest public relations agency in billings, with an estimated $500 million in revenue; there will be 3,500 employees in 74 cities in 19 countries.
"We'll be a leader in government relations, high technology, financial relations and entertainment," said Larry Weber, who had been chief executive at Weber Shandwick and will relinquish that post in the merger to Harris Diamond, chief executive at BSMG. Jack Leslie, chairman at BSMG, will be chairman of the merged Weber Shandwick.
Mr. Leslie and Mr. Diamond will report to Mr. Weber in his new role as chairman and chief executive at the third principal Interpublic division, Advanced Marketing Services, formerly the Allied Communications Group, where Mr. Weber, 46, was also chairman and chief executive.
Advanced Marketing Services, with billings of $11 billion to $12 billion and about 10,000 employees, will be composed of agencies in three fields, Mr. Weber said: "constituency management, a fancy name for public relations; marketing intelligence, like NFO, the leading market research company; and specialized marketing services" like Jack Morton Worldwide, for event marketing, and the New America Strategies Group, a True North unit devoted to multicultural marketing.
The fourth principal division is the McCann-Erickson World Group, which Mr. Dooner headed before becoming the top leader at Interpublic. This division will see the least change from the reorganization. The World Group, with billings estimated at $25 billion and about 23,000 employees, will continue to be headed by Jim Heekin, as chairman and chief executive. It will continue to be composed of units like McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising, Torre Lazur Health Care Worldwide, the Universal McCann Worldwide media services agency and the FutureBrand identity consulting company.
Two former True North agencies, Avrett Free & Ginsberg in New York and Temerlin McClain in Irving, Tex., will report through the World Group, along with Interpublic agencies like Austin Kelley and Fitzgerald & Company in Atlanta; Campbell Mithun in Minneapolis; Gotham in New York; and Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos in Boston.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some key executives in the new Interpublic Group, from the left, John J. Dooner Jr., David Bell, Brendan Ryan, Jim Heekin and Larry Weber. Chart: "Interpublic Makeover"The Interpublic Group of Companies is reorganizing itself in part to integrate the companies it acquired when it bought True North Communications. Here are the major features of the realignment. BEFORE REORGANIZATIONInterpublic Group of Companies McCann-Erickson World GroupLowe GroupAllied Communications Group AFTER REORGANIZATIONInterpublic Group of Companies McCann-Erickson World GroupThe PartnershipFCB GroupAdvanced Marketing Services BEFORE REORGANIZATIONTrue North Communications FCB WorldwideBozell GroupTemerlin McClainTrue North Diversified Companies (Source: Interpublic Group of Companies) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MERGERS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (98%); WPP PLC (91%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES INC; TRUE NORTH COMMUNICATIONS 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (98%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (91%); WPP (LSE) (91%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (91%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: JAMES T RYAN (71%) ELLIOTT, STUART; DOONER, JOHN J JR; BELL, DAVID; RYAN, BRENDAN; HEEKIN, JIM; WEBER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



281 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Say Bush's Tax Cuts Jeopardize Military Spending 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 10 

 BODY:
Three of the Senate's most powerful Democrats warned today that President Bush's tax cut had made it virtually impossible to increase military spending significantly in 2002 without slashing other programs or dipping into surplus Medicare funds. 
 Senators Carl Levin, chairman of the Armed Services Committee; Kent Conrad, chairman of the Budget Committee, and Tom Daschle, the majority leader, said the Bush administration must find reductions in military or other programs or consider scaling back the tax cut, if it wanted to increase Pentagon spending by $18.4 billion next year. 
 "If you want $18 billion for defense, how are you going to pay for it?" Mr. Daschle said in a news conference in the Capitol. "How are you going to do it without using Medicare and Social Security trust funds? We're awaiting the answer." 
Though their remarks focused on just the military part of the $2 trillion federal budget, the Democratic leaders seemed to be signaling their broader political and fiscal strategy for the budget fight with the White House. 
That strategy seems intended to portray the administration and its Republican allies in Congress as favoring military spending and tax cuts over popular social programs for health care, education, agriculture and the elderly. 
The Democrats have also sought to avoid being cast as budget busters. Today, for example, Democratic leaders did not try to increase a $6.5 billion supplement to the 2001 budget, almost all of which will go to the Pentagon. The Senate tonight overwhelmingly passed the supplemental spending bill on a vote of 98 to 1. In past years, both parties have attached billions in favored projects to such budget supplements. 
Underlying the Democratic approach is the assertion that President Bush's signature legislative accomplishment, the $1.35 trillion tax cut, when combined with a softening economy, has sharply reduced the size of the surplus. Because of the shrinking surplus, the Democrats contend, the government would have to spend $42 billion of surplus Medicare and Social Security funds in 2002 to pay for the administration's proposed budget. 
Republicans dispute those estimates, saying that the surplus will be large enough to pay for Mr. Bush's entire 2002 budget request. The White House also rejects the idea that there is a Medicare surplus, arguing that the program is essentially in deficit. They contend that the Democrats are simply trying to find ways to accuse the White House of harming a popular program. 
"Regarding defense, we felt this is a much-needed increase," said Chris Ullman, a spokesman for the Office of Management and Budget. 
The proposed Pentagon budget for 2002 would be $18.4 billion above what the Bush administration initially recommended in February, and $33 billion more than President Bill Clinton's final military budget. 
Mr. Levin called today for scaling back a part of the tax cut that went to upper-income taxpayers to provide resources for basic military programs, like housing for the troops, maintenance and training. 
"I just don't see any alternative," Mr. Levin said in an interview. "Either you dip into the trust funds, or you go back into deficit spending, or you take money from education or health care. I don't see any other alternative except to revisit the upper-income tax breaks." 
Senator Conrad said the idea of rolling back the tax cut should be considered in the budget talks, though he stopped short of endorsing it. But he said he would oppose any increases in military spending that required spending surplus Medicare or Social Security funds. 
"For 2002, I think if the administration wants to spend more money, they have to come up with a way to pay for it, whether spending cuts or new revenue," he said.
The skirmishing over the budget came on a day when the four service chiefs and four service secretaries told a Senate hearing on Capitol Hill that Mr. Bush's proposed 2002 budget, despite containing the largest increase in defense spending since the 1980's, would not meet their needs. 
"The budget will put us on the road to recovery in some categories, such as military pay, housing allowances and health care," said Army Secretary Thomas White. "Secondly, it will start an improvement but leave us short of our goals in other areas, such as restoring our deteriorating infrastructure. And third, unfortunately, there will continue to be shortfalls in a number of critical areas, such as modernization and recapitalization of the existing force." 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 12, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about assertions by Senate Democrats that President Bush's tax cut jeopardizes military spending referred incorrectly in some copies to the surplus Medicare and Social Security funds that Democrats say the government would have to spend in 2002 to pay for the administration's proposed budget. It is $42 billion, not $62 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MEDICARE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (50%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; TAXATION 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (88%); CARL LEVIN (78%); KENT CONRAD (73%); BILL CLINTON (58%) DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); LEVIN, CARL (SEN); CONRAD, KENT (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DAO, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



282 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Bush Drug Plan Calls for Using Discount Cards 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 10 

 BODY:
President Bush will call later this week for major changes in Medicare, and as an interim step wants to encourage the elderly to acquire drug discount cards so they can immediately get lower prices at pharmacies, federal officials said today.
 Such cards are issued by "buyers' clubs" organized by private companies that negotiate discounts with drug manufacturers and pharmacies. Administration officials said they were exploring ways to promote the cards' use by quick presidential action, without a need for immediate legislation or federal spending. 
 One such discount plan is run by Merck-Medco and the Reader's Digest Association. Merck executives emphasized that their plan was not insurance and was not a substitute for proposed Medicare drug benefits. But, they said, it does enable people to get discounts of 10 percent to 30 percent or more at any of 40,000 participating pharmacies, for a membership fee of $25 a year. 
White House officials are still trying to work out precisely how the government would promote such plans and encourage enrollment by Medicare beneficiaries.
Mr. Bush intends to set forth a detailed set of principles for Medicare legislation at a White House event on Thursday. The White House sent invitations today to members of Congress, consumer groups, pharmacists and health care providers. Mark B. McClellan, a health economist on the White House staff, met today with about a dozen House Republicans to seek their support.
Federal officials said Mr. Bush hoped to seize the initiative on the issue and shape Congressional debate just as the Senate Finance Committee is about to begin writing legislation to update Medicare, created 36 years ago, and add drug benefits. 
White House officials said Mr. Bush would emphasize that any new government drug benefits must be part of a comprehensive bill to revamp Medicare. One of the president's goals is to expand the role of private health plans; these include health maintenance organizations, which now provide care to slightly more than 14 percent of the 40 million beneficiaries.
Medicare H.M.O.'s typically provide some drug benefits to their members. But about one-third of Medicare beneficiaries do not have any insurance to cover prescription drugs outside hospitals.
Mr. Bush made "Medicare reform" and prescription drug benefits a central theme of his presidential campaign. In his first budget, he sought $156 billion for the purpose over the next 10 years. In response, Democrats said it would cost at least $300 billion over 10 years to provide minimally adequate drug benefits.
Democrats in Congress say they are open to modest changes in the management of Medicare, to increase competition among suppliers of goods and services. But they say they will not accept any changes that put financial pressure on the elderly to join H.M.O.'s.
Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, the Senate's leading Democratic strategist on health care issues, said: "It's going to become increasingly apparent through the summer that 'Medicare reform' is not going to take place. But there will be a real attempt to pass a good, effective prescription drug program."
Indeed, Senate Democrats working on Medicare legislation are now heavily focused on adding a prescription drug benefit. The leading proposal, offered by Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida, would provide drug coverage as a standard part of the Medicare benefit package. The Democratic majority on the Senate Finance Committee is expected to use Mr. Graham's legislation as the centerpiece of a broader measure that the committee could approve before the August recess.
The idea of drug discount cards may well be a highlight of the White House event this Thursday. Representative Nancy L. Johnson, Republican of Connecticut, said such cards made sense as a way to "give seniors immediate relief." 
But many drugstores and pharmacists adamantly oppose the cards. Indeed, the National Association of Chain Drug Stores, which represents companies like CVS and Rite-Aid, tried to persuade the Bush administration to drop its idea.
The association's president, Craig L. Fuller, who was White House chief of staff to Mr. Bush's father, said, "A discount card unfairly places the burden for reducing drug prices on the backs of retail pharmacies," requiring drugstores to lower their prices without necessarily affecting the wholesale prices charged by manufacturers. Pharmacists say the manufacturer's charge accounts for more than 70 percent of the retail price of a prescription, on average.
Gov. Gary Locke of Washington State, a Democrat, created a drug discount program for people 55 and older in the summer of last year, while he was running for re-election. A group of pharmacists filed suit, and in May a state judge stopped the program, saying the governor exceeded his authority when he created it by executive order.
Administration officials said Mr. Bush supported these principles for overhauling Medicare: 
*The private sector should play a major role in delivering drug benefits and managing drug costs, but the federal government must provide substantial subsidies for all beneficiaries.
*Elderly people should be able to choose the company that, under the administration's plan for an overhaul, would manage their pharmacy benefits. No company should have a monopoly; there should be at least two "pharmacy benefit managers" in each region. 
*The federal government should set an overall limit on the out-of-pocket pharmaceutical expenses of Medicare beneficiaries.
*People content with their existing Medicare coverage could keep it. The government would pay employers to continue drug coverage as part of retiree health benefits.
*The government should, for the first time, make payments to H.M.O.'s to cover the cost of providing drug benefits. Congress should make other changes to reverse the exodus of H.M.O.'s from Medicare. (In the last three years, managed care plans have dropped more than 1.6 million Medicare beneficiaries.)
On Wednesday, the House of Representatives is to vote on a bill that would allow imports of low-priced prescription drugs. Mr. Bush supported such legislation in the campaign, but now the White House is opposed, saying the bill could increase imports of "unsafe, unapproved or counterfeit drugs." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DRUG PRICES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PHARMACIES (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PHARMACISTS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGETS (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (69%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (67%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DISCOUNT SELLING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); AGED; MEDICARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) 

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: MERCK & CO INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (71%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (71%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); TED KENNEDY (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001 



283 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: To Expand Trade 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Robert M. Dunn Jr. ("Mexico's Growing Trade Advantage," Op-Ed, July 5) recognizes that trade is an essential means to support economic growth. 
Unfortunately, the post-World War II consensus on the value of expanded trade has been shaken, as is evident from Congress's failure to renew trade promotion authority. 
 There are 134 free trade agreements in force around the world, but the United States is a party to only two. American businesses are disadvantaged; their products and services are subject to tariffs that have been eliminated for foreign competitors.
Congress has a critical role: passing trade promotion authority legislation so that we can expand opportunities for American businesses and workers.

HAROLD MCGRAW III
New York, July 6, 2001

The writer is chairman, Emergency Committee for American Trade, and chairman and chief executive of The McGraw-Hill Companies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); TRENDS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (87%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); WORLD WAR II (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); EXECUTIVES (50%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

COMPANY: MCGRAW-HILL COS INC (69%)

TICKER: MHP (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: HAROLD W MCGRAW III (51%) KENNEDY, KAREN STEINBERG; STRACHER, CAMERON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



284 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Ford Is Changing the Way It Rates Work of Managers 

BYLINE:  By BARRY MEIER 

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company told employees on Tuesday that it was changing a performance ranking system for managers that had become the subject of a growing number of lawsuits.
 In a message sent to Ford employees, Jacques A. Nasser, the company's chief executive, said that Ford was altering its year-old performance evaluation system that graded managers and supervisors according to a letter-based ranking system. 
 Under the system, those who received the highest grade, an A, were the most likely to receive raises and promotions while those who repeatedly received the lowest grade, a C, faced the possibility of dismissal. 
Since the institution of the system, known as the performance management process, at least six lawsuits have been filed against Ford asserting that the system was unfairly used to force out older employees and specifically white males in favor of younger and minority employees. Two of those lawsuits are seeking class-action status.
Anna Marie Gatteri, a Ford spokeswoman, said yesterday that the changes in the ranking system were not made in response to the lawsuits. And Mr. Nasser also noted in his memo that the performance system had "nothing to do with age or diversity."
"It has everything to do with inspiring the best performance," he said.
Under the old system, at least 10 percent of all employees were to have received a C. Earlier this year, that benchmark was lowered to 5 percent, Ms. Gatteri said.
Under the new system, Ford's 18,000 managers and supervisors are graded with three designations: top achiever, achiever and improvement required. Ms. Gatteri said there is no longer any minimum percentage of employees who have to receive the lowest ranking.
Lawsuits against Ford have asserted that the old ranking system was discriminatory because it encouraged managers to give older workers low grade's because a manger's overall performance was based, in part, on his ability to diversify Ford's work force. The company has said that it wants to diversify its management ranks but that it does not have quotas.
James Fett, a lawyer in Dearborn, Mich., who represents plaintiffs in some of the lawsuits against Ford, said the changes in the performance evaluation system were a "step in the right direction."
He said, however, that he did not plan to drop the lawsuits and that Ford had yet to make any offers to compensate what he described as the "economic and emotional damage" caused to his clients by the ranking system. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RANKINGS (90%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); OLDER WORKERS (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ELDER LAW (77%); CLASS ACTIONS (72%) AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; DISCRIMINATION; OLDER WORKERS; MINORITIES; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (97%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (97%); F (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (97%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: MEIER, BARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



285 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Profit for Harley-Davidson 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE, July 11 

 BODY:
 Harley-Davidson, the motorcycle maker, said today that its second-quarter profit topped Wall Street expectations as the nation's economic woes failed to hurt demand for its distinctive bikes. 
Milwaukee-based Harley-Davidson reported its second-quarter profit rose 27 percent to $115.6 million, or 38 cents a share, compared with $90.6 million, or 29 cents a share, a year earlier. Wall Street analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/First Call expected earnings of 35 cents a share. Sales increased 12.7 percent to $850.9 million from $754.9 million a year earlier. Shipments of motorcycles grew 12.8 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); MOTORCYCLES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (85%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: HARLEY-DAVIDSON INC (95%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%)

ORGANIZATION: HARLEY-DAVIDSON INC 

TICKER: HOG (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (95%) SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (87%) WISCONSIN, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



286 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Aetna to Close Some Unprofitable H.M.O.'s 

BYLINE:  By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Aetna Inc., the nation's largest health insurer, said yesterday that it would close or sell numerous unprofitable H.M.O.'s and expand its business with self-insured companies and medium-size employers in an attempt to improve profitability.
 Aetna reported a $36.6 million operating loss for the first quarter of this year. 
 In a memorandum sent to all employees yesterday, Dr. John W. Rowe, the chief executive of the company, said Aetna planned to reduce the percentage of health maintenance organizations in which Aetna takes the risk for any losses. 
The company, based in Hartford, said it covered about 9 million of its 18.3 million members in these risk-bearing H.M.O.'s as of March 31. Aetna plans to shed up to one million members of unprofitable health plans this year. But for self-insured employers covering their own risks, Aetna will continue to offer networks of doctors and hospitals operating under H.M.O. rules. 
Dr. Rowe has said that demand for H.M.O.'s will continue, and it may increase if the economy weakens as employers and consumers struggle with rising health costs. 
"The H.M.O. isn't dead, it's in the bushes," he said in a recent interview. "For some segment of the population, it's still the best way to reduce medical costs."
Aetna has already begun unloading unprofitable H.M.O.'s in California, and several southern states. Last month it said it was closing health maintenance organizations with 44,000 members in 11 counties in central California and H.M.O.'s in Macon and Augusta, Ga., with a total of 25,000 members. Aetna has also sold H.M.O.'s with 75,000 members in St. Louis and Louisiana to Coventry Health Plans Inc.
In another move to increase profits, Aetna asked Connecticut regulators to approve premium increases averaging 18.1 percent for H.M.O. members and 32 percent for prescription drug plans in the state. The company also requested approval last week for changes in its pricing formulas so it could tie charges for larger groups of H.M.O. members to the group's costs in the previous period.
Kenneth L. Sperling, a health care analyst at Hewitt Associates, said Aetna was seeking the change so it could reduce premiums for employers with relatively healthy groups who might otherwise switch to another insurer. Aetna could raise premiums for groups with higher expenses to cover costs or drive them away, he said. 
In his memorandum, Dr. Rowe said Aetna would "refocus our strategy" for small business customers to steer them to more profitable products and retain their business, especially in markets where the company has a large market share and can use that power to keep its costs down. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (95%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); SELF INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); HOSPITALS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); HEALTH CARE (72%); APPROVALS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MARKET SHARE (70%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (61%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; FINANCES 

COMPANY: AETNA INC (98%); AON HEWITT (83%); HEALTH PLANS INC (64%)

ORGANIZATION: AETNA INC 

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (98%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (98%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (98%); NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (83%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (83%) SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS; SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; 

PERSON: ROWE, JOHN W (DR); FREUDENHEIM, MILT 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



287 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1997 words

HEADLINE: Translating Union Into Khmer; 
The A.F.L.-C.I.O. Organizes in Cambodia

BYLINE:  By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: PHNOM PENH, Cambodia 

 BODY:
The black clouds of an early monsoon were piling up outside as Jason Judd of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. paced before a classroom of local union leaders and labor organizers, lecturing on what it takes to force garment factory managers to the negotiating table.
 "How do I get recognition?" he asked in a voice honed over years of organizing in the Deep South -- part Sunday sermon, part half-time pep talk. "How can I get it?" 
 The class hesitated but didn't really need to hear the translation to know how to respond. "Omnaich!" they replied. Power. 
"I didn't hear you," he said.
"Omnaich!" they yelled back in unison.
"If you can't say it," Mr. Judd said, "you can't have it."
Phnom Penh may seem far afield for America's umbrella labor organization. But the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has become active here and Cambodia has emerged as a test case in perhaps the most contentious issue on the international trade agenda today: establishing a floor under labor conditions in developing countries.
Cambodia is at the center of the debate thanks to a landmark 1999 agreement that makes it the only country whose garment exports to the United States are dependent on factories here living up to an internationally recognized labor code.
In addition to complying with a new labor law that lays out basic rules for health and safety on the factory floor, Cambodia is also required to allow unions to operate, to eliminate child and forced labor, and to work to prevent discrimination.
Supporters of the Cambodian arrangement, which is up for review later this year by the Bush administration, hope that it will set a precedent for future trade agreements by demonstrating that establishing such minimum labor conditions can work to the benefit of all.
In most developing countries, however, political leaders are adamantly opposed to any linking of worker standards to trade agreements, arguing that imposing rules from outside threatens to undermine the competitive advantage they need to support their own economic development.
Here in impoverished Cambodia, where the garment industry is the biggest export earner, the trade agreement has garnered a more mixed reaction. Many hope that submitting to American sensibilities will turn "Made in Cambodia" into a sign of merit to consumers. Yet they also fear that efforts like Mr. Judd's to make workers' voices heard will only drive manufacturers to countries like China and Vietnam, where conditions may be worse but the glare of scrutiny less severe.
"We may become a victim of our own openness," said Sok Siphana, secretary of state at Cambodia's Ministry of Commerce.
At the same time, the standards do not necessarily speak to some of the most critical conflicts within the industry, like those over pay and forced overtime. And despite the agreement, unions have made only limited gains in organizing garment factories in Cambodia. While they operate more openly than in many other poor countries, they have been stymied by fierce opposition from factory owners, most of whom operate on thin margins and are often squeezed themselves when dealing with the multinational apparel merchants.
Mr. Judd, the American organizer, arrived here in February in hopes of improving the situation for workers. With funding from the State Department's Agency for International Development, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s American Center for International Solidarity he runs here now offers seminars on organizing that draw not only union leaders, but also human rights groups and members of Cambodia's influential Buddhist clergy.
"We're helping these new unions to get stronger," he said. "We're helping them to build independent and democratic unions."
Cambodia's apparel industry was created almost overnight in 1996 by a bilateral trade agreement with the United States that cut tariffs on most Cambodian goods to 4 percent from 17 percent. Flights to Phnom Penh soon filled with investors from China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore eager to build factories.
From seven garment factories in 1994, there are now roughly 300, employing 170,000 people, mostly women. The industry earned $965 million last year, three-quarters of it exporting to American companies like Gap, Nike, Levi Strauss and Sears, Roebuck.
Though it means 11-hour days of monotonous toil six days a week, a job in a garment factory is highly coveted. In a good month, with overtime, an average worker can take home $70, three times the national average. Workers often pay up to $50 in bribes just to land a garment job.
In 1997, a violent coup drove most investors and aid agencies away from Phnom Penh, but not the garment factories. The same year, Cambodia adopted its new labor code, written with help from the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the International Labor Organization.
Workers were quick to test their new rights. After refusing to work on a Sunday, Doung Sotheavy, now 31, remembers her Singaporean employers calling her into their office to sign a document. The next time she refused to work on a Sunday, the document said, she would resign.
Ms. Doung Sotheavy walked out, exhorting her co-workers to follow. When only a dozen came, she rented a public address system. "If you don't help me this time," she remembers calling to those still inside, "no one will help you next time."
The next day, the factory went on strike. A union was born, one of more than 75 started in the last four years. Last July, garment factory unions won a minimum wage of $45 a month, a first for Cambodia.
The incentive to improve working conditions and permit unions has come from Washington, where in 1998 trade negotiators were preparing to put quotas on fast-growing Cambodian garment imports. Amid pressure from American unions and public opinion, the Clinton administration pushed Cambodia to accept unprecedented conditions: if Washington decided in an annual review that its industry was in "substantial" compliance with Cambodian labor law and international standards, it would raise Cambodia's quota by 14 percent.
At the moment, the agreement is only barely on the Bush administration's radar screen. Few of the officials involved in such a decision are in place yet. "We expect to review this more closely as we get closer to the fall," an administration trade official said.
Condemned by Cambodia's Southeast Asian neighbors as a breach of sovereignty, the agreement has its share of holes. Perhaps the biggest is that it does not specify how Washington should determine whether Cambodia complies. Cambodia's own labor inspectors are poorly trained, and unions complain they are too easily bribed. The United States and Cambodia agreed to pay the International Labor Organization to set up an independent monitoring program, which is just beginning and has not yet made its first assessment.
Government officials, manufacturers and union leaders hope clean bills of health from the I.L.O. will give Cambodia an edge over cheaper labor elsewhere. "People will see the improved situation isn't perfect, perhaps, but good," said Van Sou Ieng, president of the Garment Manufacturers Association. "Then everyone will come to Cambodia and say, 'Give us space. Take our orders,' "
But labor organizers say that inspectors can do only so much. That much was demonstrated last fall, when a British documentary uncovered what it alleged was child labor at a factory routinely visited by inspectors from Gap and Nike. Union leaders and outside groups say that child labor is actually rare in Cambodian garment factories. The biggest problems, they say, center not around such traditional issues as under-age workers, ventilation or fire exits, but on retaliation against union leaders and forced overtime.
Gap says factory managers have tried to foil inspections with falsified payment records. Gap and Nike both pulled out of the factory highlighted in the documentary, citing a variety of uncorrected problems.
"If you're not in there it's hard to make sure that ongoing commitments the factory may have made are sustained," said Todd McKean, global director of compliance at Nike, which has withdrawn entirely from Cambodia as well.
Unions are more reliable watchdogs, organizers contend. And what happens, Mr. Judd asks, when workers decide that the minimum standards enforced by monitors are not enough? "To fight that fight," he said, "they're going to need a union."
Tall, thin and pale, Mr. Judd cuts an incongruous figure in Cambodian labor circles. Now 29, Mr. Judd developed a taste for organizing in 1992 when, as an economics student at Duke University, he helped a group of poor, minority women working the abattoirs of North Carolina's pig and poultry industry get a free clinic.
After a year abroad, he joined the Service Employees International Union in New Orleans, organizing street sweepers, school cafeteria workers and garbage collectors. Last year, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. hired Mr. Judd, who had since moved to Texas, to man its "solidarity center" in Phnom Penh.
Critics of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s actions here and elsewhere say it mostly represents American labor's efforts to protect jobs at home by thwarting low-cost competition from abroad. And they see it as an example of how labor, from the left, and traditional protectionists, from the right, are finding common cause to intervene in foreign countries.
"The circle kind of connects," said Ernest Z. Bower, president of the U.S.-Asean Business Council, which represents private sector interests in Southeast Asia. "They work together to make the yardstick impossible for the Cambodians."
Cambodia's unions seem to need little encouragement. In 1999 alone, they held 76 strikes, according to the United States embassy, most wildcat, some violent.
Such frequent strikes not only jeopardize the industry, Mr. Judd said, they are also a sign of union weakness. "If unions are better organized," he said, "they won't be striking all the time."
The American embassy estimates that no more than 0.2 percent of Cambodia's work force, which is largely rural, is unionized, most of it in garment factories. Of Cambodia's six union groups, labor activists say only one can be considered independent of political or commercial influence.
But even as the various labor federations bicker among themselves, would-be union leaders face greater challenges on the factory floor, where they say managers routinely interfere with organizers, harass members and fire leaders.
A former paratrooper named In Chinda took over the job of running the union at his China-owned factory after the group's president was fired this year. When the managers refused to re-hire his union president, Mr. In Chinda led the workers in a strike. Union leaders were finally invited to negotiate, but managers brought police officers to the meeting to arbitrate.
"I'm here to learn how to make my union stronger," Mr. In Chinda said before sitting down to listen to Mr. Judd.
While many labor activists back home hope that the United States will persuade the W.T.O. to include labor rights as part of trade deals, Mr. Judd sees his work here as a race against time. In 2005, the W.T.O. provision that allows major industrial countries to set garment-import quotas is scheduled to expire, removing the only lever currently available to enforce labor standards.
Developing countries have long sought to eliminate the quotas because they serve to protect apparel makers in the advanced industrial nations. But pessimists say that without country-by-country quotas, apparel makers may simply consolidate in bigger labor markets, like China and Mexico.
Let them, insists Sok Ha -- if companies don't measure up. Ms. Sok Ha, a student of Mr. Judd's, lost her job at one factory after the union she joined pressured the Ministry of Commerce to withdraw its license. 
But that only made her more defiant. Today, she is president of a newly formed federation. "We don't want to close down any factory," she said. "But better to have fewer companies that pay better. We want companies to obey the law more than we want new investment."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jason Judd, above, an organizer for the A.F.L-C.I.O., offers seminars for union leaders, human rights groups and Buddhist clergy. Union members, right, held a May Day rally. (Photographs by Andy Eames for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Cambodian workers make clothing for export to the United States at a Malaysian-owned factory. The industry earned $965 million last year. (Reuters)(pg. C9) Chart: "Made in Cambodia"A trade agreement between the United States and Cambodia has helped garment exports from Cambodia to the United States soar and has led to the opening of many more textile factories in Cambodia. Chart tracks Cambodia's total and U.S. exports from 1995 to 2000.Chart tracks total number of factories from 1996 to 2000.(1995 numbers are not available)(Sources: Cambodia's Ministry of Commerce; Garment Manufacturers Association of Cambodia) (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPAREL MFG (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (87%); CHILD LABOR (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); SECURITIES TRADING (66%) APPAREL; TREATIES; ORGANIZED LABOR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; CHILD LABOR; DISCRIMINATION; WAGES AND SALARIES 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (94%)

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (91%) CAMBODIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%) CAMBODIA

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



288 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Argentine Debt Creates Fallout That Is Wide 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The fallout from the financial crisis in Argentina was felt outside Latin America yesterday as the dollar fell and the stocks of some American and Spanish banks with exposure there dropped.
 The Brazilian real also fell to its lowest level since it began trading freely in 1999, and some Latin American stock markets declined. 
 "I would just say it is a function of contagion," said David Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics in Essex, Conn. "Argentina is sending a shiver through investors' mindset." 
The fear among investors is that Argentina will actually default on its $130 billion of foreign debt or force investors into a restructuring that would reduce what Argentina owes. Argentina had to pay 14 percent interest rates to sell $828 million in three-month bills on Tuesday. And many analysts doubt that the government will be able to cut spending enough to offset the fall in tax revenues, after three years of recession, and leave enough to meet foreign debt payments.
Domingo Cavallo, the economic minister of Argentina, said on Tuesday night that Argentina could not borrow any more and had to reduce its federal government and provincial deficits by $3 billion. Many analysts doubt that such cuts are possible given Argentina's complex politics and the approach of elections in October.
"A lot of negative expectations are now in the air," said Arminio Fraga, the president of the central bank of Brazil, which has been hit the hardest by the fallout from Argentina. "We will see what the future brings." Referring to Argentina, he said, "They themselves have not given up. I understand it is not easy."
Mr. Fraga was in New York to meet with investors in an effort to convince them that Brazil's financial problems are only temporary.
In trading in New York, the dollar fell as the euro rose to 85.91 cents, up from 85.70 cents on Tuesday. The euro rose as high as 86.88 cents during the day. Against the Japanese yen, the dollar fell to 124.36, down from 125.37 yen on Tuesday.
While it may seem odd for the dollar to fall when investors are nervous, it can happen.
First, the dollar has been incredibly strong this year, especially given the slowdown in economic growth in the United States and the six cuts in short-term interest rates by the Federal Reserve. Secondly, a lot of this strength has come from foreigners, Europeans and Japanese, betting that both the euro and the yen would continue to decline against the dollar.
But these bets on the dollar, Mr. Gilmore said, leave these investors in risky positions from their point of view. So when there is uncertainty in the outlook, reducing their risk a little means selling the dollar to buy back euros or yen. 
The Merval stock index in Argentina fell 2.2 percent after a late day rally reduced its loss for the day. It was down 6 percent Tuesday. The Bolsa index in Mexico dropped 2.2 percent. The Bovespa stock index in Brazil rallied enough to turn an early loss of 1.5 percent into a 1.8 percent gain. The Brazilian real plunged to 2.553 to the dollar, a new low. The Mexican and Chilean pesos also declined.
Besides affecting the dollar, the fallout from Argentina is also reaching American banks that have exposure there and in other emerging markets. In just over two weeks the political and financial crisis in Argentina has worsened enough to send interest rates on three-month bills up to 14 percent from 9.1 percent.
In that same two week period, two of the American banks that have big exposure there, Citibank and J. P. Morgan Chase & Company, have seen their stocks drop. Shares of Citibank's parent, Citigroup, dropped 8.7 percent, and fell 3.1 percent yesterday, to $47.60. J. P. Morgan Chase is off 5.9 percent for the two weeks. The stock rose slightly yesterday, to $42.05. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); EURO (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BONDS (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); POLITICS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKS AND BANKING; FINANCES; CREDIT; FOREIGN AID; CURRENCY 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (99%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%) ARGENTINA; LATIN AMERICA; BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



289 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS; 
Mixed Messages

BYLINE:  By JERE LONGMAN 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, July 11 

 BODY:
President Jiang Zemin of China is scheduled to make a state visit here on Sunday, but Olympic decisions made before he arrives will determine whether his visit will occur in splendid triumph or in bitter defeat.
 Two days before he arrives, on Friday, the International Olympic Committee will determine whether Beijing's bid for the 2008 Summer Games is more deserving than the candidacies of Paris and Toronto. 
 On a practical level, Beijing is favored because many of the 119 I.O.C. delegates seem to believe that the world's most populous nation, one that won 28 gold medals and finished third in the overall medal standing at the Sydney Games, deserves to stage the Olympics.
"I think, this time, we have prepared very well and we are very confident in our bid," said Tu Mingde, co-leader of the Beijing bid and secretary general of the Chinese Olympic Committee. But that assurance is mingled with anxiety. "In a sprint race, there is a gold medal, silver and bronze," he said. "In this race, there is only gold." 
In political terms, there appears to be a feeling among many delegates that the Olympics would accelerate openness in China, just as the awarding of the 1988 Summer Games to Seoul hastened the transition in South Korea from a military dictatorship to a democracy.
"While it may have political problems, in an I.O.C. context Beijing is a good city," said Dick Pound, an influential delegate from Montreal. "We have no basis in that context to discriminate against them."
Still, the delegates have been sent as many as 1,000 e-mail messages apiece by protest groups ranging from Tibetan activists to journalists to those advocating more humane treatment of dogs. Wei Jingsheng, the exiled Chinese dissident now living in the United States, tried to travel to Moscow to protest the Beijing vote but was denied a visa. Today, nine people were detained during a protest by Tibetan activists, including a photographer and an interpreter.
The awarding of the 2008 Games to Beijing would send a message that "the I.O.C. supports authoritarian rule and brutal oppression," Ngavan Gelek, chairman of the Tibetan Culture and Information Center here, said at a news conference this week.
The European Parliament has called for the Games to be denied to Beijing, as have some members of the United States Congress, over such human rights issues as the jailing of Chinese-American scholars, mass executions, the suppression of the Falun Gong spiritual movement and the repression of Tibet.
The Bush administration has remained neutral. Meanwhile, Olympic corporate sponsors like Coca-Cola, McDonald's and General Electric, the corporate parent of NBC, are no doubt eagerly seeking to expand their interests in a Chinese market of 1.3 billion people.
A victory for Beijing would serve as a celebratory prelude to China's expected entry into the World Trade Organization this year. 
But some officials believe that a second consecutive defeat for the city's Olympic bid would amount to an acute loss of face and, some believe, could foster isolationist tendencies inside China.
In some ways, Friday's vote will reflect just how self-confident the I.O.C. feels as it emerges from the damaging Salt Lake City bribery scandal. The delegates, representing 72 countries, are wrestling with a number of questions. Is the I.O.C. secure enough as an organization to gamble on Beijing? Are peasant revolts in rural China a sign that modernity might lead to instability that could threaten the Games? Would the beauty of Paris or the centralized sporting facilities of Toronto be a less risky, more attractive selection?
"In general, there are two schools of thought," said Thomas Bach, a delegate from Germany. "One is, you should not give the Olympic Games to a country until it has fulfilled certain standards of human rights. The other school is that awarding the Games will help open the country, and will put the world looking in for the next seven years."
Anticipating this debate, Chinese bid officials have hired Western public relations experts, and they have avoided threatening talk that failure to secure the Games might lead to a refusal to seek or participate in future Olympics.
Instead, bid officials have concentrated on the possibilities of opening the country and on the merits of the Beijing bid -- strong public and government support, a planned $12 billion environmental program to improve air and water quality and a $20 billion program to greatly expand its expressway system and to build modern sports arenas. The Chinese have also persuaded Olympic officials that they are serious about controlling the use of performance-enhancing drugs; for the Sydney Games, they withheld 27 members of their Olympic team.
Perhaps a sign of Beijing's confidence is that Chinese officials have not felt the need to release political prisoners this time, as they clumsily did before, in an attempt to gain support for their 2000 Olympic bid.
"Last time, the international environment was not very good for Beijing," said Wei Jizhong, leader of the previous Olympic bid, referring to the violent crushing of the student democracy movement in Tiananmen Square in 1989. "This time, I feel differently. We are concentrating on preparations and conditions in the city of Beijing."
The Chinese delegation is being led by Mayor Liu Qi of Beijing, who is reportedly taking language lessons so that he might deliver his final pitch to I.O.C. delegates in English. 
The Chinese have also brought Olympic champions in table tennis, volleyball and rifle shooting to help get out the vote. A film touting Beijing's bid to delegates has been made by the acclaimed director Zhang Yimou. The bid leaders have been eagerly schmoozing in the lobby of the I.O.C. hotel, giving interviews, always ready with a handshake and an apt metaphor.
While he could not say how much the Olympics would open China up, he was certain that the Games would foster change, said Tu, the co-leader of the bid.
"You might buy a carpet this year and silver utensils the next year, but when you invite V.I.P. guests for dinner, you accelerate the pace of your schedule," Tu said. "You might get a carpet next month, mahogany furniture and silver utensils in two months' time."
Wang Wei, the other co-leader of the Beijing bid, said: "The reforms will go on. The difference is that the Games will be a catalyst to accelerate change.'
The I.O.C. is a very independent organization, answerable to no one but itself, and many of the delegates resent being told how they should vote, whether it be by governments or by the news media. 
In 1993, only four years after the Tiananmen Square episode, Beijing led Sydney during several preliminary rounds of voting for the 2000 Olympics before losing by two votes.
Some delegates publicly chafe at critics' suggestions that awarding the Games to Beijing would be similar to allowing Hitler to exploit the 1936 Olympics. They point out that the Berlin Olympics were awarded in 1931, before the Nazis came to power, and that those Games are remembered for the repudiation of the notion of Aryan supremacy by the four-gold-medal performance of Jesse Owens, a black American.
If executions in China are to be an overriding issue, said Alex Gilady, a delegate from Israel, does that mean Dallas should not be allowed to remain a candidate for the 2012 Olympics because Texas also carries out the death penalty?
"Are we saying that only Western countries should apply?" Gilady said. "We can't keep universality in the Olympics, and not give other people a chance to host them."
This does not mean that Beijing is a lock to win. Over concerns about excessive favors, delegates have been barred from visiting the five cities bidding on the 2008 Olympics. 
Instead, members must rely on a written evaluation report and on a final presentation by each city before Friday's vote. As many as half of the delegates have never visited Beijing at any time.
"That might hurt Beijing," said Peter Tallberg, a delegate from Finland. "I have heard about the rapid changes, the move to a market-oriented economic system, but I haven't been able to see it."
Also, about three dozen new members have joined the I.O.C. since the bribery scandal, including athletes and heads of international sporting federations. That could put a premium on sporting facilities over geopolitical statements.
Johann Olav Koss, a delegate from Norway and a former Olympic speedskating champion, said he was concerned with issues like heat, pollution, and whether granting the Games to Beijing would "encourage what's going on there" in terms of human rights abuses.
Still, the mood here seems to be warming toward Beijing. Mitt Romney, head of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee, spoke today of building bridges, not walls, in attempts to communicate with other countries.
"I respect what people say about human rights and Falun Gong, but I have social problems in my own country," said Nat Indrapana, a delegate from Thailand. "Why should we put this particular weight on this country? I don't think they should be excluded."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesters wore headbands saying, "No Olympics in China," in a demonstration Tuesday by Tibetan refugees and Indian activists in New Delhi. (Agence France-Presse); A Chinese family eating lunch at home yesterday next to its Beijing 2008 sign. Public support is said to be strong. (Reuters)(pg. D1); Mayor Liu Qi of Beijing, left, and China's sports minister, Yuan Weimin, left Beijing Saturday for Moscow, where the I.O.C. will vote tomorrow on a host city for 2008.; Beijing, above, is the front-runner for the 2008 Games. The other candidates are Paris, Toronto, Istanbul and Osaka, Japan. (Photographs by Associated Press)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (94%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); ASIAN AMERICANS (73%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); DOGS (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (63%); CULTS & SECTS (63%); SPONSORSHIP (60%) OLYMPIC GAMES; SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS); OLYMPIC GAMES (2008) 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%); COCA-COLA CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%) INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%); KO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

PERSON: LONGMAN, JERE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (96%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (71%); OSAKA, JAPAN (66%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%) CHINA (98%); TIBET (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (91%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%) CHINA; BEIJING (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



290 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Black Caucus Members Find Themselves Courted Heavily in Soft Money Fight 

BYLINE:  By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 11 

 BODY:
Few groups have heard as many kind words as the Congressional Black Caucus has heard this week from advocates of various versions of campaign finance legislation. 
 Today the caucus of 36 Democratic representatives and two nonvoting delegates heard flattering pleas for support from the Democratic leader, Representative Richard A. Gephardt (twice), and two Republicans on opposite sides, Representatives Christopher Shays of Connecticut and Bob Ney of Ohio. 
 The kindest words of all may have been those of Mr. Shays, who told caucus members that if his bill to deny soft money, large unregulated contributions from corporations, unions and rich people, to national party groups was defeated, it would not be their fault. He said he told them that instead, "it will be my party that killed it." 
Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, called Mr. Shays "impressive." Mr. Cummings said, "It made us feel a lot better." But even so, he was not persuaded to support the bill, arguing that soft money was the only resource African-Americans could count on for registration and get-out-the-vote drives.
And regardless of the fact that the bill sponsored by Mr. Shays and Representative Martin T. Meehan, Democrat of Massachusetts, is facing greater defections from Republicans who backed it two years ago than from blacks, attention has focused on the caucus to a degree perhaps unknown in its history.
One reason for the focus is that the caucus is generally cohesive and meets regularly, unlike the undecided or wavering Republicans who are harder to fit into a single room. 
Moreover, two years ago, when the Shays-Meehan bill was adopted by the House by a 252-to-177 vote, the caucus supplied 30 aye votes and only two nays. This year, while there is no hard vote count, Democratic leaders have worried about losing as many as half the 36 votes the caucus casts. But those leaders insist they have been making progress, and Representative Harold E. Ford Jr., a Tennessee Democrat who has been working on his caucus colleagues, said this afternoon "at this point there are 10 to 12 still opposed to it."
Some, like Representative Albert R. Wynn, Democrat of Maryland, are backing a bill that Republican leaders are pushing, the measure Mr. Ney advocated to the caucus this afternoon. It limits soft money contributions, but at a level opponents say is too high to mean anything. Under the Ney-Wynn bill, a corporation, union or individual could give each of the six national party committees $75,000 in a year, or a total of $450,000 to a party in a two-year election cycle.
Others oppose both bills because they see no point in curbing soft money. Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, said "You got to be a little bit touched in the head" to limit soft money when last year Democrats managed to raise about as much of it as Republicans did. "We will never be able to balance the Republicans in hard money," Mr. Clyburn said.
He voted for the Shays-Meehan bill in 1999, but said that dubious Republican election practices last fall had led him to change his mind. "I've grown up a little bit since last November," he said. 
This is not the first time the caucus has found itself at the center of a close legislative fight, though perhaps the first since Republicans took control of the House in 1995. The Ney bill is the first major Republican legislative effort to draw black Democrats away from their leaders.
The caucus was founded in 1971, when there were 14 blacks in the House. And for the next 20 years, said David Bositis of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, until 1993 "there were basically too few members" to affect a House with huge Democratic majorities. 
After the 1992 elections, though, there were 39 voting members in the caucus, including 17 freshmen, and, Mr. Bositis said the caucus played "a very pivotal role," on issues like constructing the super-conducting supercollider in Texas and continuing spending on the B-1 bomber while it slowed down passage of President Bill Clinton's crime bill.
This year the only other cohesive group getting as much attention from the forces trying to eliminate soft money is the 17-member Hispanic caucus. Today it got one assurance it sought above all else -- a promise that Shays-Meehan backers would vote solidly against a Republican amendment that would prohibit legal resident aliens from making campaign contributions.
Negotiations with the black caucus were not finished. Mr. Gephardt promised to meet with the members on Thursday morning, hours before the crucial votes to discuss their request for a commitment of as much as 10 or 15 percent of all funds raised by all national Democratic Party organizations (the Democratic National Committee, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee) be committed to registration and get-out-the-vote efforts in minority areas.
Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, who heads the caucus, said Mr. Gephardt told its members that in the morning "he would be in a better position to tell us how he would help us." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (95%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%) ELECTIONS; BLACKS; FINANCES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ETHICS; REGISTRATION OF VOTERS 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS 

PERSON: ELIJAH E CUMMINGS (88%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (79%); JAMES CLYBURN (58%); ALBERT RUSSELL WYNN (58%) CLYMER, ADAM; CUMMINGS, ELIJAH (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



291 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: The Beijing Olympic Bid 

 BODY:
As the International Olympic Committee gathers in Moscow this week to select a host nation for the 2008 Summer Games, there is no mystery about the human rights record of China, the heavily favored contender. It is abysmal. As a matter of principle, China's human rights abuses and suppression of dissent should disqualify it from holding the Olympics. 
 But with the United States remaining neutral on China's bid, and the rest of the world unwilling to make human rights a decisive issue, the I.O.C. seems likely to approve the Chinese application. Having turned down China once before, in 1993 when it applied to be host to the 2000 Games, which were awarded to Sydney instead, many I.O.C. members are reluctant to disappoint the Chinese again. Since the modern Olympic movement began in 1896, China has never played host to the event. 
 If Beijing prevails over Toronto and Paris, the other leading aspirants, the United States and the I.O.C. should do what they can to turn the 2008 Summer Games into a force for constructive change in China. The long-term interests of advancing democracy and freedom there can be served if China recognizes that its handling of every aspect of the Games -- including the construction of new Olympic arenas, the treatment of foreign visitors and reporters and the political climate in which the Games are held -- will be closely monitored by the world. The Bush administration's neutral stance is based in part on a belief that the Chinese government may temper its domestic and foreign policies over the next seven years to avoid the possibility of a Western boycott of the Olympics.
We do not harbor the illusion that the Olympics alone can be a decisive turning point in China's conduct. But China, with one-fifth of the world's population and new economic aspirations, is not the monolithic nation it once was. Its destiny need not be as an international spoiler and the last redoubt of a discredited, inhumane political ideology. 
China's top leaders remain stubbornly opposed to political reform even as they expand economic freedoms and encourage entrepreneurs. But the Chinese people seem to have higher hopes for their nation, as many demonstrated during the democracy movement of the late 1980's. Their enthusiastic engagement with the outside world, though restricted by the government, suggests a yearning to become active participants not only in global commerce but the international community as well.
The I.O.C. and the world at large should make clear that granting the Olympics to China is not meant to reward the Chinese government but rather to signal to the Chinese people that they are welcome to play a greater role in international life. Close diplomatic and journalistic attention has to be paid to China's treatment of its own citizens in the years leading up to the Games. If Beijing is chosen, the committee itself can and should establish firm guidelines for China's staging of the Olympics.
China has already agreed to spend more than $10 billion on infrastructure and environmental projects to make Beijing worthy of the event. But it is of greater importance that the I.O.C. secure a commitment from China that it will respect the Olympic movement's humanitarian ideals. 
Olympic authorities must insist that no journalists, athletes or spectators seeking to attend the Games be denied entry to China, or find their activities once there restricted, even if their political views are abhorrent to the Chinese government. International media should have unrestricted access in covering preparations for the Games and all areas of Chinese life during the Olympics, including human rights and China's criminal justice system. 
Because of the Communist government's history of abusing prison labor and of forcefully removing people it considers undesirables in anticipation of major events, Olympic officials must also insist on the right to monitor labor practices at Olympic construction sites, as well as to oversee security measures leading up to the Games.
In a more humane world, the I.O.C. would bar China from serving as an Olympic host nation until the government learned to live with the free expression of political and religious views and stopped abusing citizens who oppose the authoritarian rule of the Communist Party. But there is reason to hope that the bright spotlight the Olympics can shine on the Chinese government's behavior over the next seven years could prove beneficial to those in China who would like to see their country evolve into a more tolerant and democratic society. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (95%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); APPROVALS (70%); BOYCOTTS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); POLITICS (65%) OLYMPIC GAMES; EDITORIALS; SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; OLYMPIC GAMES (2008) 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (93%) INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) CHINA; BEIJING (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



292 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Russian General Admits Army's Abuse of Chechens
The commander of Russian military forces in Chechnya, Lt. Gen. Vladimir Moltenskoi, said his troops had committed "widespread crimes" in two days of terror inflicted on 1,500 civilians after mine blasts killed Russian soldiers nearby. A8

Violence Subsides in Jamaica
Soldiers remained on patrol in Kingston, where 25 people died in clashes that began when the police entered a neighborhood looking for weapons to try to stop a simmering war between politically connected gangs. A3

Peres's Nod to Arafat
The Israeli foreign minister, Shimon Peres, said that despite mounting hostility toward Yasir Arafat, Israel should continue dealing directly with him in an effort to bring the violence under control and get both sides back to the negotiating table. A12

Ulster Talks Stalled
Efforts to rescue the faltering Northern Ireland peace accord were put on hold after three days of intensive talks mediated by Prime Minister Tony Blair and his Irish counterpart, Bertie Ahern, above, failed to make progress on the I.R.A. weapons issue. A9

A New African Bloc
Members of the Organization of African Unity endorsed a plan to replace the group next year with the African Union, a new organization that the members pledged would redeem the failures of its predecessor. A3

Ruling Against the Landless
The South African government has won a court order allowing it to evict squatters who built a shantytown near Johannesburg. Some of the squatters, lured from an overcrowded township by opposition party politicians promising plots of land, vowed to resist the police officers who are to level the settlement today. A10

Taiwan Party's China Proposal
The Nationalist Party, after being swept out of power last year and now looking to reclaim its place at the center of Taiwan politics, is floating a new proposal for breaking the deadlock with China: rather than declare independence or bow to unification, form a confederation. A7

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A14-21

House Girds for Struggle Over Campaign Financing
The House is to open debate today on legislation to overhaul campaign financing, and leaders on both sides of the issue were mounting furious lobbying campaigns focused largely on black members and freshman Republicans, two groups concerned that putting an end to unrestricted donations to political parties could have harsh consequences for them. A1

Easing Limits on Drug Imports
The House voted to make it easier for people to import low-cost prescription drugs for their own use, after rejecting a more sweeping proposal to allow such imports by drug wholesalers and pharmacies. A21

Mining Restrictions Favored
The Senate voted to bar the Bush administration from developing new sites to extract oil, gas or coal in lands designated national monuments. A19

Hard Line on Stem Cell Issue
Leaders of the anti-abortion movement say they are counting on President Bush to abide by his campaign promises and hold the line against federal financing for embryonic stem cell research; to do otherwise, they say, will risk substantial consequences, political and cultural. A1

Debate Over Declining Surplus
The Bush administration said the weakening of the economy might push the budget surplus down to a level that, Democrats said, would portend a return to fiscal difficulties. A20

Condit's Apartment Searched
Officers investigating Chandra Levy's disappearance searched the apartment of Representative Gary A. Condit, who was present. A16

'Deadbeat Dad' Ruling
The Wisconsin Supreme Court has upheld, 4 to 3, a probation order that bars a man convicted of failure to pay child support from having more children unless he shows that he can support all his offspring. A14

Auto-Loan Findings Disputed
Nissan's finance corporation issued a report that it said "strongly refuted" two recent studies indicating that black customers had paid more to finance cars through dealerships. A19

Deadly Forest Fire in Northwest
Four firefighters were killed on Tuesday and a fifth was injured in the North Cascades in Washington. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Unmoved by Mayor's Race, Democrats Stay on Sideline
Powerful players in Democratic politics -- including unions and elected officials -- have decided to hold back their endorsements in this year's primary contest, citing a lack of compelling reasons to take sides and a perception of voter indifference in a vote just eight weeks away. A1

Louima Settlement Delayed
An $8.75 million settlement of Abner Louima's suit against the city was announced -- and then withdrawn because of a last-minute snag over what one person called a "technical detail." All the lawyers are expected to report back to the judge today. B1

Welfare Suit Is Settled
New York City and State have agreed to pay the medical expenses of thousands of poor families in the city who were wrongly cut from Medicaid coverage when they were dropped from the welfare rolls, and their coverage will be restored. B1

Inquiry Into Auto Test Deal
Parsons Infrastructure and Technology Group, the one company that bid on New Jersey's $500 million auto emissions testing system in 1998, was given advance information, witnesses said at a Trenton hearing. B1

CIRCUITS G1-8

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Oldest Hominid Fossils Found
An Ethiopian fossil hunter found bones and teeth of forest-dwelling creatures who lived up to 5.8 million years ago and apparently walked upright. The discovery appears to challenge assumptions of early human evolution and extend knowledge of the family tree to near its roots. A12

SPORTS D1-8

ARTS E1-12

Reality TV Show Expels Player
Justin Sebik, 26, Bayonne, N.J., was dismissed as a contestant on the CBS reality show "Big Brother" for taking a knife and holding it against the throat of a female contestant. C1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Microsoft Concessions
The software giant, acknowledging that it must alter its business practices in the wake of federal appellate ruling on the company's antitrust case, said it would give personal computer makers more freedom to choose software and services. A1

Ruling on Electronic Media
A federal judge in Manhattan ruled that the term "book" in book contracts does not automatically include electronic books, a decision that could affect hundreds of thousands of titles and authors. A1

Polaroid Hanging On
The photo company got a waiver from it banks, its third this year, to keep it from defaulting on $367 million in loans. It will also not make interest payments in the next five weeks on $500 million in bonds. C1

Fallout From Argentina Crisis
The dollar fell as did stocks of some American and Spanish banks with exposure in Argentina; the Brazilian real hit its lowest level since it began trading freely in 1999, and some Latin American stock markets declined. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES B8

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Campaign finance's crucial vote; the Beijing Olympic bid; a missile defense test for Congress.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E11
Crossword E10
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); LITIGATION (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); LOBBYING (70%); EVICTION (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (68%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (63%); PHARMACIES (60%); PHARMACEUTICALS WHOLESALERS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); ABORTION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN UNION (82%); ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (55%)

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (69%); BERTIE AHERN (52%); TONY BLAIR (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); JAMAICA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); AFRICA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRELAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



293 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Chancellor to Scrutinize School Building Costs 

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY 

 BODY:
Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy outlined a series of reporting procedures to the Board of Education yesterday that will help his staff keep tighter control on spending under the system's five-year construction plan.
 The chancellor's plan calls for the staff to provide the board with monthly updates on the progress of construction projects, provide semiannual forecasts of the entire plan, and include all projects to the city's accounting system. Mr. Levy's staff informed the board of the changes during a two-and-a-half-hour meeting. 
 He also wants the deputy chancellor for operations to approve all changes of more than 10 percent of the cost of a project or exceeding $3 million. He will establish a commission of real estate experts to help review every city school to determine which ones can be expanded, possibly into high-rises, he said.
The move comes after spending required under the five-year capital plan was apparently approved with little oversight, creating a $1.9 billion overrun. Mr. Levy said that while much of the overrun was due to inflation, he and the board have ordered an audit.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani lambasted Mr. Levy last month when his staff proposed delaying the construction of new schools, mostly in Queens, and postponing most major school renovations in the five boroughs for two or more years because of soaring construction costs. The Mayor's Office of Management and Budget has long been empowered to review spending on the school construction plan on a case-by-case basis, but had not done such reviews, Mr. Levy said. Now it will, Mr. Levy said yesterday.
Under the five-year plan released in 1999 and approved by the City Council and the mayor, the city planned to spend about $7 billion on construction and renovation from July 1999 through June 2004. But projects already under way are coming in so far above the original estimates that Board of Education officials now predict that the projects are likely to cost up to $1.9 billion more.
Most of the projects were begun under the previous five-year plan. Officials said yesterday that the costs of many of those projects, originally estimated in 1994, were never updated. In addition, the Board of Education has had trouble finding enough sites for new schools, and those they find sometimes have environmental problems requiring extensive cleanup.
The plan is undergoing intense scrutiny. The board has asked for an accounting of spending so far and for more information on expected overruns, and a special commission appointed by Gov. George E. Pataki is continuing a multiyear investigation of the board's construction process.

Summer School
Absenteeism -- a chronic problem last summer -- might be a problem again this summer, Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy said yesterday. He said that many of the 190,853 students ordered to attend five weeks of summer school or face repeating a grade were not yet showing up for classes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (92%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (91%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITIES (76%); AUDITS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%) BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (50%) HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE; LEVY, HAROLD O (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



294 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Circuits; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: To Cash In on a Lifestyle, Apple Hits the Mall 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE 

DATELINE: McLEAN, Va. 

 BODY:
THE store is so self-aware that it doesn't even have its name on a sign. Instead, a glowing white apple with an iconic bite beckons shoppers in an upscale mall in this affluent Washington suburb. 
 Inside the white airy interior, black-clad salesclerks walk the bleached wooden floor, past translucent computers, petite digital cameras and slim scanners. 
 With or without its name spelled out, the merchant's identity is unmistakable. The 6,000-square-foot store is part of a foray by Apple Computer into retailing, part of a campaign to create an Apple presence at 25 high-traffic shopping areas across the nation, including Manhattan, by the end of the year. Another store has opened in the Los Angeles area. 
It is an aggressive move during an economic slowdown, with sales of personal computers sliding and hardware manufacturers stinging from price-cutting wars. Gateway, which only recently developed its own retail stores, is retrenching by closing underperforming ones and pulling out of OfficeMax outlets. 
Apple's strategy is to do for computer shopping what Starbucks did for coffee and what Barnes & Noble did for book browsing. It is a notion of consumerism that is less about the product than about a way of life.
Like the curvaceous iMac and the sleek Titanium PowerBook that it stocks, the McLean store is an emblem of the Apple aesthetic. But as Apple has learned -- most recently with the decision to end production of the lauded but poor-selling G4 Cube -- design may stimulate sales, but it is no substitute. Apple has only a 5 percent share of the personal computer market.
On a recent Saturday afternoon, parents with strollers meandered through the crowded store at Tysons Corner Center while teenagers experimented with digital cameras. A wide-screen theater in the back offers presentations, but the entire store is the real show. 
A knee-high kiosk of iMacs equipped with games is ostensibly for the elementary school set. But adults are just as likely to be found sitting on the bouncy ball stools, legs crimped, playing video games. There is a help desk, dubbed the Genius Bar, with troubleshooters who can address technical problems. 
Tony Watson, a Nokia phone clipped to his waist, spent 20 minutes talking about the G4 computer with an animated salesman. He walked out impressed that he could run Windows software on the Macintosh. "In terms of digital information gathering, this is the Bloomingdale's of computer stores," said Mr. Watson, of Sterling, Va., who has no Macintosh but is interested in using its film-editing software to create DVD's featuring his 4-month-old son.
Mr. Watson said he was frustrated with clerks at larger stores who were unable to answer his questions.
Customer service has long been cited as a source of tension in Apple's on-again off-again relationship with retailers. Apple recently announced that it was pulling its products out of retail chains including Best Buy, Circuit City, OfficeMax and Sears, though it said it would keep its dedicated sections at CompUSA. 
Mr. Watson said he almost bought a G4 after his conversation with the salesman. "The question is not whether," he said, "it's when."
For Apple, the question is whether there will be enough Mr. Watsons to make the retail venture worthwhile. 
To break even, Apple will have to generate $7 million in annual sales per store, estimated David Goldstein, president of the Channel Marketing Corporation, a retail consulting firm that has worked with Apple. Even then, the stores may hurt relationships with traditional retailers by cutting into their sales. ComputerWare, a Macintosh retail chain in the San Francisco area, closed in April, citing declining sales and the impact of Apple's online store. 
No computer manufacturer has successfully branched into retail stores, Mr. Goldstein said. "It's completely flawed," he said of Apple's venture. "They'll shut it down and write off the huge losses in two years." 
But Apple estimates that the stores will break even by the end of this year. Ultimately it hopes to double its market share to 10 percent, in part by making an impression on people like Dominic Buckner, 11. 
"Some of the computers at Comp USA you can look at but you can't touch," Dominic said. The Apple store is more like an arcade. "It's nice," he said, "that they want you to have an experience with the computer so you want to buy one." 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 20, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Circuits on July 12 about Apple Computer's new retail stores misstated the history of the company's relationship with several retailers. Apple's announcement that it would stop selling computers through Best Buy, Circuit City, Of-ficeMax and Sears was made in February 1998, not recently. Circuit City resumed Apple sales last July; sales also resumed for a time at Sears but have again been discontinued.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicole Lertora, 5, at Apple's new store in McLean, Va. (Marty Katz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTER & SOFTWARE STORES (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (76%); CLOSINGS (73%); TOYS & GAMES (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); COMPUTER GAMES (61%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); PRICE CUTTING (53%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: APPLE COMPUTER INC 

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (96%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: LEE, JENNIFER 8 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



295 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Biogen Fights Rival Over Drug Claim 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, July 11 

 BODY:
Two major biopharmaceutical companies faced off in court today, as Biogen of Cambridge, Mass., sought to convince a panel of judges here that Serono's claims of a superior multiple sclerosis drug were misleading and should not be publicized.
 At stake is the $1 billion American drug market for treating multiple sclerosis, a disease of the central nervous system. 
 Biogen, whose multiple sclerois drug, Avonex, provided $220 million of the company's $237 million in sales in the first quarter of the year, has exclusive marketing rights in the United States until mid-2003 unless a competitor can come up with a better treatment. 
Last month, it won a preliminary injunction barring certain Serono statements hours before it was set to announce the findings of its comparative trial of its drug, Rebif, and Avonex.
Two million people worldwide are estimated to have multiple sclerosis, for which there is no cure, but the United States market is key.
While the European market is roughly the same size, more multiple sclerosis patients in the United States are receiving drug treatment, which costs about $10,000 yearly, said Birgit Kulhoff, an analyst with Lombard Odier in Zurich. 
Rebif is the top-selling multiple sclerosis drug outside the United States. To break Biogen's seven-year hold on the American market, Serono has to show the United States Food and Drug Administration that Rebif is better. It undertook a six-month study of 677 patients on the two treatment regimes. The drugs are close chemically -- both are beta interferons. Avonex is injected once a week; Rebif three times a week.
Biogen has contested the study's findings, which Serono says are overwhelmingly favorable to Rebif. Among the claims Biogen disputes is that patients using Rebif have a 90 percent greater chance of avoiding a relapse.
Biogen won the preliminary court order just as Serono, based in Geneva, was set to deliver the results to thousands of doctors gathered in London on June 22 for the annual World Congress of Neurology. Serono scientists nonetheless announced their claims.
Today was the first time the two sides have confronted each other in court, since the preliminary injunction was granted without a hearing. Serono faces fines unless it can convince the judges it acted properly.
In addition to disputing Serono's conclusions about relapses, Biogen took issue with its claim that Avonex patients had 50 percent more brain lesions than Rebif patients. Patients taking Avonex started with more lesions, and that distorted the conclusions, Biogen said.
Serono has maintained that Biogen has acted in a "destructive and mischievous" way to stifle the drug trial's results, and has unfairly attacked the company's chief executive, Ernesto Bertarellli.
The judges' decision is not expected for at least 10 days and will not decide access to the American market. That is determined by American regulators.
Analysts are divided over the importance of the study, but not over the significance of the marketing rights fight. "This is very important economically to both companies," said Kevin Lyne-Smith of Bank Julius Baer in Zurich, "and they can't afford to lose."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Holding a Lead"Disappointing new drugs have hurt Biogen's stock this year, pushing the company to defend its dominance of the market for multiple sclerosis drugs against Serono S.A. Chart tracks percentage change in share prices since June 30, 2000 for Serono and Biogen.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (95%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); INJUNCTIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (77%); CLINICAL TRIALS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); NEUROSCIENCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); BRAIN (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%) MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; REBIF (DRUG); AVONEX (DRUG); DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) 

COMPANY: BIOGEN IDEC INC (92%); MERCK SERONO SA (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%) BIOGEN INC; SERONO SA 

TICKER: BIIB (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%) SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS; SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS EX. DIAGNOSTIC; 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); SWITZERLAND (87%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



296 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Nissan Says It Can Refute Report of Bias In Car Loans 

BYLINE:  By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
The Nissan Motor Acceptance Corporation yesterday released a report that it said "strongly refuted" two recent studies indicating that black customers had paid more than whites to finance cars through Nissan dealerships.
 The report, by a research firm hired by Nissan, said the earlier studies, by two professors hired by black consumers suing the Nissan finance corporation, or NMAC, ignored credit differences and variations in loan terms that might explain patterns in financing costs. 
 Moreover, the Nissan report said, the sample the professors relied on -- believed by experts to be the largest pool of car loan data ever analyzed for racial patterns -- was too small and too geographically skewed to be fairly representative of Nissan's lending practices. 
The professors studied 310,000 of the 1.1 million loans made by NMAC since 1993 -- all those on which they found racial information. 
"After a critical review, NMAC has determined that the reports commissioned by the plaintiffs used seriously flawed methodology to reach a contrived conclusion," said a statement released by Nissan.
The company's report was filed in Federal District Court in Nashville on Tuesday, a spokeswoman said.
Neither the lawsuit against NMAC nor similar cases against the lending units of other major auto dealers accuse the lenders themselves of racial bias. Rather, lawyers for the black consumers argue, lenders engage in loan-pricing arrangements with dealers that result in blacks paying more to finance cars.
Lenders like NMAC routinely allow dealers to add several percentage points, the dealer markup, to the interest rate the lender has established for customers based on income and credit history. That becomes the rate the dealer quotes to the customer, who has no way of learning that the lender approved his loan at a lower rate. The lender splits the money generated by the extra percentage points with the dealer.
After analyzing the amount of extra interest that dealers added to loans financed by NMAC, Prof. Mark A. Cohen of Vanderbilt University concluded that blacks were more likely than whites to have paid a dealer markup and that blacks paid larger markups than whites, regardless of their credit history.
Prof. Ian Ayres, a lawyer and economist at Yale Law School, reviewed and endorsed Professor Cohen's findings and suggested that NMAC might inadvertently be contributing to the disparate pattern by limiting the markup on certain loans that are more likely to have been made to whites.
Janet Thornton, a labor economist at Economic Research Services in Tallahassee, Fla., who reviewed the two reports for Nissan, argued that both professors "have a flawed understanding of the actual markets for vehicles and credit." Professor Cohen, Ms. Thornton said, relied on a small, unrepresentative sample and ignored the effect of credit history on the dealer markup.
Clint Watkins, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said the professors stood by their conclusions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); LITIGATION (76%); CREDIT REGULATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%) AUTOMOBILES; BLACKS; CREDIT; DISCRIMINATION 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (96%); ECONOMIC RESEARCH SERVICES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NISSAN MOTOR CO 

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%) SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS; 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B 

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (70%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



297 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
In a Shift, Microsoft to Give PC Makers More Freedom
Acknowledging that it must change its business practices, Microsoft announced that it would give personal computer makers more freedom to choose what software and services they offer on the machines they sell.
 The concession is a response to the decision last month by a federal court of appeals, which found that many of Microsoft's licensing deals with computer makers were an illegal abuse of its monopoly power. Page A1. 

A Definition of an Electronic Book
A federal judge in Manhattan ruled that the term "book" in book contracts does not automatically include electronic books. The decision, which could affect hundreds of thousands of authors and books, is the latest in a series of rulings indicating that courts view the Internet as a new and different form of media. A1.

Screaming About Ice Cream Prices
Ice cream makers massed in Washington, complaining that the government had pushed up the cost of milk fat, the principal ingredient in ice cream, no less than 50 percent in the last year. That in turn, they say, has caused them to charge prices that even summer-struck consumers do not want to pay. C2.

Yahoo Reports $48.5 Million Loss
Yahoo, which was once one of the few money-making Internet companies, said that it lost $48.5 million in the first quarter. It nonetheless modestly beat its financial goals. C2.

Nissan Says It Refutes Loan Bias
Nissan Motor Acceptance released a report that it said "strongly refuted" two recent studies showing that black customers had paid more than whites to finance cars through Nissan dealerships. A19.

Ford Motor is changing its year-old performance evaluation system that graded managers and supervisors with letter rankings. C15.

Household to End Mortgage Tactic
Household International said it would stop selling single-premium credit life insurance policies to people who take out home loans. The loans were criticized by consumer groups as being predatory. C9.

Motorola Reports Operating Loss
Motorola lost $232 million, or 11 cents a share, in the second quarter. Revenue for the wireless communications and semiconductor company tumbled 19 percent, to $7.52 billion. C6.

Dow and Nasdaq Gain as S.& P. Falls
Blue chips and technology shares rose as the broader market fell. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 65.38 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,241.02. The Nasdaq composite index gained 9.25 points, to 1,972.04. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 1.34 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,180.18. C10.

Profit to Fall at Emerson Electric
Emerson Electric said its annual profit would drop for the first time in 43 years, dragged down by a plunge in spending by telecommunications companies. Shareholders responded to the projected 5 percent decline with the biggest sell-off in shares since 1987, driving them down $8.48, or 12.2 percent, to $52.93. C5.

Bill to Allow Some Drug Imports
The House voted to make it easier for people to import low-cost prescription drugs for their own use, after rejecting a more sweeping proposal to allow such imports by drug wholesalers and pharmacies. A21.

Napster Is Ordered to Shut Down
A federal judge ordered Napster to shut down its music-sharing service until it could prove that its technology could filter 100 percent of copyrighted material. Napster had been shut down temporarily. C7.

Examining the Apple Cube's Demise
With 20-20 hindsight, it is easy to see why Apple's beautiful but pricey Power Mac G4 Cube was doomed. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks the daily closing price of Emerson Electric shares for the week. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,241.02 up 65.38Nasdaq composite -- 1,972.04 up 9.2510-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.28% up 0.02The euro -- $0.8591 up 0.0021The dollar -- 124.36 yen down 1.01

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER MAKERS (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ICE CREAM (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (75%); WRITERS (75%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); JUDGES (71%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); FAIR LENDING (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (67%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (65%); CREDIT INSURANCE (64%); NEW CAR DEALERS (63%); INSURANCE POLICIES (62%); LIFE INSURANCE (62%); SHAREHOLDERS (61%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (57%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (94%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (54%); FORD MOTOR CO (53%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); EMERSON ELECTRIC CO (50%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); 7201 (TSE) (54%); FORDP (PAR) (53%); F (NYSE) (53%); MSI (NYSE) (52%); EMR (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (50%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (50%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



298 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: MICROSOFT TO GIVE COMPUTER MAKERS GREATER FREEDOM 

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
Acknowledging that it must change its business practices, Microsoft announced yesterday that it would give personal computer makers more freedom to choose what software and services they offer on the machines they sell. 
 The concession by Microsoft is a response to the decision last month by a federal court of appeals, which found many of the dominant software maker's licensing deals with computer makers were an illegal abuse of its monopoly power. 
 The move by Microsoft is a limited step, according to industry analysts and the company's opponents in the long-running antitrust suit. Specifically, Microsoft said it would allow computer makers to remove its Internet browser if they choose and place icons for software programs and services -- including ones that compete with Microsoft offerings -- on the main screen of the company's new Windows XP operating system.
Until now, Microsoft had said that the new version of its Windows operating system, which will be introduced in October, would not give PC makers those freedoms. And Microsoft's contracts powerfully shape the nature of competition and consumer choice in the industry because its Windows operating system is a monopoly, controlling the basic operations of about 90 percent of all PC's sold. 
"Microsoft made a gesture -- that's nice," said Timothy Bresnahan, a Stanford University economist who was a senior official in the Justice Department's antitrust division during much of the Microsoft trial. "But in terms of impact on the industry and competition, it's a nonevent. These concessions would have been significant years ago but not now. The browser war is over."
Indeed the antitrust suit, filed by the Justice Department and several states, did focus on the market for Internet browsing software -- but it raised broader competitive issues as well. When the suit was filed in May 1998, Microsoft had far less than half of the market for Internet browsing software, while the leader was Netscape Communication, which was later acquired by America Online. Today, Microsoft's Internet Explorer holds 87 percent of the browser market, according to Statmarket, a research firm. 
What is unclear is whether Microsoft's measured step is an initial signal that the company is willing to accept the court decision, modify its behavior and take significant further steps to settle the suit. "What Microsoft did today was certainly not overwhelming," said Richard Blumenthal, the attorney general for Connecticut, one of the states that sued the company. "But the issue is whether this indicates a change in mindset or culture in a proven monopolist. Or is this just a symbolic and public relations gesture intended to improve its image?"
In announcing the move, Steven A. Ballmer, the chief executive of Microsoft, said, "We recognize that some provisions of our existing Windows licenses have been ruled improper by the court, so we are providing computer manufacturers with greater flexibility and we are doing this immediately so that computer manufacturers can take advantage of them in planning for the upcoming release of Windows XP."
The easing of restrictions on PC makers, Mr. Ballmer noted, does "not take the place of settlement discussions with the government parties or any future steps in the legal process." But, he added, "We wanted to take immediate steps in light of the court's ruling." 
A federal appeals court last month ruled that Microsoft had repeatedly abused its monopoly power in thwarting the potential threat from Internet software. But the appeals court swept aside the order by the lower court that the company be split in two. It sent the case down to a new Federal District Court to determine what sanctions should be imposed on Microsoft.
The appeals court found that several of Microsoft's licensing practices with PC makers were exclusionary, thus stifling competition and limiting consumer choice. The court also found that Microsoft's decision to bundle its browser with Windows could not be justified on the grounds that it was good for consumers.
With its upcoming Windows XP operating system, Microsoft is to some degree working from the same playbook. It is tightly integrating new Internet software for listening to music, shopping and instant messaging into its new operating system. But the new flexibility Microsoft is giving PC makers is centered on the browser, allowing manufacturers to remove access to Internet Explorer, if they choose.
Yet with the browser war over, few, if any, computer makers are expected to opt for the Netscape browser now. And the more flexible contract rules from Microsoft do not allow computer makers to remove the new features, like Windows Media Player and Windows Messenger.
Only a few weeks ago, for example, talks between Microsoft and AOL Time Warner on including a link to the AOL online service in Windows XP broke down partly over Internet media software. Microsoft pressed AOL to drop its exclusive relationship with RealNetworks, the leader in software for playing music over the Internet.
And AOL Time Warner, not surprisingly, was not much impressed with Microsoft's announcement yesterday. "Microsoft is facing a new reality and adjusting minutely in the right direction," said John Buckley, a vice president of AOL Time Warner. But Mr. Buckley added that other steps that were part of Microsoft's plans for Windows XP like "bolting Windows Media Player and Windows Messenger are harmful to consumers and to competition."
Microsoft has said its reading of the appeals court decision is that the company still has the right to integrate new features into its Windows operating system as it sees fit.
While the appeals court found little merit in Microsoft's arguments for bundling its browser with Windows, the court did not say that the company was prohibited from adding new features to its operating system. And it established a standard for weighing consumer benefit against potential competitive harm, if a court is examining whether to permit software to be added to a monopoly product like Windows.
Still, industry analysts said that the steps Microsoft announced were minimal and mainly addressed the somewhat dated issue of the browser. "These moves by Microsoft represent an extremely literal reading of the appeals court decision," observed David Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School. "If Microsoft were going to adhere to the spirit of the ruling, it would apply the same freedoms to remove things like Windows Media Player and Windows Messenger."
Yet in statements accompanying the Microsoft announcement, computer makers warmly welcomed the software maker's concessions. "With this new flexibility, we're looking forward to taking Windows XP to the next level, tailoring technology to meet our customers needs," said Ted Waitt, the chief executive of Gateway.
For years, Gateway had been among the more restless of the PC makers, quietly complaining about Microsoft's licensing restrictions. A Gateway spokesman said that it might now add "one or two" icons, featuring other software products or Internet services, on the Windows XP desktop screen.
In earlier version of Windows, PC makers were allowed to place such icons to promote other software on the Microsoft operating system. But with Windows XP, Microsoft said that based on user testing it had chosen to opt for a "clean" desktop. Microsoft has now retreated a bit from that stance.
 --------------------

Investment Losses
 SEATTLE, July 11, (Reuters) -- Microsoft said today that its quarterly revenues would be higher than expected, but said it would record $2.6 billion in investment losses.
The company said results from operations during its fourth quarter ended June 30 were in line with expectations.
Microsoft was expected to earn 42 cents a share, according to a consensus of analysts. Including the noncash investment loss, earnings would be a cent a share.
Microsoft said revenues were stronger than expected and would come in at $6.5 billion to $6.6 billion, up from the company's previous estimate of $6.3 billion to $6.5 billion.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 17, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Thursday about Microsoft's relaxing of some contract restrictions on personal computer makers incompletely described a federal appeals court ruling on June 28 about the company's bundling of its Internet browser with its Windows operating system. The court ruled that Microsoft had bundled the browsing software with Windows in a way that violated antitrust laws on two counts. But the court also said that bundling of software was not inherently illegal. It vacated that finding by a lower court and sent the issue back for reconsideration by a new judge.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Microsoft"REMOVING DESKTOP ICONSPC makers using Microsoft Windows may remove icons and links to Internet Explorer from the computer desktop and the start menu. Until now, manufacturers were required to put Internet Explorer icons on the computer desktop. ADDING DESKTOP ICONSPC makers may put icons for other services directly on the Windows desktop. Microsoft had planned to ship its new Windows XP operating system with a clean desk-top, with no icons. Compe-titors had feared this would keep their programs hidden. REMOVING EXPLORERIn Windows XP, computer users can use the add/remove function to remove Internet Explorer. During its antitrust trial, Microsoft said that Explorer was integrated with the operating system and could not be removed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (94%); COMPUTER MAKERS (94%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNET BROWSERS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); BUSINESS TORTS (73%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (61%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (56%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (95%); AOL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (71%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%) MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (95%); AOL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (95%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (50%) LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



299 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Declining Surplus Renews Debate Over the Budget Outlook 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 11 

 BODY:
The Bush administration said today that the weakening of the economy might push the federal budget surplus this year down to a level that, Democrats said, would portend a return to fiscal difficulties in the years ahead.
 Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, said the government would run a surplus this year big enough to meet the bipartisan commitment to use excess Social Security revenue only for reducing the national debt. And Mr. Daniels said there was no risk "at present" that the economic downturn would force the government to dip into Social Security surpluses in coming years. 
 But he did not rule out the possibility that the surplus this year would fall short of earlier expectations by enough to breach what Democrats have sought to establish as a standard for fiscal responsibility: reserving excess funds generated by the Medicare system, as well as the entire Social Security surplus, for debt reduction.
The Congressional Budget Office's most recent projections, made two months ago, forecast a surplus in Social Security this year of $156 billion and a surplus in Medicare's hospital insurance trust fund of $28 billion, a total of $184 billion. At the time, the budget office forecast a surplus in the general budget of an additional $16 billion, leaving the government $200 billion in the black for the year.
Since the economy all but stalled this spring, however, private economists and government budget analysts have been marking down their surplus estimates. Today Mr. Daniels said the White House now expected a surplus of at least $160 billion for the fiscal year that ends on Sept. 30. 
In a briefing for reporters, Mr. Daniels said the actual figure could be higher, and in any case would be larger than the Social Security surplus. But he said it was too early to know whether it would dip below the level of the combined Medicare and Social Security surpluses.
"The surplus is in great shape," Mr. Daniels said. "It's the economy that's not in the best of shape."
Mr. Daniels said the 10-year, $1.35 trillion tax cut signed into law by President Bush last month would give the economy a big lift in coming months, ensuring that tax receipts rebound in the new fiscal year, starting Oct. 1.
In a $2 trillion federal budget and a $10 trillion national economy, there is little or no economic significance to whether the surplus is slightly above or slightly below the combined Medicare and Social Security surpluses. 
But the political implications of its falling below could be substantial, providing Democrats an opportunity to portray Mr. Bush's tax cut as too expensive and to cast themselves as guardians of fiscal restraint.
The chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, will hold a hearing on Thursday where he plans to question Mr. Daniels closely on the budget outlook. 
In an interview, Mr. Conrad said the possibility that the government would be forced to dip into the Medicare surplus this year was evidence that Congress and the administration were likely to "raid" both the Medicare and Social Security surpluses starting next year.
"It shows we're into the Medicare trust fund already this year," Mr. Conrad said, "and we see serious danger" of using all of the Medicare surplus next year, along with some of the Social Security surplus.
Mr. Conrad maintained that the fiscal outlook was even dimmer than it seemed, saying his own projections did not take account of a variety of tax and spending measures that have strong bipartisan support and are likely to create even more budget pressure in coming years. 
Among them, he said, are proposed spending increases for the military and education, the extension of popular tax breaks and reductions in the alternative minimum tax, a complex provision that will push up the tax bills of millions of middle- and upper-income people over the next decade unless revised.
"It suggests to me that we have to go back to the drawing boards with respect to the budget for next year and beyond," Mr. Conrad said. 
Mr. Daniels said Mr. Conrad was assuming that government spending would increase at a pace higher than what Mr. Bush will support. In any case, he said, it is meaningless to measure fiscal health relative to the Medicare surplus, which he described as an accounting gimmick.
The Medicare surplus is generated by one part of the Medicare program, its hospital insurance trust fund. The rest of Medicare requires infusions of general tax revenue each year. So there is no Medicare surplus, Mr. Daniels said, when the program is looked at as a whole.
"With respect," he said, "the notion of a Medicare surplus is flawed, it's misleading, and it's dangerous."
He said Mr. Bush's standard for fiscal prudence was the Social Security surplus, which he said the administration would protect at all costs, even if that meant vetoing spending bills passed by Congress. The Social Security surplus is projected to be nearly $2.6 trillion over the next decade, Mr. Daniels said, enough to pay off as much of the $3 trillion publicly held national debt as can be redeemed, as a practical matter, between now and 2011 -- about $2.1 trillion, by the administration's estimate.
Any effort to redeem more debt, by offering premiums to holders of Treasury bonds, would apportion the government's resources unduly to bondholders at the expense of initiatives, including tax cuts and spending programs, that would benefit more people, Mr. Daniels said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LEGISLATION (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (68%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%) OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET 

PERSON: MITCH DANIELS (89%); KENT CONRAD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DANIELS, MITCHELL E JR (BUDGET DIR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



300 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Left Uninspired by Mayor's Race, Democrats Put Off Endorsements 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
In what is emerging as a clear and not particularly kind verdict on the field of New York mayoral candidates, powerful players in Democratic politics -- including unions and elected officials -- have decided to hold back their endorsements in this year's primary contest. They said none of the candidates had yet presented compelling reasons to take sides, and that voters seemed persistently uninterested in a contest just eight weeks away from a vote.
 After eagerly anticipating this year as an opportunity to succeed Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, these elected officials and union leaders, whose support has been intensely courted by the four major Democratic candidates, expressed concern about a race that they described as flat and unengaged. Several said they were now considering staying neutral in the primary, and waiting to see who emerges in the expected two-way runoff, which would take place on Sept. 25. 
 Others whose endorsements have been sought said they would not announce any decision until it appeared that voters were paying attention.
"I've never done anything like this before in my political life," said Charles B. Rangel, the Harlem Democrat who is the dean of the New York Congressional delegation. He said he was leaning toward staying neutral in the primary. "My wife doesn't believe it. I just don't think any of the candidates has really made the type of impression that would allow you to feel excited."
Mr. Rangel, the irritation evident in his voice, said the Democratic mayoral candidates were "stuck in the mud," adding that he wished they would just "do something" to draw voter attention and justify their campaigns for mayor.
Randi Weingarten, the president of the New York City teachers' union, said her union was also considering sitting out the primary, and said none of the candidates had commanded the attention of her members. "There is not a lot of interest yet in the election," she said.
There are some exceptions to a trend that has clearly concerned advisers to the Democrats. The executive committee of District Council 37, the municipal workers union, recommended yesterday that its members support Peter F. Vallone, the City Council speaker. The union's administrator, Lee Saunders, described Mr. Vallone as a consistent supporter of union positions in the Council, and said Mr. Vallone deserved to be rewarded. Mr. Vallone's supporters, who had been worried about a campaign that had appeared to be adrift, seized on the decision.
The city comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, has attracted a large number of endorsements from elected officials and county leaders; his advisers say the endorsements validated his credentials among different segments of voters who did not know him yet. And Mark Green, the public advocate, has won two big-name endorsements: David N. Dinkins, the former Democratic mayor, and William J. Bratton, who was Mr. Giuliani's first police commissioner.
Democrats said they were struck by the major players who had still not endorsed. In addition to teachers, the city's health care workers' union, one of the most important when it comes to getting out the vote, has been unable to come to an agreement on any candidate. Its influential leader, Dennis Rivera, is serving a 30-day prison term for protesting on Vieques, P.R. 
Similarly, the city's police union, after meeting twice with the candidates, has yet to reach a consensus on whom, if anybody, to endorse.
In Congress, Representative Jerrold Nadler, a West Side Democrat who is thought to be particularly influential among liberal voters, has yet to take sides in the race, despite entreaties from the candidates. The Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, yesterday remarked on what he called the absence of voter interest in the race and said he was deferring any endorsement. He was said by other Democrats to be prepared to support Mr. Hevesi.
And the Rev. Al Sharpton, after offering fairly encouraging words to Mr. Green and a fourth candidate, Fernando Ferrer, says he will not make an endorsement until after the candidates appear at a forum he is calling in August, and perhaps not even after that.
This turn of events is the latest reflection on the difficult adjustment the city clearly faces with the departure of Mr. Giuliani, a more lively public figure than any of the Democratic candidates. As a constant reminder of this, the Democrats have routinely found that Mr. Giuliani has frequently overshadowed them as they have tried to campaign.
At a time of relative prosperity and low crime, no candidate has found the issue that will allow him to break though. Yesterday, Mr. Hevesi gave a speech in which he called for revolving credit loans as a way of encouraging economic development, while Mr. Green offered up a six-point plan to improve procedures for awarding contracts.
All the candidates are stressing the same issues -- education first, housing second -- reflecting what all their pollsters are discovering in their examination of voter attitudes. 
"The difficulty is candidates' distinguishing themselves from other candidates," Mr. Silver said. "They are Democratic candidates who basically stand for the same Democratic issues." This suggests that any of the candidates would be acceptable to the union leaders and other major Democrats.
Not surprisingly, this is producing some frustration among some of the candidates. In an interview yesterday, Mr. Vallone made a point of noting that the next mayor would remember next January just who did what this summer.
"They can't just hold back forever," Mr. Vallone said. "The train is going to leave the station. The safest thing to do is to wait, obviously, but that's not going to get you anything in the end." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COUNTIES (73%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (72%); TEACHER UNIONS (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (64%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ENDORSEMENTS; PRIMARIES; ORGANIZED LABOR; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (77%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; RANGEL, CHARLES B (REPR); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER); VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



301 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Makes a Pledge To Travel via Mass Transit 

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY 

 BODY:
Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday that he will do his part to alleviate congestion if elected mayor by using mass transit every day. Mr. Bloomberg, a wealthy Republican businessman who is accustomed to traveling by limousine, said that would include commuting to City Hall by taxi as well as by bus or subway.
 Mr. Bloomberg made his pledge at a news conference in Chinatown, where he disclosed his campaign proposal to solve the city's traffic problems. 
 Two Democratic candidates for mayor also released some details yesterday about their platforms. One of them, Alan G. Hevesi, the city comptroller, spoke in Harlem about economic development. The other, Mark Green, the public advocate, discussed city contracting procedures with business leaders from Union Square.
Mr. Hevesi said that he would create a mayor's office to serve the biotech industry and reduce or eliminate some taxes on businesses. Mr. Green said he would be aggressive in screening and monitoring contractors to improve the quality of work done for the city.
Mr. Bloomberg's eight-page traffic plan includes ideas to make the streets safer for pedestrians and to encourage the use of public transportation. Mr. Bloomberg said he would try to take control of the city's transit authority from the state and would improve the enforcement of traffic laws by using cameras, perhaps mounted on buses, to catch people who drive their cars in bus lanes.
"I have made a commitment that I will every single day at least take one form of mass transit," Mr. Bloomberg said. "It could be a bus, it could be a taxi, it could be a subway. If you are mayor, you have to know how well it works. And also you have to lead by example."
Mr. Bloomberg rode the subway with reporters before and after presenting his plan at an entrance to the Grand Street station. He said he normally uses mass transit only when it rains or if he is running late. He carries two MetroCards because he said he had difficulty reading the dollar amount displayed at the turnstiles and did not want to be caught short.
"One of the problems is that everybody acknowledges that it is nice to sit in an air-conditioned car, sipping a cup of coffee and having a little bit of down time by yourself," he said. "That unfortunately is a luxury that, if everybody does it, the city can't afford."
Taxis cost more than a bus or a subway and are not typically associated with mass transit. But Mr. Bloomberg said that people have strong emotions about taxis and he would need to see for himself how well they operate. He also suggested creating franchises for new taxi services in neighborhoods not served by yellow cabs or public transportation.
In tackling economic issues yesterday, Mr. Hevesi said he wanted to build on the reduction of crime during the Giuliani administration to create an environment that is attractive to business. He pledged to help small businesses in poor neighborhoods through a revolving loan program and to simplify the city's building code. He also said the city's schools needed to be improved, to ensure that the city maintained a qualified work force.
"If we fail, we'll have a lot more than low test scores to worry about," Mr. Hevesi said. "Our economy will eventually hit a wall."
As for Mr. Green, he acknowledged that talking about city contracts might bore many voters, but he said the mayor has an obligation to make sure the city's money is well spent. He said the city enters into 7,000 contracts every year for a total of $7 billion. Among his ideas were proposals to consolidate procurement, and expanding performance evaluations of companies along with seeking customer feedback. 
"In uncertain economic times, we often feel we have to choose either between raising taxes or lowering services," Mr. Green said. "But there's a third way, and a better way -- smarter management." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); MAYORS (92%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); CITIES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (73%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (54%); CORPORATE TAX (53%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%) MURPHY, DEAN E; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



302 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing . . . And Cutting Flights 

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 CommutAir, an upstate New York airline, plans to reduce its staff and fleet of planes and drop service to some cities. The airline, which is based in Plattsburgh, was expected to give layoff notices to 165 of its 375 employees this week. The company's president, Andrew Price, said the carrier would trim its fleet to 14 planes from 26. Mr. Price said the company has been hard hit by a lagging economy. It plans to eliminate service out of Binghamton, Elmira and Ithaca in mid-August. The company provides Continental Connection service in a partnership with Continental Airlines. Mr. Price said CommutAir would focus on providing service to markets like Albany, Syracuse, Rochester and Buffalo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: COMMUTAIR INC (91%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMUTAIR 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (78%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001 



303 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 4692 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* "ABCD: A COLLECTION OF ART BRUT," Museum of American Folk Art, 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street, Manhattan, (212) 977-7170 (through July 22). Memorably vivid and widely abused, the phrase Art Brut (meaning raw or rough art) was coined in the 1940's by the French artist Jean Dubuffet. This exhibition, drawn from the holdings of a Paris-based foundation, tries to reinstate his original meaning, revisiting the amazing pantheon of artists who inspired it and proposing some additions. Its many highlights include works by acknowledged greats like Adolf Wolfli, Aloise Corbaz, Henry Darger and Augustin Lesage, but the show also introduces many equally riveting artists unfamiliar to American audiences. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Free (Roberta Smith).

"BEYOND THE EASEL: DECORATIVE PAINTING BY BONNARD, VUILLARD, DENIS AND ROUSSEL, 1890-1930," Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1000 Fifth Avenue, at 82nd St., (212) 535-7710 (through Sept. 9.) The themes of the 80 or so French paintings in this show, created for bourgeois homes by artists who called themselves the Nabis, couldn't be more lightweight: city parks and country gardens, gift-wrapped tots and fusspot nannies, with the ocasional nymph thrown in for tone. Yet the results, with their clotted textures and mildewy palettes of puce, mauve and brown, often look leaden and suffocating, trapped in nostalgia. Bonnard and Vuillard, unsurprisingly, come off best; Maurice Denis and Ker Xavier Roussel less well. Works that haven't been seen together for a century have been gathered for the occasion. Of most interest, though, is the concept of decoration the Nabis promoted, one that was at once radical and reactionary. Hours and admissions: See above (Holland Cotter).

* "EL GRECO: THEMES AND VARIATIONS," Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700 (through July 29). This gemlike single-digit exhibition (just seven canvases) outweighs some of the more grandiose shows in New York museums at the moment. It brings together, mostly for the first time, four versions of the artist's tumultuous "Purification of the Temple," which provide a vivid time line of his transcultural development, and three versions of his resonant portrait of St. Jerome as a cardinal, which were all painted toward the end of his life when he skillfully copied -- always with interesting differences -- his works for private patrons. The show makes its small oval gallery reverberate with thoughts about painting: as craft, thought, commodity and lifelong pursuit. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; $5, students and 62+ (Smith).

* WILLIAM KENTRIDGE, New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, near Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 219-1222 (through Sept. 16). By way of drawings and film animations, Mr. Kentridge addresses in searing images South Africa and its racial problems, along with the longings and frustrations of bourgeois lives played out in the country's deeply dysfunctional setting. The exhibition begins with his jarring "Shadow Procession" (1999), a ragtag parade of silhouetted moving images projected on a big screen, which evokes the displaced and dispossessed who haunt not only South Africa but also the history of the world. At the heart of the show are his drawings and the short animated films he makes of them, in which the process shares importance with the content. Many of the films contrast the lives of two antiheroes, one a crude rapacious businessman, the other a sensitive artist, in compelling medleys of images that touch on the personal and the political. Departing from this format is "Ubu Tells the Truth" (1997), a highly charged satire based on the hearings of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, set up in 1995 to investigate human rights abuses during the apartheid era. It's not often that good art is shaped from such raw angry material, but Mr. Kentridge's powers of invention are equal to the challenge. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m. Admission: $6; $3, students, artists and 65+ (Grace Glueck).

* "MASTER DRAWINGS FROM THE CLEVELAND MUSEUM OF ART," Morgan Library, 29 East 36th Street, (212) 685-0610 (through Aug. 19). From Michelangelo to Louise Bourgeois, from Rembrandt to Franz Kline, this cornucopia of drawings from one of the most important collections in the United States bristles with the work of stellar talents. A standout is a double-sided drawing in red chalk by Michelangelo, probably done around 1510-11. One side reveals the trouble he had sketching a foot that fits the position of a youthful male nude on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel; the other shows the headless nude itself, a powerful, ingeniously posed figure that emphasizes the sculptor's magnificent grasp of anatomical rendering. A rare compositional drawing by Fra Filippo Lippi, a subtly toned landscape by Claude Lorrain, a scene of battling horses by Gericault, a stately portrait by Ingres, one of Seurat's brilliant black crayon drawings of a French vaudeville scene, and works by Degas and Toulouse-Lautrec are among the highlights. The 20th-century American group is something of a disappointment, but there is enough great stuff from other eras to make this a masterpiece of a show. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; $6, students and 65+ (Glueck).

* "19TH- AND 20TH-CENTURY CHINESE PAINTINGS FROM THE ROBERT H. ELLSWORTH COLLECTION," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 879-5500 (through Aug. 19). The 19th and 20th centuries were shattering times for China, bringing wars, civil violence and the fall of an empire. In art, old forms survived and flourished but also changed. This exhibition surveys how elite painting traditions developed for a new audience and under Western influences from 1850 to 1980. Among the highlights is a group of paintings by Qi Baishi (1864-1957), deservedly one of the most popular of all Chinese artists. The big news is that a major museum has quietly taken a firm stand on modern art in Asia, seeing it not as a postscript to a great tradition but as an integral, living part of the continuum. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).

"PRECIOUS POSSESSIONS: TREASURES FROM THE LIBRARY OF THE JEWISH THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY," Jewish Theological Seminary, 3080 Broadway, at 122nd Street, (212) 678-8082 (through Aug. 30). These 90 or so charismatic entries date from the 11th to 20th century and come from all over the world. Almost every item has a story to tell or a name to drop. Want to see Maimonides's signature? Sigmund Freud's bookplate? A handwritten score by Leonard Bernstein? They're here. So are some spectacular illuminated manuscripts, minute and colossal, and objects that carry the warmth of ordinary life: marriage contracts, postcards and a 13th-century letter from a man in India to his wife in Egypt, assuring her of his unbroken devotion. Hours: Sundays, noon to 7 p.m.; Mondays through Thursdays, 8 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Fridays, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Free (Cotter)

* WAYNE THIEBAUD: A PAINTINGS RETROSPECTIVE," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3600 (through Sept. 23). The world not being a perfect place, this show will be around only through the summer, so consider yourself forewarned. At the Whitney, as in life, happiness is fleeting. Meanwhile, you are free to bask in these pumpkin pies, meat and cheese deli counters, lipsticks, hot dogs and gumball machines, which, as Mr. Thiebaud has painted them for the last 40 years, have the aura of loves lost and too fondly recalled. Joy yielding to melancholy then yields to the less jolting but more durable satisfaction of being in the presence of pictures so lovingly and wittily made. These pictures provoke happiness if for no other reason than that they are content to be what they are, which is enough -- this being the same message they convey about the modest objects and people they depict. (A smaller show of recent work by Mr. Thiebaud is at Allan Stone Gallery, 113 East 90th Street, through July 21; information: 212-987-1655.) Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays: 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $8, students and 62+ (Michael Kimmelman).

Galleries: Uptown

ALEX KATZ, Adam Baumgold, 74 East 79th Street, (212) 861-7338 (through July 13). Though famous mainly for his large, elegantly flattened and simplified pictures of beautiful, well-to-do people, Mr. Katz also has a lovely touch on a small scale. This modest but rewarding show with mostly small pictures of women as well as some funky little collages from the 1950's shows to advantage his delicate brushwork, perfect compositional sense and controlled eroticism (Ken Johnson).

"MINIMAL," Zwirner & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, (212) 517-8677 (through 31). This elegant show includes works of classic Minimalism like a box made of stainless steel and fluorescent red Plexiglas by Donald Judd; an iconic arrangement of red, pink and yellow fluorescent lights by Dan Flavin; and a gorgeous, glossy red, thick plank shape by John McCracken. It also embraces more Conceptually motivated works like words on the wall by Lawrence Weiner that say "Around the bend"; a square of typewritten concrete poetry by Carl Andre; and photographs of framework houses by Bernd & Hilla Becher (Johnson).

* "POP ART: THE JOHN AND KIMIKO POWERS COLLECTION," Gagosian Gallery, 980 Madison Avenue, at 77th Street, (212) 744-2313 (through Aug. 31). With his Japanese-born wife, Kimiko, John Powers (1916-1999), a former president of the Prentice-Hall publishing company, gathered a big-bang collection of Pop Art by the movement's stars. The 26 objects shown here, including works by Robert Rauschenberg, Jasper Johns, Claes Oldenburg, Roy Lichtenstein, Andy Warhol and James Rosenquist, are mostly from the 1960's, and they bring a whole era back into vivid focus. Among the signature works are Warhol's serial extravaganza, "200 Soup Cans" (1962); Mr. Rauschenberg's "Broadcast" (1959), a combine painting with a working radio attached; and Mr. Oldenburg's soft "Drum Set" (1967), a bodylike sendup of a professional drummer's instruments in vinyl and canvas that droops on a platform in a metaphor for its own spent energy. Collectors' collectors, the Powerses made the pursuit into an art of their own (Glueck).

PAUL WEINGARTEN; ADOLFO BARNATAN, Salander-O'Reilly, 20 East 79th Street, (212) 879-6606 (through July 27). The thickly painted, acid-hued still-life pictures of lobsters and fish, fruits and vegetables, and homey kitchenware by Mr. Weingarten, of Montclair, N.J., have a hectic, expressionistic energy that calls to mind Chaim Soutine, though without the latter's melting sensuousness. The Madrid-based Mr. Baratan's smooth, simplified sculptures in stone include Ancient Egyptian-style heads arranged in a Modernist grid and flat, near-Minimalist discs that evoke the sun and the moon (Johnson).

Galleries: 57th Street

ADA GILMORE: "THE SUMMER OF 1915: WATERCOLORS FROM PROVINCETOWN," Mary Ryan, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 397-0669 (through July 31). All 22 paintings in this modestly radiant exhibition were made on the backs of official United States Postal Service postcards during the year after World War I drove this American Modernist from Paris to Provincetown. Gilmore's sunny, Impressionistic pictures of women gardening or doing laundry or views of houses among trees become more absorbing the more you look. Like her most obvious influence, Vuillard, she worked a fine balance between vibrantly patterned surface and evocative domestic space (Johnson).

MORRIS GRAVES, "Still Life," Schmidt Bingham, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 888-1122 (through Aug. 17). This small retrospective honors a great American original who died in May at 90. Ranging from vigorously palette-knifed paintings of drinking fountains, from the 1930's, to exquisitely delicate pictures of flowers in transparent bottles, from the 90's, the show gives a fine taste of Graves's craftsmanlike versatility and his modest yet intense poetic sensibility (Johnson).

ALEXANDER LIBERMAN, "Maquettes for Monuments," Ameringer/Howard, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 935-1110 (through Aug. 17). In the late 1960's, this Modernist sculptor and Conde Nast editorial director produced gigantic abstractions using old, unearthed gas pipes. On view here are sleek little copies of those monumental works, compositions of standing, leaning or tumbling cylinders finished in glossy red or matte rust-colored patina. Though not deeply consequential, they are appealingly precious (Johnson).

"SIGNS OF LIFE," Ramis Barquet, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 644-9090 (through July 27). This disjunctive but interesting six-artist show includes lively, comically erotic semi-abstract pink paintings by Fernanda Brunet; tires with treads recarved into traditional decorative motifs by Betsabee Romero; strangely clinical photographs of a man in his underwear by Ernesto Pujol; small, iconic realist paintings by Marco Arce; a droopy shaped painting by Leda Catunda; and a funny video by Ximena Cuevas in which the artist breathlessly practices introducing herself to the video curator John Hanhardt (Johnson).

Galleries: Chelsea

JOHN BALDESSARI, JEFF KOONS, TOM WESSELMANN, Sonnabend, 536 West 22nd Street, (212) 627-1018 (through July 27). The big surprise is how shockingly uninteresting one finds Mr. Koons's dry, anonymously painted, Rosenquist-style montages. Mr. Baldessari's new photo-constructions offer the familiar conceptual impenetrability and visual enervation that have always characterized his least interesting works. But the unassuming hedonism of Mr. Wesselmann's three cut-out steel works -- a rippling abstraction, a still-life and a cartoon landscape -- is delightfully if not deeply seductive (Johnson).

"BEING THERE," Derek Eller, 526-30 West 25th Street, (212) 206-6411 (through July 27). Highlights of this lively eight-artist show include Carl D'Alvia's bionic monkey and child; Jeff Sonhouses' masklike face finely painted in watercolor with an Afro of real burned matches; Tricia Keightly's neo-Art Nouveau abstract painting; a comical, quirkily detailed landscape painted by Johan Nobell; and, by Jennifer Sirey, a wobbly, pyramidal tower of glass boxes with moldy interiors (Johnson).

"CAMERA WORKS: THE PHOTOGRAPHIC IMPULSE IN CONTEMPORARY ART," Marianne Boesky Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 680-9889 (through Aug. 10). Despite the encompassing title, this show focuses almost exclusively on photographs by 31 established artists, mostly in their 30's and 40's, who are not known primarily, if at all, for working with the camera. Usual suspects are in the majority, from Ross Bleckner to Lisa Yuskavage, with Peter Doig, Jessica Stockholder, Rachel Whiteread and Gregor Schneider in between. But there are still plenty of surprises and revelations, especially when you find yourself thinking that some of the assembled should stick to photography (Smith).

JASON DUVAL, Marcello Marvelli, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 627-3363 (through July 28). The small, blocky abstractions in this young painter's first solo exhibition have a painterly touch that veers from graceful to brusque and a finely tuned sense of color. At best, in two larger, more finished works that call to mind the paintings of Thomas Nozkowski, the circulating line, semi-transparent glazes and vibrating play of reds or greens reward extended contemplation (Johnson).

RICHARD HAMILTON: "PRINTS, 1968-1998," Charles Cowles Gallery, 537 West 24th Street, (212) 925-3500 (through next Friday). James Joyce's "Ulysses" and tabloid subjects like Mick Jagger's arrest for drug possession are part of the huge print repertory of the English painter Richard Hamilton. Mr. Hamilton is wide-ranging not only in subject matter but also in print technique; while not dispensing with venerable practices like etching and engraving, he sets no limits on technical possibilities, fooling around with contemporary techniques from silk-screening to computer manipulation of digital images, sometimes using several in the same print. This wonderfully animated show illustrates his belief that images will always be more important than the manner of their execution. But it also reveals the role that technical innovation plays in the impact of his graphic work (Glueck).

"HEAT," Margaret Thatcher, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 675-0222 (through July 27). This intentionally dissonant and overcrowded exhibition has some interesting things in it, like Patrick Wilson's smooth, dark red monchrome painting; a drippy, candy-colored stripe painting by Markus Linnenbrink; odd, slightly comical, smoothly carved lumps of marble by Venske and Spanle; and a radiating, psychedelic, computer-generated print by Daren Kendall (Johnson).

"OVERNIGHT TO MANY CITIES: TRAVEL AND TOURISM AT HOME AND AWAY," 303 Gallery, 525 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-1121 (through July 13). Organized by the artist and photographer Collier Schorr, this beautiful, exquisitely thought-through show reflects the intense scrutiny artists can bring to the work of others in their immediate vicinity. It includes 68 images by 32 photographers from several generations beginning with Walker Evans and encourages what might be called deep connoisseurship, a savoring of photographs as crafted objects, artistic statements and social documents, capable of releasing countless reverberations when carefully juxtaposed (Smith).

"SUPERIMPOSITION," Caren Golden Fine Art, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 727-8304 (through July 27). This smart group show by mostly young American artists, organized by the critic David Hunt, focuses on art based on stacking, layering, volume or the illusion of depth. One sculpture is made from vertically arranged reels of film, another from painstakingly assembled stones. A painting is composed from layers of drizzled paint; a fabric relief from a free-associational network of words. The deep space of science fiction gets some play in a Minimalist wall piece that doubles as a star ship control panel. And a digital work weaves together personal references, abstract forms and music (Cotter).

"THE WEDDING SHOW," Casey Kaplan, 416 West 14th Street, (212) 645-7335 (through July 31). The best piece in this miscellaneous roundup of gallery artists (titled in honor of Mr. Kaplan's recent nuptials) is Carsten Holler's reclining, hairless orangutan: with a life-size body of fleshy rubber, expressive glass eyes and bony toe- and fingernails, it has a winsome, almost human presence. Also noteworthy are Karen Yasinsky's drawing of Girl Scouts in the woods; Anna Gaskell's mysterious photographic narrative about nurses; and John Chilver's painterly play of abstraction around a primitive man and his campfire (Johnson).

Galleries: SoHo

* "BETWEEN STREET AND MIRROR: THE DRAWINGS OF JAMES ENSOR," Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, (212) 219-2166 (through July 21). The show's pleasure partly involves serendipity. This feels like the perfect moment for an oddball like Ensor, but maybe any time would feel like the right time for somebody whose work, whether it is appalling or fantastic (and it can be both simultaneously), looks eternally modern. The drawings are from the 1880's and 90's. Some started out as ordinary sketches of household objects to which faces and monsters were added, like Rorschachs of the artist's imagination. They somehow become more luminous and translucent the more densely they are drawn, an extraordinary paradox. On the other hand, when the drawings aren't dense, they can be vaporous like Turners, with an effect akin to looking back on a dream: you can't quite place what you are seeing. But the emotion the images provoke is stronger precisely because of the frustration attached to it. Ensor is one of those artists Americans tend to forget or never really knew properly. A hero in Europe, he is vastly deserving of reappraisal here, and this excellent exhibition is a place to start (Kimmelman).

* LOUISE BOURGEOIS AND YAYOI KUSAMA, Peter Blum, 99 Wooster Street, (212) 343-0441 (through Sept. 15). Bringing Ms. Bourgeois and Ms. Kusama together for the first time in this illuminating drawing show was an inspired idea. Both have found inspiration in the wilder parts of consciousness, and both have long practiced repetitive mark-making. In a recent drawing by Ms. Bourgeois, nested ovals made in a scratchy red line create a primitivistic, enigmatically iconic image. Ms. Kusama's dot fields and all-over linear networks produce, at their best, eye-buzzing opticality and cosmic transcendentalism (Johnson).

"SOME (ARE) PAINTING," John Gibson, 568 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 925-1192 (through July 21). This well-selected show samples a type of sophisticatedly playful abstraction practiced by many young and semi-young painters these days. Highlights include Elizabeth Cooper's comically animated blobs of thick paint; Isolde Kille's glossy fields of graduated gray; Rachel Urkowitz's roundish white, cartoon-style "Ozone Hole"; Liza Stefanelli's elegant, whiplash calligraphy; and Karen Arm's finely brushed network of orange lines on a purple ground (Johnson).

JUDI WERTHEIN AND LEANDRO ERLICH: "TOURISMO," Kent Gallery, 67 Prince Street, at Crosby Street, (212) 966-4500, (through Aug. 2). This photo-installation piece by two Argentine artists, a hit at the seventh Havana Biennial last fall, revolves around big color Polaroids of ordinary Cubans posing as they please in a loonily unlikely setting: a sparkling winter wonderland incorporating a bright Alpine backdrop, fake snow underfoot and props including skis, a sled and Styrofoam snowballs. The original snow-scene set is also here -- pristine, carefully lighted and inviting. Cultural and climatic contrasts abound, and the images point up the paradox that although Cuba is economically dependent upon tourism, its citizens are not free to travel. But these beautiful, joyful, ineluctably poignant images transcend such didacticism. They exemplify the best kind of site-specific, political art, one that makes its points effortlessly and travels well (Smith).

"WET!" Luise Ross Gallery, 568 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 343-2161, through July 27. Some summer group shows just want to have fun, and this one accomplishes the goal with admirable flair and ecumenicism. The slippery subject helps. Wetness is surveyed with a thoroughness that includes geography, food, sport and sex. The artists range from Sigmar Polke to Bill Traylor to Patty Chang and Nicole Eisenman, and the styles are just as various (Smith).

Other Galleries

"FACES AND FIGURES: CONTEMPORARY PHOTOGRAPHY IN SCANDINAVIA," Scandinavia House, 58 Park Avenue, near 38th Street, (212) 779-3587 (through July 29). Nordic photography makes a good showing here with a mix of established and lesser- known talents using a range of approaches, from documentary to personal diary. The aim is to dispel stereotypes about "coolness, control and psychic remoteness" in the words of Ann Sass, chief curator. And the show succeeds, with a humanscape of transvestite haunts in Paris, high jinks in Swedish suburbs, hunting and farming in Iceland, plain folk at home in Sweden, Christmas in Finland, prostitutes plying their trade in Denmark and children frolicking in Norway (Glueck).

Last Chance

* "COTE D'AZUR: ART, MODERNITY AND THE MYTH OF THE FRENCH RIVIERA," AXA Gallery, 787 Seventh Avenue, at 51st Street, (212) 554-4818 (through tomorrow). "A dream space created by artists for the 20th century" is how Kenneth E. Silver, author of the book that spawned this show, describes the French Riviera. And to prove the point, more than 70 works by 40 artists are on view, from Matisse and Picasso to the photographer Jacques-Henri Lartigue and the architect Le Corbusier and including more contemporary talents like Yves Klein and Eric Fischl. Rail access opened up the long-neglected southern coast to commerce and tourism in the 1860's, and the first artists, Renoir and Monet, arrived there in 1883 for a two-week tour. They evidently spread the word, for by the time of World War I the coast had become a mecca for artists whose palettes thrived on the dazzling quality of the light and the clear, fresh colors of the sky, water and vegetation. The Cote d'Azur's heyday is deftly covered, but one caveat: why clutter this persuasive survey, which really celebrates the coast as a garden of European modernism, with recent and peripheral works by a group of American artists? (Glueck).

"FRANK LLOYD WRIGHT AND THE ART OF JAPAN: THE ARCHITECT'S OTHER PASSION," Japan Society, 333 East 47th Street, (212) 832-1155 (through Sunday). Some shows are like a vigorous read; you have to concentrate and try to follow the plot. Wright, an architectural colossus and a wily diva of a man, is the main character. The story of his infatuation with Japanese art, and of how he turned that love to lucrative ends by moonlighting as a top-dollar dealer in woodblock prints -- at least until disaster struck -- is a rich one. It's told through dozens of architectural drawings, documentary photographs, woodblock prints and a superb accompanying book by the curator, Julia Meech, that wraps wide-ranging art historical research in a nimble, personable style. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; $3 students and 65+ (Cotter).

* "HOMAGE TO THE SQUARE: PICTURING WASHINGTON SQUARE, 1890-1965," Berry-Hill Galleries, 11 East 70th Street, (212) 744-2300 (through today). For generations Washington Square, with its grandiose marble arch, its pocket-handkerchief park, its stately phalanx of row houses on the north and other attractions, has drawn artists to live there as well as capture its image. This show of 90 paintings, photographs, drawings and prints reveals the square in many aspects and moods, with works by Edward Hopper, John Sloan, William Glackens, Jessie Tarbox Beals, Andre Kertesz, Diane Arbus and lesser lights. Even Thomas Hart Benton, who became famous for his depictions of hillbilly folk in the Ozarks, contributed to the area's iconology, painting a garrulous scene at the outdoor Washington Square art show in 1946. This mixed exhibition has a number of not-great works, but the park comes through, warts and all, as the New York legend that it is (Glueck).

MAUREEN McCABE: "ENCHANTMENTS," Kouros Gallery, 23 East 73rd Street, (212) 288-5888 (through today). The highly inventive fantasy behind these delicate assemblages draws on myths and ancient tales, religious symbols, charms, superstitions, the animal kingdom, the heavens and many other sources, including lore from the Ireland of Ms. McCabe's ancestors. Fish, a Mexican fortune teller, an ancient cemetery in the Irish hills, and the 19th-century interest in mesmerism are some of the subjects embroidered on by the artist, whose arcane knowledge and skilled craftsmanship combine to produce carefully plotted, well-executed riddles (Glueck).

REBECCA QUAYTMAN, Spencer Brownstone, 39 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 334-3455 (through tomorrow). Ms. Quaytman's ambitious project "The Sun" meditates on modernity and the deaths of her grandfather and great-grandfather in a train accident in 1940. It consists of 40 easel-size panels, half on view here and the rest in "Crossing the Line" at the Queens Museum. Installed here in a grid on one wall, Constructivist-style abstractions mix with silkscreened photographic images of trains, an Old World cemetery and a newspaper article about the accident, all to poetic and cinematic effect (Johnson).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Large detail from "Studio City, California, July 1982," by Joel Sternfeld, in the show "Overnight to Many Cities," at the 303 Gallery in Chelsea. (303 Gallery); A large detail from Bonnard's "Women in a Garden," at the Met. (Metropolitan Museum of Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PAINTING (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); CHRONOLOGIES (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



304 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: The I.M.F. Representative to Palestine 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr. 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, July 12 

 BODY:
A delegation of European diplomats was being quizzed in Israel recently about European financial support for the Palestinian Authority, which was supposed to be delayed until the Palestinians adopted strict new spending guidelines and put a stop to off-the-books business deals.
 "The budget is under control now," Miguel Moratinos, the European Union's envoy to the Middle East, said. "The International Monetary Fund has gone over everything and given its approval." 
 A few months earlier, Persian Gulf leaders were balking at direct disbursement of promised aid to the Palestinian Authority, which they worried might be squandered through inefficiency or corruption. Without their support, the authority faced almost certain bankruptcy. Nabil Shaath, the Palestinian minister responsible for foreign aid, approached the wealthy Arab states with a proposal: the I.M.F. would monitor Palestinian income and expenditures, and report to them directly every month. The money started flowing within weeks. 
"The I.M.F. has been very helpful to us," said an appreciative Ahmed Qurie, the speaker of the Palestinian parliament.
In dealings with the Palestinian Authority, the I.M.F. is embodied in one overextended man, Salaam Fayyad, a fast-talking and faster-calculating 49-year-old research economist who became the fund's first and only representative to the Palestinians five and a half years ago. In recent months, say many diplomats here, Mr. Fayyad has become the single most significant behind-the-scenes force keeping the Palestinian Authority solvent, not a role he or his employers originally envisioned.
"What I find absolutely remarkable is how much influence the I.M.F. has on the P.A. and on the donor community, and it is due entirely to Salaam's diligence," said Jeff Feltman, a special adviser on Palestinian affairs to the United States ambassador in Israel. "He has credibility with all sides."
From the start, Mr. Fayyad's assignment has been highly unusual. The Palestinian Authority is not a state, making it ineligible for I.M.F. loans or membership.
But when he volunteered for the job in 1995, Palestinian sovereignty was thought to be less than five years away. The Palestinians had asked the I.M.F. to help build a banking system, a finance ministry and a monetary authority. And big financial donors -- Japan, the United States, the European Union -- wanted the I.M.F. to provide independent oversight of aid disbursement.
Now, with prospects for peace and statehood fast receding, Mr. Fayyad is almost certainly the fund's only staff economist who routinely commutes through free-fire zones.
The four-hour round trip from his Jerusalem home to his Gaza City office takes him twice daily through the Israeli Army's Erez checkpoint, the scene of constant fighting lately. Though the I.M.F. offered him an armored car and chauffeur, he says such trappings would be ostentatious.
"I don't want to look like I am more important than anyone else here because I don't think I am," he said while driving one recent day through Gaza, dodging vendors and donkey carts.
Yet even the resolutely modest Mr. Fayyad recognizes that he and his institution have taken on an unexpected importance in the Palestinian world. "This has become a job with high visibility, with responsibilities that are very delicate, very sensitive politically," he acknowledged.
In the bloody tumult of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the dry number-crunching of the International Monetary Fund might seem like an academic exercise at best, or at worst an insensitive distraction. Even in peaceful times, the I.M.F. is not always a welcome presence in deficit-ridden economies.
But before violence broke out in September, the fund was already a critical intermediary between the Palestinians and foreign donors -- and a powerful ally of local reformers pressing the Authority to open its books and keep revenues from vanishing into state companies run as private fiefs. Mr. Fayyad, colleagues and diplomats say, is one of the few outsiders who regularly see Yassir Arafat with little advance notice. 
"He is telling everyone the truth, as he sees it, and he has been extraordinarily effective," Stanley Fischer, the I.M.F.'s deputy director, said in a telephone interview.
Now, with the local economy devastated, the I.M.F. imprimatur has become almost essential to the authority's survival. Mr. Fayyad pushed the drafting of a pared-down Palestinian budget, and it is his monitoring efforts, backed by missions from I.M.F. headquarters, that have kept Arab and European funds filling a gap left by Israel's refusal to hand over some $180 million in Palestinian tax funds it has collected this year. Though Israel has voiced complaints about foreign financial support for the authority, it has not objected to assistance in facilitating the aid, I.M.F. officials say. 
With his University of Texas doctorate and his past service as a scholar at the Federal Reserve Bank in St. Louis and a top aide to the I.M.F.'s director in Washington, Mr. Fayyad would seem to conform to the green-eyeshades image of a fiscal overseer, scrupulous but detached. But Mr. Fayyad is a Palestinian by birth, from a family that has lived for generations in a village near the West Bank city of Tulkarm, which is now under Palestinian rule. 
He was acutely aware that some Palestinians -- and some aid donors, a group that until recently included Israel -- were expecting him to demonstrate some sympathetic leniency toward the Palestinian leadership. But by most accounts, he was more adamant in his advocacy of budget reform than were the American and European officials in the region.
"Because I am Palestinian, I was apprehensive before I came here," said Mr. Fayyad, who went to high school in Jordan and college in Lebanon before moving to the United States. "But it seems to have helped. I didn't have to overcompensate. And I was advocating things that have intrinsic value."
There is a rumor that Mr. Fayyad has a secretary, but he conducts most of his business personally, fielding calls from Washington and Riyadh and Tel Aviv on his two mobile phones while driving from appointment to appointment in an sport utility vehicle with a "UN-IMF 1" license plate. He appears to have memorized his phone book, along with the latest Palestinian balance-of-payments figures. 
Colleagues say he is intimately familiar with the erratically oscillating cash flow from aid donations and tax revenues, and the many peculiarities on the expenditure side of the Palestinian budget system. A persistent visitor to the Gaza offices of the Palestinian finance ministry, he is credited with forcing the consolidation of state accounts into one reasonably comprehensive and comprehensible document. "He is like a shadow finance minister," said a United Nations aid coordinator. "They need him, and so do we." 
But after five and a half years, Mr. Fayyad is reluctantly beginning to contemplate his next assignment. He has already far overstayed the normal two- or three-year stint for an I.M.F. field representative, Mr. Fischer said, because of the near-perpetual state of emergency in the region and the "unmatched" personal relationships he has developed with Palestinian and donor-government officials. 
Mr. Fayyad, who plays down his impact here, stresses that the emergency is not over, and that the $300 million in European and Arab aid he helped arrange will run out before the end of the year. "We have gained some time, until that money is exhausted," he said. "What will happen after that is a good question."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 14, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A headline in World Business yesterday about an International Monetary Fund representative in the Middle East referred incorrectly to the Palestinian governing body in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. It is the Palestinian Authority, not "Palestine."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Salaam Fayyad, a research economist for the I.M.F., has held the Palestinian Authority to strict accounting standards, and in doing so has helped reassure foreign aid donors. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); APPROVALS (73%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); ARMIES (50%) FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%) EUROPEAN UNION; PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

PERSON: ORME, WILLIAM A JR; MORATINOS, MIGUEL ANGEL; FAYYAD, SALAAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) INDIAN OCEAN (57%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); EUROPE (96%); ISRAEL (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%) ISRAEL; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



305 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
EURO FALLS. The dollar rose against the euro on optimism U.S. stock gains and better-than-expected company earnings may herald a rebound in economic growth. In New York, the euro fell to 85.34 cents, from 85.91 cents.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since January 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (92%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%) CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



306 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Overcome by Slavery 

BYLINE:  By Ira Berlin; Ira Berlin is author of "Many Thousands Gone: The First Two Centuries of Slavery in North America."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
On January 1, 1863, Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation declaring slaves forever free, but the subject remains very much alive. On the big screen we have had "Glory," "Amistad," "Shadrach" and "Beloved." On television, the four-part series "Africans in America" was followed by Henry Louis Gates Jr.'s controversial sojourn through Africa, during which he confronted African complicity in the slave trade. Such programs have come hard on the heels of new monuments and miles of freedom trails, dozens of exhibitions and the building of museums dedicated to slavery.
 In the past year, some 50 scholarly works on slavery have been published. Add dozens of Web sites, children's books and novels and at least one parody, "The Wind Done Gone." And, if that was not enough, there was the DNA confirmation of Thomas Jefferson's relationship with Sally Hemings. 
 The resonance of the Jefferson-Hemings affair provides a reminder of how much slavery has become part of contemporary politics. Bill Clinton realized this early on; hence the debate over The Apology and his appointment of the Commission on Race and Reconciliation. Congress has also gotten into the act, mandating that Civil War battle sites supervised by the National Park Service address slavery. Disputes over the Confederate flag and Confederate History Month have roiled politics in South Carolina, Georgia, Mississippi and Virginia, and California has required insurance companies to divulge if they have ever insured slave property. Finally, there is the matter of reparations, which has found advocates in some of the nation's prominent litigators.
It would be comforting to conclude that recognition of slavery's importance to the development of our economy, politics and culture has driven Americans to a consideration of the past. But there clearly is more to the current interest in slavery. There is a recognition that American racism was founded in slavery, and a general, if inchoate, understanding that any attempt to address race in the present must also address slavery in past.
This attempt has become imperative as American society perceptibly grows more segregated, the benefits of economic growth are unevenly and unfairly distributed among races, and a previous generation's remedies for segregation and inequality are discarded as politically unacceptable.
In short, behind the interest in slavery is the crisis of race. The confluence of the history of slavery and the politics of race reveals that slavery has become a language, a way to talk about race, in a society in which blacks and whites hardly talk to each other at all. In slavery, Americans have found a voice to address some of their deepest hurts and the depressing reality of how much of American life -- jobs; housing; schools; access to medical care, to justice and even to a taxi -- is controlled by race.
But while slavery serves as an entry point for a dialogue on race, it is not an easy one. For slavery carries with it deep anger, resentment, indignation and bitterness for some, embarrassment, humiliation and shame for others. The complications can be seen in the introduction of slavery into what had been a lily-white representation of Colonial Williamsburg -- by staging a slave auction. The local chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People objected, finding the re-creation insulting to people of African descent -- a painful reminder of what no one wanted to have recalled. The director of the project, Christie Coleman, refused to retreat, insisting that slavery was an integral part of the history of colonial Williamsburg. The N.A.A.C.P. conceded Ms. Coleman's point.
The presentation of slavery at Colonial Williamsburg has since become routine, and the results have been astounding. Visitors get caught up in the re-enactments. Some offer to help slaves escape. Others protect slaves from abusive masters. Some turn on slaveowners, and not merely to debate the issue; several visitors have had to be physically restrained. Lest it be thought that it is only the visitors who forget they are witnesses to a re-enactment, the actors -- mostly young black men and women -- have been caught up in it as well. They report that while playing slaves they were often treated as slaves, not merely by visitors but by others as well, setting in motion nightmarish fantasies.
Viewing the present through the lens of the past is useful, necessary and perhaps inevitable. But it is also dangerous. If the re-enactment in Williamsburg and the new interest in slavery show how the past can illuminate, they also show how the differences between past and present can become blurred rather than clarified.
At the beginning of the 21st century, almost a century and a half after Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation, Americans are again struggling with slavery, and in so doing hope to vanquish slavery's legacy: the burden of race. The films, re-enactments, museums and books, as well as the politics, are part of that struggle. In turning to the past to understand the present, it has become evident that Americans will not be, in Lincoln's words, forever free until they have mastered slavery as slavery once mastered them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); NATIONAL PARKS (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (74%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); INSURANCE (64%); LITIGATION (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%) SLAVERY; BLACKS; DISCRIMINATION 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%) BERLIN, IRA (PROF); LINCOLN, ABRAHAM (1809-65) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



307 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: The Real Test of Welfare Reform Still Lies Ahead 

BYLINE:  By William Julius Wilson and Andrew J. Cherlin; William Julius Williams is a professor at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. Andrew J. Cherlin is a sociology professor at Johns Hopkins University.

 BODY:
In some circles, America's welfare reform has already been declared a success. Five years after Congress approved a time limit and work requirements for welfare, the number of people on the rolls has fallen by half, to six million, and many former recipients, including single mothers, have found at least part-time employment. But heartening as these facts are, it is premature to assume from them that the 1996 law has been a successful experiment. Five years is a short time for testing a substantively new social policy -- and these particular five years have not been ordinary ones. 
 A significant question remains: To what extent are these positive outcomes related to the extraordinary economic boom in the late 90's and into 2000? We don't know yet whether the numbers will hold if the current slowdown continues or gets worse. 
 And a close look reveals something else: a large group of women for whom the transition to work has not been successful even with the help of the boom.
To informed observers, the changes in the rates of welfare and employment from 1996 through 2000 should not be particularly surprising, given strong economic growth, extremely low unemployment rates, increases in the minimum wage and unexpectedly low inflation. The thriving economy has helped poor people happily become more self-sufficient. A study that we are conducting with several collaborators in low-income neighborhoods in Boston, Chicago and San Antonio has shown that some mothers who have left welfare and worked as security guards, shelf stockers or waitresses have an improved sense of self. However, low-wage employment by itself cannot ensure that all mothers who leave welfare will become self-sufficient. Many have not.
Our ongoing study, which began in 1999, is tracking a random sample of 2,458 families to monitor the consequences of the law. Field workers are closely observing another 235 families.
Three-fourths of the women we spoke to in 1999 who had been off welfare for two years or less had incomes below the federal poverty line. They were meeting basic expenses with government help like food stamps and, if they were working, the earned income tax credit.
The longer they had been off welfare, the less likely they were to have health insurance for themselves or their children, because decreases in the rates of Medicaid coverage were not offset by increases in their private insurance. And many mothers had great difficulties balancing work and child care without health coverage or other elements of the middle-class support system, like an automobile, some savings and paid sick leave.
Women with less education, with poorer health, with younger children and who are themselves young have considerably lower incomes and rates of employment after leaving welfare than do women with the opposite circumstances. And among those who had been on welfare for the longest periods, employment rates and incomes are considerably lower than average. Many of these women subsist by relying on money from friends and family, cutting back on necessities and delaying payment of bills.
The welfare reform law expires in 2002. As Congress gets ready to reauthorize it -- or modify it -- members should be giving serious attention to the significant numbers of women who have not fared well after leaving welfare and have been struggling in a booming economy. We have received a lot of information about the good news of welfare reform. Americans need to be aware of its limitations as well. And they must be wary of the potential for bad news, including a sharp increase in joblessness among former welfare recipients, if the economy does indeed turn sour. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (84%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MEDICAID (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); APPROVALS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); SICK LEAVE (63%); INCOME TAX (50%) WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; WOMEN; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: WILSON, WILLIAM JULIUS (PROF); CHERLIN, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (78%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



308 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Dow Jones Second-Quarter Profit Fell 51% 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Second-quarter profit at Dow Jones & Company fell 51 percent because of lower advertising sales, the company said yesterday. The publisher of The Wall Street Journal said that third-quarter earnings might be less than half analysts' estimates.
 Profit from operations fell to $45.5 million, or 52 cents a share, from $93.7 million, or $1.06, in the quarter a year ago. That beat the 47-cent average estimate of analysts polled by Thomson Financial/First Call. 
 Advertising at Dow Jones and other media companies has fallen in step with the slowing economy. Dow Jones said it had eliminated 429 jobs, or 5 percent of its work force, this year to trim expenses. The cuts helped reduce costs by $150 million, Richard Zannino, the chief financial officer, said.
"The company is doing an aggressive job at managing costs," Peter Appert, a Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown analyst, said.
The shares of Dow Jones, which is based in New York, rose $2.74, to $59.69.
Third-quarter profit, before items, will be 20 cents to 30 cents a share, the company said. The average estimate of analysts was 55 cents, according to First Call.
Second-quarter sales fell 18 percent, to $484.1 million, from $593.2 million as The Wall Street Journal received fewer ads from financial and technology companies.
Dow Jones, which also publishes Barron's and SmartMoney magazine, is considering acquisitions that would add content to its newspapers and products that are distributed electronically in the United States and Europe, Peter Kann, the chief executive, said on a conference call. "It's a good time to be a buyer," Mr. Kann said.
In the recent quarter, Dow Jones took a charge of $10.4 million, or 12 cents a share, for cutting jobs and writing down assets related to its WSJ.com Web site.
The company had a gain of $8.1 million, or 9 cents a share, from the partial reversal of a reserve set aside for payment guarantees to data providers of its former Telerate unit, now owned by Bridge Information Systems. The items made net income $43.2 million, or 50 cents. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (96%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (93%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%); DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN INC (56%); SMARTMONEY MAGAZINE (54%); BRIDGE INFORMATION SYSTEMS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DOW JONES & CO 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (96%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



309 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Level of First-Time Unemployment Benefits Is Highest Since '92 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 12 

 BODY:
The number of Americans lining up to receive first-time state unemployment benefits reached its highest level since 1992, the government said today in a report reflecting planned plant shutdowns by auto manufacturers that are gearing up for production of next year's models.
 The Labor Department said the number of initial jobless claims for the week ended July 7 rose 42,000, to 445,000. That far exceeded the slight decrease in claims Wall Street economists had expected. 
 Preliminary data showed much of the rise could be attributed to layoffs at automobile makers as they closed factories to retool for new model manufacturing, the department said. These seasonal layoffs came in at 146,000, which was much higher than the 98,000 the department had expected, an official said.
Economists typically have less concern over rises in jobless claims during this time of year because of the expected auto plant shutdowns. "As we get into the month of July it is always a difficult and very volatile period for initial claims," said Ken Mayland, an economist with ClearView Economics in Pepper Pike, Ohio.
Still, the number of initial jobless claims for the week ended July 7, was the highest since July 25, 1992, when they were at 539,000 as the economy struggled out of recession. The four-week moving average, considered a more reliable barometer of employment conditions because it irons out weekly fluctuations, rose to 410,750 last week from 408,250.
A separate Labor Department report today showed that import prices fell in June, reflecting a falloff in prices for petroleum, food, industrial and consumer goods. The data showed virtually no signs that inflation was being imported into the United States.
The department said import prices fell 0.5 percent in June after rising 0.2 percent in May. Import prices were down 2.6 percent compared with the corresponding period last year. Excluding petroleum, import prices fell 0.4 percent in June, posting the fifth-consecutive monthly decline. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); IMPORT PRICES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); RECESSION (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); FOOD PRICES (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



310 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: California Rate-Refund Request Is Curtailed 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, July 12 

 BODY:
An administrative law judge mediating talks between the State of California and energy companies said today that the state was probably owed "hundreds of millions of dollars" in refunds, much less than the $8.9 billion it wants.
 The judge, Curtis L. Wagner Jr., in a recommendation released today, said that while there were vast sums due for overcharges, California utilities, grid managers and the state agency purchasing power owed generators even more. 
 Gov. Gray Davis and state officials who attended the 15-day talks held out for $8.9 billion, but Judge Wagner said that amount "has not and cannot be substantiated."
"That very large refunds are due is clear," Judge Wagner wrote, probably amounting to "hundreds of million of dollars, probably more than a billion dollars in an aggregate sum."
The amount should be decided in a hearing, he said.
The judge recommended a method for calculating refunds back to October. California's estimate is based on figures from May 1, 2000.
Mr. Davis had no comment today.
Peter Navarro, a University of California at Irvine economist who works on energy issues, called the recommendation "insulting" to California. Mr. Navarro said the refund order should reach back to at least last July, when energy prices hit record levels and utilities were accruing billions of dollars in debts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (90%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REFUNDS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

PERSON: WAGNER, CURTIS L JR (JUDGE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



311 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Investors React Negatively To Argentine Austerity Plan
Argentina, which has been struggling to contain an economic and banking crisis for several months, offered a new round of austerity measures that were not well received by investors and political leaders.
 Argentina's Merval stock index closed down 8.2 percent. It has fallen 24 percent in two weeks. Fallout has been felt the most in Brazil, Argentina's largest trading partner, and also in Mexico and Chile. Page A1. 

G.E. Earnings Up 15% in Quarter
Despite its first quarterly decline in revenue since 1988, General Electric said that its second-quarter earnings were up 15 percent from the second quarter of last year. Profits were $3.9 billion, or 39 cents a share, in line with expectations. Investors shrugged off a failed merger with Honeywell and the imminent departure of G.E.'s chairman John F. Welch Jr., and sent its shares up $2.39, to $47. C2.

A Rally Lifts Key Stock Gauges
Stock prices surged in a powerful rally. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 103.70 points, or 5.3 percent, to 2,075.74; the Dow Jones industrial average rose 237.97 points, or 2.3 percent, to 10,478.99; and the Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 27.96 points, to 1,208.14. C5.

Private Medicare Program to Start
Five big health care companies promised to work with President Bush to help Medicare beneficiaries secure discounts on prescription drugs through a voluntary private program starting Jan. 1. The five companies are AdvancePCS, Express Scripts, Caremark Rx, Merck-Medco and WellPoint. A1.

The F.D.A. said Abbott Laboratories must reduce its distribution of a highly-prescribed thyroid drug, Synthroid. C11.

New Mexico Settles Microsoft Case
New Mexico settled its antitrust claims against Microsoft, dropping from the lawsuit brought by 18 states and the federal government. Microsoft agreed to pay legal fees to the state and any penalties and remedies imposed in the continuing federal antitrust case will be applied to New Mexico. C5.

Management Shuffle at Ford Motor
Ford announced a series of management changes to shore up its North American operations. In the most significant move, Nick Scheele, 57, left, was named a group vice president for Ford's North American operations. He will oversee sales, manufacturing, marketing and product development of Ford brand vehicles. C4.

Chrysler announced a plan to speed the introduction of new vehicles and to encourage its staff to embrace innovative thinking. C4.

Tight-Lipped Artificial Heart Maker
In the 10 days since the first self-contained artificial heart was implanted in Louisville, the device's manufacturer, Abiomed, and officials of Jewish Hospital have severely restricted news about the recipient's progress, in a policy that is drawing harsh criticism from leading medical ethicists. A18.

Liberty Mutual Plan Is Criticized
Documents that are to go out today seeking policyholder approval of a reorganization of Liberty Mutual Insurance into a hybrid insurer were criticized by a Boston judge. C2.

Swissair to Sell Assets to Cut Debt
Swissair said it would sell more than $1.7 billion of assets to reduce a crushing debt load of $4.4 billion. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart shows G.E.'s stock progress since last Thursday. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,478.99 up 237.97Nasdaq composite -- 2,075.74 up 103.7010-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.23% down 0.05The euro -- $0.8534 down 0.0057The dollar -- 123.81 yen down 0.55 Graph: "TODAY" shows "Producer Prices" from Dec. 2000-May 2001.June figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.1% Retail SalesJune figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time from Dec. 2000-May 2001.Expected: +0.3%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MEDICARE (86%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (86%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (86%); ELECTROMEDICAL APPARATUS MFG (83%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); HEALTH CARE (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (73%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (67%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); ETHICS (65%); MEDICAL ETHICS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (64%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (62%); LITIGATION (62%); FINES & PENALTIES (61%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (82%); ADVANCEPCS (66%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (54%); WELLPOINT INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); ABIOMED INC (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); ABT (SWX) (82%); ABT (NYSE) (82%); ABT (LSE) (82%); ABL (FRA) (82%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); CVS (NYSE) (54%); WLP (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); AIO (FRA) (50%); ABMD (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (66%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (54%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (54%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (50%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (50%)

PERSON: JACK WELCH (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (93%) ARGENTINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



312 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS: NOTEBOOK; 
Chinese Officials Avoid Tough Questions

BYLINE:  By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: MOSCOW, July 12 

 BODY:
Beijing officials took no chances on being blindsided by potentially embarrassing questions today as they met with the 1,500 members of the news media gathered for Friday's vote for the host city of the 2008 Summer Olympics.
 In an obviously rehearsed portion of the news conference, Chinese journalists from state-controlled print and broadcast outlets were chosen to ask questions about human rights, pollution and sclerotic traffic so that officials could give their carefully planned answers. 
 "We're confident with the Games coming to China, they will promote the economy and also enhance all social sectors -- education, medical care and human rights," said Wang Wei, co-leader of the Beijing bid group.
Reporters from around the world attended the news conference, and the Chinese knew that the give-and-take could hardly be scripted with everyone. So they relied on the humor and ebullience of the other bid leader, Tu Mingde, whose animated style brought to mind a cross between Stan Laurel and Tigger. 
"Thank you for your question," Tu said repeatedly, always with a smile, when reporters asked about mass executions and access to write about sensitive issues such as labor camps.
"We respect the rule of law, as any other country," Wei said when asked whether China would suspend the death penalty over the next seven years if it were awarded the 2008 Olympics.
"It's not China alone that has the death penalty," Wei said, in an apparent reference to the United States, where some members of Congress and human rights groups have urged the International Olympic Committee to choose a different site for the Games.
Despite international concerns over human rights issues, the suppression of the Falun Gong spiritual group and the jailing of journalists and Chinese-American scholars, a majority of the I.O.C. delegates seemed poised to grant the 2008 Games to Beijing over four other candidates: Paris; Toronto; Osaka, Japan; and Istanbul.
The vote, scheduled for 10 a.m. Eastern time Friday (10 p.m. in Beijing), will take place in rounds. The bid receiving the fewest votes in each round is eliminated until a majority is achieved. Delegates from the countries involved in the bids cannot vote as long as their country is in contention.
"I don't see a mood change that has all along had Beijing as the front-runner," said Kevan Gosper, an influential delegate from Australia.
Aside from appearing to want to send the Games to the world's most populous nation, the I.O.C. also appears to favor Beijing for internal political reasons.
Juan Antonio Samaranch, president of the I.O.C., is stepping down after 21 years, and wants to leave a Beijing Games as his legacy. Also, some delegates seem to want to reward Beijing for its sportsmanlike behavior when it narrowly lost to Sydney in 1993 for a chance to play host to the 2000 Summer Games. Sydney prevailed by two votes, and bid officials admitted that they had made offers of $35,000 apiece to delegates from Kenya and Uganda the night before the vote.
"You bite your lip and hope the breaks will eventually come your way," Dick Pound, an I.O.C. delegate from Canada, said in reference to Beijing's restrained, uncomplaining response to the Sydney victory.
Ashwini Kumar, a recently retired I.O.C. delegate from India, said that some older members wanted the Beijing question to be settled now so they could return the Games to Europe in 2012; Paris (if it loses Friday), London, Madrid, Moscow and a German city would probably bid for those Games.
There has been much speculation here that other European delegates would not support the Paris bid this time because they were looking ahead to 2012. But French bid officials were not giving up hope. They were expected to include French President Jacques Chirac, Prime Minister Lionel Jospin and the soccer star Zinedine Zidane in a final hourlong presentation to the I.O.C. on Friday.
Bertrand Delanoe, the mayor of Paris, sought to deflect the reputation of French haughtiness today, saying that the French bid rejected "arrogance and pretension in favor of perfection, professionalism and generosity of a city that belongs to the world."
Toronto's final presentation to the I.O.C. on Friday is expected to include an appearance by Prime Minister Jean Chretien. With its sporting sites concentrated in a small waterfront area, Toronto is positioning itself as the most athlete-friendly Games. Instead of a number of officials in suits, Toronto's bid has included a number of athletes as spokesmen.
"For the first time, the foundation of the Olympic bid has been created by the athletes," said Marnie McBean, an Olympic champion rower.
Some I.O.C. officials privately said that delegates have grown resentful of Toronto officials for being too pushy and pedantic.

Warm Welcome for Samaranch
The 112th session of the International Olympic Committee opened Thursday night at the Bolshoi Theater, with President Vladimir Putin of Russia standing side by side with Juan Antonio Samaranch, who was elected I.O.C. president in Moscow during the 1980 Summer Games.
"Throughout my presidency, I have endeavored to build a unified Olympic movement," Samaranch said. "I am aware, nevertheless, that this unity is fragile and that it must constantly be protected. That is the key to our success."
Putin made gracious remarks about Samaranch, presented him with a special award and held up Samaranch's arm as if he had won a boxing match.

A New Order
At the request of its athlete's commission, the International Olympic Committee's executive board decided today to reverse the order of medal presentations as an experiment at the 2002 Winter Games in Salt Lake City.
For more than a century, the gold medalist has stood alone on the podium to receive his or her medal. Then the silver medalist was honored, followed by the bronze medalist. In Salt Lake City, the order will be reversed to bring greater attention and honor to the silver and bronze medalists and to build the ceremony to a crescendo with the gold medalist.

Ethics Commission Decides
The International Olympic Committee's ethics commission decided to continue to investigate, instead of expelling, the suspended delegate Mohamad (Bob) Hasan of Indonesia. Hasan is serving a six-year jail sentence on corruption charges stemming from logging in the rainforests. The commission also took no action against another delegate, Lassan Palenfo, who is serving a year in jail in the Ivory Coast on charges of conspiring to assassinate one of that West African country's military leaders. Juan Antonio Samaranch, the I.O.C. president, has attempted unsuccessfully, by appealing to the heads of those countries, to have Hasan and Palenfo freed from jail.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tu Mingde kept the mood light at a news conference yesterday, as Chinese officials pressed their Olympic bid. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); WRITERS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (77%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CULTS & SECTS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (95%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (77%); OSAKA, JAPAN (77%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



313 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: The Big City; 
A New Deal For Tenant And Landlord

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
THE mayoral candidates are promising to spend billions to ease New York's housing crisis, but even their most ambitious plans won't make much difference anytime soon, if ever. Meanwhile, they're all overlooking a cheap, simple way to provide a dramatic number of new homes immediately.
 There are about a million rent-regulated apartments in the naked city, and some of those tenants would prefer to live elsewhere. Many are already living out of town and are illegally hanging on to their places as pieds-a-terre. Many elderly tenants would be happier in retirement communities; many young families would like bigger homes in the suburbs. But they're all understandably reluctant to give up a good deal. 
 The obvious solution to everyone's problems is to pay those tenants to give up their deals. Some landlords have already done that, but these buyout negotiations are problematic. Many landlords and tenants hate each other too much to sit in the same room long enough to negotiate a mutually beneficial deal. Even when landlords and tenants have civil relations, each side tends to resist a buyout proposal initiated by the other.
If the landlord makes the first offer, the tenant often suspects he's anxious to settle because he plans to convert the building into a condominium, so the tenant holds out, expecting to make more money from the conversion. If the tenant makes the first move for a buyout, the landlord suspects that the tenant is eager to move and will be leaving soon anyway, so the landlord feels no need to offer much money. 
Suppose, though, that the negotiations were a simple one-step computerized process started by a third party: the city, say, or a private organization trusted by both tenants and landlords. This referee could invite all tenants and landlords to submit bids separately for what they'd accept in a buyout offer. Participation would be purely voluntary on both sides. 
Just as Priceline.com matches passengers' bids with airlines willing to offer the fare, the referee would compare offers for each apartment and reveal which ones overlapped. If the landlord offered to give $30,000 and his tenant offered to take $20,000, the referee would split the difference and set the buyout figure at $25,000. 
Unless a landlord really hated the old tenant, he wouldn't offer a buyout unless he could make more money from a new tenant. So deals would generally be possible only when the regulated rent was well below the potential rent for the apartment. No one knows exactly how many apartments fit that category, but we can make an educated guess thanks to some unpublished data Edgar O. Olsen dug up this week from a study that he and Rachel Parkin did for the New York City Rent Guidelines Board.
Dr. Olsen, an economist at the University of Virginia, said that in 1996 about 250,000 rent-stabilized apartments were going for at least 17 percent below their market value in their current condition. That figure doesn't include the roughly 50,000 rent-controlled apartments where the disparities tend to be still higher, or the many apartments that could command higher rents if they were fixed up. 
CONSIDERING those figures, and the feverish real estate market since 1996, let's assume that landlords would be willing to buy out the tenants of at least 300,000 apartments. If, say, 20 percent of those tenants took the buyouts, there would be 60,000 new vacancies. The net gain in housing units would depend on how many of those tenants left town. (There would still be social benefits when they remained: a widow who took a buyout and moved to a smaller apartment in the same building would make room for a family that valued the extra space more highly.) 
If, say, half of those tenants used their buyout money to live outside New York, the city would end up gaining 30,000 housing units virtually overnight. That would be triple the number of new housing units built during a typical year in New York. The most ambitious plans from mayoral candidates and housing advocates call for building and rehabilitating only about 20,000 units per year -- at a cost to taxpayers of more than $1 billion. 
This buyout plan would cost virtually nothing, at least in its simplest version. But the potential numbers seem so promising that the city might want to encourage more buyouts by adding sweeteners to the deals. Wouldn't that be a more efficient use of city money than the subsidies favored by the mayoral candidates? Or am I missing something? Candidates and noncandidates are welcome to send their thoughts to
jtier@nytimes.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); MAYORS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); AIRLINES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: PRICELINE.COM INC (52%)

TICKER: PCLN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (52%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (52%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



314 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Small Power Plants Planned in Nassau County 

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN

DATELINE: GLENWOOD LANDING, N.Y., July 12 

 BODY:
As part of efforts to stave off California-like blackouts on Long Island next summer, the Long Island Power Authority and the KeySpan Energy Corporation announced plans today to build two small power plants here on Nassau County's North Shore.
 The plants, to be built across the street from a much larger, existing plant, would be used only during periods of peak electricity demand, like the hottest days of summer and the coldest days of winter, officials said. If approved quickly, the plants, as well as at least three other proposed mini-plants, could be ready by next summer, making for a total of at least 47 peak-use plants on Long Island. 
 Meanwhile, on the other end of the Island, energy experts, politicians and utility executives gathered today at Brookhaven Town Hall for a daylong meeting. The topic was how Long Island, which has limited links to regional power grids but plenty of air-conditioners and swimming pools, can meet its power needs. 
Even as LIPA officials proposed the two plants here as an important step toward addressing those needs, some critics at the meeting said the plants were merely the latest pieces in a haphazard response to a tight electricity supply. 
"I think it's a willy-nilly approach," said Gordian Raacke, executive director of the Citizens Advisory Panel, a watchdog group that monitors LIPA. "There ought to be a comprehensive plan, and LIPA obviously does not have it," he added.
The chairman of LIPA, Richard M. Kessel, said the new plant proposals were evidence of the utility's long-term thinking. Together, the two plants would generate about 79 megawatts of electricity, enabling them to circumvent a lengthy state environmental approval process required for generators that produce at least 80 megawatts of electricity. (A megawatt is enough to power about 1,000 average homes.)
The plants, which are fired by natural gas, still need a series of state and local approvals, and utility officials said they hoped to begin operating the plants by late spring. The plants would occupy a half-acre on a 28-acre plot of land owned by KeySpan in a light-industrial tract overlooking Hempstead Harbor, where the nearest home is about a quarter-mile away. Their two stacks will rise 145 feet. A 350-megawatt power station sits across the street, and a country club and a public park are also nearby. 
Ashok Gupta, a senior energy economist at the National Resources Defense Council, criticized the technology of the smaller plants as outdated and inefficient, saying that larger plants emit much less air pollution because they require less fuel to produce the same amount of energy. He said there were better ways to meet peak demand, such as refurbishing old plants or building larger plants with components designated for peak use. 
But Mr. Kessel said that the Glenwood Landing plants would be cleaner than most existing plants on Long Island, and that a larger plant could not be completed in time to help next summer.
"I think we have enough electricity to get us through this summer, but things are tight," he told those at the meeting. On June 28, he said, Long Island was about 300 or 400 megawatts away from its total generating capacity of about 4,500 megawatts for that day. 
So, in addition to the Glenwood Landing plants, which KeySpan is spending $100 million to build, LIPA has proposed a 44-megawatt turbine in Far Rockaway and two others in Shoreham. "We are going to need a number of these small turbines on Long Island to get us through," Mr. Kessel said. 
Mr. Kessel and Robert B. Catell, the chairman and chief executive of KeySpan, said their representatives had been meeting with community groups over the course of the past month to discuss the proposed plants. 
Mr. Kessel said he hoped the Glenwood Landing plants would be received as warmly as a proposal that the two utilities announced in May to build a 250-megawatt plant in an industrial section of Melville. 
The treasurer of the Glenwood-Glen Head Civic Association, Cecelia P. McCann, said her group was not planning to oppose the two mini-plants here, in part because of the longtime presence of the power station across the street. 
"We've certainly heard nothing regarding emissions -- noise emissions, smoke emissions -- that would lead us to believe that there will be any negative impact," Ms. McCann said. 
At a public park near Tappan Beach, less than half a mile down Shore Road from the site, there was little agreement about the plants among a group of mothers waiting to collect their sons from day camp. 
Betty Clampet, 41, of Glen Head, agreed with Ms. McCann, saying she would welcome the extra tax revenue for the community. 
"We have a lot of electrical stuff down here -- what's the difference?" Mrs. Clampet said. "It's either we have electricity or we don't have electricity." But Eileen E. Murphy, 41, her neighbor, disagreed. "Let somebody else have a power plant," she said. "We already have one." 

GRAPHIC: Map of Nassau, Long Island, highlighting Glenwood Landing: The Glenwood Landing plants would be used to meet peak demand. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER FAILURES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); APPROVALS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%); AIR POLLUTION (67%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (67%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (94%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (58%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (94%); NG (LSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (94%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (94%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (94%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (94%) SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



315 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Markets Disapprove Of Argentina's Plan To Rescue Economy 

BYLINE:  By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, July 12 

 BODY:
Political leaders and investors turned a disapproving cold shoulder today to a new round of austerity measures offered by the government, sending local financial markets plummeting and a chill through some markets abroad.
 It was the second jolt in the markets this week for Argentina, which has been struggling to contain an economic and banking crisis for several months. 
 On Tuesday, interest rates spurted as the government auctioned more than $800 million in short-term bonds. Treasury bill yields soared to 14 percent, the highest rate in five years. Today, overnight bank rates were quoted as high as 150 percent, as investors signaled that they considered Argentina's finances increasingly risky. 
Late Wednesday, Economy Minister Domingo Cavallo, who engineered the country out of a economic morass a decade ago, announced major cuts in public salaries and pensions and an increase in taxes intended to eliminate a projected $1.5 billion budget deficit in the second half of the year. Although the measures would surely be painful, they were proposed to respond to growing fears internationally that Argentina was heading toward bankruptcy and a devaluation of its currency.
But the announcement sparked angry threats from labor leaders and chafing within the already fractious government. Instead of firming the weakening values of Argentine bonds and stocks, the move only gave economists and investors more evidence that the government is careering without clear direction month to month from one divergent economic approach to another. 
The Merval stock index here closed down 8.2 percent after having rebounded from a 13 percent decline. It has fallen 24 percent in two weeks.
The fallout from Argentina has been felt the most in neighboring Brazil, South America's largest economy and Argentina's largest trading partner. Its currency fell to a low today against the dollar. The currencies of Mexico and Chile also fell, as did the leading index on the Mexican stock market.
The effects of Argentina's troubles have not been as severe as past emerging market crises like those in 1997 and 1998. But in recent days, stock markets as far away as South Africa, Taiwan and Turkey have been shaken by Argentina's debt troubles. Today, though some emerging-market currencies strengthened.
In the United States, stock prices rose, owing mostly to a broad rally after a bullish forecast by Microsoft. Treasury prices also rose, and some analysts attributed that to investors' leaving emerging market debt like Argentine treasury bonds for the safety of United States securities.
The mounting political opposition to the Argentine program appeared intended to forestall greater austerity measures like cuts in health care, education and Social Security spending. But it is exactly such cuts that many economists say will be needed for the government to continue to pay interest payments on the debt. 
The uncertainty of whether the government is strong enough to take such measures has had the effect of raising interest rates, making debt payments more expensive. 
In recent weeks, a consensus has emerged among Wall Street analysts that a default or a debt restructuring was probably likely. An outright currency devaluation, considered less likely, would hurt living standards significantly.
Neither the United States nor the International Monetary Fund foresee intervening to help Argentina.
Argentina has suffered through a three-year recession, with unemployment exceeding 16 percent and a growing number of businesses entering bankruptcy. In recent weeks, the crisis has been compounded by rapidly rising interest rates rooted in investor doubts that the central government and provinces can fulfill their payment obligations on a combined debt of $150 billion.
Those doubts have been stoked by the growing perception that President Fernando de la Rua is unable to inspire public confidence or unite his diverse ruling coalition around a program to manage government finances or growing social unrest. 
Mr. Cavallo announced on Wednesday cuts of 8 to 10 percent in wages for more than a quarter of a million federal employees and equivalent cuts in pension benefits for retired government workers. He also proposed an increase in a financial transactions tax and a new court system to crack down on major tax evaders. But he stopped short of announcing cuts in services or layoffs of government workers.
"We have to spend only what we have," Mr. de la Rua said.
"The public sector will not borrow money at exorbitant rates," Mr. Cavallo said. "But we will pay the debt. We have money to do so." 
He also vowed to keep the value of the Argentine peso tied to the dollar.
Mr. Cavallo's announcement on Wednesday represented a change of emphasis, if not of direction, from the wide array of approaches that he has tried since returning as economy minister four months ago. He had previously cast aspersions on austerity, preferring to increase manufacturing through instituting protectionist measures and multiple exchange rates to subsidize exporters.
The problems have developed over several years. Although the economy grew by 43 percent in the 90's as President Carlos Saul Menem privatized much of the government and cut regulations, government spending rose by a larger 90 percent.
The economy began slowing after the Asian and Russian financial crises in 1998, as international investors began withdrawing from emerging markets. A drop in prices for agricultural exports further slowed growth, lowering tax receipts. Mr. de la Rua raised taxes shortly after taking office in January 2000, a policy that slowed growth without closing a growing fiscal deficit.
The policies did not satisfy international investors, who are seeking a stronger effort at cutting spending, nor several pivotal leaders in the center-left government coalition or opposition who say the new austerity policies will only contract the economy even more. For cuts in spending to stick, the government will look to its shaky support in Congress.
Mr. De la Rua and Mr. Cavallo had to delay announcing their program by two hours, as competing sectors of the cabinet argued heatedly behind closed doors. Then, many senior officials in the governing coalition refused to attend the announcement.
The leader of the governing Radical Party in Buenos Aires Province, Federico Storani, was one of the leaders in Mr. De la Rua's party who were caustic. "This is the kind of policy that has been proven to fail," he said. "With this adjustment, Cavallo has confessed his failure."
Leaders of the opposition Justicialist Party, who control most governors' offices and the Senate, were also critical. "It's the last card they have to play," said Senator Eduardo Menem, brother of the former president, whose recent indictment has complicated relations between the government and the opposition. "It's only going to generate more problems," he added.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Floor of Buenos Aires stock market yesterday as concern grew over repaying debt. The main index closed down 8.2 percent, a 24 percent drop in two weeks. Uncertainty is increasing about the government's strength. (Associated Press)(pg. A6) Chart: "ECONOMICS -- Plummeting Stocks"Argentina's stock market has lost more than 20 percent of its value this month, including an 8.2 percent drop yesterday. Graph tracks Argentina's Merval Index from January through July.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); AUCTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); BUDGET FORECASTS (73%); TRENDS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); DEVALUATION (71%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; CURRENCY; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: BOLSA MEXICANA DE VALORES SAB DE CV (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: BOLSA (BMV) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; CAVALLO, DOMINGO (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) ARGENTINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



316 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
A Building for Families With Low Incomes: It Took Perseverance

BYLINE:  By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Perseverance, a six-story, 30-apartment building for very low-income residents on the Lower East Side, officially opened this week, a little more than a year after the leader of the nonprofit group that sponsored the building seized on the name during an airline flight.
 As the building's name implies, it took far longer than a year to bring the project, which is between Avenues A and B, to fruition. And the wait has been worth it for residents like Gabriella Sonam, who, at a dedication ceremony on Tuesday, told how she had knelt in front of the building's doorway at 535-541 East Fifth Street, praying that she would be chosen to live there. 
 It was in May 2000 that Mary Spink, executive director of the Lower East Side People's Mutual Housing Association, was thumbing through a sales catalog on an airline when she saw an ad for motivational posters, including one labeled "Perseverance" that told the tale of Abraham Lincoln's early-life failures. 
"It reminded me of everything we've gone through with this building for nearly a decade," Ms. Spink said. "I came back and told my board and they unanimously agreed to name the building Perseverance."
Ms. Spink's housing group has renovated and manages 25 buildings containing 380 apartments for low-income people on the Lower East Side. They are mostly tax-foreclosed properties handed over by the city for $3 a lot. "Building very low-income housing is difficult enough, but this one was next to impossible," Ms. Spink said.
Originally, the project called for the gut renovation of two tenements, built in the 1890's, containing 22 apartments. In 1992, control of those buildings was granted to another housing group, which, after running into financial difficulties, merged with Ms. Spink's association. "When the merger was complete," she said, "we got new financing to renovate the buildings. But in the interim, about 20 squatters had moved in." With the city reluctant to remove the squatters, the project stalled.
"Eventually, we obtained a new funding commitment," Ms. Spink said. "But within a month of closing on our financing, there was a fire in the buildings. They were declared unsafe and had to be demolished."
Finally, three years ago, the New York State Housing Trust Fund provided $1.7 million toward construction of a new building, and the Enterprise Foundation, a nonprofit housing and community development organization, supplied $4 million.
Construction of the building -- with its cast-stone lintels and portico and a cornice reminiscent of its 19th-century neighbors -- was completed last December. Immediately, tenants who had been selected by lottery after submitting documents showing they earned less then 40 percent of the metropolitan area's median income -- no more than $22,480 for a family of four -- moved in. The building's one-bedroom apartments rent for $355 a month; its two-bedroom units, for $435.
All the tenants are members of a mutual housing association. "Any decisions, including electing the board that runs the building, are voted on by the tenants," Ms. Spink said. The board consists of seven residents and six community representatives, including a member of the community board, an architect and a lawyer.
Delio Fernandez, a cabdriver, appreciates the sense of community. He, his wife, Belkis, and sons, Anthony, 6, and Marcos, 5, used to live in a one-bedroom apartment in Inwood. Their new two-bedroom, he said, "is heaven."
"The tenants are helpful, in that we're looking after it," Mr. Fernandez said. "If I see a piece of paper on the floor, I pick it up. Here you're made aware that you should be doing it."
No one could be more grateful to be in the building than Ms. Sonam, who fervently sought "divine intervention" after submitting "at least 25 applications in 10 years" for subsidized housing.
Recently trained as a massage therapist in a transition from Social Security disability, Ms. Sonam, along with her daughter, Akrah, 10, used to live nearby on Avenue C. "My landlord harassed me," she said. "I paid $800 for 250 square feet of raggedy space -- a tenement. He could double my rent."
Ms. Sonam felt the Perseverance building was her last chance.
"I lit candles," she said. "I came by every day. On Thanksgiving Day I couldn't think of anything to be thankful for. So, in the freezing, nasty weather we came here and got down on our knees." She believed, she said, "that divine intervention was the only way to get my envelope pulled out of the 8,000" in the lottery.
In her old apartment, Ms. Sonam said, "We had a toilet behind a curtain, three feet from my bed. Now I have a bathroom with a door! And for the first time in her life my daughter has her own room."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Residents of Perseverance, like Gabriella Sonam, at left with her daughter Akrah, and Delio Fernandez were selected in a lottery. Ms. Sonam said she had prayed in the building's doorway that she would get in. (Edwine Seymour for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); AIRLINES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CITY LIFE (69%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (64%); FORECLOSURE (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



317 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

U.S. Drops 2-War Strategy To Buttress Home Defense
The United States is abandoning requirements that its military be able to fight two major wars simultaneously, according to a classified document. The new strategy orders the armed forces to "win decisively" in a single major conflict, defend American territory against new threats and wage a number of actions around the globe. The shift could mean more money for the proposed missile shield and for fighting terrorism. A1

Senior Pentagon officials disclosed details of a missile defense testing plan that they said could lead to a working system within four years. Senate Democrats said it would probably violate the Antiballistic Missile Treaty within a year. A1

Algerian Leader Meets Bush
President Abdelaziz Bouteflika, making the first visit of an Algerian head of state to the White House in 16 years, met with President Bush, who urged him to move ahead with economic and political reforms. A3

U.S. Report on Slavery
The State Department criticized several American allies, including Saudi Arabia, Israel, Greece and South Korea, for not doing enough to stop slave trafficking within their borders. A8

Dissenting View on Taliban
Human Rights Watch broke ranks with other human rights groups and Washington, issuing a report that asserted that the Taliban alone were not responsible for a deepening disaster in Afghanistan and calling for sanctions against Russia and Iran for militarily aiding the opposition. A8

South Africa Evicts Squatters
Riot police and demolition workers tore down the flimsy shacks of homeless people living on a vacant farm after negotiations broke down between church leaders and local officials. The move was seen as a message that the government would not tolerate the kind of farm invasions that have occurred in Zimbabwe. A8

Riots in Northern Ireland
The police and rioters fought pitched battles after a day of marches by Protestants that Roman Catholics denounced as a provocation. A3

World Briefing A8

NATIONAL A10-18

Campaign Finance Bill Is Dealt Setback in House
The House voted, 228-203, to reject the ground rules for debate that had been set by Republican leaders, putting the bill's resurrection in doubt and leaving each party blaming the other for the impasse; 19 Republicans voted with all 208 Democrats against the rules, which sponsors believed would kill the bill. A1

Move to Compromise on Drilling
The Senate signaled its clear support for a compromise White House plan for new oil and gas drilling in the eastern Gulf of Mexico, turning aside a Democrat-backed measure, 67 to 33, that would have blocked exploration in the area. A12

Push for Better Fuel Efficiency
A pivotal House panel voted, 29 to 3, to require carmakers to raise the fuel economy of sport-utility vehicles and minivans, setting the stage for the first Congressionally mandated increase in auto efficiency standards in a generation. A12

Bush's Drug Discount Plan
Five big health care companies promised to work with President Bush to help Medicare beneficiaries get discounts on prescription drugs through a voluntary private program starting Jan. 1. Democrats ridiculed Mr. Bush's proposal as a trivial step in addressing a big problem. A1

U.S. to Guard Abortion Doctor
Attorney General John Ashcroft ordered the United States Marshals Service to protect Dr. George Tiller, a Kansas physician who has been singled out as a subject of expected anti-abortion protests. A17

Fugitive's Extradition Ordered
Ira Einhorn, 61, convicted of killing his girlfriend in Philadelphia nearly a quarter-century ago, was ordered extradited to the United States, but the French government quickly delayed the move for a week when he slit his own throat. His lawyer said he could be out of the hospital in two days. A17

Tax Protesters Win a Round
Tennessee lawmakers abandoned plans to resurrect a state income tax after about 200 protesters chanting "No new taxes" broke windows at the Capitol and accosted lawmakers. The state police locked the building, but no arrests were reported. A10

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Louima to Get $8.75 Million To Settle Brutality Lawsuit
The city will pay $7.125 million and its main police union will pay $1.625 million to settle the brutality suit brought by Abner Louima, who was tortured in a Brooklyn station house. The agreement does not mention any change in police procedures, but Mr. Louima said the process of altering how officers were trained, monitored and disciplined had begun. A1

Vacant Units Deregulated
Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village, bulwarks of middle-income housing in the city, are removing vacant apartments from rent regulation and turning them into luxury rentals for $2,100 to $4,200 a month. B1

EDUCATION

A Promotion From Within
An assistant principal for biology, Valerie Reidy, was named principal of the Bronx High School of Science after a national search for a new leader for the elite public school. B1

New Standards Faulted
The superintendents of the nation's two largest city school systems, New York and Los Angeles, warned that new testing and accountability measures passed by Congress could drive down educational standards. A10

SPORTS D1-8

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Attempt to Clone Embryos
Advanced Cell Technology, a Massachusetts company, is using cloning technology to try to create human embryos that would yield stem cells. A14

Nancy Reagan has privately indicated her support for research on embryonic stem cells, and two of her husband's closest former aides were said to have conveyed her position to senior White House officials. A14

Variations in the Genome
Scientists said a study of the variability in the human genome found that each human gene may come in 12 different versions on average, a finding that cast doubt on an effort to mine the genome for the genetic basis of common human diseases. A14

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Airline Deal Forced Forward
United Airlines reluctantly agreed to move forward with its proposed $4.3 billion bid to buy US Airways, at the insistence of US Airways and under an implied threat of litigation. C1

Change Atop Investment Bank
John J. Mack, a former president of Morgan Stanley, was named to run Credit Suisse First Boston, succeeding Allen D. Wheat, who was fired. C1

Rise in G.E.'s Profits
General Electric, despite a decline in quarterly revenue, said second-quarter earnings were up 15 percent from the same quarter last year. C2

A State and Microsoft Settle
New Mexico settled its antitrust claims against Microsoft, dropping from the lawsuit brought by 18 states and the federal government. C5

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

WEEKEND E1-26; E27-36

Emmy Nominations
HBO's "Sopranos" led the nominations, with 22, followed by NBC's "West Wing," with 18. The winners will be announced on Sept. 16. E24

OBITUARIES A19

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Mr. Hastert's debacle; the next Microsoft Windows; terrorizing civilians in Chechnya.

Column: Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E38
TV Listings E26
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RIOTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EVICTION (78%); SLAVERY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); TERRORISM (70%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (69%); RELIGION (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (67%); HOMELESSNESS (64%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (63%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); OIL EXTRACTION (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ABDELAZIZ BOUTEFLIKA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (70%) UNITED STATES (95%); ALGERIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



318 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Musicians, Drugs And Gil Scott-Heron 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The musician Gil Scott-Heron (front page, July 10) is but a highly visible casualty of the unjust and misguided "war on drugs." The Nobel economist Milton Friedman said it best in a 1972 article, and again on your Op-Ed page three years ago: 
 "On ethical grounds, do we have the right to use the machinery of government to prevent an individual from becoming an alcoholic or a drug addict? For children, almost everyone would answer at least a qualified yes. But for responsible adults, I, for one, would answer no. Reason with the potential addict, yes. Tell him the consequences, yes. Pray for and with him, yes. But I believe that we have no right to use force, directly or indirectly, to prevent a fellow man from committing suicide, let alone from drinking alcohol or taking drugs."
This system has made a criminal of Mr. Scott-Heron, as it has with so many others who should enjoy the fundamental right to be left alone.

VAUGHN A. CARNEY
Stowe, Vt., July 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); COCAINE (77%); DRUG POLICY (77%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (70%); SUICIDE (52%) MUSIC; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC 

PERSON: SCOTT-HERON, GIL; CARNEY, VAUGHN A 

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



319 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: School Leaders Contend Laws May Cause Lower Standards 

BYLINE:  By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 12 

 BODY:
The superintendents of the nation's two largest city school systems warned today that the toughened testing and accountability measures passed by the House and Senate recently could drive down educational standards, rather than raising student achievement.
 Speaking at a panel this morning at the National Press Club, the two officials, Roy Romer, the superintendent of schools in Los Angeles, and Harold O. Levy, schools chancellor in New York City, said that despite lofty rhetoric, the legislation had numerous pitfalls and seemed to ignore the realities of running urban schools. 
 The bills give schools 10 to 12 years to bring all students -- black and white, middle class and poor, Anglo and Hispanic and those with limited English -- up to proficiency and to require states to report the performance of each category of students and to set the criteria for proficiency. Mr. Romer said the bills would tempt local authorities to dilute the meaning of proficiency, so they could avoid sanctions affecting federal aid. 
"You'll have people out there gaming the system," Mr. Romer said. "Don't give us a bill that ties us the way the Lilliputians tied Gulliver."
In Los Angeles, Mr. Romer said, the school system is sorely overcrowded. Regardless of the bills' requirements that children be allowed to transfer out of failing schools, he said that in Los Angeles "there was no option of public school choice."
Also on the panel were David W. Hornbeck, the former superintendent of schools in Philadelphia, and Eugene W. Hickock, the Bush administration's undersecretary of education and former commissioner of education in Pennsylvania.
On Tuesday, lawmakers appointed members of a House-Senate conference committee to begin deciding the final wording of the education bill. Today, the chairmen and ranking members of the House and Senate education committees met privately in what was described as a preconference meeting.
a preconference meeting.
Significant differences between the two chambers' education bills will be negotiated in closed-door sessions of the conference committee, but both House and Senate bills require annual testing of all students from third to eighth grade -- initially, in reading and math, but eventually in history and science as well. 
Unlike the House bill, which would punish states for failing to show improvement by various racial and economic groups of students, the Senate bill judges states through a complicated formula averaging the scores of all students, provided that the performance for each category edges up at least 1 percent. 
The bills leave it to the states to define proficiency and to say how they will measure it. Under legislation passed in 1994, all states must establish objective standards to measure math and reading ability, but many states have opted for cheaper, more politically expedient examinations that rate students in relation to others taking the test. Though these tests run counter to the 1994 law, the federal government has shied from penalizing states over their use.
Noting that the huge New York and Los Angeles school systems were responsible for educating nearly 6 percent of all public school children, Mr. Levy said he watched the debate over education "with some amusement." Many of the ideas under discussion here are under way in New York, including the use of magnet schools and annual testing.
"But what success we've had is much more correlated with other things," including the quality of teachers, Mr. Levy said.
The education bills combine programs that had once been dedicated to the professional training of teachers and reductions in class size into a single, diminished pot of money. In 1970, Mr. Levy recalled, a starting teacher in New York City earned $1,000 to $2,000 less than a starting lawyer at a white-shoe law firm. Now, he said, the gap is $125,000.
"If the system's accountable," he said, "then I say the politicians and policy makers also have to be accountable. With all the standards and reform, there's a need for adequate resources."
Mr. Hornbeck said he welcomed the emphasis on accountability and preferred the House's stricter provisions. "We've got to quit masking the disaggregated failure" of education, he said.
He said the move toward giving block grants in the name of cutting red tape alarmed him, given the number of urban school systems that have had to sue state officials for a fair share of education money.
"To give power over what to do with block grants to people who are only moved by lawsuits is a misguided way of running one's life," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); SCHOOL CHOICE (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (58%)

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN; LEVY, HAROLD O (CHANCELLOR); ROMER, ROY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



320 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: Corrections 

 BODY:
 An article on Monday about the financial collapse of the Shooting Gallery, an independent film production company, misstated the occupation of one of the investors, Donald C. Carter. Mr. 
Carter is a private investor living in Palm Beach, Fla., not the former owner of the Dallas Mavericks, who is Donald J. Carter. The article also misidentified the person who a Miramax spokesman denied had bluffed Harvey Weinstein, the co-chairman of Miramax, into paying $10 million for the movie "Sling Blade." He is Larry Meistrich, not Larry Russo. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (86%) MOTION PICTURES; CORRECTION STORIES; BANKRUPTCIES 

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS MAVERICKS (57%) SHOOTING GALLERY INC 

PERSON: HARVEY WEINSTEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



321 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Except for Discount Stores, Retailers Suffered in June 

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Consumers spooked by stock market volatility and company layoffs curtailed their spending once again in June, leaving the nation's largest retailers with disappointing sales.
 Discounters, notably Wal-Mart Stores and warehouse clubs, were the only retail sector that released robust sales figures yesterday, an indication that worries about the economy were keeping consumers price conscious. 
 Department stores and apparel chains, particularly Federated Department Stores, May Department Stores and AnnTaylor Stores, continued to languish amid heavy markdowns of seasonal fashions like shorts and tank tops. 
"I expected June to be bad, but not quite this bad," said Kurt Barnard, publisher of The Barnard Retail Trend Report, based in Montclair, N.J.
"Consumers are very worried about spending money and about the future," Mr. Barnard added. "They are deep in debt to their credit cards. They will buy what they absolutely need, and they will do it while bargain hunting."
AnnTaylor, which reported a 12.3 percent decline in sales at stores open at least a year, cut its second-quarter earnings projections to 20 cents to 24 cents a share from 28 cents to 32 cents. The company, whose total sales were up a slim 2.1 percent, also lowered its full-year earnings forecast.
Federated, which last week reduced its second-quarter earnings estimates by more than one-third, reported yesterday that sales from stores open at least a year fell 6.4 percent, while total sales dropped 10.4 percent.
Sales at stores open at least a year are considered the best indicator of a retailer's health.
The Gap met expectations, but "margins fell well below plan," according to Heidi Kunz, chief financial officer. The apparel retailer had a 7 percent drop in sales at stores open at least a year, with total sales rising 12 percent.
Retailers known for low prices fared the best in June.
Wal-Mart reported that sales at stores open a year rose 6.9 percent, well above analysts' expectations of a 4 percent to 5 percent gain. Total sales were up 14.6 percent.
Kmart, which has increased discounting through its blue-light-special promotion, met expectations with a 1.1 percent increase in sales at stores open a year. Total sales fell 0.1 percent.
Costco Wholesale and BJ's Wholesale Club also reported strong sales that met analysts' projections. Costco reported a 5 percent gain in sales at stores open a year and a 12 percent total sales increase. BJ's had a 4 percent gain in sales at stores open a year, with total sales up 8.5 percent.
June, which accounts on average for 9.8 percent of total annual retail sales, is the second most important month of the year, behind December. It is a time when retailers hope to do the bulk of their summer business -- at regular price. But this year was different, analysts said, citing widespread markdowns.
"It was pretty disappointing," said Jeffrey Feiner, managing director at Lehman Brothers, who cut earning projections for about a dozen retailers yesterday.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Retail Sales In June"Chart shows year-to-year changes in the Goldman, Sachs retail composite index, based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year. Below are results for the five weeks ended July 7, except as noted, compared with the corresponding period last year. Companies are listed in order of 2000 sales. COMPANY: Wal-Mart* (Five weeks to July 6)SAME-STORE CHANGE: + 6.9OVER ALL SALES: $15.99 billionOVER ALL CHANGE: +14.1 COMPANY: Kmart (Five weeks to July 4)SAME-STORE CHANGE: + 1.1OVER ALL SALES: 3.53 billionOVER ALL CHANGE: - 0.1 COMPANY: TargetSAME-STORE CHANGE: + 0.8OVER ALL SALES: 3.38 billionOVER ALL CHANGE: + 7.1 COMPANY: Sears, RoebuckSAME-STORE CHANGE: - 0.5OVER ALL SALES: 2.81 billionOVER ALL CHANGE: + 0.1 COMPANY: Costco (Five weeks to July 8)SAME-STORE CHANGE: + 5.0OVER ALL SALES: 3.49 billionOVER ALL CHANGE: +12.0 COMPANY: FederatedSAME-STORE CHANGE: - 6.4OVER ALL SALES: 1.41 billionOVER ALL CHANGE: -10.4 COMPANY: J. C. Penney (Five weeks to June 30)SAME-STORE CHANGE: + 3.8OVER ALL SALES: 1.23 billionOVER ALL CHANGE: + 1.2 COMPANY: GapSAME-STORE CHANGE: - 7.0OVER ALL SALES: 1.30 billionOVER ALL CHANGE: +12.0 COMPANY: Limited+SAME-STORE CHANGE: - 3.0OVER ALL SALES: 878 millionOVER ALL CHANGE: - 6.3 COMPANY: TJXSAME-STORE CHANGE: + 2.0OVER ALL SALES: 957 millionOVER ALL CHANGE: +10.0 COMPANY: SaksSAME-STORE CHANGE: - 5.2OVER ALL SALES: 477 millionOVER ALL CHANGE: - 7.6 COMPANY: Kohl'sSAME-STORE CHANGE: + 1.7OVER ALL SALES: 572 millionOVER ALL CHANGE: +15.9 *Figures exclude McLane's.+Figures exclude Galyan's and Limited Too.(Source: Goldman, Sachs, based on company reports.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (95%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (92%); RETAIL SALES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; DISCOUNT SELLING 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (91%); WAL-MART STORES INC (85%); COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (74%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (74%); ANN INC (72%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (91%); WMT (NYSE) (85%); COST (NASDAQ) (74%); ANN (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (91%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (85%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (85%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (74%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (72%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



322 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Panel Calls for Higher Mileage Standards 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 12 

 BODY:
A pivotal House panel voted tonight to require carmakers to raise the fuel economy of sport-utility vehicles and minivans, setting the stage for the first congressionally mandated increase in auto efficiency standards in a generation.
 The measure, a compromise adopted by the Energy and Air Quality Subcommittee, indicated broad bipartisan support to force automobile companies to improve the mileage of sport-utility vehicles, which have surged in popularity in recent years but largely escaped regulation. 
 Though environmentalists and some leading Republicans as well favor more aggressive steps to raise auto efficiency, the 29-to-3 vote today is a rare defeat for the auto industry. The industry has relied on powerful Capitol Hill allies to head off any mandated increase in so-called Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, which have not been altered legislatively since 1975. 
Passage of the amendment to a broader energy bill puts heavy pressure on the Bush administration to move expeditiously on fuel economy standards. The White House has said it is awaiting a scientific study of the subject before making any changes, but Congressional Republicans say they expect the administration to raise standards later this year.
"This is the first time in years that we've gotten a bipartisan vote on a provision," said Representative Billy Tauzin, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, who backed the measure passed today and predicted quick passage by his full committee next week. "We're strongly encouraging the administration to set higher standards for all kinds of vehicles."
The measure would require the Transportation Department to raise fuel economy standards for sport-utility vehicles and minivans high enough to save five billion gallons of gasoline between 2004 and 2010. The General Motors Corporation, the Ford Motor Company and DaimlerChrysler AG, the main manufacturers of the light trucks affected by the regulations, would be given some flexibility in how to achieve the targets.
Environmentalists called the step modest, but said it was a breakthrough in one respect: It placed leading Republicans and one key Democrat, Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, on the record as supporting an increase in standards. They expressed a hope that the full House would approve much stiffer increases when the measure comes to the floor, possibly before the summer recess.
"The good news is that this is in play," said Dan Becker of the Sierra Club. "We are headed for a floor vote for the first time in a long time, and the question will be whether we do something minuscule or substantial."
There was considerable debate today about the impact of the efficiency plan. Supporters said the mandate would save as much gasoline as if the government ordered all the new sport-utility vehicles and minivans produced in 1999 off the road for two years. 
They said that while they had yet to prepare final figures, achieving the savings would require the administration to raise the average fuel economy of sport-utility vehicles and minivans by three to four miles a gallon. Light trucks, a category that includes sport utilities and minivans as well as other kinds of vehicles, currently must average 20.7 miles a gallon under standards that have not been altered significantly in more than a decade.
Automobiles must on average get 27.5 miles to the gallon. They are not directly affected by today's vote.
Critics said that their back-of-the-envelope calculations showed a much less pronounced impact on fuel economy. They said that the five-billion-gallon target could result in an increase in standards of little more than one mile a gallon for light trucks.
Still, the focus on sport utilities and minivans is significant because they tend to consume far more gasoline than cars. Because they have historically been subject to less rigorous standards, their surge in popularity in recent years has dragged down the overall fuel economy of the nation's vehicles at a time when gasoline prices have risen and dependence on foreign oil has grown.
The plan was hashed out this morning by Mr. Dingell, Mr. Tauzin and Representative Joe L. Barton, a Texas Republican who heads the Energy and Air Quality Subcommittee. The compromise cleared the way for passage, but it also effectively killed an amendment that would have raised fuel efficiency standards much more aggressively.
Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, proposed to create a merged standard for light trucks and cars at 40 miles a gallon by 2017. He withdrew his amendment after it became clear that it would fail, and voted against the compromise plan.
"OPEC ministers toast our inefficiency," Mr. Markey said.
Earlier in the week, Mr. Barton indicated that he would also favor a merged standards for cars and light trucks, and proposed raising that standard to 30 to 35 miles a gallon, a sizable increase. While he supported the measure today, he said he hoped that Congress and the administration would agree to do better in coming weeks.
The Bush administration signaled its willingness this week to increase the fuel economy standards when Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta urged Congress not to reimpose a freeze it had placed on any administration move to increase standards. The freeze had kept the Clinton administration from acting on fuel economy standards.
"Responsibly crafted standards under existing law should increase efficiency without negatively impacting the U.S. automotive industry," Mr. Mineta said in a letter to lawmakers this week.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Billy Tauzin discussing the energy bill yesterday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; AUTOMOBILES; ENERGY EFFICIENCY; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (65%); DAIMLER AG (65%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); DAI (FRA) (65%); DAI (BIT) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

PERSON: JOHN DINGELL (58%) KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



323 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Rights Group Says Taliban Aren't Solely to Blame for the Afghan Disaster 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, July 12 

 BODY:
Breaking ranks with most human rights groups and the American government, Human Rights Watch said in a report today that the Taliban alone were not responsible for a deepening disaster in Afghanistan. 
 Human Rights Watch, a New York-based organization, called for sanctions against the armed opposition to the Taliban, and blamed Russia and Iran for giving the opposition front significant military support. 
 "U.N. sanctions imposed on arms and fuel to the Taliban in December 2000 are one-sided and strongly influenced by short-term Russian and U.S. interests, not humanitarian goals," the report said.
The United States wants the Taliban to turn over Osama bin Laden, the Saudi financier of Muslim militancy who is believed to be living under their protection in Afghanistan. And Russia has accused the Taliban of aiding separatists in Chechnya. 
The conclusions of the report are largely in line with the thinking of experts on Afghanistan in the United Nations secretariat, but those officials cannot stray beyond the instructions of the Security Council and its most powerful members.
While the new report, "Crisis of Impunity: The Role of Pakistan, Russia and Iran in Fueling the Civil War in Afghanistan," clearly blames the Pakistani government, military and intelligence agencies for arming and training Taliban fighters, who now control more than 90 percent of Afghanistan. It also finds considerable evidence of broad Iranian and Russian support for the opposition United Front. Some Central Asian nations have assisted Russian efforts.
The forces now being aided by Russia are, interestingly, the remnants of the mujahedeen coalition that drove Soviet troops out of Afghanistan in 1989.
"Russia has played a crucial enabling role in the resupply of the United Front forces by arranging for the transportation of Iranian aid, while providing considerable direct assistance itself, including logistical and support services," the report said. "Military assistance to United Front forces has crossed the Tajikistan-Afghanistan border with the active collusion of the Russian government."
Military experts on Afghanistan say the opposition front has no hope of regaining power, but is being armed solely to keep the war going and the Taliban off balance. The Afghan economy has collapsed, public services are almost nonexistent, and more than a million people face severe hunger, if not starvation. Five million Afghans are already refugees, and this week the United Nations high commissioner for refugees said it was increasingly difficult to find help or homes for them.
The Human Rights Watch report says several members of the "six-plus-two group" -- the six nations bordering Afghanistan, plus Russia and the United States, which has been half-heartedly trying to negotiate an end to the war -- "are providing military and material support to Afghan parties that have committed gross violations of the laws of war."
United Nations officials have also reached that conclusion, and have said so in reports to the Security Council. But the United States and Russia have, in a rare show of solidarity, refused to take action against the Taliban's enemies. The Taliban are under an arms embargo that also prohibits air traffic to the landlocked country, except for religious or mercy flights. The new report calls for a lifting of the ban on civilian air traffic.
Human Rights Watch, which has in the past drawn attention to abuses committed by the opposition alliance as well as by the Taliban, whose restrictions on women have brought international notoriety, again criticized both sides in today's report. "Both the Taliban and the United Front have failed to ensure that the fundamental rights of the Afghan population under their control are protected," it said.
The report backs recommendations by a panel of experts appointed by the United Nations that effective border monitoring be set up around Afghanistan and that a coordinating office be established to supervise the work. It says the greatest immediate pressure should be put on Pakistan, since the Pakistani-Afghan border will be the most difficult to police. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (93%); HUMAN RIGHTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); AL-QAEDA (78%); REFUGEES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (76%); ARMS TRADE (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%); STARVATION (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; ARMS SALES ABROAD 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECRETARIAT (56%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%) HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH; TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP); UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%) CROSSETTE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); ASIA (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%) AFGHANISTAN; RUSSIA; IRAN

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



324 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Senate Vote Signals That Compromise Is Likely on Gulf Drilling 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 12 

 BODY:
The Senate signaled its clear support today for a compromise White House plan for new oil and gas drilling in the eastern Gulf of Mexico, turning aside a Democrat-backed measure that would have blocked exploration in the area.
 The action, by a 67-to-33 vote, followed a White House decision last week to scale back significantly its plans for drilling in the region, and it seemed quite likely to clear the way for lease sales as early as this fall. 
 Last month, the House voted to impose a six-month moratorium on any new exploration in the eastern gulf, and differences between the two bills must be resolved in a Senate-House conference committee. But the compromise plan has now won support from a number of House Republicans and Democrats who had voted for the moratorium. For that reason, House negotiators are not expected to insist on blocking exploration. 
Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, who had opposed the earlier Bush administration proposal, is among the Republicans who have endorsed the compromise. The new plan would make available considerably less oil and gas than the administration had once sought. But even so, the vote today was good news for President Bush and his team, which ended a string of defeats in Congressional votes on environmental issues.
Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton called the vote "a victory for all Americans who want to see environmentally responsible energy production." The administration had lobbied hard to defeat the proposed moratorium, with Ms. Norton making the rounds on Capitol Hill. 
The compromise plan would offer to energy companies the oil and gas rights to 1.5 million acres of undersea land in the eastern gulf, down from the 6 million acres originally proposed. Under the compromise, the area is not within 100 miles of the coast of Florida, meeting a requirement of Governor Bush and most members of Florida's Congressional delegation.
The proposed exploration area is off the coasts of Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana, whose representatives have backed drilling.
Even so, Democrats and environmental groups have continued to warn that the environmental risks inherent in the plan outweigh economic benefits, and they have said they fear that new drilling in the area would begin a march toward Florida's gulf shores.
Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, who proposed the moratorium, described the vote as "a defeat to all of us who want to protect Florida's economy and environment from the threat of oil drilling near the coast." 
Eighteen Democrats joined all 49 Republicans in voting against the moratorium, which was proposed as an amendment to an Interior Department appropriations bill. Their opposition to the amendment signaled support for the administration's compromise plan. Thirty-two Democrats and one independent, Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont, supported the proposed moratorium, which would have halted any action until April 2002.
The Senate vote was the second in two days on energy exploration, and it seemed to reflect a spirit of caution on issues involving environmentally sensitive lands. On Wednesday, the Senate approved a bill banning new energy exploration in land designated as national monuments, ruling out an option that administration officials said should not necessarily be excluded from efforts to increase domestic energy production.
Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, a strong advocate of broader oil and gas exploration, said he would not interpret the action today as "a trend in any direction" in terms of support for the administration's broader energy exploration.
"Whether it means we're going to have more aggressive energy development in other areas, I doubt it," Senator Breaux said.
Mark Rubin, of the American Petroleum Institute, said oil and gas companies would make do with whatever the Interior Department offered. "Our industry is willing to look for oil and gas reserves wherever the federal government provides opportunities," Mr. Rubin said. 
In another environmental action today, the Senate narrowly defeated a measure that would have waived provisions of a federal law to benefit farmers along the Oregon-California border who have been without irrigation water for three months. The water, in the Klamath Basin, was shut off on April 7 by the Federal Bureau of Reclamation under a provision of the Endangered Species Act requiring that priority be given to the protection of plants and animals.
The proposal, defeated 52 to 48, was introduced by Senator Gordon H. Smith, Republican of Oregon, and would have authorized a lowering of the level of the Upper Klamath Lake, on which both the farmers and the endangered suckerfish depend. The close vote on the measure showed strong support for the farmers at a time when the administration is nearing a decision on whether to begin a cabinet-level review that could authorize similar action. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (64%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GAS (FUEL) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL NELSON (58%) JEHL, DOUGLAS; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (95%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES; GULF OF MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



325 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Oil High on Agenda as Bush Meets Algerian Leader 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 12 

 BODY:
President Bush met today with the leader of oil-rich Algeria, Abdelaziz Bouteflika, the first visit of an Algerian head of state to the White House in 16 years. 
 The visit of Mr. Bouteflika comes as he has faced some of the most sustained protests in Algeria since it gained independence in 1962. More than a million demonstrators joined protest marches last month challenging the Bouteflika government over economic hardships and its authoritarian practices. A ban on protests has since been imposed. 
 After his session with Mr. Bush in the Oval Office, Mr. Bouteflika met separately with Vice President Dick Cheney. As chief executive of a major oil field services concern, Halliburton Co., Mr. Cheney developed extensive business interests for the company in Algeria. 
A White House spokesman said Mr. Bush urged Mr. Bouteflika to move ahead with economic and political reforms. The two men discussed "energy issues and United States investment in Algeria," the spokesman said.
The welcome of the Algerian leader, which appeared to put more emphasis on investment than on human rights, was criticized by human rights groups and some regional experts.
A former State Department analyst on Algeria, Mona Yacoubian, said the visit would allow Mr. Bouteflika to say he had the support of the United States. "Precisely the opposite message should be sent," Ms. Yacoubian wrote in a paper for the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. "President Bush should seize the opportunity to state publicly the need for broad-based reform in Algeria." 
In the past, Ms. Yacoubian said, Washington had "reluctantly supported the Algerian regime as the only realistic alternative to chaos or Islamic reform."
"Now that the Islamist threat has diminished," she added, "the time is at hand to push harder for reforms." 
Conoco, Exxon Mobil and Anadarko Petroleum, along with Halliburton, operate in Algeria. 
Business reports from Algeria in the last month have emphasized the growing unrest and the failure of Mr. Bouteflika to enact a privatization process aimed at reducing the monopoly of the state utility companies. An industry newspaper, The Oil Daily, said the situation in Algeria "threatens to get quite messy over the next few months." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (87%); POLITICS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); RIOTS (71%); TRENDS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (68%); RELIGION (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ALGERIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (85%); ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON INSTITUTE FOR NEAR EAST POLICY (54%) HALLIBURTON CO 

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (85%); APC (NYSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (85%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (85%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (85%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (85%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: ABDELAZIZ BOUTEFLIKA (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DICK CHENEY (89%) PERLEZ, JANE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); BOUTEFLIKA, ABDELAZIZ (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALGERIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%) ALGERIA

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



326 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Seeing Red, or Not 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 12 

 BODY:
Whatever happened to the budget surplus?
 Just five weeks after President Bush signed into law the biggest tax cut in two decades, and six months after Congress and the White House raised their surplus projections again, Democrats were talking about deficits; Republicans were warning against tax increases; and the two parties were heading toward a 1980's-style showdown over guns versus butter as they considered next year's spending bills. 
 Today the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, said the government was on the brink of lapsing back into the red by the standard he would apply to its books.
At a committee hearing, Senator Conrad suggested that the administration and Republicans in Congress had proved willing to risk the long-term financial health of Medicare and Social Security to pay for Mr. Bush's tax cut. 
Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget, responded that the government was still running a large surplus by the standard the administration considered proper.
Mr. Daniels said that if any fiscal clouds were on the horizon, they were a result of a penchant among Democrats for undisciplined increases in government spending.
The re-emergence of bitter fiscal debates was a wrenching shift from the short-lived politics of prosperity, in which there seemed to be enough money for both sides to get what they wanted.
To some extent the change reflects the faltering economy, which is leading to lower estimates of tax revenues. But it has as much to do with politics and ideology as with any deterioration in the fiscal outlook.
The debate hinges largely on differing definitions of the budget surplus.
The surplus comes from two basic sources. One is general government revenues, mainly individual income taxes and corporate taxes. The other is the payroll taxes imposed to pay for Social Security and Medicare benefits.
When the government moved from deficit to surplus in the late 1990's, no one made much of the distinction.
But as the surpluses grew, the two parties agreed not to touch, with tax cuts or new spending, the part of the surplus generated by Social Security taxes, about $2.5 trillion over the next decade out of a total surplus projected at $5.6 trillion for the period.
Congress and the administration also agreed this year to cut taxes, eating at least $1.7 trillion of the 10-year surplus -- $1.35 trillion in lower taxes and $350 billion in additional interest on the national debt. And they set out plans to spend a big chunk of what was left, including $300 billion over a decade to subsidize the cost of prescription drugs for retirees.
When combined with the economic slowdown, the effect has been an immediate squeeze on the budget.
To a degree, that was what President Bush had hoped the tax cut would do. Throughout the presidential campaign, Mr. Bush had cast the tax cut as the only way to keep Congress from increasing government spending year after year. In that sense, administration officials are happy with the situation.
But the situation is complicating some of the administration's initiatives, including its proposal for a big increase in military spending. And it has created some political peril for the White House.
The Social Security surplus, intact for now, is expected to total around $150 billion this year, allowing the administration to say the government is still running large surpluses.
But the surplus for this year might fall short of the level at which the government could avoid spending any of the Medicare surplus.
Medicare's hospital insurance trust fund is expected to have a surplus of about $28 billion for the fiscal year that ends on Sept. 30.
Democrats say the Medicare surplus should be as inviolate as the Social Security surplus. The prospect that some of the Medicare surplus might be spent is the basis for the warning by Democrats that the budget is heading back into deficit. By next year, Senator Conrad said, the budget may be forced to dip into the Social Security surplus.
Spending some of the Medicare surplus would not have any direct effect on the government's ability to cover Medicare benefits, and the administration dismisses the concept of a Medicare surplus as an accounting gimmick.
But if the government spent some of the Medicare surplus this year, it would allow Democrats to press their argument that Mr. Bush's tax cut came at the expense of a commitment to provide health coverage to older Americans. And it would highlight partisan differences over tax and spending priorities as the nation headed into the 2002 midterm elections, in which control of the House and the Senate will be up for grabs.
Saying the economy has benefited tremendously from balanced budgets and debt reduction, Democrats are hinting that they will consider raising taxes later, if necessary, to avoid deficits.
But Republicans say too much debt reduction will reward bondholders at the expense of taxpayers. And they continued to make a case today for additional tax cuts, on the ground that lower taxes would stimulate economic growth.
"I don't think we should rule out any economic idea that could revive economic growth and maintain it," Mr. Daniels said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); MEDICARE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); CORPORATE TAX (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (86%); KENT CONRAD (73%); MITCH DANIELS (73%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



327 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Reports 15% Increase In 2nd-Quarter Earnings 

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
The General Electric Company, despite its first quarterly decline in revenues since 1988, said yesterday that its second-quarter earnings were up 15 percent from the same quarter last year.
 It stands as the last complete quarter under John F. Welch Jr., who stayed on as chairman past his planned retirement to shepherd G.E.'s since-aborted acquisition of Honeywell International. G.E. said that he would retire on Sept. 7. 
 If investors fear that G.E.'s prospects are hurt by the slowing economy, the failed Honeywell merger, or Mr. Welch's imminent departure, the concerns did not dampen enthusiasm for G.E. stock. G.E.'s shares closed at $47, up $2.39. 
"Margins were strong, cash flow was strong, and everything came in line with expectations," said Timothy M. Ghriskey, a senior portfolio manager of the Dreyfus Corporation. Specifically, G.E. said it had earned $3.9 billion, or 39 cents a share, in the second quarter, right in line with analyst's expectations. It also said it would meet expectations of $1.45 a share for the year. 
The quarter's revenues of $32 billion were 3 percent lower than the same period last year. But when discontinued operations like Montgomery Ward were factored out, G.E.'s revenues increased by 6 percent over the same period last year. While earnings were down at NBC, appliances and other short cycle, or economically sensitive businesses, the softness was offset by strength in GE Power Systems, GE Capital and GE Aircraft Engines. 
Still, not all analysts are ebullient about G.E.'s prospects. "G.E. may outperform every company in America, but it still must deal with the global economy," warned Tom Burnett of Merger Insight. 
Even its non-cyclical businesses might face slower growth. Power systems, for example, is already about a $20 billion company, and "the law of big numbers says it can't keep growing at 30 percent," said Martin A. Sankey of Goldman Sachs.
Still others are skeptical about the quality of G.E.'s earnings stream. "G.E.'s stock is not trading at bargain prices by any valuation," said Robert Friedman of S&P Equity Research. He worries that as much as 2 percent of G.E.'s per-share earnings come from gains in its pension fund investments, and that a high debt load at GE Capital, G.E.'s most profitable arm, could constrain the unit from making acquisitions. 
G.E. certainly faces uncertainty. Although its deal to acquire Honeywell was killed by the European Commission on July 3, the merger agreement remains in place until the end of November. 
There has been widespread speculation that Honeywell will sue G.E. for not doing its utmost to appease the Europeans. But many analysts believe that scenario became less likely when Michael R. Bonsignore was recently replaced as Honeywell's chairman by Lawrence Bossidy, Honeywell's former chairman. Mr. Bossidy worked with Mr. Welch at G.E. for many years, and the two remain friends. Several analysts suggest G.E. will pay Honeywell a few hundred million dollars and be done with it.
But the Honeywell debacle raises other specters, too. Most analysts expected Jeffrey Immelt, the former head of GE Medical Systems and Mr. Welch's annointed successor, to spend this year learning the ins and outs of G.E's businesses. Instead, warned Mr. Burnett, "Honeywell negotiations and lawyers' meetings may have kept him from learning about appliances and chemicals." 
Merging with Honeywell would have done more than enhance G.E.'s aircraft business; it would have kept G.E.'s portfolio balanced. 
GE Capital accounts for about half the company's sales. Mr. Friedman's reservations about the unit's debt notwithstanding, most analysts expect G.E. to keep expanding its finance arm. But the stocks of financial services companies trade at about 15 times earnings; G.E. shares trade at twice that multiple.
"GE Capital is still their most reliable growth engine," said Jeanne G. Terrile, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. "But if GE Capital becomes 70 percent of G.E., that would not be good for G.E.'s multiple." 
And even a diversified company like G.E. cannot withstand a prolonged economic downturn without slashing costs. Several analysts suggest that G.E. delayed any major job cuts in order not to alienate the European Commission while it was evaluating the Honeywell merger. Now, with that merger, and any expected synergies, dead, they say that bloodletting seems inevitable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); MERGERS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (87%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (95%); GE POWER SYSTEMS (82%); DREYFUS CORP (69%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (95%); GEC (LSE) (95%); GE (SWX) (95%); GE (NYSE) (95%); GS (NYSE) (58%); HON (NYSE) (57%); HON (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS (82%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (57%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%) SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; 

PERSON: JACK WELCH (73%) DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2001 



328 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Norton Rejects Call to Have Panel Review Water Cutoff 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 13 

 BODY:
In a blow to farmers along the Oregon-California border, Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton refused to accept a petition today that sought reversal of a decision that has shut off irrigation water to about 200,000 acres of farmland.
 The petition requested that the government convene its Endangered Species Committee to consider whether the plight of about 1,400 farmers merited waiving provisions of federal law. The provisions have required the Bureau of Reclamation to allot all of its water in the area to protection of endangered fish. 
 The decision is a setback to the farmers, who had hoped the administration might use the cabinet-level committee to reverse, at least in part, an April 7 decision that has left the farmers unable to produce crops in the current growing season. The water was cut off by the Bureau of Reclamation, in a year of record drought, under the terms of the endangered species law, to protect the endangered suckerfish and the threatened coho salmon.
In a written statement, Ms. Norton described the decision as difficult. But she said that the local irrigation districts that had issued the complaint did not have standing under federal law to request that the committee be convened.
"This administration is dedicated to working with all parties to fashion a long-term solution so that we do not find ourselves struggling each year with these difficult issues," Ms. Norton said in a letter to the Pacific Legal Foundation, an advocacy group in Sacramento that filed the complaint on behalf of the irrigation districts. 
"We remain hopeful that we can resume exploring those solutions with you," Ms. Norton said. "To that end, we specifically request that you can work with us as we move forward."
The decision is a setback to many in the Klamath Basin who have criticized the water shutoff as a betrayal by the federal government and who had hoped the administration might waive provisions of the Endangered Species Act. Among those who had also requested that the committee be convened were two area congressmen, Representatives Wally Herger, Republican of California, and Greg Walden, Republican of Oregon. 
The panel has the limited authority to overrule provisions of the Endangered Species Act to protect vital human economic interests. But it has been convened only three times, in cases involving the snail darter, the whooping crane and the spotted owl, and only once, in the case of the spotted owl, did it authorize a waiver of the law. 
The federal law specifically lists three groups that may request that the committee be convened: federal agencies, state governors and parties whose requests for permits or licenses have been denied because of application of the endangered species law. Ms. Norton said her department had concluded that the irrigation districts did not fall into the latter category. Neither the governors of the two states nor any federal agency has shown any interest in becoming involved.
Anger in the area over the water shutoff has reached such a point that, in recent protests, people have several times reopened irrigation gates themselves. The sheriff in Klamath County, Ore., and other authorities have declined to intervene, and while the federal authorities have closed the gates, they have so far declined to take legal action against those involved.
In her statement, Ms. Norton noted that the federal government was preparing to provide the farmers with $20 million in financial aid, as a short-term solution.
"The patience exhibited by the people of the Klamath Basin is truly remarkable -- a testament to their courage, their strength, and their spirit," Ms. Norton said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDANGERED SPECIES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); IRRIGATION (90%); FISHES (90%); PETITIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BIRDS (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); AGRICULTURE (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DROUGHT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%) FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; AGRICULTURE; SALMON; SUCKERFISH; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; WATER; IRRIGATION 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF RECLAMATION (83%); ENDANGERED SPECIES COMMITTEE (58%); PACIFIC LEGAL FOUNDATION (54%) INTERIOR DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: WALLY HERGER (56%); GREG WALDEN (56%) JEHL, DOUGLAS; NORTON, GALE (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) KLAMATH BASIN (OREGON)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



329 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 616 words

PERSON: Maceo Anderson 

HEADLINE: Maceo Anderson, 90, Tap Dancer, Is Dead 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER DUNNING 

 BODY:
Maceo Anderson, the last surviving founding member of the Four Step Brothers, one of the world's most celebrated and enduring tap acts, died on July 4 at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 90 and lived in Los Angeles. 
 The Four Step Brothers, billed as "eight feet of rhythm," played top nightclubs and theaters internationally from the 1930's into the 60's. They also appeared in films and on many television variety shows. "We went around the world four times," Prince Spencer, a tap dancer and teacher who joined the group in the 1940's, told Rusty E. Frank in her book, "Tap!" "We danced for the queen of England. We danced for Hirohito. We danced for the queen of Cambodia." 
 Ms. Frank attributes their success to "fast rhythm taps, acrobatic leaps, and boogie-woogie jitterbug-style tap dancing, all put across through the electrifying mode of challenge." The challenge style, she writes, "came right off the street -- the clapping of the hands, the encouraging yelps, the fast-paced tempos, the ceaseless topping of tap steps." 
Mr. Anderson began dancing as a child in black rural theaters in the South. He was about 6 when he arrived in New York, traveling from Charleston, S.C., with his mother. The basement of the building on West 122nd Street where they lived became an informal tap meeting place filled with young dancers, including Bill Bailey and his sister Pearl. 
Mr. Anderson was also one of the many young dancers who hung out at the Hoofers Club, a famous tap gathering place under the Lafayette Theater in Harlem. He and the others would practice in the club, which was bare but for benches and an upright piano. They would also watch and study the veteran tap stars who visited and be their gofers. Mr. Anderson also sneaked into the Lafayette to see the shows, racing between the two places at times. 
The group began as a trio of unrelated dancing teenagers, formed by Mr. Anderson and two dancers whom he had seen and admired in an amateur night at the Lafayette. In the mid-1920's, the three talked their way into performing at the Cotton Club with Duke Ellington, who wrote "The Mystery Song" for them. The trio performed at the Cotton Club for four years. Another dancer was added in the 1930's. 
The act incorporated singing, acrobatics, comedy and vernacular dance, working into the mix the traditional tap challenge in which one dancer tries to top another's steps. An exciting escalation of complexity and speed, the challenge, born on the streets, became the act's trademark by the 1940's. 
By then, Mr. Anderson had become the exuberant clown of the act, delighting the audience by heckling his colleagues. He was adept at faking the acrobatics when he wasn't in the mood to do them, although he once got so carried away that he danced off the stage into the audience. 
The Four Step Brothers worked longer than many acts, unemployed for only a year or so after a manager blackballed them for failing to appear after he denied them a raise. They toured on the Keith-Orpheum circuit, often the first black performers to appear in theaters, and also toured on black circuits. They performed annually for 10 years at Radio City Music Hall, where they were the first black act, and they appeared at the Roxy and with Frank Sinatra at the Paramount. 
Mr. Anderson continued to perform after the act disbanded. He was honored in 1994 in the annual celebration of National Tap Dance Day in Manhattan. He continued to teach at his own school in Las Vegas and at festivals and universities throughout the United States until 1999. 
He is survived by his wife, Mary Anderson, of Las Vegas, and by two grandsons, Robert L. Reed of St. Louis and Michael Allen of Colorado Springs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Four Step Brothers tap-dance act during the 1940's, from left, Rufus McDonald, Prince Spencer, Al Williams and Maceo Anderson. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); DANCE (91%); DANCERS (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (69%); JAZZ & BLUES (67%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ANDERSON, MACEO; DUNNING, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (79%)

CATEGORY: Popular Entertainers 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



330 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Are Cutting Back on Some International Flights 

BYLINE:  By JANE L. LEVERE 

 BODY:
United Airlines' decision two weeks ago to abruptly drop its nonstop service between New York and Hong Kong after only three months could be the harbinger of similar moves by other United States carriers, industry analysts say.
 On June 26, United said that it would suspend its 747-400 flights between Kennedy International Airport and Hong Kong International Airport -- the longest daily nonstop service in the world -- on Aug. 30. 
 The carrier said it was ending the service, which it introduced on April 1, because it was not selling enough tickets and did not expect sales to improve. It also blamed regulatory restrictions in Hong Kong that prevent it from continuing its flights beyond Hong Kong to other Asian destinations. 
United, a subsidiary of UAL, will continue to fly to Hong Kong nonstop, however, from a number of other cities, including Chicago, Los Angeles and San Francisco; earlier the airline had said it would drop another nonstop service, between Los Angeles and Paris.
United is not the first United States airline to end unprofitable flights this year. In the last few months, Delta Air Lines said it would suspend its service between Kennedy Airport and Lyon, France; American Airlines, a unit of AMR, said it would discontinue flights between Los Angeles and Paris and between Chicago and Rome; and Northwest said it would end flights between Seattle and Osaka, Japan.
Cathay Pacific Airways, meanwhile, has postponed the planned Sept. 1 start of nonstop service between Kennedy and Hong Kong because of uncertainty about the economy and a labor dispute with its pilots. Because of the dispute, it also has temporarily suspended daily service between Kennedy and Hong Kong that stops in Vancouver, British Columbia.
Most of the routes being cut were introduced within the last two years; all offer daily nonstop flights and will be phased out by late fall.
Michael Linenberg, who follows the airline industry for Merrill Lynch, called United's suspension of its nonstop New York-Hong Kong service "a sign of the times."
"I wouldn't be surprised if more carriers pull back from international markets," he added. "The amount of assets deployed to keep these markets up and running is a huge number. You can lose $100 million on an international route in 12 months."
Samuel C. Buttrick, airline analyst for UBS Warburg, said that most of the recently announced route suspensions were the result of "new routes producing lower returns than seasoned routes." These poor returns have come about, in part, because of weakened demand from business travelers, he said.
"Given the precipitous decline in corporate demand and the resulting losses projected by all U.S. carriers, they are looking at reducing their growth plans over the next 18 months, which will necessarily entail further international route cutbacks," he added.
Mr. Linenberg suggested that carriers may drop experimental routes, like American's service between San Jose, Calif., and Taipei, Taiwan, or Delta's new flights from Kennedy to both Tel Aviv and Cairo.
"I'm sure American has had second thoughts about San Jose-Taipei," he said. "The Taiwan stock market is back to 1997-1998 levels, and there's a huge falloff in the semiconductor business."
It is also unclear how much demand there is for flights between the United States and the Middle East. American declined to take over Trans World Airline's 54-year-old service between New York and Tel Aviv when it recently bought most of the carrier's other assets. "We didn't feel we could make money there, and we didn't believe T.W.A. did," said Mark Slitt, an American spokesman.
Cutbacks are not universal. Even without United and Cathay Pacific, people can still fly nonstop between New York and Hong Kong on Continental Airlines, which has offered daily service out of Newark since March. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); AIR SERVICE (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (64%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (90%); CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LTD (90%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (54%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (51%)

ORGANIZATION: DELTA AIR LINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS; UNITED AIRLINES 

TICKER: 0293 (HKSE) (90%); DAL (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: LEVERE, JANE L 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (89%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (74%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); OSAKA, JAPAN (69%); LYON, FRANCE (55%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (89%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); RHONE-ALPES, FRANCE (55%) HONG KONG (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



331 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
DowIs Up 60 as Wall Street Expects Profit Improvement

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks inched higher yesterday as Wall Street looked past disturbing second-quarter profit reports to bet the outlook may improve later in the year.
 Gains came even after technology firms, like Rambus, said earnings fell on soft demand in the slowing economy. 
 "People are shrugging off" bad news, said Joseph Ranieri, managing director of trading at Adams, Harkness & Hill in Boston. "In the third and fourth quarter, we could get some signs of an upturn and people are setting themselves up now." 
 On Thursday, stocks made their biggest gains in more than two months after icons like Microsoft lifted hopes that profits could edge higher by the fourth quarter.
 Yesterday, the technology-laden Nasdaq composite index rose 9.05 points, or 0.4 percent, to close at 2,084.79, after racing ahead more than 5 percent on Thursday, its biggest one-day percentage gain since April 18.
 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average gained 60.07 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,539.06. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 7.54 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 1,215.68. Both indexes rose more than 2 percent on Thursday, their biggest one-day percentage gains since May 16.
 The Dow posted its first positive week in eight weeks, rising 2.8 percent, while the Nasdaq rose 4 percent for the week, and the S.& P. 500 added 2.1 percent.
 Volume was moderate, with about 1.12 billion shares changing hands on the Big Board.
Wall Street is bracing for almost 1,500 earnings reports next week as the second-quarter earnings season gathers steam. About 300 companies reported results this week.
 Analysts expect corporate profits for S.& P. 500 companies to fall by 18 percent in the second quarter, according to Thomson Financial/First Call. But investors are hoping companies will forecast better times after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates six times this year to jump-start the economy.
 Analysts currently expect profits to show growth of 3.7 percent in the fourth quarter.
 Though 2001 over all is expected to show a dismal profit slump of 6.7 percent -- the first yearly decline since 1991 -- investors are looking ahead to 2002, which is now forecast to bring profit growth of a lively 19.2 percent, First Call said. 
 Chinese stocks traded in the United States rose after Beijing was awarded the 2008 Olympics.
 China Southern Airlines rose 81 cents, to $16.01, and Huaneng Power International increased 30 cents, to $21.40. Qualcomm, which is supplying equipment and technology for China's No. 2 telephone company to build a wireless network, rose $2.22, to $65.58.
 "You're starting to get people's hopes up that there will be economic implications," said John Hughes, market analyst and portfolio manager for Shields & Company, which oversees $500 million.
 Computer chip-related stocks were mixed.
 Infineon Technologies gained 31 cents, to $22.75, after Europe's second-largest semiconductor maker defied a poor market climate to raise $1.3 billion in Germany's biggest capital increase this year.
 Advanced Micro Devices dropped $1.62, to $21.08. It reported results that beat sharply lowered expectations, but warned that it may report a third-quarter loss and a sales drop of 10 percent to 15 percent from second-quarter levels.
 The computer memory chip developer Rambus dropped $1.03, to $9.85. The company reported that profits fell as it was hit by an industry slowdown and a mounting bill for legal fights.
 Treasury bond prices rose yesterday. The 10-year Treasury note rose 4/32, to a price of 98 12/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.22 percent from 5.23 percent on Thursday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 13/32, to 96 16/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.62 percent from 5.65 percent on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); BONDS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (66%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); OLYMPICS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: CHINA SOUTHERN AIRLINES CO LTD (80%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (64%); RAMBUS INC (58%); CANACCORD GENUITY INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); HUANENG POWER INTERNATIONAL INC (51%); QUALCOMM INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE 

TICKER: ZNH (NYSE) (80%); K3TD (SGX) (80%); 1055 (HKSE) (80%); RMBS (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); K3FD (SGX) (51%); HNP (NYSE) (51%); 0902 (HKSE) (51%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (80%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (80%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (66%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



332 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Safety Issue Assessed as Congress Considers Raising Mileage Standards 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 13 

 BODY:
For the first time in years, Congress appears willing to raise gasoline mileage standards, giving new importance to a longstanding question a scientific committee is struggling with: Would doing so cause more deaths?
 As they begin work on the Bush administration's energy proposals, Republican lawmakers who for years had forbidden the Transportation Department to change fuel economy standards now seem reconciled to increasing them, in large part to offset criticism that the Bush energy plan emphasizes production over conservation. 
 On Thursday, a House subcommittee voted to raise the fuel economy requirements on sport-utility vehicles, minivans and pickup trucks, which have surged in popularity in recent years but meet a less strict standard than cars. Thus, they have dragged down the overall fuel economy of the nation's vehicles, while promoting strong growth in demand for gasoline and imported oil. 
But even if a political consensus develops for higher standards, opponents are again raising obstacles, and a chief argument is safety. Some auto companies have argued vigorously that heavier is safer. Building vehicles smaller and lighter to improve mileage will cause more deaths, the argument goes. 
The experts agree that large vehicles like sport-utility ones and minivans are safer for those who are in them. But now a committee appointed by the National Academy of Sciences is wrestling with another question: Are they safer for society as a whole? 
"You can't really argue with the fact that weight disparities in vehicles lead to the situation where people in lighter, smaller vehicles are more at risk than people in larger, heavier vehicles," said one member of the panel, David L. Greene, an energy economist at the Energy Department's Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
Researchers say the death toll is declining in collisions of cars of equal weight, because new cars have air bags and other crash protections. But when cars and heavier vehicles collide, they say, car occupants are more likely to die. And such collisions are increasing with the rising number of sport-utility vehicles, minivans and pickup trucks on American highways.
By some accounts, the growing weight disparity costs society more than 2,000 deaths a year, out of about 17,500 total deaths caused by collision of two or more vehicles.
The administration deferred recommending any changes in fuel economy standards pending resolution of the safety issue by the panel, which was appointed at the Clinton administration's request.
Noting that the Academy of Sciences committee will report its findings soon, Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta sent a letter to Congressional leaders this week asking them to let his department begin drafting new rules.
The current standard is 27.5 miles for cars, last adjusted in 1989, and 20.7 miles for light trucks, last changed in 1994. But as the market share of light trucks, which includes minivans and sport-utility vehicles, has increased, the average fuel economy has declined about 7 percent, or 1.9 miles a gallon, according to the Environmental Protection Agency, and is now 24.0 miles a gallon, the lowest since 1980.
This spring, the sciences committee heard extensive testimony on whether the standards could be altered in ways that would allow the decline in the death rate to continue.
Dr. Greene and other members of the panel said they had agreed not to discuss the report before it was issued, but several spoke about the arguments raised by experts seeking to influence their conclusions.
One such argument, raised in a report by Marc Ross, a physicist at the University of Michigan, and Tom Wenzel, of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, maintained that safety analyses to date had confused weight with size. While it is obvious that people in big, heavy cars fare better than people in small, light ones in collisions with other vehicles and with stationary objects, the analyses have failed to determine whether the benefit comes from the weight or from the size, according to the report, which was sponsored by the Energy Foundation, a nonprofit group that favors stricter fuel economy standards. 
With new materials, like advanced metal alloys or carbon composites, size and weight are independent, the report said.
Size is a benefit, engineers say, because the deceleration in a collision will be less severe if it is spread over a longer period, and extra "crush space" in a vehicle will do just that. ("Longer" is a relative term; the typical collision lasts about one-tenth of a second.) 
Weight is helpful to the occupants of a heavy vehicle because in a collision with another vehicle or with a roadside object like a utility pole or guardrail, change in speed (and therefore the deceleration experienced by vehicle occupants) is proportional to mass. In a head-on collision, vehicles of equal weight will experience equal deceleration; if they differ, they will share the deceleration in proportion to their weight. 
If two vehicles with a combined weight of 6,000 pounds collide, risk of a death is lower if it is two 3,000-pound cars, rather than a 2,000-pound car and a 4,000-pound sport-utility vehicle. The two physicists estimated that 2,200 deaths are caused each year by light trucks, minivans and sport-utility vehicles that are used as "car substitutes." They argue that engineers could preserve the benefits of big vehicles and reduce the drawbacks by making them big but light. 
But another member of the panel, Adrian K. Lund, the chief operating officer of the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, pointed to studies showing that bigger cars were safer. One study, by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety in 1994 of cars one to three years old, found that deaths per million registered vehicles was 109 among those with wheelbases more than 114 inches, and was 241 among those less than 95 inches.
Dr. Lund also said that regulations that encouraged automakers to make vehicles lighter had safety drawbacks. "If all vehicles were down-weighted, there would not necessarily be any adverse safety consequence to vehicle occupants as a whole," he said. But some of the crashes would be with objects that would never weigh less, like buses and tractor-trailer trucks.
On Thursday, the General Motors Corporation released a study that predicted 400 extra deaths a year if mileage standards were tightened and automakers cut the weight of vehicles to comply. If weight reduction was limited to big cars, sport-utility vehicles and vans, the result could still be an extra 60 deaths a year, the company said.
If the government raises the mileage standards, no one is sure what method the automakers will use to meet them. Some experts hope a stricter standard on light trucks will induce the auto companies to reduce the weight of those vehicles, reducing the disparity among vehicles on the road. 
Since 1980, vehicles have gotten both heavier and faster; the Environmental Protection Agency estimated that if performance and weight had been held constant, gas mileage today would be 25 percent higher.
The National Academy committee report was due on July 1 but is now not expected to be published until next month, participants said. One person involved with the committee's deliberations said the panel might end up providing an estimate of the weight and safety trade-off, rather than making a recommendation on fuel standards.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT ISSUE: Deaths of Drivers in Uneven Collisions"The number of divers killed in crashes between two cars has declined over the last two decades, as design and safety measures have improved. But deaths in collisions between cars and light trucks have steadily escalated, as the weight disparity has grown. Chart shows driver deaths in collisions between two cars and driver deaths in collisions between a car and light truck, and vehicle of dead driver since 1980.(Source: Prof. Marc Ross, University of Michigan, from Department of Transportation data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GASOLINE (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); PICKUP TRUCKS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (75%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (75%); PRODUCT SAFETY (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); MARKET SHARE (63%) AUTOMOBILES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; FUEL EFFICIENCY; AUTOMOBILE SAFETY FEATURES AND DEFECTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%) NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



333 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: The New Laws of Nations 

BYLINE:  By Laura D. Tyson; Laura D. Tyson, former chief economic adviser to President Bill Clinton, is dean of the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley.

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif. 

 BODY:
As economic interconnections increase among countries around the world, critics protest that this globalization is eroding the ability of governments to protect the interests of their citizens against those of multinational corporations. But the European Commission's recent blocking of the proposed merger of two American companies, General Electric and Honeywell, suggests otherwise. Since the merged company would have operated on both sides of the Atlantic, the merger hinged on the consent of not just one but two sets of regulators, each with its own legal tradition and its own interpretation of the public interest. And despite public relations campaigns by both companies, attempts at personal persuasion by G.E.'s formidable outgoing chief executive, Jack Welch, and the threat of retaliation by Congress, the European antitrust authorities rejected this merger, which had easily won approval from the United States Justice Department.
 In this case globalization strengthened rather than weakened government oversight of corporate activity. 
 But if this outcome calms the fears of those who worry about corporate titans dominating the globe, it is likely to intensify the anxieties of those who worry about globalization's weakening of national sovereignty. What right does the European Commission have telling two American companies what they can and cannot do, these people might ask, especially when its decision conflicts with the decision reached by the relevant American authority? Sure, we support the rule of law, but whose law? Aren't our antitrust laws, which reflect our strong market tradition, superior to Europe's, which tend to reflect a strong statist tradition?
Tension is growing between economic globalization and the laws and institutions within national borders. The Europeans understand such tensions well. Driven by growing economic interdependence and the desire to end centuries of armed conflict, they have spent much of the last half-century cutting back national autonomy in favor of shared laws and institutions, like the Common Market; the European Union; and a common currency, the euro. But for the United States, which is less dependent on foreign trade and investment and is accustomed to using its economic and military might to get its way, giving up some national autonomy to foster globalization remains a highly questionable -- and politically risky -- proposition.
The reality, though, is that countries have already broken the most easily removed barriers to international trade and investment by getting rid of tariffs and export subsidies. The remaining barriers are embedded in a variety of national policies and institutions that were long the domain of domestic decision makers. These barriers involve politically sensitive concerns like health and safety, corporate governance and philosophies about business practices. Antitrust regulation has traditionally been one of those areas governed by domestic laws and traditions.
Yet over the past decade, antitrust experts from the European Commission have had close and frequent contact with their counterparts at the American Justice Department and Federal Trade Commission. Consultations have ranged from simple exchanges of information to detailed discussions of the merits of particular merger proposals. This cooperation has fostered a convergence in approaches, despite differing laws. In hundreds of cases, European and American regulators have reached remarkably similar conclusions without any effort to harmonize their underlying rules and procedures. The G.E.-Honeywell case was a high-profile exception.
Backers of the American position on the G.E.-Honeywell proposal believe the merger would have benefited consumers by encouraging competition and reducing prices. Those who support the European position maintain that the merger would have created a dominant market player able to raise prices and discourage innovation by driving smaller competitors out of business. There are reasonable legal and economic arguments on both sides. This was not, as some critics have suggested, a politically motivated decision on the part of the Europeans, made to protect their domestic companies.
In announcing his rejection of the merger, Mario Monti, the soft-spoken academic who heads the body responsible for antitrust regulation for the European Commission, also renewed his call for a global forum at which antitrust experts from around the world can forge common approaches. And he reiterated his support for putting policies on business competition on the agenda for discussion in the next round of World Trade Organization talks, scheduled to begin this fall.
Like the Clinton administration, the Bush administration has expressed support for the global forum idea. But also like its predecessor, it opposes negotiating a W.T.O. agreement on competition policy, fearing the loss of national sovereignty to international rules. This opposition is shortsighted and ill-advised. It is only a matter of time before there will be so many companies with global reach that developing a common international set of antitrust principles becomes a necessity.
In this area as in many others, globalization will continue to chip away at the power of the nation state. As the Europeans know from their experience over the last 50 years, surrendering some degree of national autonomy is a natural and inevitable concomitant of growing economic interdependence. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); MERGERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); APPROVALS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%); CURRENCIES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); EXPORT PROMOTION (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%) GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; EUROPEAN COMMISSION; HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: JACK WELCH (56%) TYSON, LAURA D'ANDREA 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



334 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1853 words

HEADLINE: In Rural Areas, Interstates Build Their Own Economy 

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: EL RENO, Okla. 

 BODY:
Night and day, 18-wheelers roll on and off the scale outside the one-room yellow brick weigh station beside Interstate 40, just west of Oklahoma City. One afternoon, they were hauling lettuce and two-by-fours, frozen turkeys, cars and paper towels, just about all the things that Americans use and consume. 
 "In the middle of the week, I would say we run 300 trucks an hour through here," said Bart Howard, an officer of Oklahoma Motor Vehicle Enforcement. 
 His electronic gauge showed truck after truck registering more than 65,000 pounds and many close to the 80,000-pound legal limit. At one point, so many were lining up that they began clogging the Interstate. Rushing out to wave them on, Mr. Howard said, "Stopping these trucks would shut this economy down." 
The economy that Mr. Howard monitors has grown to become a mighty institution much like those that rose beside seaports, rivers and roads. Fed by the prosperity of the last decade, the 46,567-mile network of limited-access federal roads that make up the Interstate System is a linear economy-on-wheels, a distinct and self-sustaining 51st state, in a sense, that generates life and commerce along shoulders and evaporates four or five miles beyond them. 
Because of economic transfusions from the Interstates, "we now know that the depopulation of rural America stopped in the 80's," said David Schulz, director of the Infrastructure Institute at Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill. "Companies said, 'Look, I need to have a single floor for my plant. All my materials come in and my products go out by highway.' " So they installed their plants by the road, hired trucks and found willing workers in once-isolated old farm towns.
Over the last eight years, the miles that vehicles traveled on Interstate highways rose 20 percent, to 2.8 billion. The freight carried in trucks surged 80 percent in the 1990's and to 65 percent of all freight, according to the American Trucking Association. The money paid to carry that freight accounted for 87 percent of the total, dwarfing ships, planes and trains.
But this is a cruel and impatient economy, too, draining life from communities that are too small, too slow, too uninspired or too far from an off-ramp to compete. Across Arkansas, for example, the 2000 census found that all but one of 13 counties touching Interstate 40 grew in the 1990's, and that 4 had doubled in population since 1960, when the road was opening. But of the 11 counties just beyond the 13, 6 lost people or stood still. In the depressed Great Plains west of Oklahoma City, five of the six counties on the I-40 gained people. Four of the five bordering those counties lost them. 
The Interstate System began with President Dwight D. Eisenhower's Federal Aid Highway Act of 1956. By the end of the 1960's, it had laced up the nation, coast to coast, border to border. For many Americans, it has shattered its promoters' promises of safety, efficiency and speed. It has devoured inner-city neighborhoods, sucked out their industries and sped the sprawl of suburbs. Boston, Washington, Atlanta and Los Angeles choke on its traffic.
But it has also matured to become an economic powerhouse. A 1,000-mile trip along I-40 from Memphis to Little Rock, Oklahoma City and Amarillo to little San Jon, N.M., suggests that in rural areas where a fifth of the population still works and lives, the Interstate has acquired a life of its own, connected to the big cities but apart from them, too. 
Along these roads are the nation's newest jobs, homes and businesses and its lowest unemployment. In the 1990's, they gave birth to food-souvenir-gas travel plazas as big as supermarkets, cookie-cutter motels, casinos, shopping malls, second cities of old cities at exit ramps and immense, 100-acre depots where trucks are sold, scrubbed, serviced and scrapped.
At many I-40 exits, illuminated logos of McDonald's, Kentucky Fried Chicken, Waffle House, Phillips 66, Citgo, Total, Conoco, Comfort Inn, Days Inn, Super 8 and Best Western have sprung up like lollipops on 100-foot-tall sticks. Heirs to the old Burma Shave signs, billboards hustle the Hog Trough Liquor store near Clarksville, Ark., and Huckleberry's Pig Out Palace barbecue in Henryetta, Okla. Just off the exits, often tucked out of sight, are its more muscular businesses -- factories, meat-packing plants, warehouses and distribution centers.
This is a resilient economy. Trucks, many carrying materials for the depressed manufacturing economy, have recovered a little from a 15 percent slump in their freight last year, according to the American Trucking Association. But most of the service businesses along the road were not affected by the downturn. 
In Amarillo, in the Texas Panhandle, the unemployment rate has fallen to 3 percent from 3.5 percent last year. Each of the two counties that include Amarillo grew 16 percent in the 1990's, faster than the nation's 13 percent gain and far more than the Panhandle as a whole. It is easy to see what helped. 
The Interstate has consumed this dry and wind-blown city, becoming its principal commercial artery. Every couple of blocks, exits dip onto parallel roads lined with malls, museums, motels and farther on, truck services and distribution sites. City Hall and the Chamber of Commerce sit at the intersection of I-40 and the terminus of I-27.
Other communities have found a strategy to exploit the Interstate economy and keep themselves afloat by building second cities at exit ramps. 
With its coal and oil fields running dry, the population of Henryetta, Okla., fell 27 percent over four decades to 5,872 in 1990. But in the 1980's, a McDonald's opened at an I-40 exit that spills onto one end of Main Street. Through the 1990's, a Wal-Mart, motels, an Arby's, a Kentucky Fried Chicken and a Taco Mayo moved in. 
From the McDonald's exit, Main Street winds west two miles to a second exit with a service station that caters to truckers, two restaurants, including the Pig Out Palace, and a Super 8 motel that has parking for trucks. 
With the growth of off-ramp businesses, Henryetta's population has edged up to 6,096. More important, these businesses pay a 9 percent sales tax, of which the city keeps half. It uses the money for its police and fire services and for repaving its neighborhood red-brick roads. 
"Interstate fall-off business is what keeps this town going," said Gayle Machetta, loan officer at Henryetta's First National Bank. "Our culture revolves around cheap and quick." 
Cheap and quick businesses and the low wages they pay, however, are among the less-admired benefits of the Interstate economy. "When they were putting in I-40," Clyde O. Estes, the bank's president said, "all these country towns were saying they would dry up. Instead what we have is a lot of motels and fast food."
The second-city strategy is newer to an exit marked Seminole, between Henryetta and Oklahoma City. The city of Seminole is 12 miles south of I-40, in the middle of a county whose population, ravaged by the Dust Bowl, plunged nearly 70 percent from 1930 to 24,894 in 2000. 
The decline began abating a few years ago, and the exit shows why. Three years ago, the Seminole Nation opened a travel plaza there, with a gas station, convenience store, a souvenir shop and fast food. In October the tribe added a casino, doubling the size of the plaza. 
"We're getting local people, truck drivers and people on vacation," said the manager, Jeannie Silva. 
Across the road is a much older business, the Catfish Round Up restaurant and its RV park, that is profiting from another phenomenon of the Interstate economy. The park attracts new residents of the road -- itinerant workers who move families and trailers thousands of miles from job to job. 
One day at noon, 23 of the park's 27 pads were occupied, nearly all by construction workers. Among the tenants were Sherry and Thomas Jello who moved in May from Jacksonville, Fla.
Mr. Jello, 40, is an operating engineer and a supervisor for a contractor who is demolishing an automobile plant near Oklahoma City. He earns about $22 an hour, $3 an hour more than he can usually earn in Florida. "We'll probably stay here until September or October," Ms. Jello, 28, said. "Then it's back to Florida, or Paducah, Ky."
Once, communities vied for I-40 off-ramps, aware that being bypassed would bury them. But some communities that won exits are no better off than they were in the 1960's. Just off the exit to McLean, Tex., on a piece of old Route 66, two abandoned motels have been consumed by weeds. 
McLean, population 830, down 19 from 1990, has a Texaco station on the highway, a bank, a small grocery store, a school and a barbed wire museum that attracts a trickle of tourists. But Main Street is nearly deserted. 
"A lot of restaurants and service stations went out when the highway came," said Jane Herndon, who went to the local high school and has operated an insurance and real estate business on Main Street for 45 years. I-40, she said, had drawn off the young, leaving a median age of 50. "There was no one young to say, 'Well, I'm going to put a station in,' " Ms. Herndon said.
Farther west, on the Texas-New Mexico line, is an exit ignominously numbered 0 and spooky little Glenrio. Two, perhaps three families live there behind the shuttered clutter of the old main thoroughfare, a three-block stretch of old Route 66 that boasted the first and last motel in Texas and a service station that dispensed gasoline and whiskey. Two service stations opened at the exit to lure travelers, but only swallows use them now. 
It is on the outskirts of bigger cities, usually 100 to 150 miles apart, where the Interstate economy crests. To Little Rock, Oklahoma City and Amarillo, it brings what analysts call "economies of agglomeration." Shoppers and travelers get variety and rock-bottom prices from concentrations of big and intensely competitive stores. 
"I know I'm going to be able to get an incredible variety of products," said Gerard J. McCullough, a professor of economics at the University of Minnesota. And, he said, "I'm minimizing my transportation and search costs." 
Besides shoppers, the Interstate economy brings, most noticeably, the thundering trucks. The trailers are the nation's new warehouses, a phenomenon of the 1990's. They deliver goods and materials when industries need them, saving them the burden of storage. 
The Galloway exit outside Little Rock opens to a sea of trucks and trucking establishments. The diesel-fuel signs dwarf signs for gasoline. The one motel caters to truckers. The lots are cluttered with truck washes and shops offering 30-minute lube jobs. In the late 1990's, two immense dealerships, as big and splendid as any that sell cars, opened at the exit to sell Freightliner and International trucks.
The Freightliner dealer has 25 three-story service bays open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 
"We've got a drivers' lounge with big-screen TV where they can take a nap while we're working on their trucks," said Richard Allred, senior vice president and manager of the dealership. "Seventy percent of our business comes off the Interstate."

GRAPHIC: Photos: (pg. A1); Each day, thousands of 18-wheelers race along the federal Interstate System, carrying freight to and for businesses and, in the process, creating new commerce for many rural towns along the way.; Interstate 40, with its constant truck traffic, has led to businesses like a truck wash in North Little Rock, Ark., top. But the highway has not brought prosperity in Endee, N.M., above, where a cafe sits abandoned. (Photographs by Spencer Tirey for The New York Times)(pg. A12) Map of Oklahoma highlighting El Reno: Along roads like Interstate 40 from Memphis to San Jon, N.M., are the nation's newest jobs and homes and its lowest unemployment. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUCKING WEIGH STATIONS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); TRUCKING (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (86%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); RETAILERS (74%); POPULATION DECLINE (73%); POULTRY (72%); HARBORS & PORTS (67%); CENSUS (63%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; INTERSTATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; LABOR; HOUSING; GARAGES AND SERVICE STATIONS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (93%) OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



335 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
U.S. and 18 States Request Accelerated Microsoft Case
The federal government and 18 states accepted the recent decision by a federal appeals court in the Microsoft antitrust case that reversed an order to break up the company.
 They asked the court to accelerate the remaining proceedings by selecting a new district judge to replace Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, above, as quickly as possible. Page C4. 


U.S. Reports Weak Retail Sales
Fresh evidence of a weak economy appeared in the latest reports on retail sales, inflation and consumer confidence, suggesting that a much anticipated upturn will not materialize until the fall, if then. Consumer spending in particular gave ground, with retail sales growing more slowly in June than most forecasters had expected, the government reported. C14.

China's $20 Billion 2008 Olympics
Beijing won its long-coveted Olympics with a vote by the International Olympic Committee. Now it must confront the costs of staging the Games. Chinese officials estimate that they will spend $20 billion to modernize Beijing by 2008. Most analysts expect China to gain entry to the World Trade Organization by 2002, something that they say will create far greater ripples in trade than a one-time event, even one of Olympic proportions. D7.

Safety Issues With Fuel Economy
For the first time in years, Congress appears willing to raise gasoline mileage standards, lending importance to a question a scientific committee is struggling with: whether doing so would cause more deaths. A11.

Bush Supports Fossil Fuel Subsidies
The Bush administration plans to oppose an international drive to phase out fossil fuel subsidies and lift financing for nonpolluting energy sources worldwide, administration officials said. The proposals are contained in a report commissioned by the Group of Eight wealthy nations, which convene their annual summit in Genoa, Italy, next week. A1.

Dow Jones Climbs 2.8% for Week
The Dow Jones industrial average posted its first positive week in eight weeks, rising 2.8 percent. Yesterday, it gained 60.07 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,539.06. Other gauges gained. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 7.54 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,215.68. And the Nasdaq edged up 9.05 points, or 0.4 percent, to close at 2,084.79. Volume was moderate, with about 1.12 billion shares changing hands on the Big Board. C3.

Time in Talks to Buy IPC of Britain
Time Inc., the magazine arm of AOL Time Warner, is in talks to buy IPC Media, a British magazine publisher. Discussions have narrowed the price to about $1.5 billion. A deal has not been reached, and the companies said in a statement that "there can be no assurance that a transaction will result." C4.

Airlines Cut International Flights
Two weeks ago, United Airlines dropped its nonstop service between New York and Hong Kong after only three months. In the last few months, Delta and American Airlines have also discontinued some international flights as airlines eliminate unprofitable routes. C2.

Bid for Eircom Is Sweetened
The Irish entrepreneur Denis O'Brien sweetened his bid for Eircom, the former state phone company, with a $2.6 billion offer. C2.

Panel Addresses Dumping of Steel
A U.S. trade panel said that unfairly priced imports of steel used in construction from China, South Korea and three other nations were hurting American companies, setting the stage for punitive tariffs of up to 232 percent. C2.

The European Union and eight nonmember countries have asked the World Trade Organization to rule on a U.S. antidumping law. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,539.06 up 60.07Nasdaq composite -- 2,084.79 up 9.0510-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.22% down 0.01The euro -- $0.8540 up 0.0006The dollar -- 124.83 yen up 1.02 Graph shows Dow Jones Industrials daily closings from January through June. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); AIRLINES (82%); JUDGES (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (68%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (63%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); TIME INC (80%); AOL INC (61%); DOW JONES & CO INC (53%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); AOL (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (61%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (61%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (93%); HONG KONG (79%); ITALY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



336 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS: THE COST; 
Environmental and Transportation Improvements Could Send Price Soaring

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, July 13 

 BODY:
Now that Beijing has won its long-coveted Olympics, it must confront the costs of staging the Games. The real numbers may never be fully disclosed, but the vote today by the International Olympic Committee is likely to be remembered more as a political victory than as an economic windfall.
 Chinese officials estimate that they will spend $20 billion to modernize Beijing by 2008. In one of the most ambitious municipal makeovers in history, Beijing will build dozens of sports facilities, upgrade its public transportation and communications networks, and clean up its blighted environment. 
 That last goal will require converting 20,000 city buses from diesel fuel to natural gas, nearly doubling the length of the subway system and relocating dozens of coal-burning factories outside Beijing.
"The whole city will be transformed," said Andy Xie, an economist at Morgan Stanley here. "But most of the money will be spent on the environment."
Xie said the Olympics would provide Beijing with much-needed money to confront problems like poorly-planned streets, which are prone to traffic jams, and the desert, which is expanding at an alarming rate north of Beijing. The projected spending is nearly half the city's annual economic output.
Beijing is the latest in a long line of upwardly mobile cities to seize on the Olympics as a way to better itself. Some, like Sydney, which played host to the Summer Games last year, benefited from the increased visibility. Tourist arrivals there increased 15 percent in the last quarter, beating the forecasts.
But other cities that have hosted the Olympics, like Montreal and Barcelona, were saddled with billions of dollars in debt. Even Los Angeles and Atlanta, which turned a profit on their Games, reaped little in the way of long-term economic benefits.
The Games will have less of an impact on the rest of China, particularly since the preparations will coincide with the early years of the country's membership in the World Trade Organization. Most analysts expect China to be granted entry into the W.T.O. in November, and formally join by 2002.
By opening markets and eliminating trade barriers, economists say, the W.T.O. will make far bigger ripples in China's trade, investment and corporate sector than a one-time event, even one of Olympic proportions.
At $20 billion, the Games would not even be the country's biggest public-works project. That remains the Three Gorges Dam, which is rising on the Yangtze River in central China at a cost of more than $30 billion. All told, the government spends $100 billion a year on public investments.
"The infrastructure projects in Beijing could draw resources away from other parts of the country, because China is still fiscally constrained," said Dong Tao, a China economist at Credit Suisse First Boston here.
Still, Tao said that the Olympics would boost confidence in China, particularly among foreign investors. He noted that Beijing wants these Games to be state-of-the-art, which will stimulate China's growing information technology industry as well as open the door to foreign companies.
As these companies scramble to provide mobile phones and fiber-optic networks at the Olympics, Goldman Sachs estimates that foreign direct investment in Beijing will jump from $1.5 billion in 2000 to nearly $5 billion in 2008.
Another major opportunity for China is in tourism. The country currently attracts 10 million tourists a year, generating about $16 billion in foreign exchange revenues. That is about the same as tiny Hong Kong. Xie said a successful Olympics could double or triple that number.
Goldman Sachs estimates that tourism revenue will grow 18 percent a year between 2002 and 2008. That, combined with the public works spending, leads the company to estimate that the Games will add 0.3 percent a year to China's economic growth between 2002 and 2008, or a cumulative gain of $32 billion.
The Sydney Olympics will add about $4 billion to the economic output of Australia between 1996 and 2006, according to a report by KPMG, a consulting company. But Australia has a smaller economy than China. And the total cost of those Games, including roads and other public works, was less than $3 billion.
Some experts on China said that the Olympics, with its vast construction projects and heavy dose of national pride, will also be a breeding ground for corruption and cost overruns. Even Sydney, which was subjected to relentless scrutiny by the news media, exceeded its budget by $38 million.
"The big lesson for us is that you don't need seven years to get ready," said Graham Cassidy, a former spokesman for the Sydney Games. "In that euphoric period after you win, there's too much time to dawdle. When people dawdle, they spend huge chunks of money. If the deadline is a lot closer, people tend to be more focused." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); TRENDS (75%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); DIESEL FUEL (69%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (63%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (55%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (54%) OLYMPIC GAMES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; AIR POLLUTION; SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS); OLYMPIC GAMES (2008) 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); YANGTZE RIVER (72%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) BEIJING (CHINA); CHINA

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



337 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Reports Retail Sales Grew Less Than Expected 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
New evidence of a weak economy appeared yesterday in the latest reports on retail sales, inflation and consumer confidence, suggesting that a much anticipated upturn will not materialize until the fall, if then.
 Consumer spending in particular gave ground, with retail sales growing more slowly in June than most forecasters had expected, the Commerce Department reported. Consumer confidence, on the other hand, rose slightly in the first two weeks of July, but among low-income households who told pollsters that they expected inflation to lose strength in coming months, giving their incomes more purchasing power. One crucial measure of inflation fell in June, for the first time in over two years. 
 "These numbers suggest that we won't get to noticeable economic growth until the fourth quarter," said Richard Berner, chief domestic economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. In his view, a rebound after nearly a year of sluggish economic growth is put off until the fourth quarter -- and the economy will contract this quarter.
The big concern is consumer spending. Most forecasters had expected the rebound to show itself during the summer, with consumers generating most of the upturn. They are still counting on consumers to come through, once rebate checks of up to $600 for married couples, specified in the Bush tax cut, begin to reach people this month. But through June, consumer spending had gradually lost ground.
That was evident in the latest retail sales report. Retail sales, which account for 40 percent of total consumer spending, rose by a less-than-expected 0.2 percent last month, mostly on the strength of fairly brisk vehicles sales, the Commerce Department reported. Excluding vehicles, retail sales declined in June by 0.2 percent.
Whatever the measure, retail sales gave up ground that had been gained in April and May. As a result, economists now estimate that overall consumer spending grew at an annual rate of about 2.5 percent in the second quarter. That was down from 3 percent on average in the two previous quarters, and more than 5 percent a year ago.
"The retail sales report was weaker than we had expected," said James Glassman, senior domestic economist at J. P. Morgan Chase. Economists at Chase are among the nation's most optimistic forecasters, and Mr. Glassman added that retail sales are "not weak enough to dampen expectations that we are going to see a revival of consumer spending."
Spending depends on consumer confidence and that edged up in July, according to a preliminary reading from the University of Michigan's consumer survey group. Its index of consumer sentiment, which has been gradually rebounding since April, rose to 93.7 from 92.6 in May. The rise was among households with annual incomes of less than $50,000 -- a majority of all households, but the not the biggest spenders.
"They see their incomes purchasing more as inflation weakens in the year ahead, mainly as a result of declining energy prices," said Richard Curtin, director of the surveys. "High-income families, on the other hand, focused on what has happened in the stock market; their wealth shrank" and so did their confidence. 
Inflation did lose strength in June. The Producer Price Index, measuring the cost of goods as they move through the production process, from raw materials to finished goods, fell in June. The index for finished goods -- covering all types of merchandise, including gasoline -- fell by 0.4 percent, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported. That was the first decline since February 1999, and came mostly as a result of falling energy prices. Excluding energy, the so-called core index rose a scant 0.1 percent, the same as in May. Prices at earlier levels of production -- the cost of steel sold to auto companies, for example -- also fell in June, with or without energy.
The Consumer Price Index for June, a much broader measure covering price changes for services as well as goods, will be released on Wednesday and most forecasters expect only a small rise. That would give the Federal Reserve's policy makers room for another cut in interest rates at their August meeting. It would be the seventh cut this year. The goal is to stimulate consumer spending and business investment, without pushing up the inflation rate.
"Goods prices pose no threat to inflation in the United States now or in the foreseeable future," Ian Shepherdson, chief domestic economist at High Frequency Economics, told clients yesterday.
The new reports yesterday were only the latest evidence of persisting economic weakness. Initial claims for unemployment pay jumped in the week ended July 7. Inventories of unsold merchandise have declined more slowly than expected, delaying the day that manufacturers will have to lift production to meet demand. And there were reports last week of weak profits, raising concerns that companies will step up layoffs to cut costs, frightening consumers.
The still unanswered question, said William Dudley, chief domestic economist at Goldman, Sachs, is whether rising layoffs "will cause consumers to cut spending and generate a full-blown recession."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Producer Prices"Index of finished goods prices, 1982 = 100. Seasonally adjusted. Monthly ChangeJune: -0.4%May: +0.1April: +0.3 January 2000-June 2001(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart "Retail Sales"Total retail and food services sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Monthly ChangeJune: +0.2%May: +0.4April: +1.4 January 2000-June 2001(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); INFLATION (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); RETAILERS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); STATISTICS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (59%); MARKETING SURVEYS (58%); SALES REBATES (58%); MARRIAGE (51%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN; BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS); LABOR DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); JPM (NYSE) (52%); JPM (LSE) (52%); 8634 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



338 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Set to Oppose International Plan For Cleaner Energy 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 13 

 BODY:
The Bush administration plans to oppose an international drive to phase out fossil fuel subsidies and increase financing for nonpolluting energy sources worldwide, administration officials said today.
 The proposals are contained in a report commissioned by the Group of 8 industrial nations, which will hold its annual summit meeting in Genoa, Italy, next week. The proposals would commit rich nations to help one billion people around the world get their power from renewable energy sources, like wind, water and the sun. 
 The White House says its opposition to the proposals is based on a desire to let the marketplace, rather than government, decide how quickly renewable energy sources are adopted worldwide. But critics say it is yet another instance of the Bush administration's placing the interest of oil and gas companies ahead of the drive to reduce global warming. 
That debate notwithstanding, the administration's decision -- along with objections today by Canadian officials, who also oppose elements of the report -- could prevent the G-8 from endorsing the proposals. The group usually works by consensus, and proposals are generally not adopted if any members object.
European leaders had hoped to use the summit meeting to jump-start talks on global warming and to salvage what they could of the Kyoto Protocol, the treaty to fight global warming, which the Bush administration also opposes. Some European officials and environmental groups viewed the report by the G-8 "task force" as a major rallying point.
A final draft copy of the report calls on rich nations to "remove incentives and other supports for environmentally harmful energy technologies." It also encourages them to shift the priorities of international lending agencies, like the World Bank, to support more clean energy projects in poor countries. 
People who helped prepare the report said one important goal was to persuade wealthy nations to stop promoting fossil fuel projects in the developing world, a step that could reduce sales of power plants, pipelines, drilling equipment and other goods used in producing energy from oil and coal. The effort is directly related to fighting global warming.
The task force recommended that the G-8 nations use their public financing leverage with national and international lending institutions to support more clean energy projects.
A Bush administration official said the United States did not support the report even though the high-profile task force rewrote it to reflect some American objections.
The task force included a number of government officials as well as leaders of multinational businesses and environmental groups. Co-chairmen of the group were Corado Clini, Italy's top environmental official, and Mark Moody Stuart, chairman of the oil giant Royal Dutch Shell.
A draft copy of the report was provided to The New York Times by people who support its goals and who want to call attention to the administration's opposition. 
While the administration supports the idea of expanding use of renewable energy sources, it does not favor the task force's emphasis on government-to-government financing, the administration official said. He said the goal of having one billion people rely on clean energy sources within a decade was a target that had "no analytical basis."
"While we are committed to expanding the use of renewables, there was a sense that this task force was more focused on government funding -- throwing money at the problem," the official said. "We are more interested in looking at how to leverage private sector efforts."
He said the final communique of the summit meeting next week was likely to include language that supports the spread of clean energy even if the report is not endorsed.
President Bush announced in the spring that the United States had no intention of meeting targets set in the Kyoto treaty.
"By rejecting the task force's recommendations, President Bush is once again undermining any attempt to take serious action on global warming," said Daphne Wysham, a fellow with the Institute for Policy Studies in Washington.
The institute and Friends of the Earth, an environmental organization, did a study that found that the export promotion agencies of rich nations, like the Export-Import Bank of the United States, are the world's largest public backers of fossil fuels, the main causes of global warming. The credit agencies supported $115 billion in such projects in the five years through 1999, the study said.
"About two billion people on this planet are not served by electricity, and the most cost effective approach for them is often solar or biomass, not fossil fuels," said Dan Reicher, who served on the G-8 task force as a Clinton administration official. "But it takes real targets -- numerical goals -- if we are going to make a difference."
The Bush administration official said he considered the task force's emphasis on nonpolluting energy for the developing world as lopsided. He said that as poor nations grow, they will need traditional energy sources as well as renewables.
"There is not just one solution to the energy demands of growing and developing economies," he said.
Among the goals embraced in the final report are several targets for improving or expanding the use of renewable energy. It says the G-8 should aim to help 200 million poor people worldwide use biomass energy sources, like natural and human waste products, to fuel fires for cooking. It also suggests that clean energy sources could eventually provide electricity to 300 million people who do not have electricity today and 500 million more who are connected to an existing grid.
The executive summary of the report did not say how many people are now served by renewable energy sources, which includes hydropower. But it called its goals "ambitious."
Bush administration officials decided early on that they could not support key elements of the task force's work, according to people who took part in the task force efforts. At a key meeting to discuss an early draft of the report, held in Japan in March, an administration official rejected an early draft of the report and submitted a new executive summary prepared in Washington, the people involved said.
The task force incorporated some of the administration's views and watered down language concerning numerical goals, the participants said. But it did not accept all of the changes proposed by Washington, and the administration declined to support the final draft. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (88%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (76%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (74%); POWER PLANTS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%) ENERGY AND POWER; WIND; SOLAR ENERGY; HYDROELECTRIC POWER; WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING 

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (60%); RDSA (AMS) (60%); RDS.B (NYSE) (60%); RDS.A (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (60%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%)

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); ITALY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



339 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1553 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS; 
Beijing Wins Bid for 2008 Olympic Games

BYLINE:  By JERE LONGMAN 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, July 13 

 BODY:
Saying that the world's most populous country deserved to stage the world's most extravagant sporting event, the International Olympic Committee awarded the 2008 Summer Games to Beijing today.
 Eight years after a narrow and unexpected defeat to Sydney, Australia, in its attempt to be host to the 2000 Olympics, Beijing more than doubled the votes Toronto received as the runner-up. The committee's delegates expressed widespread hope that a seven-year buildup to the 2008 Games would accelerate openness in China and facilitate improvement in its record on human rights. 
 Only two rounds of voting were necessary for Beijing to prevail with a majority of ballots over four other candidate cities. Beijing received 56 votes in the second round to 22 for Toronto, 18 for Paris and 9 for Istanbul. Osaka, Japan, was eliminated in the first round. 
"I think the message was that the I.O.C. wanted to open a country that represents one-quarter of mankind and had never organized the Games before," Jacques Rogge, an influential delegate from Belgium, said.
The Chinese capital erupted in a celebration of fireworks, flag waving and horn honking after the announcement, and President Jiang Zemin was, in effect, given a triumphant send-off for a planned state visit here on Sunday. While human rights groups continued to express concerns about a Beijing Olympics, Chinese government and sports officials viewed the awarding of the Games as an international affirmation of the country's program of social and economic reforms.
"Like all countries, China has certain areas where something is left to be desired," Yuan Weimin, the country's minister of sport, said. As China further opens to the world in preparation for the Olympics and for its expected entry into the World Trade Organization, Mr. Yuan said, economic progress "will bring along advances in culture, health, education, sport and, not least of all, corresponding progress in human rights causes."
Today's election took place by secret ballot, and delegates of the Olympic committee declined to reveal how they voted. Beijing appeared to receive broad international support beyond the developing nations where it has gained favor by building sports stadiums over the years. Sandra Baldwin, the president of the United States Olympic Committee, said she was "O.K. with Beijing."
"I think the Olympics should supersede politics," she added. "It's the greatest peacetime event in the world."
It was clear, however, said Francois Carrard, the executive director of the I.O.C., that delegates faced one overriding political issue with regard to Beijing: human rights.
"Some people say, because of serious human rights issues, 'We close the door and say no,' " Mr. Carrard said. "The other way is to bet on openness. Bet on the fact that in the coming seven years, openness, progress and development in many areas will be such that the situation will be improved. We are taking the bet that seven years from now we will see many changes."
Juan Antonio Samaranch, the president of the I.O.C., said the awarding of the 2008 Games could open "a new era for China." Dr. Henry A. Kissinger, an auxiliary member of the I.O.C., said, "I think this is a very important step in the evolution of China's relation with the world.
"I think it will have a major impact in China, and on the whole, a positive impact, in the sense of giving them a high incentive for moderate conduct both internationally and domestically in the years ahead," said Dr. Kissinger, who was not eligible to participate in the voting.
Delegates said they believed an Olympics in China might have an impact similar to the one in South Korea after the Games were awarded to Seoul for 1988. Those Games assisted in transforming South Korea from a military dictatorship to a democracy. Some cautioned, however, that the committee should not overestimate the effect it could have on China's internal affairs.
"There is a feeling that the Olympic Games promote world peace and humanitarian causes and can impact social change immediately," said Kevin Wamsley, a history professor and director of the International Center for Olympic Studies at the University of Western Ontario. "History shows the Games have not done these kinds of things. I don't think we saw any less racism in the U.S. because the Olympics were in Atlanta."
Amnesty International reported last week that China has executed 1,791 citizens since April in a renewed anticrime campaign. Some recent executions took place after those sentenced to death were first taken to sports stadiums and jeered in ritual public humiliation, the rights group said today.
"We're disappointed the I.O.C. didn't get guarantees from the Chinese government on human rights issues before giving the Games away," said Sidney Jones, Asia director for the Human Rights Watch, based in New York. "Now the burden is going to be on corporate sponsors and governments fielding teams to ensure that human rights abuses don't take place in direct association with the Games. I don't think the Games will change things on their own."
Beijing succeeded this time for several reasons. One was sympathy, which Beijing earned for its restrained reaction after losing in 1993 by two votes to Sydney for the 2000 Olympics, delegates said. Sydney officials later said they had made offers of $35,000 apiece to two African delegates the night before the vote. 
Additionally, Chinese officials appear to have grown more serious about doping controls. In the mid-1990's, China's female swimmers tested positive for performance-enhancing drugs at an embarrassing rate. But China withheld 27 members of the country's Olympic team from the Sydney Games, and later acknowledged that it was for drug-related reasons.
Finally, when China won 28 gold medals in Sydney and finished third in the overall medal count, it made a compelling argument that a nation with 1.3 billion citizens and 400 million young people deserved to stage the Summer Games.
When the European Parliament and some members of the United States Congress called for the Games to be sent elsewhere, the political maneuvering backfired, and Beijing instead may have picked up another 10 votes from the I.O.C. delegates, said Mario Pescante, an Italian member.
The Bush administration had been officially neutral on Beijing's bid, and remained so today. Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, declined to praise or criticize the selection today. "The president does not view this as a political matter," he said. "The president views this as a matter for the International Olympic Committee to decide what nation or what city should host the Olympics."
In an indication that the failed boycotts of the 1970's and 1980's would not be repeated in a post-cold-war era, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, said, "What we do know is that American athletes are going to go there, and they're going to compete and hopefully compete very well and bring home lots of gold medals." 
In seven years of preparation for the 2008 Games, 22 of 37 planned sports stadiums must be built at an estimated cost of $1.6 billion. Wang Wei, a leader of the Chinese Olympic bid, said it should not be a problem to complete the stadiums by 2006, given that $15 billion of general construction is being completed each year in Beijing and that a million workers are available.
A new site must be found for beach volleyball. Plans to use Tiananmen Square came under international protest. The square was the site of the violent crackdown on the student democracy movement in 1989. 
The centerpiece of the Beijing Games will be 3,000 acres of forested parkland known as the Olympic Green, which will include Olympic Stadium and the athletes' village. The government has also approved a $12 billion plan to improve air and water quality by closing polluting factories or moving them to the edges of the city, where they will burn natural gas instead of coal. Buses and taxis will switch to cleaner-burning natural gas in an attempt to cut Beijing's pollution by 60 percent, officials said. Billions of dollars have been earmarked to expand Beijing's expressway and subway systems.
Along with choking pollution and traffic problems, searing heat in late July and early August is a concern for a number of former Olympic athletes who are delegates of the I.O.C. Similar problems are expected at the 2004 Summer Games in Athens, where preparations have been troubled.
"We know Athens is going to be a problem," said Johann Olav Koss, a delegate from Norway and a 1994 Olympic speed-skating champion. If environmental and other issues hinder performances in Beijing, he said, "you will have damaged a whole generation of athletes."
Roland Barr, an I.O.C. delegate from Germany and a two-time Olympic rowing champion, said he hoped the 2008 Games would not be exploited for political purposes. He said he had received 1,500 recent e-mail messages and 100 letters from Chinese and Tibetan activists, and "no one said giving us the Games will improve human rights."
But change is exactly what a majority of I.O.C. delegates, as well as Chinese Olympic officials, say they are counting on.
"I am very confident that Beijing will organize an excellent Games in 2008 and the Games will leave a unique legacy in China and in sport," Mayor Liu Qi of Beijing said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students at the Millennium Monument in Beijing celebrating after the International Olympic Committee awarded China its first Olympics. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (96%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); SPORTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); POLITICS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); BALLOTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (63%) OLYMPIC GAMES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; OLYMPIC GAMES (2008); SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS) 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (93%) INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE 

PERSON: LONGMAN, JERE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (96%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (73%); OSAKA, JAPAN (56%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%) CHINA (98%); AUSTRALIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (55%) BEIJING (CHINA); CHINA

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



340 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: An Uncertain Cure For the Bleak Side Of Niagara Falls; 
Plan to Introduce Gambling Evokes Hope and Skepticism

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y., July 8 

 BODY:
From Prospect Point, next to the giant cascade of white water, the lit-up Canadian skyline sparkles with new luxury hotels. A white tower emblazoned with the word "casino" in red taunts this side of the border. 
 The prosperity across the gorge explains the allure of gambling to the political leaders of this faded and crumbling city. 
 Across the bridge to the Canadian side, there is a carnival atmosphere of busy tourist strips on clean roads. Cars are bumper to bumper. Sightseers stream up and down the main thoroughfares to the falls and the old shopping center where Casino Niagara is housed. People throng into arcades, discos, a restaurant with a live-shark tank, haunted houses, singles bars and nightclubs. 
The place vibrates the way Coney Island did in the 1920's, a Canadian version of Tijuana, without the grime and poverty.
For years, local politicians and business leaders on the New York side have sought the state's approval for a casino that would resurrect their smaller tourist district. But an effort to legalize gambling died in the Republican-led State Senate in 1997.
Now new political momentum is growing in Albany, with Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, announcing a tentative agreement with the Seneca Nation last month that would turn the city's convention center into an Indian-run casino. A second casino would be located in Buffalo.
The governor has sold the idea of casinos to the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, an upstate conservative who loathes gambling, and to Senate Republicans as a major economic development effort in a corner of the state where the economy is in deep trouble. The deal is now stuck in the Democrat-led Assembly, where Speaker Sheldon Silver has said he favors casinos but wants to see details and wants unionized labor to build and operate them.
The Seneca Nation was expected to take up the issue in a referendum in August, but that may be postponed if the Assembly does not act soon.
Many longtime residents of Niagara Falls are skeptical that gambling alone will cure the city's economic malaise. The conventional wisdom on the street is that the city government has mishandled the development of downtown for decades and is now grasping at the casino like a drowning man reaching for a life preserver.
"One casino is not going to turn this town around," said Pat Corsaro, a restaurant owner who closed his diner on Main Street and moved it to the suburbs. "They better get something other than the casino to keep them here. You have to have some family-oriented things, too."
Even Mayor Irene J. Elia, a former nun and a Republican whose optimism is irrepressible, said the casino would do little for the city of 54,000 unless it spurred the development of new hotels and other attractions. The hope is that a new state development corporation will help toward that end. "I don't see the casino as a panacea for this area," Mayor Elia said. "I see it as one part of the puzzle."
The biggest piece of that puzzle used to be heavy industry, which has been declining for years. The factories are still lined up along Buffalo Avenue: tangles of buildings, tanks, tubes, silos, smokestacks, cranes. 
Just since January, about 1,500 jobs have been lost, city officials said. OxyChem laid off 300 workers and TeleTech, a new telephone answering service, cut 450 jobs. Nabisco announced it was closing its factory after a century, leaving 200 people out of work. Unemployment is 9.5 percent.
Whether a casino can make up for such losses remains unclear. Economists and academics who study gambling are split on the question, but they agree that everything depends on where the money comes from and where it goes.
To spur the local economy, the casino would have to take in cash from some of the eight million tourists who travel through Niagara Falls every year and somehow ensure that a portion of it is reinvested in the community, economists say. Las Vegas, for instance, thrives because it attracts most of its gamblers from other states.
But if most of the money bet at the casino comes from people living within 50 or 60 miles, the casino merely transfers money that would be spent at other local businesses to the casino operators, gambling experts said.
"The basic question is, 'Can you get gamblers from the outside?' " said William N. Thompson, a professor at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, who studies the economics of gambling. "If you just stimulate a lot more gambling from the local residents, it's not going to help the economy."
John W. Kindt, a professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, said several studies have shown that casinos tend to cannibalize nearby businesses. To keep gamblers near the action, casinos usually provide restaurants, bars, shows and boutiques inside their buildings. Atlantic City is a classic example. The glittery casinos along the shore abut slums where local restaurants and shops are dying.
"The local businesses in Niagara Falls are going to be shocked when they realize they are losing money to the casino," Mr. Kindt said.
Earl Grinols, an economist at the university at Urbana-Champaign, has documented that about six years after a casino is built in a county, violent crime rates are 10 percent higher than in counties without casinos, while property crime rates tend to be 8 percent higher.
One study by a New Jersey research company for several banks has suggested that counties with a casino have 18 percent more personal bankruptcies than those without gambling, said Tom Coates, an Iowa credit counselor who is a recognized authority on gambling debt.
So far, however, these problems have not shown up in Niagara Falls, Ontario. The province gave Casino Niagara permission to start up there in 1996. City officials say crime is down and unemployment has fallen to around 7 percent from a high of 16 percent five years ago.
The city is thriving. Hotel corporations have poured hundreds of millions of dollars into building or expanding hotels since 1996. Many of the small businesses along the main tourist streets have been renovated as well. The number of visitors is up to 14 million a year, from 11 million in 1994. Noel Buckley, the president of the Canadian city's tourist agency, said much of the growth can be linked directly to the casino.
The casino rakes in about $500 million in gambling revenues a year and sends much of that to the Ontario government. About half the gamblers packing the place on weekends are Americans, most from places within a five-hour drive, casino officials said. The casino has created 3,800 jobs, most of them with low pay supplemented by tips. At least 1,200 other jobs have been added at the new hotels, Mr. Buckley said.
But gambling is not Canada's only advantage. For starters, the best views of the falls are from the Canadian side. Even before the casino arrived, there were 10,000 hotel rooms in Canada, compared with about 3,400 on the New York side. The exchange rate also favors people with American dollars, and the Canadians have built more attractions for children, including a butterfly farm and the Marineland Aquarium. 
Phil Young, 27, a pavement contractor from Middletown N.Y., said he had booked a week in the Holiday Inn on the New York side for his family. After the first night, he moved his brood to Canada. "I told the woman there is nothing to do here," he said. "This is a dump."
On the New York side, many people say the lack of a casino has become a convenient excuse for poor planning, union corruption and mismanagement by successive city governments. In the last decade, plans to revitalize downtown failed as developers reneged on promises to rehabilitate more than 100 acres of abandoned properties they had acquired from the city.
"We have been held hostage by developers, and I'm not sure we have held them accountable," Mayor Elia said.
But she and other local politicians maintain that the casino project will attract more development. Under the proposed deal, the Senecas would be given the city's convention center; Splash Park, a defunct water-amusement park behind it; and several other blighted blocks around it. The casino would be in the convention center until a new building could be built at the Splash Park site. The state and the city would get a portion of the slot-machine revenues. 
Then the USA Niagara Development Corporation, which the governor created this year as an arm of the state economic development agency, would provide tax incentives and regulatory help to redevelop 192 acres of downtown properties around the casino, much as the state did in Times Square in the 1990's.
"The governor has put his marker down out there and said he wants to develop Niagara," said Michael Wilton, the president of the state's Niagara development corporation.
Some longtime residents remain skeptical that an Indian casino will hire many locals, but others think any new jobs are better than nothing. "It could definitely be a coup for the area," said John Emanuelli, 35, a computer systems operator who was recently laid off from TeleTech. "It's going to bring some jobs."
Others, like Randy Sanders, think a casino creates nothing put low-paying service jobs. He has worked for 30 years at the Nabisco plant and raised two children on his yearly salary of $50,000 with benefits. In December, he will be let go at the age of 48. He said he was angry that the city and the state did not fight to keep Nabisco from leaving. Asked about the casino project, he grimaced.
"It's a little late for this town," he said. "What are they going to pay? Six, seven, eight dollars an hour. I can't raise a family on that. Solid, stable jobs like this is what the politicians in this neighborhood should fight for."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, Ryan Gatchell, 2, and his father, Brent, at Niagara Falls, Ontario. The Canadian side has a casino, hotels, restaurants, the best views and the Horseshoe Falls. Bottom, vacant stores on Main Street in Niagara Falls, N.Y., attest to decades of economic decline. (Top and bottom, Derek Gee for The New York Times; above, Joseph Sohm/Corbis)(pg. B1); Randy Sanders, who is being laid off from the Nabisco plant in Niagara Falls, N.Y., said a casino would create only low-paying jobs in the area. "What are they going to pay? Six, seven, eight dollars an hour," he said. (Derek Gee for The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CITIES (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); APPROVALS (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); MAYORS (72%); RETAILERS (70%); DRINKING PLACES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); SUBURBS (61%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); REFERENDUMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



341 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: A Fund Manager Who Had It Right on Energy Stocks 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
Near the end of a life cut short at 61 by Lou Gehrig's disease, Stephen C. Johnes made an investing bet that struck many as foolhardy. Mr. Johnes, the Merrill Lynch manager of what was one of the biggest and most successful mutual funds around, argued that demand for energy, especially for natural gas, would soon soar.
 Working out of a wheelchair and struggling with a degenerating body, he ultimately poured 40 percent of his fund's money into the stocks of companies that drilled for oil and produced natural gas. 
 But at the time, in 1997, technology stocks were all the rage, and energy stocks were out of fashion. Not long after Mr. Johnes died in March 1998, Merrill handed the fund to another manager who quickly sold all of the energy stocks Mr. Johnes had collected. 
Mr. Johnes did not live to see how right he was. Since the current manager took over in early 1999, the fund, the Merrill Lynch Growth Fund, has lost 10 percent of its value. Had the fund's portfolio stayed as the new manager found it, through the recent energy shortages, it would have risen more than 60 percent and would have been one of the more successful funds at a time when many funds have lost money, according to an analysis by Morningstar, a fund-tracking company in Chicago.
If there were a hall of fame for mutual fund managers, Mr. Johnes might deserve a posthumous induction.
In 10 years of managing the fund in his iconoclastic way, he built one of the best long-term performance records of any manager of comparable funds. In the five years through February 1997, the Merrill Lynch Growth Fund returned almost 20 percent annually, compared with 13.5 percent for all growth funds.
Before he moved into energy stocks, Mr. Johnes had made a big, early bet on technology stocks, including computer and computer-chip companies. At one point in the early 1990's, technology accounted for 55 percent of his fund's assets.
Among his most successful picks was Dell Computer, a stock he started buying in the summer of 1993 at $8 a share. Four years later, Dell had risen to $65 a share and made up 2.5 percent of the fund. But by then Mr. Johnes had sold most of his other technology stocks to the many investors who were jumping on the technology-stock bandwagon.
After he was stricken with Lou Gehrig's disease, Mr. Johnes continued to work out of his office at Merrill Lynch's campus near Princeton, N.J. For the last year of his life, he was confined to a wheelchair, but he worked until about a month before he died, said Stephanie Johnes, one of his two daughters.
"It was his passion," she said. "It really did keep him going."
In 1997, the United States was in the throes of an economic boom, fueled in part by rapidly declining oil prices. Energy stocks were headed toward their lowest levels in years. In characteristic fashion, Mr. Johnes swam against the tide, loading up on stocks such as Western Gas Resources, Apache and Devon Energy. The prices of some of those stocks have since doubled or tripled. But prices of many of the stocks bought by Mr. Johnes's successor, like drug makers Merck and Pfizer, have not risen much or have even fallen. 
To compare the fund's recent losses with the hypothetical gains on the portfolio Mr. Johnes had assembled is unfair, said Christine Walton, a spokeswoman for Merrill Lynch, because there is no way of knowing how Mr. Johnes would have reacted as his stocks sank through the rest of 1998.
But from his communications with shareholders before he died, it is clear that Mr. Johnes would have been loath to follow the herd of fund managers who poured money into technology companies and other highflying stocks. In his last semiannual letter, at the end of 1997, Mr. Johnes wrote: "We believe that the energy sector is in the early stages of a secular revival following a 15-year period of excess capacity."
He also warned that his predilection for picking stocks and sectors that he thought had been overlooked meant that "the fund's short-term returns generally do not track those of the broader stock market."
He was right about that too. In 1998, Mr. Johnes's bets on downtrodden energy and real estate stocks dragged Merrill Lynch Growth to one of the worst performances of all funds. It lost about 25 percent of its value in a year in which its typical peer rose 36 percent.
Merrill executives could not stomach such a performance. They called in Stephen I. Silverman, the successful manager of a Merrill fund that invests in Asian companies, to undo what Mr. Johnes had done. 
Mr. Silverman did not respond to requests for comment yesterday. In the past, he and other Merrill officials have defended the changes they made in the fund as necessary to turn it into a true growth fund, one that could deliver the returns investors had come to expect in the technology-stock boom of the late 1990's.
But the fund, which once held more than $8 billion, has shrunk by about80 percent, to $1.7 billion, as investors have moved out their money. 
Now Merrill Lynch is preparing to end the fund's life by folding it into another fund, Fundamental Growth. The fund is too small to justify the expense of running it when Merrill has a bigger fund that owns many of the same stocks, said Ms. Walton, the Merrill Lynch spokeswoman.
"I'm not buying that," said Kunal Kapoor, an analyst at Morningstar. "From Merrill Lynch's perspective there's just no way they can sell the fund."
He said he thought Merrill would keep the fund alive if it were more popular. Mr. Kapoor had applauded Merrill's decision to overhaul the growth fund two years ago because, he said, "a growth fund should be a growth fund." 
But now, he said, Merrill is doing to the overhauled fund and some others what it did two and a half years ago to the portfolio that Mr. Johnes had built.
"The thing that's too bad about this is you're pulling the plug on an investing style at the worst possible time," he said. "You expect loyalty from your investors but then you don't want to stick with a couple of your aggressive funds when the tide turns."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen C. Johnes once had 40 percent of his fund in energy stocks. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times, 1997) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS (78%); BONDS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (69%); COMPUTER CHIPS (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ENERGY AND POWER; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MUTUAL FUNDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

PERSON: JOHNES. STEPHEN C; MCGEEHAN, PATRICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



342 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
TOYS 'R' US WARNS EARNING WILL FALL SHORT

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 Toys "R" Us said yesterday that its second-quarter and full-year profits would fall short of Wall Street forecasts, sapped by the slowing economy and by spending to remodel stores. 
The company, based in Paramus, N.J., said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that it expected a second-quarter loss of about 14 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/First Call had expected a loss of 10 cents a share. Shares fell $35 cents, to $24.80. The retailer cited the challenging economic environment and a previously announced increase in planned investment spending. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY LOSSES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); RETAILERS (85%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: TOYS 'R' US INC (90%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%) TOYS 'R' US INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (90%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (90%) SIC5945 HOBBY; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



343 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 822 words

PERSON: Hastings Keith 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
Ex-Congressman Fights the Hand That Overfeeds Him

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

DATELINE: MONUMENT BEACH, Mass. 

 BODY:
THE picture window in the little cottage with gray shingle siding offers a spectacular view of the rich blue waters of Buzzard's Bay on the western side of Cape Cod. But the man of the house, former Representative Hastings Keith, sits with his back to this serene scene as he works on his one cause: saving America from overly rich COLA's.
 The object of Mr. Keith's ire is not sugary soft drinks, but cost-of-living adjustments in federal pensions and Social Security that he says cover inflation and them some, giving retired federal workers an unwarranted increase in their incomes at the expense of taxpayers, the majority of whom have no pensions. 
 Mr. Keith, a Massachusetts Republican, is the chairman of the National Committee on Public Employee Pensions, a hardy band of a half-dozen or so aging guardians of the public purse who want to take a little of the fizz out of federal retiree COLA's.
"COLA's are supposed to keep up with the cost of living, not the cost of living it up," he says.
Mr. Keith is almost 86, his back a little bent, his hair a wisp. His train of thought sometimes run off the track as he travels down mental paths where for three decades he has carefully stored detail after damning detail about COLA's. When he gets sidetracked, he lowers his head and presses his index finger against his lip, as if he were pushing a tricky button that, touched just right, could illuminate the elusive memory.
Should someone drop a word as a reminder, Mr. Keith lights up and resumes his remarks with the fervor of a high school debater.
His own pensions tell his tale.
After just 14 years in the House, his Congressional pension started when he was defeated in 1972. It paid $1,560 that first month. Fully adjusted for inflation it should pay $6,184 today, but he gets $7,172 instead, an extra $988, or an increase of 16 percent in his retirement pay beyond the increase in the cost of living.
His monthly Social Security check, which started in 1980 at $620, should pay $1,324. Mr. Keith gets $1,421, an extra $97, or 7.3 percent.
Mr. Keith also collects a pension as a widower because his first wife worked for the Central Intelligence Agency for 25 years. That federal pension was $620 a month in 1989, when she died, and should pay $880, adjusted for inflation. Instead he receives $934, an extra $54 or 6 percent.
ONLY his military pension falls short. It started at $550 a month in 1976, when he was 60, and now pays $1,660, shy of the $1,701 needed to adjust fully for inflation. Still, all those pensions add up to $134,244 a year.
Mr. Keith, a former life insurance and annuity salesman, figures he contributed less than $34,000 for these benefits during his working life, much of it in Social Security taxes. To get back each year nearly four times what he paid in a lifetime is, to Mr. Keith, fiscal folly. Excessive COLA's add up to billions of dollars when all retired federal workers are counted.
In 1964 he was one of three Republicans in Congress who broke party ranks to support Medicare. It was, he says, his proudest moment.
"I have no objection to taxing people to pay for services the public needs," Mr. Keith says. "What I object to is spending that wastes the people's taxes and treats taxpayers unfairly."
But he also voted for COLA's, not realizing until later that the formulas used to calculate them came with a jolt of extra compensation. Congress has since taken some of richness out of federal pensions, but not enough to satisfy Mr. Keith.
His wife of the last eight years, Barbara, who owns their beach cottage, lets him take over the living room three days a week, provided that the piles of papers are put away by supper time. With help from his assistant, Helen G. Westergard, Mr. Keith works against God's looming deadline on what he hopes will be a book that will awaken taxpayers to the unfairness of COLA's.
 Ms. Westergard's pension illustrates the inequities. She worked 10 years and 8 months, after a divorce in middle age, as a justice of the peace and town clerk in Marion, Mass. Her state pension and Social Security together come to less than $1,000 a month, not enough to live on without her part-time job.
Every six weeks or so, Mr. Keith flies to Washington to attend one forum or another, and when the chance comes for those in the audience to speak, he rises to lambaste COLA's.
Sometimes he is treated like an old crank, other times like a political Don Quixote. Reporters rarely return his calls, which he attributes to a news culture that forgets that readers, viewers and listeners want substance more than scandal.
And what of his own windfall? Mr. Keith says he spends part of it on paying Ms. Westergard and on other expenses of promoting his cause.
Why not just enjoy his unexpected good fortune and live it up a little?
"How would I live it up?" he muses, that bent index finger moving towards his lip. "Maybe I could buy some oil paintings and hang them on the wall."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hastings Keith (Jared Leeds for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COST OF LIVING (92%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (75%); SOFT DRINKS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%) GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC EMPLOYEE PENSIONS 

ALCEE L HASTINGS (72%) KEITH, HASTING; JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



344 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
U.S. Law on Trade Fines Is Challenged Overseas

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, July 13 

 BODY:
The European Union and eight nonmember countries have asked the World Trade Organization to rule on a United States law allowing fines from antidumping cases to be paid to the American companies that started the complaints.
At issue is an amendment passed by Congress last fall, sponsored by Senator Robert Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, that changed the law barring the sale of foreign goods at prices below their cost of production in American markets. The Byrd amendment allows antidumping fines collected by the United States Customs Service to be diverted to the companies that filed complaints against the overseas companies from the Treasury. 
 The request, made on Thursday by the Europeans and other countries, including Japan, potentially opens a new area of trade tensions. The 15-member union and the United States have been striving to present a united front to start a new round of market-opening global trade talks. They have settled one prolonged dispute over banana imports in Europe.
 But several contentious trading issues remain just below the surface, including Europe's successful challenge to multibillion-dollar United States tax breaks for exporting companies. Foreign trading partners have criticized the recent decision by President Bush to push forward on investigating steel imports, fearing that it will curb the products. That combined with the European challenge to the Byrd amendment -- made after consultations with American counterparts proved fruitless -- may well revive tensions.
"The Byrd amendment is not a U.S.-E.U. problem but a U.S.-rest of the world problem," Pascal Lamy, the European Union trade commissioner, said in announcing the decision late on Thursday. "Our unprecedented joint action will send a very clear signal to the U.S. of the need to repeal legislation that so clearly flies in the face of the letter and spirit of the W.T.O. law."
 The United States system creates a "perverse incentive system" to reward companies for bringing complaints, the Europeans said.
 More than 2,000 American companies are in line to receive fines levied under the Byrd amendment. Steel companies, some of which hail from Senator Byrd's home state, head the list of corporations that have won trade complaints. Trade statistics show that of the 360 punitive duty cases that have been approved for payments, 46 percent were from steel companies. 
 In the first six months of the amendment's existence, $50 billion in fines have been collected, but the law provides that the money cannot be distributed until Sept. 30, the end of the fiscal year.
 Joining the union and Japan in bringing the complaint were Australia, Brazil, Chile, India, Indonesia, South Korea and Thailand. In addition, Canada and Mexico may join with them in September. The two countries had thought they were exempt from the provisions of the Byrd amendment because they were members of the North American Free Trade Agreement, but they were not exempt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); APPROVALS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); STATISTICS (60%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DUMPING (TRADE TERM); FINES (PENALTIES); PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (57%) EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: ROBERT BYRD (89%); PASCAL LAMY (58%) OLSON, ELIZABETH; BYRD, ROBERT C (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); INDIA (70%); THAILAND (65%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



345 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Added Rights For Indians Are Ratified In Mexico 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, July 13 

 BODY:
With the approval of more than half its 31 state legislatures, Mexico ratified landmark constitutional changes on Thursday aimed at granting 10 million Indians new rights and protections against discrimination.
 Of the 25 legislatures that have considered the amendments to the Constitution, 17 have approved them. 
 Yet indigenous leaders overwhelmingly rejected the amendments as an affront and said they would undermine government efforts to resolve a seven-year-old Indian uprising in Chiapas. 
"The time has come to warn society that this reform, if approved, would be born dead," the governors of Chiapas and Oaxaca -- which have the largest Indian populations -- wrote in a letter that newspapers published on Thursday. The governors added that Indian organizations had "made clear that this law does not recognize the legal rights of Indian people; does not guarantee economic autonomy, nor does it make reconciliation possible among indigenous groups that have resorted to armed rebellion to demand radical changes in their living conditions."
The amendments, forged five years ago in peace talks between the government and the Zapatista rebels of Chiapas, were presented to Congress last year by President Vicente Fox, who had promised a quick and peaceful resolution of the Chiapas conflict.
The president dismantled military checkpoints across Chiapas and complied with Zapatista demands to close seven military bases there. Risking significant power, Mr. Fox urged Congress to support the changes, which grant limited autonomy to Indian communities. 
At the end of a march on Mexico City, Zapatista leaders addressed Congress to demand the passage of a law that, among other changes, would have let Indian communities follow traditional customs in electing officials and enforcing laws. Critics of the original rights bill had worried that it would balkanize the nation and reduce government power to uphold federal laws in Indian areas. Many worried that it would weaken protections for Indian women.
After days of debate, a coalition of legislators from the Institutional Revolutionary Party and Mr. Fox's National Action Party significantly changed the proposals and pushed them through Congress. It was then sent to the states. The approval of 16 legislatures was needed to ratify the amendments. 
Indian rights leaders, furious over the changes, conducted protests to defeat it. The Zapatistas cut off negotiations with the government. 
Governments in eight states, representing more than half the Indian population, rejected the changes. But on Thursday, the amendments were ratified by legislators in Michoacan. The vote, 18 to 11, was taken after meetings in which a steady stream of Indian leaders expressed firm opposition.
Legislators discussed the bill for five hours before voting. Observers were denied access to legislative chambers by at least a dozen security guards. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); APPROVALS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%) CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS; INDIANS, AMERICAN; DISCRIMINATION 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (78%) THOMPSON, GINGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) MEXICO; CHIAPAS (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



346 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
No Bailout Is Planned For Argentina

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER with RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration and the International Monetary Fund said yesterday that there was no special assistance in the works for Argentina, putting a damper on an early stock and bond rally in Argentina and other emerging markets.
 Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, told reporters that "Argentina is trying to take some steps to deal with its economic and financial situation and that is really the best course of action." 
 In addition, a spokesman said the I.M.F. would not speed up the release of future aid for Argentina or consider additional aid. Such a proposal "is not on the table," an I.M.F. spokesman, Thomas Dawson, said, according to Bloomberg News. 
After sharp declines on Thursday, both stock and bond prices in Argentina rose early yesterday after a new proposal for cutting government spending by $1.5 billion gained some support. But given the tough political situation in Argentina, that optimism dwindled quickly. The comments from Washington did not help. The price of the closely watched floating rate bond due in 2005 was up sharply in the morning, then fell, finishing the day just below Thursday's close with its yield at a stratospheric 36 percent, about 32 percentage points over a comparable United States Treasury security. The MerVal stock index ended the day up 5.6 percent, only its third positive trading day in the last 15.
The sharp decline in Argentine markets on Thursday came after the economy minister, Domingo Cavallo, proposed a broad $1.5 billion cut in government spending as a last-ditch effort to prevent the government from defaulting on about $130 billion in mostly foreign debt.
Although the proposal gained important political backing from the governing alliance yesterday, many analysts are still skeptical about the chances for actually making the spending cuts and wonder if they would be enough, even if achieved.
That is why some analysts said that a default on Argentina's foreign debt and a devaluation of the currency, which is now pegged to the United States dollar, are still possible. "Given the prospects of further recessionary pressures and the political situation, both are fairly likely today," said Jose M. Barrionuevo, director of emerging market strategy and economics at BNP Paribas.
The problem is that the financial crisis is becoming so severe that there is no solution, he said. With the sharp rise in interest rates, the recession the country has been in for three years will deepen and tax revenue will decline. With that decrease the budget deficit gap will widen. And this means the country could not have the money to meet its foreign debt payments, even if it could implement the new round of spending cuts.
At the same time, Argentine and foreign investors who are worried will take their money out of the country by exchanging it for dollars. Mr. Barrionuevo estimates that Argentine dollar reserves have fallen by about $3 billion in just over a week. That capital flight could put enough pressure on the peso to force the government to devalue.
Another worry is whether there will be any additional aid for Argentina. Unlike the Clinton administration, the Bush administration took office skeptical about international bailouts. And while it has backed international finance assistance to Turkey, it remains disinclined to offer money to developing nations, either on its own or through the International Monetary Fund, in any but the most dire circumstances, administration officials said.
Paul H. O'Neill, the Treasury secretary, has expressed concern that investors have come to expect bailouts whenever financial problems arise in emerging markets, a problem economists call moral hazard. He has sought to focus attention on the need for governments to address their economic policy problems before seeking international help.
Treasury Department officials said they did not believe that every instance in which problems in one country create difficulties in other countries or in world financial markets merited intervention by the United States and the monetary fund. In some cases, they said, the best course of action is to allow economies and markets to work out the problems on their own.
But the Bush administration's philosophy has yet to be tested by a global panic of the sort that plagued both emerging markets and the United States in 1998. During the worst of that crisis, many investors became so concerned that they sold all but the very safest of debt securities, leaving the financial markets almost frozen several times.
In fact, the fallout from Argentina's financial turmoil has not been as severe as in past episodes, including Russia's default on its debt in 1998. And the positive moves in some other emerging markets yesterday re-enforced that point.
The Mexican peso rose slightly yesterday after falling 3.4 percent the last two weeks. And the Mexican stock market fell just 0.3 percent. Although the Brazilian currency, the real, continued to slide to new lows, falling 1 percent yesterday, the stock market rose 1.2 percent. In other emerging markets, the Turkish lira rallied against the dollar as did the South African rand.
Also, some analysts do not think the problems in Argentina and the currency decline in Brazil will have a significant impact on the American banks with big exposures there.
According to analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, FleetBoston, Citibank and J. P. Morgan Chase have the biggest exposures in Latin American securities. But in a recent report they said that "trends so far this year of recession in Argentina and currency devaluation in Brazil should not have a major earnings per share effect on the banks, based on past experience."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A line of job seekers in Buenos Aires wait to apply for a single position. The Argentine economy minister, Domingo Cavallo, is trying to solidify support for $1.5 billion in spending cuts to avert a default or devaluation. (Associated Press)(pg. C2) Chart: "CURRENCIES"Graph tracks Brazilian Real to the dollar, since January 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); RECESSION (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TRENDS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); POLITICS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN AID 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (56%); BNP PARIBAS SA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (52%); BNP (BIT) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); RICE, CONDOLEEZZA; FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) ARGENTINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



347 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Can Communism Compete With the Olympics? 

BYLINE:  By Zbigniew Brzezinski; Zbigniew Brzezinski was national security adviser in the Carter administration.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
I was deeply involved in the decision that President Jimmy Carter made to boycott the Olympics in Moscow in 1980. In 2001, were I on the Olympic Committee, I would have voted to award the Olympics to Beijing as the committee did yesterday, though with serious reservations.
 In 1980 we were very conscious of several critical considerations. The Soviet Union had just engaged in a direct military aggression against a weaker neighbor: Soviet tanks and paratroopers had invaded Afghanistan in December 1979, and the Soviet military was engaged in bloody massacres of the Afghans on a scale even larger than currently in Chechnya. In these circumstances we had to react in some fashion short of war. We decided on sanctions, and we felt that it would be unfair to our farmers and our industrial workers if our athletes were to act as if nothing atrocious had happened. 
 In addition, we were very much aware of the fact that the Soviet leaders were planning to stage the Olympics as a triumphant ideological festival. At the time, they were convinced that the Soviet Union was gaining a decisive strategic edge over the United States, and they were aggressively engaging in military activities in Africa and supporting Cuban efforts in Central America.
Last but not least, we also remembered that Hitler had staged the 1936 Olympics in Berlin as a testimonial to Nazi power. All of the foregoing led us to the decision that we could not participate, and we were joined in the boycott by more than 50 countries. As a result, the Moscow Olympics were a flop.
The situation with China today is not only different but more complex. There is no doubt that grievous human rights abuses are being committed by the Chinese government. Political dissidents, some religious groups and even foreign scholars are being harassed. A number have been imprisoned. The Falun Gong practitioners have been subjected to particularly cruel treatment. 
Tibet continues to be repressed, and its ancient culture is being overwhelmed by a deliberate policy of settling Chinese colonists in that region. The regime as a whole is still committed to one-party dictatorship.
However, one has to recognize that China is nonetheless becoming a much more open society. Its impressive economic development has brought about an increased engagement with the rest of the world. Millions of Chinese now have access to satellite television dishes, even to the Internet. 
Pressures for democratization are becoming stronger. There is a growing sense that Chinese Communism has become a facade for a society that no longer operates according to Marxist tenets. The current Chinese leadership is the third ruling Communist generation. It will soon be giving way to the fourth, and it will be doing so in a period of change that may prove as volatile as that which swept away the Soviet bloc only a decade ago. The Olympics in Beijing may be a triumph for China, but by intensifying the pressures for change the games are quite unlikely to be a triumph for China's waning Communism. In fact, the Games may accelerate its fading. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); BOYCOTTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); ARMED FORCES (71%); FACTORY WORKERS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); RELIGION (63%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (60%) OLYMPIC GAMES; BOYCOTTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (88%) CARTER, JIMMY; BRZEZINSKI, ZBIGNIEW 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (56%) CHINA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); TIBET (79%); AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (76%) CHINA; RUSSIA; BEIJING (CHINA); MOSCOW (RUSSIA)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



348 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-7

Bush to Fight Phasing Out Of Fossil Fuel Subsidies
The Bush administration plans to oppose an international drive to phase out fossil fuel subsidies and increase financing for nonpolluting energy sources worldwide. The proposals are contained in a report prepared for the Group of 8 industrial nations, which meets in Italy next week. A1

Russia Unclear on U.S. Plan
The defense minister said Russia was confused on whether the Bush administration was planning to withdraw from, negotiate changes to or simply "bump up against" the Antiballistic Missile Treaty in testing a missile defense system. A3

New Court's Fate in Doubt
The European Union, whose 15 members support a permanent International Criminal Court, fears that the Bush administration's active opposition could undermine a campaign to get enough ratifications over the next year to get the tribunal up and running, diplomats say. A4

Hopes Dim for Ulster Talks
Last-ditch talks on keeping Northern Ireland's Catholic-Protestant government from collapsing were to continue today in an atmosphere of tension and gloom after rioting left more than 100 police officers injured. A6

Indian Rights Ratified in Mexico
Mexico has ratified landmark constitutional changes intended to grant 10 million Indians new rights and protections against discrimination. But indigenous leaders overwhelmingly rejected the amendments as an affront and said they would undermine government efforts to resolve the seven-year-old Chiapas uprising. A4

More South Africa Evictions
The government continued to demolish shacks erected by homeless blacks on vacant land outside Johannesburg, and some people complained that officials seemed to care more about landowners and investors than the poor. A6

Pakistani Leader In India
Gen. Pervez Musharraf -- the Pakistani military ruler identified by most Indians as the mastermind of Pakistan's incursion into Indian territory in 1999 -- arrived in New Delhi for three days of talks. A3

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A8-12

Secretary Denies Farmers Review of Water Cutoff
Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton rebuffed an effort by farmers to have the cabinet-level Endangered Species Committee convened in hope of gaining a reversal of a decision to shut off irrigation water to about 200,000 acres of farmland in the Klamath Basin, along the Oregon-California border. The water is being withheld during a drought to protect two species of fish. A11

F.B.I. Nominee Has Cancer
Robert S. Mueller III, 56, chosen by President Bush to be the director of the F.B.I., has prostate cancer, but his doctors say it should not affect his ability to serve. Senators said the issue was unlikely to affect his confirmation prospects. A11

Gesture to Restore a Record
The secretary of the Navy has ordered that a memorandum be placed in the file of Capt. Charles B. McVay III reflecting Congressional absolution of his actions in commanding the doomed cruiser Indianapolis at the end of World War II. Nearly 900 of the 1,169-man crew perished, and McVay was court-martialed. He committed suicide in 1968. A9

No Retreat on Campaign Bill
Representative Christopher Shay, Republican of Connecticut, and other supporters of the campaign finance legislation that faltered in the House on Thursday vowed to bring the issue back to the floor even if that required further confrontation with the Republican leadership. A10

Dispute Over Cathedral Design
The Roman Catholic archbishop of Milwaukee, Rembert G. Weakland, said he had told a high-ranking Vatican official that a $4.5 million renovation of Milwaukee's cathedral would proceed despite the official's criticism and an effort by conservative lay Catholics to halt the project. A8

3 Years in Road Rage Dog Killing
Andrew Burnett, 28, who was convicted of felony animal cruelty for hurling a dog to its death during a traffic dispute with its owner in San Jose, Calif., was sentenced to the maximum of three years in prison. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Bloomberg Offers Glimpse Of His Financial Picture
Michael R. Bloomberg, the Republican businessman running for mayor, disclosed data about his financial holdings as required by law. He paid 39.56 percent of his income in taxes last year, essentially placing him in the highest bracket, but he did not offer as nearly as many specifics as other candidates have. Campaign officials said there was concern that too detailed a disclosure could affect his private company, Bloomberg L.P. A1

Bomb Plot Conviction
A federal jury in Manhattan convicted Mokhtar Haouari, 32, of conspiring to provide support for a plan by Algerian terrorists to enter the United States from Canada and set off a bomb during millennium celebrations. He faces a maximum sentence of more than 50 years in prison. B1

Toll Booth Speed Limits
E-ZPass users in New Jersey who go through toll plazas faster than 5 m.p.h. will risk losing their electronic tags starting tomorrow. Critics say the rules defeat the purpose of the pass program -- expediting traffic. B1

Welfare Card Plan Is Set Aside
Pataki administration officials withdrew a proposed $30 million contract with Citigroup for a network of special debit cards for poor families, saying there were doubts about stores' acceptance of them. B1

Religion Journal B6

SPORTS D1-8

The Games Go to Beijing
Beijing was named the host of the 2008 Summer Olympics. A1

ARTS & IDEAS B9-20

SCIENCE/HEALTH

World's 3rd Set of Septuplets
Five boys and two girls, each weighing 2 to 2.4 pounds, were born in Washington. The mother's health was reported to be good, and the babies have an 85 percent chance of survival. The family's identity was not disclosed. A8

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Big Fine in Bank Secrecy Case
Federal and New York regulators ordered U.S. Trust to pay $10 million in fines to settle accusations that it had violated bank secrecy laws and failed to keep complete records in a special trading unit. C1

New Signs of Weak Economy
Reports on retail sales, inflation and consumer confidence suggested that a much anticipated upturn would not materialize until the fall, if then. C1

The Nasdaq rose 9.05 points, to 2,084.79; the Dow gained 60.07 points, to 10,539.06; and the S.& P. 500 added 7.54 points, to 1,215.68. C3

No Bailout for Argentina
The Bush administration and the I.M.F. said there was no special assistance in the works for Argentina, putting a damper on an early stock and bond rally in Argentina and other emerging markets. C1

No Appeal of Microsoft Ruling
The federal government and 18 states said they would not appeal a federal appeals court decision that reversed an order to break up Microsoft, and they asked the court to accelerate the remaining proceedings. C4

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES A13

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Medicare's drug problem; the disappearance of Chandra Levy; misguided sanctions.
Column: Anthony Lewis.

Bridge B16
TV Listings B20
Crossword B18
Weather D8
Public Lives A8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); EVICTION (74%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (71%); NAVIES (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); IRRIGATION (67%); RIOTS (66%); DROUGHT (66%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (64%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (64%); FISHES (60%); PROSTATE CANCER (60%); MEN'S HEALTH (60%); PROSTATE DISEASE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); MEXICO (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



349 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Man Is Guilty In Bomb Plot At Millennium 

BYLINE:  By LAURA MANSNERUS

 BODY:
An Algerian-born shopkeeper was convicted in federal court yesterday of conspiring to provide support for a plan by an Algerian terrorist to enter the United States from Canada and set off a bomb at Los Angeles International Airport in December 1999.
 Mokhtar Haouari, 32, was found guilty of conspiracy on the basis of his dealings with two men who talked of joining an Islamic holy war, but he was acquitted of the more serious charge of actually providing support for the operation. One of the men was caught trying to cross the border near Seattle with a trunk full of explosives and a plan to bomb the airport during millennium celebrations in the United States. 
 The verdict in Federal District Court in Manhattan came after a three-week trial in which both of the men testified against Mr. Haouari, who ran a gift shop in Montreal and as a sideline dealt in false identification documents, as well as check and credit card scams. He was convicted yesterday of four counts of bank and document fraud. 
Mr. Haouari's trial was highlighted by revelations about what came to be known as the millennium bombing plot. When the would-be bomber, Ahmed Ressam, was arrested at the border on Dec. 14, 1999, the Federal Bureau of Investigation started a sweeping search for suspects and information about the plot. Investigators later came to believe that the plot was linked to a worldwide network of terrorists orchestrated by Osama bin Laden, the Saudi exile. 
But even though the Canadian and American authorities made arrests quickly, many details of the bombing plan, including the target, remained mysterious. Mr. Ressam kept silent throughout his trial and conviction in Los Angeles three months ago, and agreed only last month to cooperate with the government. The third man, Abdel Ghani Meskini, agreed in March to cooperate with the government in a plea agreement. 
During Mr. Haouari's trial, Mr. Ressam disclosed that he had chosen the Los Angeles airport because, he said, "an airport is sensitive politically and economically" and told of concocting explosives with agricultural chemicals in Vancouver.
He also described his training in guerrilla camps in Afghanistan that American intelligence officials say are run by Mr. bin Laden. He said an Algerian commander had given him $12,000 before his return to Canada in early 1999, along with instructions to rob banks to support a cell of "jihad fighters" there. The men who were supposed to join him apparently never made it to Canada. 
The case against Mr. Haouari turned on how much he knew about the millennium plan. Mr. Ressam said he told Mr. Haouari that he had "dangerous business in America" and needed money and false identification documents. Mr. Haouari gave him $3,000 and a fake driver's license and recruited Mr. Meskini, an old schoolmate who was living in Brooklyn, to help Mr. Ressam once he reached the United States.
But the only recorded conversation that was put into evidence, though intriguing, was ambiguous about Mr. Haouari's role in the plot. Even Mr. Ressam insisted that he had told no one, including Mr. Haouari, what he intended to do in the United States.
Much of the testimony concerned the petty criminal enterprises of a loose group of Algerians in Montreal. The prosecution portrayed the groups' bank and credit card fraud as a source of income for terrorist activities, but it was not clear that Mr. Haouari lent any of his ill-gotten gains to any particular plan. 
Although the charge of aiding and abetting was the more serious, the fraud convictions will add considerably to Mr. Haouari's total sentence. Two of the fraud charges carry a maximum sentence of 25 years each. The conspiracy charge carries a five-year sentence. 
Jurors interviewed after the verdict said Mr. Haouari should have inferred that Mr. Ressam, who had advanced training in explosives, was going to commit a bombing. That finding was enough to support a conviction on the conspiracy charge, but not on the substantive charge of aiding and abetting the plot, which would have required direct knowledge. One juror, Gary Kibble, said the final question the jurors put to themselves was whether Mr. Haouari thought he was just helping a friend, or if he knew he was abetting a terrorist. 
Other jurors said they took away very little information about wider terrorist activities. "I hope the government knows a hell of a lot more than it was telling here," said Christopher Lofting, the jury foreman.
Indeed, Mr. bin Laden's name was never spoken during the trial. When Mr. Ressam was asked whether the men he identified as leaders of the guerrilla camp, who went by the names Abu Zubaida and Ben Sheik, were "affiliated with a terrorist organization," he replied, "Yes." But the questioning ended there.
Mr. Lofting rolled his eyes when asked about Mr. Ressam's account, which included testimony that he chose the Los Angeles airport because he had been there before, missed his first flight to the West Coast and ran in panic when border guards asked him questions. 
"We got the general impression that he was a freelancer," Mr. Lofting said. "He was here to prove himself. If this was not the gang that couldn't shoot straight, I don't know what is."
Mr. Haouari, who heard the proceedings through a French interpreter, had no visible reaction to the verdict. But his lawyer, Daniel J. Ollen, said later that his client was "very, very upset." 
"It sounds like a partial victory, but it's not," Mr. Ollen said. "He's going away for a long time." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); MILLENNIUM (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); EXPLOSIVES (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); RETAILERS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); RELIGION (76%); ARRESTS (76%); COUNTERFEITING (73%); ACQUITTAL (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); BANK ROBBERY (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001 



350 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Designing Women 

BYLINE:  By Laura Shapiro; Laura Shapiro's book, "Perfection Salad: Women and Cooking at the Turn of the Century," has just been reissued.

 BODY:
 A PERFECT FIT
Clothes, Character, and the Promise of America.
By Jenna Weissman Joselit.
Illustrated. 257 pp. New York:
Metropolitan Books/Henry Holt & Company. $26.
 SHORTLY after the turn of the last century, the industrial revolution finally got around to women's clothing. Factory-made pants and suits for men had been available for years, but women were still outfitting themselves the hard way: they pinned and fitted and stitched, laboriously and endlessly, day after day and long into the evening. They loved ready-to-wear.
But it wasn't just the delightful new habit of buying instead of making the family's clothes that spurred Americans to start thinking, talking, arguing and writing about clothing as they never had before. What captured people's imaginations was the moral potential of fashion, beginning with its democratic reach up and down the social scale and across the nation. Designs that started in New York could be copied by one manufacturer after another, each knockoff made to sell more cheaply than the last, until good-looking garments were hanging on the racks of dime stores from coast to coast. Now anybody, it seemed, could dress well -- could dress, that is, as if he or she enjoyed all the blessings that God so wisely bestowed upon righteous Americans.
As Jenna Weissman Joselit explains in her witty and enlightening new book, "A Perfect Fit: Clothes, Character, and the Promise of America," this was the moment when reformers, educators, writers and advertisers set about "transforming personal appearance into a civic virtue." "No housewife in America today need look dowdy and frumpy, unless she wants to be that way," Nell Donnelly asserted in 1927. Donnelly was the Kansas City homemaker who, deeply frustrated at not having anything attractive to wear while going about her work, invented the housedress.
Nowadays we tend to assume that getting dressed in the morning, be it ever so humbly in jeans and a T-shirt, has no higher purpose than displaying our favorite image of ourselves. But during the decades Joselit examines here, from the 1890's through the 1930's, fashion had quite a different responsibility. The social and economic changes spawned by the industrial revolution, the emancipation of blacks and the arrival of wave after wave of immigrants all contributed to a national conundrum: What was America? Who were Americans?
Clothing, Joselit writes, "was no private affair, subject to fancy or the whim of the moment. What one wore was a public construct, bound up with an enduring moral order." Fashion was an instrument to help people fit in, not stand out. An immigrant donning a starched collar made himself acceptable; a young black woman in the dignified dress of a schoolteacher exuded propriety. And newly hatched citizens weren't the only ones who needed prompting about what to wear. The fashion writer Mary Brooks Picken suggested that all women keep in mind a kind of shopper's pledge of allegiance, which ran as follows: "As an American woman, I pledge myself to strive always to acquire and wear only such clothes as are appropriate and individually becoming; to avoid extremes in design and color; to respect my clothes enough to care for them to the best of my ability; and to select my clothes so that, in fairness to them, they may give back to me in service more than they cost me in money."
Joselit, the historian who brought us blintzes inscribed with the Ten Commandments in her unforgettable book "The Wonders of America: Reinventing Jewish Culture, 1880-1950," this time scrutinizes dresses, suits, hats, shoes and jewelry to find out what it was Americans hoped to see when they looked in the mirror. One of her most fascinating case studies concerns women's hats, which precipitated a major social crisis around 1910.
Clergymen had long been annoyed by flamboyant headgear; now they began speaking out furiously against the gigantic dioramas that bobbed into church each Sunday. Spanning two feet in width and three feet in height, the hats carried a massive load of flowers, plumes, bows and ruffles. Pastors complained that the hats obstructed people's views and were far too ostentatious to be truly Christian. Worse, they annoyed male churchgoers, already so scarce the clergy feared they might disappear entirely. Out on the street, people worried about being stuck with hatpins; in theaters, the management ordered women to take off their hats when the curtain went up. Subway riders said the hats crowded other passengers and posed a danger to people waiting on the platform. In short, women in big hats took up too much room.
On its editorial pages, The New York Times begged women to give them up, but the paper had no more luck than the pastors. Why were women so stubborn on this point? Joselit suggests that women treasured hats precisely for the public role they played: they were signs of a woman's uniqueness, offering the world a chance to see who she was when her imagination ran free. The rest of her costume was governed by numerous codes of proper femininity -- as was the rest of her life. And, though Joselit doesn't mention it, maybe women simply enjoyed taking up too much room for a change. Especially on the subway.
After World War II, questions of national identity shifted to the political front, and fashion lost its association with the commonweal. A great many formal costumes gave way to innovations that once would have incited passionate debate: Bermuda shorts appeared on legs of every size and age, women adopted slacks and men went to work in wash-and-wear suits. Only in the 1960's did the nation start arguing about its clothes with the old fervor, using fashion to probe what it meant to be an American at a time when all standards were under siege. "Women put on miniskirts, took off their bras and claimed the pants suit as their own; men let down their hair and wore bell-bottomed trousers festooned with flowers," Joselit writes. It made for a great dust-up; but, as she points out, it was the last one.
Clearly, fashion no longer had the power to unite Americans under the banner of right living, though it took a designer to say so. Rudi Gernreich, proud father of the topless bathing suit, sounded the knell in 1969 when he decreed, "Morality is individual." Thanks to Joselit's peerless gift for turning up amazing artifacts where few historians bother to dig, we now know what morality looked like before Gernreich -- when it was a shared ideal, that is, and we could find it at Macy's. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); APPAREL MFG (78%); READY TO WEAR (78%); WRITERS (78%); WOMEN (77%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (72%); MEN'S CLOTHING (72%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

PERSON: SHAPIRO, LAURA; JOSELIT, JENNA WEISSMAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%)

TITLE: PERFECT FIT, A (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



351 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER; 
Looking Back: 14 Years of Tips

BYLINE:  By BETSY WADE 

 BODY:
WHEN Paul Grimes, the originator of the Practical Traveler column, turned it over to me 14 years ago, he said the most important task was to read the fine print on everything -- tickets, insurance fliers, tour brochures, guarantees. In the big type, he said, everyone fibs. Typical is the "nine night" tour that the small type clearly shows includes one night in an airline seat.
 It's a good first principle. And now that it is time for me to yield this space, I thought to compress into the allotted 1,200 words other nuggets I have derived from 613 weeks -- I did take vacations -- of sometimes furious research. So here goes. 
 The term "direct flight" is nonsense. It's a nonstop flight or it is not. I have been shifted to other airlines as well as other planes on trips labeled direct flights. 
When you walk out into a foreign city, one where English is not the first language, snag a business card or a brochure from the desk of your hotel. It will save you from the terrors Jean Simmons suffered in "So Long at the Fair," when her hotel room apparently disappeared.
Taxes can destroy bargain rates. A car rented for $179.99 a week in Minneapolis will run $245.10 by the time the taxes and fees are piled on. A hotel room in New York City advertised at, say $129, will cost a somewhat less reasonable $148 a night after the taxes of 13.25 percent plus $2 are added. This could be a particularly unwelcome surprise. Ask about taxes when you call.
Don't let gloaters spoil your trip when they boast about the better exchange rate they got for their lire. Yes, keep your eye on the fees at places with names like KashPoynte. But even if you pay too much once, don't agonize over $2 wasted on a $500 exchange. Honor is not at stake.
Don't pack anything you cannot bear to part with. I still remember seeing a gold charm bracelet at the Unclaimed Baggage store in Scottsboro, Ala. "I bet they cried when they lost that one," the clerk said.
Most travelers have to discover this for themselves, but perhaps one or two people can be spared the embarrassment: that string over the shower in the European hotel is not the light cord. It's an emergency bell. If you pull it, people will be along when you least want them.
If you are going to anything other than a tropical spot, pack gloves: hands can get cold on the most unexpected dates. And mittens are warmer than gloves, if less chic.
Take a map. Even if you've driven the route a hundred times, accidents and detours may dispatch you to Terra Incognita.
When flying for weddings, graduations and other unalterable major dates, go a day in advance. You can probably recover the day of used-up vacation, but not the event.
When checking a suitcase, put a card inside with your name, destination hotel and phone number.
Carrying extra film is a good idea. Carrying extra camera batteries is a great idea. Shopping for an obscure size or special film where you do not speak the language is hard.
If you didn't notice on checking in, you can tell it's an economy hotel by the thinness of the towels.
Check your passport expiration date now, not the day before you leave. If yours expires in the next few months, renew now by mail rather than play the costly game of beat the deadline later. Most photo developing shops now take proper passport pictures.
There is no fast lane in a traffic jam. Or an airline check-in line. So relax. Sing. Play a tape.
Get the name of the person who takes your hotel or tour reservation. If the computer system digests badly, that name will uphold your credibility and may even help another employee trace your record.
There is no more free lunch, but the International Association for Medical Assistance to Travelers does send a directory of English-speaking doctors overseas who agree to limit their fees for office and hotel calls. Write to the organization at 417 Center Street, Lewiston, N.Y. 14092, call (716) 754-4883, or see www.iamat.org. No surprise, the organization lives by contributions, and you will be asked.
What's a double room in another country? It may have one wide bed or two narrow ones. If it matters to you, ask. Similarly, a British hotel room described as having a private bath may indeed have a bath but not a toilet. Ask.

What to Take -- and Leave
 Carry two credit cards separately when you travel. If one is stolen, and the account is frozen, you have another way to feed and house yourself.
In an airport crisis, blowing up at the gate agent will not help. It can hurt. On an occasion of awful weather at La Guardia some years ago, the man in line in front of me lost it and called the gate agent an obscene word. She told him to step aside before she called the police. He became more objectionable. I told her that if she needed a witness, I would be available. Most of us who stuck it out got on the flight, when there finally was one. He was not aboard, and may have been in detention.
Don't pack brand new shoes. Take only those that are already broken in.
The little note pad with the name and phone number of the hotel in Florence is meant to be taken with you. I have a rack of hotel note pads more treasured than objects from lost arks. When these are given to friends who ask for a recommendation, the hotel will recoup its investment many times over.
Don't pack more than you can carry up two flights of stairs.
Arrive at a hotel with some singles in your pocket; save yourself from groping and embarrassment.
Computer systems get knocked out: At hotels, at airports, at car rental counters and even in the stock exchange and A.T.M. networks. Carry a few extra dollars; do not rely utterly on electronic lifelines. And if you have a faxed confirmation sheet, it may get you into a hotel room while the reservation system is brought back up.
It is a dark topic, but children who take airplane trips alone often experience many more difficulties than airlines, parents, safety advocates and airport managers want to acknowledge. Parents should do whatever is humanly possible to avoid sending a child alone by plane before the child is old enough to ride alone on public transportation in a city. Some children are ready at 14; some are still uncertain at 16.
Airline pillows do not get fresh cases after each flight. They may not even get fresh cases each day. If this bothers you, take your own pillow or case.
Your bank may sock you with a fee of as much as $5 for getting cash from your account through an A.T.M. abroad, but those machines installed at overseas banks do not hit you for the annoying $1.50 or $2 you pay at home for using another bank's machine.
Hotels in the United States are required to provide a card by the room phone stating the telephone charges. If it's not there, ask the front desk for one before you hook up your computer.
A journalism teacher from The Daily News admonished our class at Columbia University many years ago, in colorful language, to let it enter our heads once in a great while that we might be wrong. That's a good thought for coping while traveling.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AIR SERVICE (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (72%); MINNESOTA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



352 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 2900 words

HEADLINE: A Bounty From Uneven Terrain 

BYLINE:  By MARY TAYLOR SIMETI; MARY TAYLOR SIMETI's latest book about Sicily, "Travels With a Medieval Queen" (Farrar, Straus & Giroux), is to be published in November.

 BODY:
ABOUT 15 years ago, I received a letter from a reader in the United States asking for names of country inns where she and a friend, both of them great walkers, could stay in Sicily. After some thought and with considerable surprise I had to answer that there weren't any.
 Were she to write today, I could give her a different answer: country inns have not taken over the island, but agriturismo has. The guest-farm movement that started in the north, encouraged by the Italian government as a source of supplementary income to small farmers, was officially adopted by the Sicilian regional government in 1994, and now almost a hundred farms participate. My husband, Tonino, who is an agricultural economist as well as a farmer, was enthusiastic from the very beginning. But I -- who would rather write than cope with guests (and I knew immediately that it would be I who would be doing the coping) -- turned my back on the phenomenon. 
 Curiosity recently got the better of me, however, so last winter my husband and I embarked on a busman's holiday, leaving our farm in western Sicily to explore the world of agriturismo. We decided to work our way around the eastern end of the island, which offered greater choice and less familiar scenery, and where it was easier to maintain my professional anonymity. We planned our route by guidebooks and by word-of-mouth, taking our chances on pitfalls and pleasures just as any tourist must.
We began near Modica, an excellent spot from which to sample the great Baroque architecture (and the great rococo pastries) of southeastern Sicily, where we had chosen the Villa Teresa from a guidebook. 
The land here is even stonier than in New England: beautifully built stone walls divide stony fields and fence off stone houses, be they huts or aristocratic mansions. It is a very bleak landscape in summer, softened only by the dark green carob trees and the silvery olives, but in early January the fields were lush with grass. Villa Teresa is a handsome stone house with balconied French windows on the piano nobile overlooking a small garden. The entrance, through a gate to the side, gave onto a stone-paved courtyard, ringed by the guest quarters. The woman who showed us to our room announced that dinner was at 8, and that the heat was programmed to go on at 6: since we had chosen to arrive before dark fell at 5, that left us one very cold hour to pass.
Primed by our fantasies of agriturismo, we went in search of a fireplace. There was none: the dining room was dark and cavernous; the bar had two small tables, each with two straight chairs, tucked into the corners of what also served as entrance, office and passageway. We had a cup of tea and then went back to our room to climb under the covers and read (the bed was comfortable, the covers were ample, the heat was good once it got going, and there was even a television). The room was small and overstuffed with heavy, dark furnishings; the adjacent bath had an elementary shower but ranked well in the adequate but definitely not luxurious style typical of agriturismo.
As we ate a simple but well-cooked dinner at our table for two, we questioned the waitress and learned that Villa Teresa belonged to a family of substance from Syracuse who had converted the structure, printed a brochure and then put it in the hands of hearty but not particularly congenial locals, who had a small farm "down the road." The next morning one could see the elderly owner sitting at a window of the main floor and keeping an eye on the courtyard. 
We concluded that as a warm-weather and relatively inexpensive hotel in this area, Villa Teresa got passing grades, but that it had little to do with what we had been led to expect of an agriturismo.
We also concluded -- the first lesson of our trip -- that the quality of a guest farm depends a great deal on its common spaces, especially in winter when dark comes early and it is too cold to enjoy gardens and terraces. Even more important, we were to realize by the end, are the presence and the personality of the owners. 
The next two places we had chosen were in the plain inland of Syracuse, between the city and the foothills of the Hyblean Mountains. Limoneto (the Lemon Grove) was surrounded, as its name implies, by citrus trees. The main house, which contained the owners' apartment and the guests' dining room, was either modern or totally renovated, as were the low buildings surrounding it where guests were lodged. The spare furnishings in our room were contemporary and without character, but there was a TV, and the tile bathroom with shower was pleasantly modern. Architecturally less interesting than Villa Teresa, Limoneto featured green surroundings and a well-tended garden (with a boccie court and a playground) that were much more pleasant, and we were greeted by the owner herself, Adelina Norcia, who was in residence. 
Here, too, there was a shortage of indoor spaces, but at least the heat was on when we arrived, and the dining room, once it opened at 8, was furnished with long tables, one of which was set for 10. We ate with a young couple from Palermo, a magistrate from northern Italy who was touring with his wife and children, and an Englishman with a Dutch wife who always vacationed on guest farms, he said, to practice their Italian. 
A pleasant local wine accompanied pasta with ragu and beautifully fried fish and calamari, and kept the conversation going until quite late, much of which centered on an exchange of addresses and recommendations for other agriturismos. The Limoneto seemed to be getting good marks.
Le Case del Feudo, where we spent the next night after a day in Syracuse, occupies the former granaries and wine cellars of a large estate of citrus groves and vineyards belonging to Baron Pietro Beneventano del Bosco, who also owns a spectacular palace across from the Syracuse cathedral. Like many Sicilian aristocrats, he has found that the best way to maintain his estates is to welcome tourists: he organizes dinners in the palace and picnics on the Ciane River, and has built bedrooms and small apartments for guests in his baglio, as Sicilian farms round a courtyard are often called. 
We had one of the smaller rooms, the Camera del Marinaio, with a very small and spartan shower and simply decorated with ship lanterns and seagoing prints. The larger ones are extremely pretty, with stenciled walls, four-poster beds and antiques.
In the warmer months meals are served at umbrella-shaded tables in the central courtyard (the next morning, Jan. 5, we sat there in our shirt sleeves and soaked up the sun) and a swimming pool surrounded by deck chairs beckoned from the garden, but what we liked best upon arrival was a lighted fireplace in the big hall next to the dining room, where we could sit with our books until an aperitif was served.
We had happened in at a particularly grand moment -- there was a plethora of princesses sitting around the long dinner table, lingering after a New Year's celebration. But the atmosphere was informal, and over pasta con sugo, risotto di asparagi, gamberi and calamari fritti, rollo di carne, and deliciously fresh tangerines, the baron, who is an archaeology buff, regaled us with stories about nearby excavations and with descriptions of the special Syracusan dishes -- stuffed pork chops, zuppa di pesce, marinated anchovies with onions and blood oranges -- that we could have eaten upon request if we had been staying longer.
The baron himself lives in town, but he comes to the farm daily and is often there for dinner. In his absence Rosalba La Greca, his cook and manager, takes his place with obvious pride and dedication.
We wistfully concluded (our next lesson) that there is not much point in spending just one night in an agriturismo. The possibility of choosing what you want to eat the next evening is perhaps rare, but in the good establishments the atmosphere is conducive to leisurely exploration, savoring the coming and going in a familiar landscape, extending the first night's acquaintances and meeting local people. The pace is rural, so those who want to do all of Sicily in one week probably would be happier in city hotels. 
Our next stop was in Pettineo, a small town in the Nebrodi foothills on the northern coast, not far east of Cefalu. From the coast the road ran along the side of a valley, which narrowed as the road wound up through groves of centuries-old olive trees with massive contorted trunks. 
AS the road approached Pettineo, I pointed out a beautiful old house of yellow stone on a small hilltop just below us, surrounded by pines and cypresses. I had been told that to reach the farm we had to go through the town and farther along the road, but I had forgotten that mountain roads wind back upon themselves: the house we admired turned out to be our destination.
Casa Migliaca is as layered with history as Sicily itself: the foundations, and the timbered ceiling of the bedroom we slept in, date from the 17th century; the oil press downstairs, whose workings are still visible, belongs to the 18th century, while the upper story was added in the 19th. It has been in Teresa Allegra's family for several centuries, and was quite abandoned when she and her husband, Sebastiano, decided at the beginning of the 1990's to give up their interior decorating business and reclaim the house and what was left of the estate, 25 acres of olive and lemon groves that had gone wild, and have now been pruned and nurtured back into production. The farm is organic and produces most of the fruit and vegetables that appear on the table.
We had one of the four downstairs bedrooms, which look out over a terrace and down the valley to the sea. Ours was dominated by a high bed; it was a bit of a scramble to get into it, but once there I could hang over the edge and look down through a plexiglass pane onto the excavated press. A closet had a tiny bathroom and extremely simple shower. The bedrooms open onto a large room where the old olive press still stands, next to a table and chairs for reading. Near the fireplace at the other end is a huge circular stone platform on which millstones once crushed olives. Now topped by a wooden lazy susan of record diameter, this platform is a dinner table when guests are too numerous for the kitchen upstairs, where there are more bedrooms and a sitting room with a Franklin stove.
As soon as we had unpacked we were invited to join our hosts for an herb tea. Teresa was finishing dinner preparations in her 19th-century dream kitchen in which modernization has spared the majolica tiling on the walls and on the wood stove with its ovens, fireboxes and copper cauldrons. 
In abandoning city life, Teresa embraced country cooking, and Casa Migliaca offers the rare possibility to taste the beautiful vegetables and wild greens that most Sicilians consider too humble for guests. Dinner round the stone platform brought pasta with wild cardoons; egg frittatas with potatoes, with broccoli and with wild asparagus; mixed salad and cooked greens sprinkled with the house olive oil, local cheeses and fresh ricotta -- all served with good, abundant local wine, included in the price. Homemade limoncello liqueur wound up the meal.
At the end of the evening Teresa and Sebastiano went off to their cottage next door. The first guest up in the morning found the coffeepot and kettle ready to go onto the flame, and breakfast -- homemade jams, fresh bread, cheeses, oranges to eat or to squeeze -- spread out on the big kitchen table. When the hosts arrive, there are guidebooks and suggestions for a trip to Cefalu or the hill towns of the Nebrodis.
Pure curiosity prompted us, as an afterthought, to visit the Fattoria Mose, an agriturismo belonging to a friend and fellow member of Sicily's organic agriculture movement. Although I could not visit anonymously, as I had at the other B & B's, this was too good a find not to pass on, especially given the dearth of pleasant places to stay near Agrigento, where at even the best hotel, the view of the temples and the swimming pool can only just compensate for surly service and the odor of drains. 
To get there, we had to drive east from the Valley of the Temples through Villaggio Mose, a new and ghastly conglomeration of architectural flights of fancy -- hotels, supermarkets and condominiums in all conceivable shapes and colors. It was an enormous relief to arrive, up a small hill and through a gate, at the Fattoria, a vast and rambling collection of low buildings around an elegant late 19th-century manor house. 
The complex, stuccoed in a restful and weatherworn pink, is surrounded by greenery, and if in one direction it looks downhill onto a particularly unsightly condominium, the other views give onto almost a hundred acres of the estate's olive, pistachio, almond and orange groves. All these, including a small production of fruit and vegetables for use on the farm, are cultivated organically.
The Fattoria has belonged to the same family for several centuries, and is run by Chiara Agnello and her mother, who greeted us with warmth (and, had we needed it, in fluent English) and welcomed us to a dinner rich in the flavors of their vegetable garden.
Bed and breakfast, plus the evening meal if desired, are available in the manor house, whose vast sitting and dining rooms contain an appealing jumble of antiques and deep couches. Four double rooms, each with bath, can accommodate eight guests. Our room was small but comfortable, the furnishings old-fashioned and the walls decorated with family-done watercolors.
For a longer or more independent stay, outbuildings have been converted into six guests apartments of various sizes, with baths with showers, complete kitchens and simple but attractive contemporary furniture. They have separate terraces but share a courtyard -- lovely for a summer supper.
Ultimate conclusions: guest farms in Sicily run the gamut from cold to congenial, with many degrees of charm and comfort. Although I have heard of extremely luxurious ones, those we visited required some adaptability. But in most cases, the hosts were willing or even eager to share their culture and their traditions as well as their farms (and, it was rewarding to learn, were particularly appreciative of the open-minded curiosity and enthusiasm of their American guests). For those who want to travel in depth, agriturismo strikes me as an excellent introduction to the island.

Bed-and-breakfast amid the olive and citrus groves
The good aziende agrituristiche (guest farms) are very popular and can fill up well in advance, especially on weekends, in August and holidays. These farms take Visa and MasterCard. Unless indicated, bed-and-breakfast rates are per person per night, for a double with bath.
Villa Teresa, Via Crocevia Cava d'Ispica 2, Modica; telephone (39-0932) 771690, fax (39-0932) 771807. Bed-and-breakfast: $26.75 (at 2,334 lire to the dollar); half-pension (dinner, in addition to breakfast) $35.70 a person, beverages not included (rates in July and August are $4.50 more). Open all year. Drive four kilometers (three miles) from Modica toward Ispica on the S.S. 115. Turn left at the crossroads for Cava d'Ispica. Villa Teresa is immediately on the right, visible from the crossroads. 
Limoneto, Via del Platano 3 at Kilometer 9 on the S.P. 14 from Syracuse to Canicattini Bagni; telephone and fax (39-0931) 717352; www.emmeti.it/Limoneto. Owner: Adelina Norcia. Bed-and-breakfast: $26.75; half-pension: $40.14 (beverages extra). Closed November. Usually there is a three-night minimum, but if there is a vacancy, guests can stay for one night. Take the S.P. 14 from Syracuse to Canicattini Bagni; from the traffic light drive about six kilometers, look for a fork on the left with a sign for Limoneto. The gate is about 600 meters on the left.
Case del Feudo, Contrada Frescura, S.S. 124 Syracuse-Floridia, telephone and fax (39-0931) 464079, www.casedelfeudo.it. Owner: Baron Pietro Beneventano del Bosco. Bed-and-breakfast: $35.70 in the smaller rooms, $44.60 in larger rooms and cottages. Meals: $22.30 to $44.60. Open all year. From Syracuse, drive toward Floridia on the S.S. 124. About one and a half kilometers after passing the entrance to the Syracuse-Noto autostrada, fork to the left at the small sign for Case del Feudo. The gate is 400 meters farther; the signs are very discreet. 
Casa Migliaca, 98070 Pettineo (ME); telephone and fax (39-0921) 336722, Web site www.casamigliaca.com. Owner: Teresa Allegra. Half pension: $42.37, beverages included (slightly higher for midweek one-night stays). Open all year. From the S.S. 113 between Castel di Tusa and Santo Stefano di Camastra, follow the road for Pettineo. Drive through Pettineo, following signs for Castel di Lucio. The gate to Casa Migliaca is on the right just past Pettineo and before the KM 7 sign. A dirt road leads to the house.
Fattoria Mose, via M. Pascal 4, Villaggio Mose, 92100 Agrigento; telephone and fax (39-0922) 606115, www.fattoriamose.com. Owner: Chiara Agnello. Bed-and-breakfast: $33.45; half-pension, $44.60. Apartments: $26.75, with no meals. Open March 16 to Oct. 31. Two-night minimum stay. From Agrigento, go east on the S.S. 115 through Villaggio Mose. Take the last turnoff on the left (there is a sign for the Fattoria) and follow the road to the top of the hill, where the gate is on the right. MARY TAYLOR SIMETI

GRAPHIC: Photos: The groves surrounding Casa Migliaca, an organic farm near the northern coast of Sicily.; Guest rooms surround the courtyard at Villa Teresa. Breakfast in the manor house at Fattoria Mose.; Bedroom at Le Case del Feudo.; Trays of homemade pasta at Case del Feudo. (Photographs by Simona Cali Cocuzza for The New York Times)(pg. 11); Limoneto (The Lemon Grove) is surrounded by citrus trees. (Simona Cali Cocuzza for The New York Times)(pg. 12) Map of Sicily. (pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (71%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: SIMETI, MARY TAYLOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (90%) SICILY; ITALY

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



353 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
Hotel Rates Advance While Occupancy Drops

BYLINE:  By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
WHEN preliminary figures were released last month showing that nationwide occupancy rates at hotels had fallen 4 to 5 percent in May from the same month last year, it would have been logical to assume that room rates had also fallen. After all, the national economy continues to sputter, hotels are adding energy surcharges to bills, and -- until recently -- near-record gasoline prices presumably were a deterrent to travel. This would hardly seem a propitious time for rate increases.
 But the official May statistics released recently by Smith Travel Research, the scorekeeper of nationwide hotel performance, showed that along with a 5.3 percent drop in occupancy in May, room rates that month increased 0.9 percent to $86.02. (The average cost does not include energy surcharges.) 
 The latest figures are part of a 2001 trend. From January through April this year, hotel occupancy fell an average of 1.3 percent, to 59.9 percent, compared with the first four months of 2000; room rates in the same period increased an average of 3.1 percent to $85.99. Even as the economic slowdown continued, the opposing trends between occupancy and room rates remained. In April, for example, occupancy fell an average of 3.7 percent compared with April 2000, yet average room rates increased 1.2 percent to $86.87.
The pattern held true in various cities in the January-May period. Occupancy in New York plummeted 8.1 percent but room rates rose 0.2 percent to $191. In San Francisco/ San Mateo, occupancy tumbled 13.1 percent, but room rates rose 7.8 percent to $153.10. Boston's and Chicago's occupancy rates fell while room costs rose, but the differences were not quite as striking.
A number of other markets whose average room rates exceeded $100 last year lost occupancy in the first quarter this year yet still increased rates. They include Los Angeles-Long Beach, Miami-Hialeah and New Orleans. If there is such a thing as a winner in the room-rate sweepstakes, it is probably Washington, D.C. Although its occupancy fell 1.8 percent, it raised rates by 8 percent to $125.96.
A handful of hotels here and there have no doubt lowered rates, including luxury hotels, whose business through April, a Bear Stearns research study said last month, "was nothing short of terrible." The main reason for that was revealed in several surveys this year by the National Business Travel Association; one found that 77 percent of companies were reducing all but essential travel, and another showed that businesses were cutting back sharply on trips.
But a number of major business cities continue to do well, if not as well as during the past several record-breaking years. "We're seeing some softness in occupancy, especially in midweek," said Michael Deitemeyer, the chief operating officer of Omni Hotels, which owns the Omni Berkshire Place in Manhattan. "But where we'd have to turn down 400 guests a day in New York, we now sometimes have to turn away 50."
It is probably anybody's guess what the rest of the summer will bring for hotels. But Dexter C. Koehl, vice president for communications of the Washington-based Travel Industry Association of America, said his organization was sticking with its May prediction that travel would be up a modest 0.6 percent this summer over last.
Hotel occupancy in Houston increased a comparatively robust 4 percent through May of this year, although devastating floods in the city last month may take a heavy toll through much of the rest of the summer. And in a number of cities outside the major markets, including Cleveland, Indianapolis and Louisville, hotel occupancies appear to be defying the national trend. Hotel owners in Myrtle Beach, S.C., and other beach resorts still worry about high gasoline prices, a sputtering economy and the possibility that many leisure travelers will shorten their summer vacations.
Hotel occupancy has been off as much as 25 percent in Cincinnati, especially in the aftermath of three nights of rioting this April after a white police officer shot and killed an unarmed black man. (The recently settled three-month strike by pilots of Com air, based at the Cincinnati-Northern Kentucky International Airport, also contributed to the region's problems.)
Hotel companies are trying to blunt the impact on their bottom line by offering an array of amenities and freebies without lowering room rates.
For example, guests who spend two consecutive nights at an Omni hotel receive a third night free, while guests who stay any 10 nights at Starwood hotels or resorts receive two free weekends. And because almost half of adult American travelers are accompanied by children, both Embassy Suites and Ramada are giving their young guests an assortment of toys, games and books.
Guests who stay two nights at any of Choice Hotels International's various brands -- Comfort Inn and Suites, Quality, Clarion, Sleep Inn or MainStay Suites -- will receive a $5 gasoline card.
Guests at any of nearly 1,000 Holiday Inn hotels through Sept. 3 can receive a voucher allowing a companion to fly free on a domestic flight between any of 63 United States airports, along with the purchase of one nonrefundable ticket costing $299 to $599. There is no limit on the number of vouchers, which are obtained when the hotel is presented with a coupon found on the company's Web site (www.holiday-inn.com) or in print ads scheduled to run throughout the promotion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (91%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (62%); SWEEPSTAKES (61%); EXECUTIVES (50%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



354 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1769 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN; 
Lake Placid

BYLINE:  By JAMES W. GRANT; JAMES W. GRANT is a freelance writer who lives in Lake Placid.

 BODY:
Lake Placid bills itself as the Winter Sports Capital of the World, and perhaps rightly so, having been host to the 1932 and 1980 Olympic Winter Games, as well as the inaugural Goodwill Winter Games in 2000. But the number of summer visitors here -- more than a million each year -- exceeds those of winter, and an estimated 65 percent of the local economy is generated from May through October, much of it from sports tourism. 
 Although still a perennial winter site for international competitions in bobsled, luge and skiing, Lake Placid in summer has world-class triathlons as well as classical music presented by members of professional orchestras from throughout the United States. 
 This particular summer is a crucial time for winter athletes, who have developed ingenious methods here to prepare for the Salt Lake City Games in 2002. Their activities, which include ski jumping on plastic snow and freestyle skiers landing in an enormous swimming pool, have become favorite attractions. Facilities include a United States Olympic Training Center (one of only three in the country) that opened in 1988 and trains athletes in all winter sports plus boxing, judo and summer events like water polo. The village is also headquarters for the United States Canoe and Kayak Team, which played host to a Pan American Games qualifier here last summer after opening in May 2000.

Events
On July 29, the Lake Placid Ironman U.S.A. Triathlon, (518) 5232665, www.ironmanusa.com, begins promptly at 7 a.m. with a 2.4-mile swim in Mirror Lake, followed by a 112-mile bike race through the Adirondacks, and ends with a full marathon run of 26.2 miles. The top finishers qualify for the world championship this fall in Hawaii. Some 1,800 athletes will compete on a course that has all three legs of competition beginning and ending near the center of town. There's a 17-hour time limit to complete the race, which ends at midnight. 
The Lake Placid Sinfonietta, www .northnet.org/lakeplacidsinfonietta, (518) 523-2512, offers free pops concerts Wednesdays at 7 p.m. through Aug. 8 at the Paul White Memorial Shell on the shore of Mirror Lake. 
Performers come from orchestras throughout the country and include present and former faculty members of the Eastman School of Music, Juilliard and the Manhattan School of Music. The artistic director and conductor is Alfred Gershfeld, founder and conductor of the Moldavian Chamber Orchestra and onetime conductor of the Bolshoi Theater Orchestra. The band shell lawn is quickly covered by blankets; an option to traditional seating is drifting in a canoe or rowboat just offshore. 
The Lake Placid Center for the Arts, 91 Saranac Avenue, (518) 523-2512, www.lpartscenter.org, will present Evening of Dance X, the last of a 10-year run of performances by dancers of the New York City Ballet, on July 23. Reserved seating ranges from $23 to $50.
The Lake Placid Institute presents LPI Jazz on Aug. 11 at 8 p.m. at the Lake Placid Center for the Arts, 91 Saranac Avenue; (518) 523-1312; www.lakeplacidinstitute.org. The Grammy winner Joe Lovano, Judi Silvano and Gary Peacock will present new compositions. Tickets are $10.

Sightseeing
At the Olympic Jumping Complex, just south of the village on Route 73, (518) 523-2202, www.orda.org, ski jumpers use 20,000 rectangles of plastic snow on the ramp to achieve speeds and distances nearly equal to those of winter. (The rectangles were made in Finland and are two and a half by one and a half feet.) Training takes place from Tuesday through Sunday from 10 a.m. to noon and from 2 to 3:30 p.m., with competitions each Saturday at 2 p.m. General admission of $8 allows visitors to view the jumping, ride a chair lift along the landing hill, and take the 26-story glass-enclosed elevator to an observation deck at the top of the 400-foot jumping tower. In addition to views of the skiers taking off from their starting point, the tower offers 360-degree views of the Adirondack High Peaks. 
At the adjacent Kodak Sports Park, included in the admission to the ski jumps, freestyle skiers perfect the acrobatics of their sport on steep ramps that propel them up to 20 feet into the air. Instead of landing on snow, aerialists land dramatically in a 750,000-gallon pool. This summer, visitors can view the Olympic freestyle teams of the United States, Canada, Russia and Byelorussia. The complex is open daily 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., and exhibitions are held Wednesdays at 1 p.m. 
The York International Luge Training Complex is about a mile away at 35 Church Street, (518) 523-2071, www.usaluge.org. At this indoor facility, computers, video cameras and refrigerated ramps analyze lugers' start technique throughout the summer months. Free public tours are held Monday to Friday at 2 p.m. 
At the Mount Van Hoevenberg Olympic Sports Complex, 15 minutes south of the village on Route 73, (518) 523-4436, tourists accompanied by a professional driver and brakeman can ride a bobsled on wheels at speeds of up to 50 miles an hour Wednesday through Sunday on the 1980 Winter Olympic track for $30 a person. 
Boat tours of Lake Placid are available aboard the 50-foot 100-passenger Doris II and the Lady of the Lake, a 45-foot, 33-passenger Fay & Bowen built in 1919 believed to be just one of two such vessels in the United States.
Highlights of the one-hour narrated cruise include good views of the former summer residences of the singer Kate Smith, Victor Herbert and Johnny Weissmuller. Tickets are $7.25 for adults, $5.25 for children, and $6.25 for seniors. The tours depart at 10:30 in the morning and at 1, 2:30 and 4 in the afternoon from the Lake Placid Marina; (518) 523-9704.

Where to Stay
Some of the most beautiful Adirondack sunsets and sunrises can be enjoyed at the Lake Placid Resort Hotel and Golf Club, 1 Olympic Drive, (518) 523-2556, fax (518) 523-9410, www.lakeplacidresort.com. This Holiday Inn with 207 rooms sits high above the village, minutes from Main Street shopping and convenient to the hotel's 45 holes of golf and private beach on Mirror Lake. There's also tennis, an indoor pool, a fitness center and four restaurants. Doubles range from $109 to $199. Family units, chalets, and golf and dining packages are available.
The Best Western Golden Arrow Hotel, 150 Main Street, (518) 523-3353, fax (518) 523-8063, www.golden-arrow.com, is in the heart of Lake Placid overlooking Mirror Lake. The lobby has hand-carved wood, cathedral ceilings and Bavarian murals. There's a sand beach, boating, a fitness center and a restaurant. Some of the 141 rooms and suites come with fireplaces and kitchenettes; all have balconies or patios. Doubles range from $109 to $169. Pets are welcome.
Budget: At the Cobble Mountain Lodge, Route 86 and Northwood Road, (518) 523-2040, guests can cook their dinners on gas grills or use an outdoor sauna. The lodge, rustic and simply furnished, has great mountain views and is just minutes from Main Street. Cabins and motel units with kitchenettes range from $38 to $100. Children under 15 are free.
The Stagecoach Inn, 370 Old Military Road, (518) 523-9474, www.stage coach-inn.com, opened for guests in 1833. It has nine comfortable rooms, two with working fireplaces, plus three fireplaces in the common areas in a classic Adirondack interior with floor to ceiling wainscoting and yellow birch trim. Doubles are $85 to $95, full breakfast included.
Luxury: The Mirror Lake Inn, 5 Mirror Lake Drive, (518) 523-2544, fax (518) 523-2871, www.mirrorlake inn.com, has 128 rooms, some right on the lakeshore, with comfortable country furnishings, many with balconies; doubles with lake views are $140 to $250; a two-level Presidential Suite with cathedral ceiling and oversize whirlpool is $725. The new spa includes rooms done in marble and mahogany, some with fireplaces. Treatments include a honey almond body polish (50 minutes for $85), and a Moor mud wrap in Dead Sea mud (50 minutes for $95). There are indoor and outdoor pools, a private beach, boating, sauna, tennis, a cocktail lounge and two restaurants. 
Built on the west shore of Lake Placid in 1882 as a humble lake cottage, the Lake Placid Lodge, (518) 523-2700, fax (518) 523-1124, www .lakeplacidlodge.com, is today a refurbished luxury hotel, part of the Relais & Chateaux group. The 17 rooms and 17 cabins are appointed with furniture crafted by local artisans, stone fireplaces and feather beds. Cell phones and personal computers are discouraged, and there's just one television set on the property. Guests can gaze the length of Lake Placid to unobstructed views of Whiteface Mountain. Amenities include a restaurant, free boating in canoes and kayaks, forested hiking and mountain bike trails (mountain bikes provided) and in-room massage. Golf and tennis are available at the adjacent historic Whiteface Club. Doubles $325 to $400, suites $550 to $650, cabins $500 to $800; all rates include breakfast.

Where to Eat
The deck of the Veranda Restaurant, 1 Olympic Drive, (518) 523-3339, is one of the best places to be on a summer evening, with views of Mirror Lake and the mountains of the Sentinel and Great Ranges. The fare is traditional American and French and includes Dover sole Grenobloise and fillet of beef Gorgonzola. The apple tart for dessert is a winner. A three-course dinner for two with wine is about $85. 
Nicola's Over Main, 90 Main Street, (518) 523-4430, serves classic Italian fare from antipasti and salads to veal and wood-fired pizza and fish, all prepared in an open kitchen. Expect to pay about $80 for dinner for two with wine.
Hat stretchers, log augers, cranberry pickers and hundreds of other Adirondack artifacts decorate the walls and ceiling of the Great Adirondack Steak and Seafood Company, 34 Main Street, (518) 523-1629. The petit filet mignon accompanied by John Brown Pale Ale, brewed on the premises, is a good choice. Dinner for two with wine or beer is about $60.
The open deck over Mirror Lake is the draw at the Cottage Cafe, 5 Mirror Lake Drive; (518) 523-9845. Locals come here for homemade soups, salads and sandwiches. Meals are served until 10 p.m. For lunch, arrive before noon to secure outdoor seating and perhaps see members of the United States canoe and kayak team training just offshore. Lunch or dinner for two with wine or beer is about $45.
A young crowd enjoys a pub menu of sandwiches, salads and barbecue at the Lake Placid Pub and Brewery, 14 Lake Shore Drive, (518) 523-3813. The taps pour the likes of Ubu Ale, an English strong ale ordered by the White House after President Clinton's visit here two summers ago. Lunch or dinner for two with wine or beer runs about $45.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Lake Placid Sinfonietta at the Paul White band shell.; Skiers at the Kodak Sports Park pool. At the Lake Placid Pub and Brewery. (Photographs by Nancie Battaglia for The New York Times) Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Lake Placid. (Sources: U.S. Census Bureau, Northeast Regional Climate Center, local businesses) Map of Lake Placid shows tourist attractions and points of interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); WINTER OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SKIING (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); DANCE (87%); WATER SPORTS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); WATER POLO (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); MARTIAL ARTS (73%); BALLET (72%); MOUNTAINS (70%); MARATHONS (69%); DANCERS (65%); DANCE COMPANIES (65%); RUNNING (58%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%)

PERSON: GRANT, JAMES W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE; LAKE PLACID (NY)

TITLE: WHAT'S DOING IN...(TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



355 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2207 words

HEADLINE: CHOICE TABLES; 
Philadelphia's Core, Well Fed, Revives

BYLINE:  By BRYAN MILLER; BRYAN MILLER, a former restaurant critic for The Times, is restaurant editor for Citysearch.com.

 BODY:
TO a returning visitor, the reawakening of downtown Philadelphia is nothing short of remarkable. Just five years ago, Center City after work was a quiet and gloomy terrain, however rich in history and colonial charm. Energized by a brawny economy and some forward thinking entrepreneurs, things began to change. And, as is often the case, restaurateurs led the charge. 
Today, this compact neighborhood -- roughly defined by Broad Street on the east and Rittenhouse Square on the west -- has such a lively dining scene that you could fling your credit card in any direction and it would likely land on a chef's doorstep. Following is a sampling.

Alma de Cuba
One of the hot newcomers to downtown is Alma de Cuba, whose chef and partner is Douglas Rodriguez (he also owns two restaurants in Manhattan, Pipa and Chicama). Mr. Rodriguez turns out a highly eccentric rendition of Central and South American cooking in a fashionable modern setting. 
You enter via a sleek bar and lounge where plangent Latin music -- so loud it could put another crack in the Liberty Bell some 10 blocks away -- sets a sassy mood. The tropical theme is expressed by overhead fans, a slat wood ceiling and black-and-white projections of Cuba on the white walls. In contrast, the rather formal main room on the second floor could be any with-it new place, with long beige banquettes, moody filtered lighting and cream-colored curtains.
Mr. Rodriguez has built a reputation on his liberal interpretation of tropical cuisine, often teasing diners with radical juxtapositions and brazen condiments -- anyone for grilled whole red snapper with green rice, chayote-and-shaved-calamari salad in lemon dressing sprinkled with cumin chili praline? In fairness, this may be a knockout dish, but my dining companion and I decided to navigate calmer waters. One starter that harmonized well comprised thin slices of rum-cured smoked marlin in hollowed-out malanga boats (a starchy tropical tuber) stoked with a generous dose of minced jalapenos. 
Another fine assembly was fried oysters set over a smoky mix of mashed plantains and bacon, along with sauteed spinach and a minty sauce called huacatay. I had forgotten how good tropical tubers can be (a nice change from the ubiquitous butter-laden mashed potatoes), especially in dishes here like grilled duck breast over mashed boniato, which tastes like a mild sweet potato with a hint of chestnut. It was accompanied by sauteed mustard greens, lean duck chorizo and a sweet pineapple-vanilla sauce that I could have done without. 
Servers seemed to have as much fun as the patrons, and their command of the challenging menu was impressive. The wine list has some singular bargains from South America, like a fresh, simple Chilean sauvignon blanc by Caliterra ($20 for the 2000 vintage).

Around Rittenhouse Square
On warm summer afternoons, tidy little Rittenhouse Square, one of Philadelphia's most patrician neighborhoods, is abloom with strolling couples, families and, in recent years, vibrant outdoor cafes. You might want to stop for a drink at Bleu, a cheerful, mural-wrapped American bistro that serves dishes like sweet steamed mussels, various composed salads, burgers and the like.
Next door, under the same ownership, is Rouge, a variation on the same theme with a more ambitious menu that carries everything from foie gras with red grape verjus (have it with a house riesling or a moscato d'Asti) to grilled salmon with lobster fried rice. Wines by the glass are modestly priced. 
My choice for lunch nearby was Opus 251, the delightful open-air cafe at the Philadelphia Art Alliance, a converted turn-of-the-century mansion that is now an exhibition space. The backyard brick patio, with marble tables, classical sculptures and a fragrant rose garden, serves a limited summer lunch menu that is light and simple, perfect before an afternoon of urban strolling.
For starters I enjoyed a glistening skein of soba noodles showered with shredded carrots, daikon and snow-pea shoots, in lively ginger vinaigrette (you can add grilled chicken to make a main course). My entree was a nicely cooked, crisp-skinned red snapper with sauteed bok choy and vegetable spring roll (unfortunately quite greasy). Another satisfying light option is a poached chicken-breast salad with red onions, olives, tomatoes and arugula, served atop charred flatbread. Fruit sorbets are the best dessert, especially the smooth and intense raspberry, papaya and lemon. 
The casual servers were pleasant and efficient, though we certainly were in no hurry in the splendid setting. Inside are two formal dining rooms for both lunch and dinner. The restaurant carries an affordable and wide-ranging international wine selection, as well as a changing handful of quality wines by the glass. 
Before heading over to the acclaimed Bec-Fin for a princely six-course, five-wine feast, we stopped for a some nibbles at a popular Latino restaurant called Pasion! -- a feat akin to running from Yonkers to Manhattan in time to join the New York City Marathon. This spirited three-year-old restaurant with a vaguely Caribbean motif specializes in ceviches, with five new ones featured daily, and they are well worth trying. 
We sat at the ceviche bar and sampled tender grilled baby octopus over a cucumber-and-black-olive salad; thinly sliced sea bass sprinkled with toasted sesame seeds along with tasty little rice croquettes and pickled seaweed salad; and rare-seared salmon strips with a wonderful cumin-coriander sauce. You can pair them with some delightful South American wines; our choice, which was perfect with the seafood, was a glass of sharp and grassy Aresti sauvignon blanc from Chile (1999). They also serve killer caipirinhas. 
While in the neighborhood, you might stop for a drink at the one of the most dramatic and popular restaurants in Philadelphia, Striped Bass. (Regrettably, we didn't have time to sample the all-seafood menu.) In a magnificent, marmoreal former bank with a 25-foot-high ceiling and massive columns, it attracts a well-dressed, upscale crowd -- no surprise, with entrees averaging about $35. The elevated bar, which serves a nice roster of wines by the glass, is a perfect perch from which to take it all in.

Le Bec-Fin
Aside from Ben Franklin, Georges Perrier may be the most celebrated and droll celebrity this city has seen over the years. When he encamped in the downtrodden Center City in 1971, Philadelphia's culinary scene was characterized by bulging cheese steaks and foil-wrapped blocks of dense cream cheese.
Today in Center City, visitors can dine at not one, but three Perrier creations. The most famous is Le Bec-Fin, which features classic Lyonnais cuisine in a suitably florid setting, served by a crew of ceremonious waiters -- and, if your tastes run to the opulent, there's still no show like it in town. Our $120 prix fixe menu (or $155 if you want the 11-course marathon) started with a rich, almost mousselike crab cake, sweet and flavorful, with a crown of osetra caviar, ringed by caramelized onions. On the lighter side was vernal cucumber soup enriched with a lemon-grass cream.
Dainty lagniappes arrive from all directions throughout the meal. My main course was a pristine fillet of sole, meaty and golden brown, surrounded by a sublime caviar-stippled lemon cream sauce; compared with that extravagance a garlicky roasted Cornish hen in a sherry vinegar sauce, while fine, seemed ordinary. The three-tier dessert trolley is so populous that you could repair to the restroom, make a few phone calls, and return to find the captain still reciting the selections.
"Most diners like to taste three or four," our waiter pointed out with a smile. And we did. Most memorable were a terrific sour-cherry risotto, and a thinly layered chocolate opera cake garnished with 24-karat gold leaf (keep it far from any inlays).
Oddly enough, the richly upholstered dining room can be shatteringly loud between 7:30 and 8:30 p.m., so you might want to work around that. Predictably, the wine list is impressive, and high-priced, although we found a relative bargain in the light and crisp 1997 Cotes de Provence Domaine Sorin ($60).
About 10 years ago, Mr. Perrier opened a tiny bar and bistro downstairs called Le Bar Lyonnais, which serves a simple, more affordable menu. And a block away is his new Art Deco-style Brasserie Perrier, serving a moderately priced international French menu. In the affluent suburb of Wayne, Pa., he recently opened a new Provencal-style restaurant, Le Mas Perrier.

Vetri
One of the most admired young chefs in Philadelphia is 34-year-old Marc Vetri, whose three-year-old restaurant serves soul-warming rustic Italian cuisine with contemporary fillips -- and at reasonable prices.
The snug 35-seat dining room has a countrified feeling with saffron stucco walls, wide-plank wood floors and bucolic faux window murals. The staff could not be more accommodating, and the easygoing Mr. Vetri occasionally appears in the dining room to take an order, clear dishes or refill wine glasses.
Hands down, the best dish of my Philadelphia tour was Mr. Vetri's roasted goat, which he prepared by simmering the meat in milk to impart a rich flavor, then roasting it until the skin was blistered and almost caramelized. Also superb was his spinach-ricotta gnocchi topped with shavings of smoked ricotta.
By coincidence, another outstanding main course was also poached in milk, a seared Alaskan white salmon. It was garnished with creme fraiche and presented over a golden potato pancake (unfortunately a bit leathery). Mr. Vetri also turned out some most-original desserts, such as a delightfully grainy polenta souffle. The smart and varied wine selection is very affordable. We had a rich and fruity red from Allegrini Palazzo della Torre 1997 ($50).

Around Town
One of Philadelphia's longtime Mexican favorites, Los Catrines, recently moved a few doors down from its original home to a baronial downtown mansion with dark mahogany walls, a 20-foot ceiling and a fine old bar. A long rectangular back room is more casual. I had heard that Los Catrines served an excellent mole poblano, and indeed it does: inky and thick, redolent of cloves and almonds, and just hot enough to keep you coming back. I had it ladled around two pieces of chicken breast the size of maracas.
If you are visiting town with children, or simply like to check out the less-trodden parts of town, hop into a cab for a five-minute ride into South Philadelphia and Carman's Country Kitchen, a wacky cafe-cum-diner that is famous for its wagon-train breakfasts and the affable antics of the owner and chef, Carman Luntzel. 
With its eight-stool counter, 20 cramped seats, and bric-a-brac galore, you can't help but be intimate with everybody in the place. In summer, overflow customers dine "alfresco" at a makeshift table in the back of Carman's red pickup truck. ("It seats eight, maybe more if I get some special welding done.")
Early on a Saturday morning I secured a coveted counter stool and scaled an escarpment of peanut-butter-and-banana pancakes with bacon drippings, along with a vat of strong coffee while chatting it up with Carman about New York City, local eccentrics who eat there, and her truck. Aside from omelets and specialties like cornflake-crusted challah French toast, she offers brunch dishes like seared tilapia in parsley and white wine sauce. The cafe serves from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. Thursday to Monday.
It's advisable to call ahead. Thing is, Carman loves to travel ("I'm going to Egypt next month!"), so you may arrive to find a postcard stuck to the front door. And an empty pickup truck.

From risotto to ceviche
 Estimated dinner prices are for two people, with three courses and a glass of wine for each. These restaurants are open daily for lunch and dinner and accept all major credit cards unless otherwise noted. 
Alma de Cuba, 1623 Walnut Street, (215) 988-1799. Dinner only, $100. 
Bleu, 227 South 18th Street; (215) 545-9318. Dinner: $60 to $70. 
Rouge, 205 South 18th Street; (215) 732-6622. Dinner: $100 to $120.
Opus 251, 251 South 18th Street, Rittenhouse Square, Philadelphia Art Alliance building; (215) 735-6787. No Saturday lunch. Dinner: $100.
Pasion!, 211 South 15th Street, between Locust and Walnut Streets; (215) 875-9895. Dinner daily; $100.
Striped Bass, 1500 Walnut Street, at 15th Street; (215) 732-4444. Dinner nightly, lunch Monday to Friday, Sunday brunch. Dinner: $140. 
Le Bec-Fin, 1523 Walnut Street, between 15th and 16th Streets; (215) 567-1000. Lunch weekdays; dinner Monday to Saturday. Prix fixe dinner $120 or $155. Le Bar Lyonnais serves lunch weekdays, dinner ($100) Monday to Saturday. 
Brasserie Perrier, 1619 Walnut Street, between 16th and 17th Streets; (215) 568-3000. Lunch Monday to Friday; dinner Monday to Saturday. Dinner: $100 to $150. 
Vetri, 1312 Spruce Street, between Broad and 13th Streets; (215) 732-3478. Dinner Tuesday to Saturday in summer, otherwise Monday to Saturday; $100 to $130.
Los Catrines, 1602 Locust Street; (215) 546-0181. Lunch weekdays, dinner Monday to Saturday in summer, nightly in fall. Dinner: $90.
 Carman's Country Kitchen, 1301 South 11th Street at Wharton Street; (215) 339-9613. Breakfast and lunch Thursday to Monday; $20 to $40.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marc Vetri, owner and chef at Vetri, sometimes is a waiter, too.David Suro-Pinera, owner, in Los Catrines dining area.; Three of the ceviches, which change daily, at Pasion! Dining at Le Bec-Fin, which serves classic Lyonnais cuisine. (Photographs by Sal DiMarco for The New York Times)(pg. 6); The cozy dining area at Carman's Country Kitchen. If it's too cramped, sit in the pickup truck outside. Outdoor tables at Rouge, at Rittenhouse Square. (Photographs by Sal DiMarco for The New York Times)(pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); WINE (61%) RESTAURANTS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; REVIEWS 

PERSON: MILLER, BRYAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); CHILE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (78%) PHILADELPHIA (PA)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



356 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Westchester Heads Off Development; 
County to Buy Farmland

 BODY:
After a year of negotiations, Westchester Countyannounced plans on Wednesday to acquire 178.5 acres of a historic farm in Yorktown and head off its development. The county plans to use 50 acres of Hilltop Hanover Farm, which dates to the late 1700's, for an environmental education center -- what County Executive Andrew J. Spano called "a working classroom in pesticide-free agriculture, a place to study wildflowers and birds, a laboratory and learning center for county residents." 
 Westchester is also negotiating to sell 128 acres of the property, which is near the Croton Reservoir, to the New York City Department of Environmental Protection. The department oversees the reservoir, which is part of the water supply system for the city as well as much of Westchester. 
 The owners of the farm, the investors John Sites and Giles Brophy, will retain about 70 acres.
Because Hilltop Hanover Farm had been on the market since 1995, Salvatore J. Carrera, the county's director of economic development and real estate, said he was able to negotiate the price down to $2.8 million from the $6 million the owners had been asking.
Mr. Carrera said that when developers have not obtained subdivision approval for their land -- a process that often takes years and entails many expenses -- governments "should not pay top dollar." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAND SUBDIVISION (75%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); PESTICIDES (73%) WATER; RESERVOIRS; ENVIRONMENT; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; HILLTOP HANOVER FARM (YORKTOWN, NY) 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION DEPARTMENT (NYC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); CROTON RESERVOIR (NY); NEW YORK CITY; YORKTOWN (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



357 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1608 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION/RADIO; 
The Reality Of Recovery, Unadorned

BYLINE:  By ANDY MEISLER; Andy Meisler works as a talk show segment producer and writes frequently about television.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
IF you've ever encountered Bob Dey while channel surfing, you may have had cause to rethink your definition of reality television. His on-screen world -- one without tribal warfare, $1 million prizes or more-than-minimal production values -- is about as real as it gets.
 Mr. Dey has battled addictions and emotional disorders most of his adult life. He is not an actor, but, speaking without a script, he manages to eloquently describe his overwhelming cravings, his delirium tremens, his depressions -- and the insights he has gained along the path to sobriety. 
 "My bottom came when I couldn't even make it to work," he says on "Testimony," an aptly named half-hour series which consists of one person talking, without visible prompting, about some of the most personal issues imaginable. "I kept the curtains closed in my bedroom because it hurt to have the sunlight streaming in. Every now and then I'd peek out through a crack and take a look at the world outside. I'd think to myself: 'That's life that's going on out there. And you're missing it.' " 
Mr. Dey, along with dozens of other everyday people embroiled in the webs of substance abuse and emotional disorders, is an on-screen participant in an unusual, little-seen television entity called the Recovery Network. Unlike the dramas, comedies and newsmagazines elsewhere on TV, which use topics like alcoholism, drug use and depression as grace notes in their depictions of life, the Recovery Network's programming concentrates almost entirely on the first-person struggles of people like Mr. Dey and their friends and family members.
"No, watching television isn't a substitute for going to a self-help meeting," said Mr. Dey, a retired feature writer and handicapper for The Daily Racing Form, over lunch near his Hollywood-area home recently. "But there's something about watching a peer-led meeting that's so much more effective than having a professional tell you what to do. If you see, say, an alcoholic talking to another alcoholic who's still using and abusing -- and telling him, I know exactly what you're going through because I went through it too, and this is what I did, and this is what I do today to stay clean and sober -- it has so much more meaning."
The four-year-old network, based in Irvine, Calif., and available on cable in close to 15 million households nationwide, runs occasional documentaries on addiction and subjects related to emotional illness, a "wellness" show whose host is the author Gary Null and a program called "Overcoming Overeating." But its signature series are "Testimony" and "Full Circle" -- simple programs in which recovering individuals, singly and in groups of 10 or 12, ignore the camera while starkly recounting their successes and failures. Most episodes were filmed in 1997, and -- this is low-budget television, just a step above public access -- have been rerunning constantly since then.
Under the "Full Circle" rubric, groups of adults battling problems like alcoholism, drug addiction, eating disorders, spousal abuse and mental illness -- and coping with how their problems affect their loved ones -- sit on couches in a nondescript meeting room and speak at the behest of an unobtrusive moderator.
The "Full Circle" groups "meet" for 13 one-hour episodes. The group members give up at least part of their anonymity, although no last names are used. The participants come from all economic strata and range from alcoholics who have been sober for decades to drug addicts shuttling from residential treatment centers. They were recruited by Share, a Los Angeles-based nonprofit organization that serves as an umbrella for self-help groups, and were given $25 a day for expenses.
In "Testimony," "Full Circle" participants are given a half-hour to tell their stories uninterrupted.
Regular viewers of the Recovery Network eventually get to know the "regulars." These include people like Diane, a professional woman and recovering bulimic who recalls being molested as a child and becoming a straight-A college student with an encyclopedic knowledge of her campus's least-frequented bathrooms -- where she went to throw up after her periodic eating binges; Steve, a musician who began taking drugs at 11, burned out his nose with cocaine use, has "been to jail quite often" and whose proudest accomplishment to date is being trusted to answer the telephone at his current rehabilitation facility; Mike, the son of an abusive "rage aholic," whose wife had broken her promise not to abandon him to tend to her two addicted adult children from a previous marriage; and Mr. Dey, who faced disapproval from longtime members of his alcoholism 12-step group for his use of antidepressants -- and found solace in a more tolerant group of 12-step "double trudgers" (addicts with emotional disorders who trust both in a higher power and in psychiatric medication).
Although an on-screen disclaimer at the beginning of "Full Circle" states that "it is not intended to be a 12-step meeting," and no mention is made of Alcoholics Anonymous, any of its offshoots or tools like "The Big Book" or "The Twelve Traditions," it's obvious that the organization's techniques and philosophies are being enthusiastically embraced.
Another parallel to Alcoholics Anonymous, albeit an unintentional one, is the Recovery Network's low public profile. The network does not have cable channels of its own. Instead it is carried at odd intervals, usually for several hours late at night, on public and governmental access channels.
In Los Angeles, for instance, it appears on cable Channel 36 from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. daily. In Chicago it pops up on Channel 23 from 2 a.m. to 7 a.m.; in Las Vegas on Channel 2 from 11 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
In the New York area it is seen in the Bronx on Channel 46 from 6:30-7:30 a.m. and in various New Jersey communities, including Bayonne, Belmar, Bergen, Creskill, Hoboken, Hudson, Monmouth, Newark and Union City, at various times and on various noncommercial channels.
The availability of the network would probably be news to most of the households that receive it, since its programming is rarely if ever listed in TV Guide or local newspapers. Still, it receives hundreds of letters of thanks, most often from relatives of people with addictions or emotional problems. They write that after watching the programs, they are better able to understand the problems they and their loved ones may or may not have come around to acknowledging.
Local cable operators report a positive and unexpectedly vigorous reaction to the channel. "All of the area support groups whose phone numbers we list on the channel are very happy that we run it," said Joyce Gallagher, the cable television administrator for the city of Chicago. "As for me personally, I believe it's a life-giving service."
Steven Grace, president of Channel 36 in Los Angeles, said: "I don't have any hard ratings figures, but just talking with friends and people I meet with during the day, it seems we're satisfying a huge need and inspiring hopeful solutions.
"In fact, when I told the woman who runs the coffee shop I stop at every morning that I worked at Channel 36, she said: 'Oh, sure. I know it. That's the Recovery Network.' "
The Recovery Network is provided free to local cable operators, its programs separated by public service advertising. It is not an altogether altruistic enterprise, however.
The network was conceived in the mid-1990's as a commercial channel, in anticipation of the 500-channel basic-cable systems that seemed imminent. That market didn't materialize, and the network is now a nonprofit arm of RnetHealth Inc., a publicly traded company that recently underwent a downsizing and restructuring. RnetHealth, among other things, sells courses and teaching aids to institutions and individuals dealing with substance-abuse problems and emotional illnesses.
Wendy Boros-Johnson, president and chief executive officer of Rnet Health, said she would soon begin soliciting PBS-style corporate underwriting for the network. The company is not aggressively promoted on the Recovery Network's programs, but the name of its Web site is occasionally flashed.
The programming, she said, perhaps a bit wishfully, is a good fit with the rest of RnetHealth. "If you really look at who could be watching us," she said during a recent interview, "we are aiming at people who not only are affected by drug abuse, alcohol abuse and other behavioral disorders, but the people we call 'affected others.' Their families. Their employers.
"The truth is that almost all of us know somebody who is having problems. When you extrapolate those kinds of things into a potential audience, it's mindboggling -- it's over 100 million people."
Bob Dey, who has been an active volunteer staffer for several self-help groups, had no qualms about being named in an article. Despite having received just the $25 a day for his appearances on "Full Circle" and "Testimony," he has no objections to the Recovery Network's being connected to a profit-making enterprise.
But he does see its basic mission from a slightly different angle than does Ms. Boros-Johnson.
"I think networks and programs like these can have a tremendous effect," he said. "One of the biggest assets to those kinds of shows is just the single fact that it gets out the message: I am not alone.
"So many people who have an addiction or mental illness suffer both from their symptoms and sensations and from feeling so alone and inadequate to life. What these shows do is say: you're not alone. Look at this body of people here who have suffered, maybe for years, from what you're suffering from. And yes, there is hope."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A group meeting on the Recovery Network program "Full Circle." Bob Dey is at the far left. (Recovery Network) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FAMILY (77%); DEPRESSION (76%); WRITERS (76%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); NETWORK TELEVISION (69%) TELEVISION; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; ALCOHOL ABUSE; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS 

ORGANIZATION: RECOVERY NETWORK 

PERSON: MEISLER, ANDY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



358 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1811 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
The Idea Is to Intimidate. With Words. And Silence.

BYLINE:  By DAVID THOMSON; David Thomson is the author of "A Biographical Dictionary of Film" and other books.

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH Harold Pinter's dialogue (with its clinging silences) is as English as Noel Coward's or Graham Greene's, there's hardly an American screenwriter who hasn't studied the halting tread of his talk.
 Indeed, you could make a case that Pinter is one of two East Londoners who have had an exceptional influence on movies -- the other is Alfred Hitchcock. So "The Spaces Between the Words: A Tribute to Harold Pinter," the Film Society of Lincoln Center survey of Pinter the screenwriter, offers fascinating lessons, as well as a few works seldom seen in the United States. (The series opens on Saturday at the Walter Reade Theater, with "The Pumpkin Eater" and "The Go-Between.") 
 A comparison to Hitchcock is instructive, even if Pinter is now a social nob and a Marylebone Cricket Club gent (he dotes on cricket -- and other prolonged games of genteel torture), while Sir Alfred stayed (to English ears) a greengrocer's son and a cheerful vulgarian. But they are alike in their fascination with intimidation and the authority it can win -- the way one person can impose himself on another. With Hitch, this hierarchy was visual, and in the cutting. For Pinter, it's the upper hand that can twist an arm in drab small talk.

ASTON: Sleep well?
DAVIES: Yes, dead out. Must have been dead out.
ASTON: You a er a
DAVIES: Eh?
ASTON: Were you dreaming or something?
DAVIES: Dreaming?
ASTON: Yes.
DAVIES: I don't dream. I've never dreamed.
ASTON: No, nor have I.
DAVIES: Nor me (pause). Why you ask me that, then?
ASTON: You were making noises.
DAVIES: Who was?
ASTON: You were.
DAVIES: Now, wait a minute. Wait a minute, what do you mean? What kind of noises?
ASTON: You were making groans. You were jabbering.
DAVIES: Jabbering? Me?
ASTON: Yes.
DAVIES: I don't jabber, man. Nobody ever told me that before. (pause)
What would I be jabbering about?
ASTON: I don't know.
That's "The Caretaker," first produced on the London stage in 1960. In the fine movie made four years later, directed by Clive Donner, it's Robert Shaw's Aston talking to Donald Pleasence's Davies. By then, it was "Pinteresque" the way Robert Shaw, blessed by the author's laconic rhythms and unsmiling hostility, could let the words "I don't know" carry a weight (and a wait) of threat and imposition -- while remaining the casual remark of a man who knows so little as to be a simpleton.
Pinter was famous, by 1964, for his meticulous ear for hesitation and assertion. And while his language worked to the point of claustrophobia onstage, he was already experienced in radio and television drama, and coming into his own as a film writer. It was also part of Pinter's authority that his small talk could seem so set in stone that it might dictate camera style: cross-cut close-ups, cut to the beat of the chat.
Yet shooting and cutting in that Pinteresque way can turn obvious, or underlined -- as well as show how mannered the talk is. The best directors Pinter has ever had in movies have learned to keep the camera back, still but running, so that the lines and the pauses fill in the space between people. We need to see the way some lines die on the floor, while others creep home. A devout cutter, like Hitchcock, would likely have said that you could drop most of Pinter's talk in favor of anxious glances -- helping to teach us how very literary Pinter is, and how far he revels in the stealthy chess of power plays.
The director Elia Kazan suffered under Pinter's unyielding assumption of authority, or eminence. By 1976, Mr. Kazan was a veteran, a little past his best. Although the producer Sam Spiegel and Mr. Kazan had shared a triumph 20 years earlier with "On the Waterfront," Mr. Kazan was not Spiegel's first choice as director on "The Last Tycoon." By the time Mr. Kazan came on board, Spiegel, Pinter and Mike Nichols had created a script that, Spiegel implied, was perfect, and . . . Pinteresque.
Mr. Kazan wondered at that, because F. Scott Fitzgerald had never finished "The Last Tycoon": he died too soon, and even his notes left the book's ending uncertain. Worse, as Mr. Kazan read it, the love story didn't work on paper. (Nor did he guess it had much chance with Spiegel's fancy, Ingrid Boulting, playing the lead.) So, like any director, let alone one with Mr. Kazan's credentials and driven ego, he sought rewrites. That's when Spiegel protected, and Pinter deflected. When Mr. Kazan declared that the love scenes seemed to be "all happening underwater," Pinter sighed in his own Astonian way and said, "Isn't that where it always happens?" In his autobiography, Mr. Kazan concluded: "What the hell could I say to that? I shut off my objections, dived in and did the best I could."
The forlorn result lacked Mr. Kazan's customary energy and identification, and the film isn't in the 11-day Lincoln Center tribute, which may be a sign that Pinter would rather not remember it or have to talk about it. Reasonably so, for it has no sure arc (compared with situation), an implausible love story and an enervated central figure (no matter that Robert De Niro plays the tycoon).
This is not to diminish Pinter's achievement. But it reminds us of the practical pitfalls in screenwriting. It may also offset the characteristic advantage -- or halo -- Pinter has walked beneath for decades now: that of being author of "the Proust screenplay," a 175-page, published script of "A Remembrance of Things Past," a script not yet filmed yet somehow esteemed as too lofty for that coarse business. It was also, as Pinter wrote in 1977, the result of "the best working year of my life."
Maybe Lincoln Center should have staged a reading of the script (An adaptation was presented last season at the Royal National Theater in London.). That might reveal the fact that while the script is clever, or skillful, it is a kind of nonstarter. For scripts aren't meant to be read (even aloud); they are tools for the making.
A pretty script, especially one not in Pinter's terse English, is neither here nor there without that commitment to the doing, the casting, the realization of the world evoked, the mise en scene that turns talk into music and space. In short, the hurly-burly that Pinter avoided engaging in with Mr. Kazan.
Thus, it's important to note first that Pinter's screenplays are adaptations, and second that he has not so far taken the plunge of directing for movies. It's been close. He likes to act; he has often directed onstage; and he did direct Simon Gray's "Butley" for British television. There was talk that Pinter might direct his adaptation of the Aidan Higgins novel "Langrishe, Go Down." David Jones ended up doing it, and it's one of the treasures in the series -- something rarely seen, and an authentic, if tragic, love story, beautifully played by Judi Dench and Jeremy Irons.
Another gem, new to most Americans, will be the television production of Elizabeth Bowen's "Heat of the Day" (directed by Christopher Morahan), which stars Patricia Hodge, Michael Gambon and Michael York, and which may be the most moving film -- or the most above water -- in this whole series. These finds are rich value in place of "The Last Tycoon," "Turtle Diary," "The Handmaid's Tale" and Karel Reisz's "French Lieutenant's Woman," where, I'd guess, the writer may feel that not even Meryl Streep, fine costumes and the Dorset locations can make up for the daft strategy of a subplot involving the modern actors playing the story. That is as misguided as the wrong-way-round chronology in "Betrayal" (another absentee). It's odd how quickly a movie flinches at pretentious novelties of structure or exposes their studied elegance.
I've left till last what I regard as the highest achievements, and Pinter's most valuable gift to the movies. In the early 60's, he had been asked to do a script from Robin Maugham's trashy but suggestive novel, "The Servant." The original director, Michael Anderson, made no headway with it. But then Joseph Losey, an American exiled in London because of the blacklist, sniffed it out, saw the potential in the situation and the brilliance in the writing. And he was able to get Pinter to join in the fray.
There was a friendship between the two men that extended to "Accident" and "The Go-Between," and which was intended to culminate in the Proust picture. Their first meeting, recalled in Michel Ciment's "Losey on Losey," was a clash. "I confronted Harold," said Losey, "who was -- if anything -- no less arrogant because he wasn't sure that he was Harold Pinter yet." The writer said he wasn't accustomed to being given notes. Then they got drunk together and started again on "The Servant," a movie that altered England's sense of itself, not least in the screen persona of Dirk Bogarde. For the airy drawing-room hero of the 50's was suddenly reimagined as a social upstart of infinite sexual variety, a servant whose cold, wordy passion was to humiliate his young master (James Fox).
Losey relished the economy of Pinter's writing: he could build pictures in the gaps between words. Something similar was expressed by Paul Schrader, who directed the Pinter script of Ian McEwan's novel "The Comfort of Strangers." He felt that the Anglo-American mixture was useful: "American energy and restlessness when properly combined with the very understated British writing can be a dynamic collaboration."
So often in Pinter there is a stillness -- two figures hovering together in unhatched animosity -- that begs for action. "The Comfort of Strangers" is an unsettling film because its very accomplished malice has so little cause or provocation in narrative or character. Indeed, its climate of hostility seems preordained or unavoidable. So there is no explanation for that exquisite Pinteresque moment when the Christopher Walken character, in the midst of small talk, suddenly devastates the Rupert Everett character with a punch in the stomach.
And then winks at the gasping Englishman. It's "I don't know" turned into action, and a glimpse of the savagery beneath ostensibly polite discourse (something that cries out for release in "The Servant" and "The Homecoming," and works just as well in Pinter's script from Penelope Mortimer's "Pumpkin Eater").
So it's important to note that that gratuitous punch, and much of the best dialogue about feelings of power and submission, come directly from Mr. McEwan's novel. Then consider. The novel was published in 1981, and it's not too far-fetched to see Mr. McEwan as one of the writers who grew up on the tension in Pinter's plays, the class revenge of "The Servant," and the writer's barbed trust in silence and the "acte gratuit." For Pinter blew away a generation of garrulous good manners in British theater to expose the wounds of class, and the incipient malice or damage of one person's gaining advantage over another. So Harold Pinter is vital to the kind of moviemaking in which a glance can be as cruel as a blow.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sarah Miles and James Fox in "The Servant." (Photofest)(pg. 11); Natasha Richardson and Rupert Everett in "The Comfort of Strangers" (1991); Harold Pinter adapted the script from the novel by Ian McEwan. (Everett Collection)(pg. 23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); FILM (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%) MOTION PICTURES 

PERSON: THOMSON, DAVID; PINTER, HAROLD 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



359 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1752 words

HEADLINE: Just Where Does Connecticut Shop? 

BYLINE:  By HARLAN J. LEVY 

 BODY:
THE sudden shakeout in Connecticut's discount retail market over the last two years surprised and puzzled Jesse Moldavsky of West Hartford, a longtime customer of Caldor and Bradlees.
 But her switch in allegiance to Wal-Mart helps explain why those two discount chains folded so dramatically and why the state's other major discounters, Kmart, Ames, and Service Merchandise, suffered an economic drubbing they're struggling to reverse. 
 "After that initial shock, I thought, 'Oh my gosh, how could this happen?' " said Ms. Moldavsky, 48, a professional pet sitter who had shopped at the two now-defunct chains for decades. "And then you start thinking about all the negatives -- how there was never any sales help at Caldor's and Bradlees, the shelves were partially empty, and with a busy agenda you just really didn't want to keep track of when the shipments might come in." 
So Ms. Moldavsky now favors Wal-Mart "because the quality of merchandise is higher, the variety is greater, and the staff is very knowledgeable and caring."
Wal-Mart, the world's top discount retailer, and Target, the latest discounter to enter Connecticut, have advantages that have attracted Ms. Moldavsky and waves of other customers. Newer, nimbler, and more adaptive, they go after a younger, more affluent clientele than the older chains. Both also have technological superiority and the ability to speedily change offerings to suit changing tastes.
By comparison, analysts said, the battered survivors are struggling to combat dowdy images and a dwindling clientele. 
"We'll continue to see a shakeout in the industry," predicted John Finguerra, who developed the Buckland Hills Mall, as well as the state's first Wal-Mart and Home Depot and one of its first Targets.
Wal-Mart and Target are "right on the cutting edge of technology in terms of assessing the consumer's tastes," Mr. Finguerra said, "and they have a tremendous back-up in ordering from their suppliers who do turnaround on a dime."
Kmart and Ames made little effort to upgrade their stores when Wal-Mart and Target entered the state, said William Kane, a principal with Wellspeak Dugas & Kane of Cheshire, a retail appraisal and consulting firm. The new discounters have larger stores, "better merchandise, and better service," Mr. Kane said, "and that was a welcome mat for middle-income and upper-income families."
Indeed, Ames, Kmart, and Service Merchandise officials all said expansion is not in their plans, while Wal-Mart and Target continue to add outlets. When Caldor and Bradlees shut down, Wal-Mart and Target jumped on the remains. Wal-Mart bought 12 Caldor sites in Connecticut, Massachusetts, and New York, including stores in Avon, Derby, New Britain, Old Saybrook, Rocky Hill, and Southington. In March, the United States Bankruptcy Court approved Wal-Mart's bid for 13 Bradlees stores, including ones in Norwalk, Danbury, Guilford Hamden, New Milford, and Waterbury. Target picked up two empty Caldors and three Bradlees stores in the Northeast (none in Connecticut).
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart opened its first Connecticut store in Manchester in 1993. The chain now has 19 general merchandise stores here, including outlets in Manchester and East Windsor; one Supercenter in North Windham, and three Sam's Club membership warehouses in Manchester, Berlin, and Orange.
In January, the chain opened stores in Avon and Bristol. Others will open in Newington, Old Saybrook, Lisbon, and Stratford this year. In the next 12 months Wal-Mart said it will expand in six Connecticut locations, all former Bradlees stores in Danbury, Guilford, Hamden, New Milford, Norwalk, and Waterbury. 
Wal-Mart operates 1,736 general merchandise stores, 950 Supercenters, which are twice as large, 476 Sam's Club membership warehouses, and 1,080 international stores.
Wal-Mart has 62 distribution centers and locates its stores around them. That allows for a one-day travel time to restock the shelves of any store in the country , Thomas Williams, a company spokesman, said.
"It's the kind of company that has for years run its business in the most cost-effective and most efficient imaginable way," said Kurt Barnard, president of the Barnard Retail Trend Report. 
Minneapolis-based Target came to the state in October, opening three stores in South Windsor, New Britain, and Waterford. Its parent company, the Target Corporation, operates 1,306 discount and department stores in 46 states, including 991 Targets.
The chain features more upscale, hip fashions and housewares than the other discounters and does not carry the "hard" lines -- appliances, furniture and auto services.
"Target is a tremendous clothing merchant," Mr. Finguerra said. Because it doesn't carry the hard lines, "they're able to devote their full energies toward the 'soft' lines and they adapt very quickly to changes in taste and translate them very rapidly onto the floor of the store."
Target also has the potential of keeping its customers for a long time.. They range from teenagers to the 40-year-old market, Mr. Finguerra said. "Since they're able to attract a younger clientele, they're able to follow that customer through the years." 
In its fiscal first quarter ending May 5, Target's discount stores reported a profit of $502 million, up from $467 million a year earlier. That division recorded a $2.223 billion profit last year, up from $2.022 billion in 1999.
Troy, Michigan-based Kmart, the successor to the Kresge chain, is one of the oldest survivors in Connecticut, opening its first three stores here in 1973. Now, analysts said, it's battling an outdated, unfashionable image and drooping profits.
Unless discounters establish a clear market niche, they're only "copy cats," said Richard A. Freeman, a former director of the Investment Banking Consumer Group of Salomon Smith Barney. "When you're not the lead dog, you're just trying to follow the pricing and category assortments of the lead dog, and that's a recipe for financial flu."
Indeed, Kmart reported a $25 million loss in its first fiscal quarter ending April 30, after a $249 million loss in 2000.
But Kmart is trying to reverse the trend, replacing top executives throughout the company and initiating a new marketing campaign. It has also revived the Blue Light Special, "a very inspired idea," Mr. Barnard said.
Until it was discontinued 10 years ago, Kmart was known for the blue light located outside every store that flashed every hour signaling a 20-minute bargain-hunting frenzy for selected top-brand products at deep discount. On April 2, the Blue Light returned to all of Kmart's 2,107 outlets.
Kmart is also revamping its distribution systems. A new $100 million distribution center is planned for New York, Stephen Pagnani, a Kmart spokesman, said. The company is also installing new scanning systems at the registers as well as updating its technology.
"There's a way to go," Mr. Barnard said, "but they're going to make it, I'm quite confident." 
Currently, Kmart has 17 stores in Connecticut towns, including Manchester, Vernon, Windsor, Waterbury, Cromwell and Southington. The chain has 2,107 stores in all 50 states, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.
There are no plans to open or close any stores in Connecticut, Mr. Pagnani said. 
Joseph R. Ettore, the chairman and chief executive of Ames, said his chain relies on a market niche that the other three apparently don't care as much about: lower-income working-class families earning $35,000 to $45,000 a year and "mature" shoppers like Delrosa DelSol, 73, of Hartford, who said she looks forward to Ames' deep-discount weekly circulars.
Ms. DelSol began shopping at Ames' Bloomfield store 20 years ago, even before Ames took over the outlet from Zayre, the defunct regional chain, in the 1980s, and she has no intention of switching to Wal-Mart, Target, or Kmart.
"Ames is like a nice little family store," she said. "Most of the people who work there are from my community."
At 65,000 square feet each, Ames stores are half the average size of a Wal-Mart. "It makes it more convenient for our customer," Mr. Ettore said. "Our customer is time-starved. She wants to get in and get out."
Wal-Mart is not a threat, Mr. Ettore insisted, even though 359 Ames outlets have a Wal-Mart within 5 to 10 miles.
"We've already survived that threat with Wal-Mart sitting on top of us for the last 3 1/2 years," Mr. Ettore said.
However, Ames is still recovering from a 1990 bankruptcy and the admittedly ill-advised 1998 purchase of 155 Hills stores to go with the 301 Ames stores. Earlier this month, Ames announced that it will borrow up to $75 million "for working capital" and "increased liquidity," and to guarantee that vendors get paid.
"In this kind of a lousy economy with high gasoline prices that affect our target customer, our sales have been choppy -- up one month, down one month," Rolando de Aguiar, the chief financial officer, said. "This provides additional availability so that the vendor community and credit community is comfortable that we have enough to handle any bump in the road."
Ames reported a $27.7 million net loss in its first quarter ending May 5, bettering its $29.1 million loss a year earlier. It lost $241 million last year.
Since then, Ames has cut inventory by 13 percent, begun chain-wide expense controls, and sliced $100 million off its planned capital spending. The chain will open only five new stores this year -- none in Connecticut -- after opening 26 last year. Ames has a total of 452 stores in 19 states and Washington, with 22 in Connecticut towns, including Manchester, East Hartford, and Vernon.
Still, Mr. Freeman said, "For Ames and Kmart, these are times for retrenchment, while the big chains like Target and Wal-Mart are expanding through building new stores and buying prime locations of the stores that are closing or going bankrupt."
Mr. Freeman predicted that by the end of the year, Wal-Mart will be "bigger than General Motors and will be the biggest company in the U.S."
Kmart will be able to survive, Mr. Kane said, because it's a large national chain and "clearly they have the clout to stock their shelves, but in Connecticut the stores that will be favored will be Target and Wal-Mart." As for Ames, "The prognosis is that it will be an uphill battle to survive." 
Whatever ultimately happens on the Connecticut discount-shopping front, the new competitors have taught everyone a lesson, Mr. Ettore said. "They made all of us smart, and the ones that haven't figured out a way to get smarter are out of business."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The empty Bradlees in Norwalk, which Wal-Mart plans to take over. Left, Jesse Moldavsky shopping at a Wal-Mart in Avon. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times; inset, C. M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Minneapolis-based Target came to the state in October, opening three stores in South Windsor, New Britain, and this one in Waterford. Analysts said Target and Wal-Mart are nimbler, more adaptive, and go after a younger, more affluent clientele than some of the older retail chains. (C. M. Glover for The New York Times); When Caldor declared bankruptcy, it closed its stores in the state, including this one in Stamford. Wal-Mart is taking over some of the sites, in Avon, Derby, New Britain, Old Saybrook, Rocky Hill, and Southington. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (94%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); FAMILY (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); PET CARE SERVICES (55%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; DISCOUNT SELLING; FINANCES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (95%); TARGET CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: CALDOR CORP; BRADLEES INC; KMART CORP; AMES DEPARTMENT STORES INC; SERVICE MERCHANDISE CO; WAL-MART STORES INC; TARGET DIVISION OF DAYTON HUDSON CORP 

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%); TGT (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (85%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (85%) SIC5331 VARIETY STORES; 

PERSON: LEVY, HARLAN J 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



360 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS; 
From Dressing Down to Suiting Up

BYLINE:  By FRANCINE PARNES 

 BODY:
AS recently as April, Gary Kaplan of Larchmont still bore the sartorial signs of a dot-com employee for whom nearly every day had lapsed into dress-down Friday. Selling software from home, he wore shorts, slippers and T-shirts emblazoned with dot-com names. Shaving was optional. "Why bother when you are working virtually?" Mr. Kaplan said. 
 But soon Mr. Kaplan became a dot-com statistic. 
 "The entire sales force got whacked," said Mr. Kaplan, whose informal wardrobe went the way of his eliminated job. He began reaching for more traditional attire, first for interviews, and later when he joined Sterling Commerce in Manhattan as an account executive. 
Ken Giddon, a Larchmont acquaintance, said: "I saw Gary getting on the train wearing a suit, and it was his first day at the new job. He was 'Mr. Casual' six months ago. Now he's saying, 'I'm wearing a suit, I'm going back in the work force, I'm reading the paper, gossiping around the water cooler, the whole corporate thing.' " 
It is Mr. Giddon's business to follow the swing of the fashion pendulum. As president of Rothman's in Scarsdale, he positioned the men's store a year ago as a destination for dress-down. "The year 2000 aspiration was to be a dot-com millionaire, the guy in jeans cruising around with a laptop and Palm Pilot." 
But in today's squeezed market, "It's not hip to be dot-com anymore," said Mr. Giddon, whose May suit sales increased 13 percent over last year. "The decline of the dot-com economy coincides with the decline of corporate casual dressing." 
Mr. Kaplan, who bought two suits and a blazer from Rothman's, is one example in Westchester of a national trend that dress-up is edging back. 
"Conservative interview attire is definitely in vogue," said Dana Roth, executive recruiter with LV Interim Solutions, an accounting and finance search firm in Rye. "Job applicants as well as company representatives are dressing up more, in play-it-safe type suits for networking events. Even if I tell our candidates they can come to our office in business casual, they still come dressed up, which says to me there is some anxiety among job seekers."
If applicants are cleaning up, "I'm glad about that," said Jay Hashmall, a deputy county executive, who noted applications are on the rise. In charge of 26 departments, he recruits executives within the county government for County Executive Andrew J. Spano and has coordinated the hiring of more than 12 executive-level officials in the past year. 
"I judge job applicants in part by how careful they are with their appearance," Mr. Hashmall said. "It's often a reflection of how careful they are with work. If a job applicant doesn't polish their shoes or wears ill-fitted clothes, they may be careless or casual in job performance."
A men's store where Mr. Hashmall shops is waging a pro-suit campaign via brochures and store window signs. In April he was one of 15,000 recipients of a mailer from Saint Laurie Merchant Tailors on Park Avenue in Manhattan, purporting to debunk "The Seven Myths of Dress-Down." Nearly 20 percent of Saint Laurie customers are from Westchester. 
"I wouldn't call it a stampede, but even Bill Gates is wearing more suits," said Andrew Kozinn, owner of Saint Laurie, whose May suit sales were up 12 percent over May 2000. "I predict the first guys to dress up are the vice presidents, the C.E.O.'s. Then middle management will follow the leader, if they want to be considered for partner."
The old economy image is seeping into corporate dress policies.
At the national employment law firm of Jackson Lewis, instituting firm-wide dress-down Fridays "has become a dead issue that doesn't even come up anymore," said Robert Heiferman, a partner in the 175-employee White Plains branch. "Now there's more pressure to undo whatever casual dress we have throughout the firm, as opposed to a few years ago when the pressure was to expand it."
Mr. Heiferman's branch practices "no casual-anything," he said. "There's nothing casual about the litigation matters we are handling for our clients. Just as we don't send out letters with typos, we don't dress casual."
In a November 2000 poll by Jackson Lewis, 44 percent of management representatives from companies nationwide said dress-down policies coincided with more employee lateness and absenteeism.
Large corporations in Westchester, including I.B.M. and Texaco, are not asking employees to go more formal, but PepsiCo has refined its standards by disallowing jeans and sweat pants. "We used to have a corporate casual dress code in the mid-1990's, and our employees pushed it a bit," said Andrea Ferrara, human resources director in Purchase.
The county typically takes its business dress cue from Manhattan, said Carl Austin, president of Austin Corporate Properties, real estate brokers in Rye Brook.
"When big corporations moved up to Westchester decades ago, they brought an urban approach to business, buttoned-up with ties and jackets," said Mr. Austin, who is dressing up more. "They set the tone and changed the suburbs." Later, when companies enacted casual dress codes, "the loosening in Manhattan went right up into Westchester and Fairfield. Suits hung in the closet. We were cycling into informality." Now, he added, "we are cycling back again." 
Adam Harris of Larchmont, a partner at O'Melveny & Myers in Manhattan, said the law firm issued a memorandum in May reminding employees to dress more carefully. "It basically said there have been some instances of people slipping a bit," he said. "A downside of casual attire, especially in a professional firm, is the need to constantly remind people there is a line. On one side, business casual is appropriate, and the other side it's not." 
Dressing down is hard to do, Mr. Kozinn of Saint Laurie said. "To do casual really well -- the sport coat, the corduroy trousers, the suede shoes, the alligator belt -- men were finding, 'Hey, this is even harder than wearing a suit.' " 
Women enjoy more fashion options, but they too are finding that a blue-chip image pays off.
"I'm meeting with many more baby boomers with multiple millions," said Nola Falcone, a money manager who runs NMF Asset Management in White Plains. "They lost money in stocks, they are shaken. They don't want their money manager to look like the market has fallen. Your clients feel comfortable if your dress shows you know how to make money and you care to go to this trouble," said Ms. Falcone, who has been buying $2,000 to $3,000 suits. 
She is one of the reasons that Mary Jane Denzer, a women's boutique in White Plains, racked up sales of $170,000 for expensive Avery Oliver suits from January through June. "Our customers are stockbrokers, lawyers, bankers and doctors who really need to look on a par with the men with whom they work and compete," said the store's owner, Mary Jane Denzer. 
Robert Dakin views commuter train cars as a fashion barometer.
"I commute to Manhattan from New Canaan on Metro-North, and a year ago, approximately 90 percent of business commuters on the train were dressed in business casual," said Mr. Dakin, the executive vice president of Brooks Brothers. "But since May I have noticed that about 50 percent of them are wearing a tie with a sport coat or suit." 
The new momentum "says a lot about the male psyche," said David Wolfe, creative director for The Doneger Group, a trend forecasting service in Manhattan. "This is probably going to affect every man who has a business wardrobe, not just the men who care about fashion, which numbers about three, including myself. Men want to stay employed, so they want to look like serious businessmen."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ken Giddon, center, president of Rothman's in Scarsdale, helps Howie Barshop of New Jersey. At left, Mr. Giddon and Geoffrey Gold of Larchmont judge a suit coat. With the demise of many dot-com companies, casual dressing in the workplace is becoming passe and men are buying more formal suits for their jobs. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); WORKPLACE DRESS CODES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (87%); COUNTIES (86%); LABOR FORCE (78%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (78%); SALES FORCE (77%); MEN'S CLOTHING (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (75%); TRENDS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (62%); ACCOUNTING (50%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; APPAREL; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; WORKING AT HOME; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: PALM INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%)

PERSON: PARNES, FRANCINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



361 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2490 words

HEADLINE: Thanks for Coming. Now Go. 

BYLINE:  By ABHI RAGHUNATHAN 

DATELINE: EDISON 

 BODY:
THEY wrote many of today's computer codes, set up networks spanning millions of miles, designed and built Web sites and databases. The role of Indian immigrants in the development of the Internet has been likened to the contribution made by earlier waves of immigrants who built the nation's railroads and subway systems.
 Yet today -- as the ranks of dot-com companies continue to thin and businesses pare their payrolls and put off costly projects -- many of these workers are finding that the businesses that brought them to this country now consider them expendable. 
 "People come here with very high hopes and then all of a sudden they find that they don't have any options," said Ashok Dave (pronounced DAH-vey), a priest at the BAPS Swaminarayan Temple here who over the last few months has spoken to a growing number of Indian immigrants who are worried they will lose their jobs. "When they come here they are hopeful, and then, without their fault, they are forced to leave the job." 
Interestingly, many of the thousands of Indians who came to this country and settled in this technology-rich state did so only after the federal government made it easier for them to come here. A new visa category, known as H-1B, was established by the Immigration Act of 1990 specifically to bring specialists in the high-tech industry and other fields to the United States. As recently as last year, President Clinton signed legislation raising to 195,000 the number of workers permitted to come to this country over a three-year period.
According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, about 134,000 such workers came to the United States from May 1998 to July 1999 -- nearly 40 percent of whom were Indians who specialized in systems analysis and programming. Overall, Indians accounted for nearly half of the H-1B visas issued during this time.
But the new visa classification also required the immigrant workers to return home if they did not have a job. Although there are no firm numbers, business executives and consultants estimate that so far from 20,000 to 80,000 Indian workers have been forced to return home.
Given the air of uncertainty, it is not at all surprising that more and more anxious men are coming to the Hindu temple here to pray that the economy turns around soon, so they are not forced to return to India, where the hours are longer and the pay is lower.
The effect of the downturn has infested just about all aspects of their lives; talk about green cards and layoffs dominates conversation at parties. Many computer consultants say they spend their time at work browsing Web sites that have immigration advice and job listings. Some, nervous that their particular area of expertise will soon become obsolete, are scrambling to learn new programming languages and networking skills.
There few places where the threat of returning to India loom larger than in New Jersey, a popular destination for Indians with computer expertise. Indeed, the Immigrants Support Network, an advocacy group for these workers that numbers more than 20,000 nationally, has its second-largest state membership in New Jersey, which is behind only California.
To be sure, there are still companies willing to hire such workers, and some computer consultants who lose their jobs still manage to find work elsewhere. But the feelings of hope and optimism that prevailed only months ago seem like some distant dream in the current reality of layoffs and spending cuts.
"So many Indian nationals were getting into the mainstream U.S. work force and doing well; that was a trend until early this year," said Cyrus Mehta, who has been an immigration lawyer for 10 years and is chairman of the immigration law committee of the New York City Bar Association. "What I'm seeing is these very people are now getting laid off and benched. It's not a totally desperate situation, but it's clearly a whole new ballgame."
For instance, the situation has dominated the agenda of the Immigrants Support Network. What bothers members most is that their immigration fates are tied to the fortunes of the companies that brought them here. A company can sponsor a worker for up to six years on an H-1B visa, and can also sponsor the same workers for a green card. Workers who are laid off immediately become eligible for deportation if they cannot find another job in the high-tech industry. 
Until recently, if a worker waiting for his green card left the company that sponsored him, his application had to go through the entire system again, a process that could take years to complete. The law President Clinton signed last year allowed workers who were near the end of their green card process but moved to another company to maintain their place in the application stack rather than start all over. But many immigrants say this provision has been poorly publicized and is not widely observed.
"Someone should not be rejected for a green card because they changed the job," said Shailesh Gala, president of the Immigrants Support Network. "I.N.S. has not come out with any kind of guidelines or memo, so people are afraid of changing jobs because they don't want to jeopardize their green card."
The frustration with immigration policy overshadowed all other topics during a recent networking session organized by the Immigrants Support Network in a spare room at the Edison Public Library. Instead of discussing promotions and stock options, a frazzled group of 18 people spent much of the meeting denouncing rumored job cuts and stalled green card applications. 
"My company has been laying off workers," said one consultant waiting for his green card who requested that he be identified as Mr. Ramesh. "And basically, if I am laid off, then I don't know where I am."
Mr. Ramesh, 30, said he hated having his green card dependent on his employer's graces. He has been working here on an H-1B visa for three and a half years and has seen friends who were close to getting a green card lose their jobs -- and with that their hopes for becoming permanent residents. 
"It's all basically geared toward the employers," he said. "The employee has no power. You have no rights. It's pretty much slavery if you ask me."
For its part, the immigration service says it sympathizes with workers who are forced to leave the country abruptly, but maintains that the H-1B program was never intended to be a steppingstone to a green card. 
"The H-1B is something the employer submits, not the employee," said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the federal agency. "It's an employer-sponsored program; it's a type of nonimmigrant visa, and at the end of six years if they don't have an immigration visa pending they are expected to depart and go home. There is no guarantee, and there should be no expectation that a green card should result in the end."
Mr. Strassberger did add that the agency was "looking at the situation" and considering setting up a grace period for workers who had been laid off so they could look for other jobs.
But the agency has not changed its policy, under which its individual officials decide what happens to unemployed H-1B workers eligible for deportation. 
"The only thing we can offer at this time is to take a look at someone's application in the claim of extraordinary circumstances," said Mr. Strassberger. "These are judged on a case-by-case basis."
Linking a worker's immigration status to his employer offers protection to companies that spend money -- sometimes thousands of dollars -- to bring H-1B workers here from another country because it discourages workers from jumping to a competitor after they arrive.
In the current market, however, computer consultants who talk about having too many job offers are usually being sarcastic, and employers are not too concerned that their workers will be overwhelmed by generous job opportunities.
"All the money we spent on training people on the latest technology we would lose if they joined somewhere else,' said Venkat Venkataramanan, who has been working in the computer industry since 1985, most recently as a senior vice president of MindTree Consulting, a computer consulting company with offices in Somerset. "Now, with the downturn in the economy, the problem went away because there is no demand for these guys. They're not getting offers from competitors like they used to."
MindTree employs about 50 people in New Jersey, of which about two-thirds are H-1B workers. So far, the company -- which has H-1B workers with very specialized skills -- has not had to lay off anyone.
"It takes humongous human effort to do anything substantial on the Internet," said Mr. Venkataramanan. "We may not be good on the creative side, but once you go past the interface we're very good at it. We're true engineers."
He said that workers with more common skills were most at risk. For example, many who specialize in Java, a widely used programming language used to design Web pages and other Internet applications, had once been able pick and choose among companies and projects. Now, however, they are having trouble finding work.
"Every Tom, Dick and Harry that could spell Java could get a job, but not anymore," he said.
Indeed, executives said that Java had become the equivalent of a four-letter word among computer consultants. A current joke in the community is that "B2B" -- business to business -- now stands for "Back to Bangalore," a city in India from which many of them have come from.
Many of the programmers, who were recruited to the United States to help combat the threat posed by the Y2K bug, helped create a glut of computer consultants. 
"For the Y2K the U.S. was short of programmers, and that's the time I believe a lot of Indians helped American companies through the tough time," said Srini Venkat, 29, a programmer in Hackensack who has lived here for four years on the H-1B. "I know a lot of people who worked 12 hours a day, 16 hours a day to make sure things are in place. Those were the times we really helped the economy, in crunch time. Most people, what they want now here is to settle down, to have a life."
But those times are over, and now many of these immigrants are trying to learn new programming and technical skills. Yet they say the specialized nature of the computer industry makes it hard for them to upgrade themselves.
"The computer market is a very, very, very fluctuating market," said Venkat Parmeshwaran, 45, a computer consultant -- also here on an H-1B visa -- who has set up software for several companies. "It's very difficult for me to jump into programming or into e-commerce. They're all totally different. The expertise required for one kind of computer job can be completely different from another."
Even companies that are doing well have less of a need for technical workers. Moreover, as those companies expand, consulting firms say they are trying to recruit potential employees with business and people skills, which H-1B workers tend to lack because of the cultural differences.
"It's important to have higher level guys with technical know-how that can also speak to customers," said Paul D'Souza, director of marketing and alliances for Exinom Technologies, a computer consulting company with offices in Iselin. "That's not a commodity you can get from India."
Mr. D'Souza added: "We tend to not bring anyone from India like we used to in the past. Someone who floats off the boat with an I.I.T. degree from Madras has absolutely no value to us."
And those who are already here -- particularly those holding H-1B visas -- are of little more value. One computer consultant from Edison who worked with Java and database programs before losing his job said that the interview process was much more rigorous now than when he came here three and a half years ago. Indeed, many job listings specifically ask for green card holders and American citizens only. 
The Edison resident, who requested anonymity so as not to jeopardize his job prospects, said that he hoped to get another position because he now had experience working in the United States.
Those who had worked here for just a year or two, he said, were having the most trouble finding another job. "People are very choosy these days," he said. "They go for more experience. Right now, we don't have jobs in the market."
By the same token, H-1B visa holders who still hold jobs say they have very little work to do in this time of cost-cutting. Many of them work for consulting companies, called "body shops," that farm them out to work on short-term projects for corporations. But today many of those corporations have decided to postpone or cancel plans to set up databases or telecommunications networks, leaving many consultants without any work, or in their parlance, "on the bench."
Shobhit Rastogi, 27, has been on the bench for more than a month, ever since Lucent decided to cancel a wireless networking project that he had been working on. Since then, he has spent much of his time at work brooding over his future. 
"I know a whole lot of friends who were working on different contracts, and when they didn't have a project the companies told them to go back to India," Mr. Rastogi said. "Those sort of things make everyone nervous."
He said that those forced to return to India could look forward to a job market just as harsh as the one here. "They don't have jobs in India either," he said.
Mr. Rastogi is clinging to the hope that things will improve, though he is skeptical. For now, he has moved out of his town house in Piscataway and is living with an uncle in Philadelphia because he does not want to sign a long-term lease.
"There's no point of putting up a one-year lease, which I might need to break after 10 days," he said.
While the possibility of having to return to India looms over their lives, many Indians who have been here for years continue to settle down and assert their right to stay. They are buying houses, bundling up for New Jersey winters, learning to drive. These H-1B visa holders plan to rear their families in the United States, not in India.
A group of four such computer consultants talked heatedly about the Immigration and Naturalization Service recently over soft drinks at an Applebee's in the Woodbridge Mall, a popular weekend spot for the growing Indian community.
All four of them complained that as H-1B workers, they had to pay Social Security and unemployment taxes that they will never get to benefit from if forced to leave. And they said they resented the fact that companies were dismissing them just when they were starting to think of this country as their home.
"They lobbied for it, and now they are the first to lay off these people," said Amar Veda, 37, who has been here for five years. "I believe I have a right to stay here. I made my employers rich, paid $200,000 in taxes, $40,000 to $50,000 in Social Security."
He put it this way: "If you are like us, you have a car, a house, you have to pay your mortgage. Are we gypsies?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shobhit Rastogi, idled since Lucent canceled a networking project on which he was working, says those forced to return to India could look forward to a job market just as harsh as the one here. (Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); "People come here with very high hopes and then all of a sudden they find that they don't have any options," said Ashok Dave, priest at the Swaminaryan Temple in Edison, above, who says immigrants often speak to him of their fear they will lose their high-tech jobs. Shailesh Gala, left, stands at a meeting of the Immigrants Support Network in Edison. Scene in Iselin, a center of Indian culture in the state, above left. (Jill C. Becker for The New York Times); (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); REFUGEES (73%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; FOREIGN LABOR; INDIAN-AMERICANS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

PERSON: RAGHUNATHAN, ABHI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



362 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2408 words

HEADLINE: A Future for Madison Square's Past 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
MADISON SQUARE is back on the map. The map was drawn last month by the Landmarks Preservation Commission, which designated as a historic district a 10-block area around the great V formed by Broadway and Fifth Avenue, where there has been almost no new construction since the Depression.
 The district boundaries embrace 96 buildings in all, from antebellum town houses to a jazzy Art Deco office tower. 
 At first glance, it is a motley amalgam; not the kind of cohesive cityscape found in the nearby Ladies' Mile Historic District. "When I first came down here, I thought, 'It doesn't hang together,' " allowed Sherida E. Paulsen, the new chairwoman of the landmarks commission. "But then I realized, 'My God, it's intact.' " 
The question is how long the old-fashioned aura around Madison Square Park will endure. To the east and west, tall apartment towers rise on sites that would have seemed unlikely a decade ago.
City planners are trying to accommodate the push for more residential development without upsetting the existing commercial and industrial base, said Joseph B. Rose, the director of the City Planning Department. His agency is studying a possible rezoning of the area west of Fifth Avenue, now designated for manufacturing, to expand permitted uses while maintaining the physical context. "It's one of the historic centers of the city that's really coming back into its own," he said.
In a sign of how attractive the area has become for development, the five-story former headquarters of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals at 50 Madison Avenue is to be expanded into an 11-story condominium apartment building, in a project costing $10 million to $12 million. Because the developer, Samson Management, already had permits, the site was not included in the new historic district.
The project overlooks Madison Square Park, which reopened last month after a $5 million renovation, filled with artwork: taxi-shaped pavilions, a labyrinth of plastic bamboo and a miniature Japanese landscape with real snow. "The renovation of the park is spectacular," said David M. Kershner, president of Samson Management. "I draw a parallel to Bryant Park and that transformation."
Other signs of economic investment are plain. Two office towers at 245 and 261 Fifth Avenue are being renovated, as is the Metropolitan Life Tower. The Appellate Division courthouse is undergoing exterior repairs, repointing and cleaning now that its sumptuous courtroom -- cloaked in marble, adorned by murals and topped by a broad skylight -- has been restored.
The Prince George, 14 East 28th Street, once the city's largest welfare hotel, has been handsomely renovated as subsidized, supportive housing for 416 residents.
"Tongues and Flames" sprout from the chic-on-a-budget Gershwin Hotel, 7 East 27th Street. The polymorphous fiberglass canopies and sconces are by the Finnish artist Stefan Lindfors. Because the Gershwin is now in the historic district, the hypothetical question is irresistible: would the commission have allowed "Tongues and Flames"? Ms. Paulsen laughed as she considered the question during a recent walking tour of the new Madison Square North Historic District, after she and two colleagues debated whether the bulbous protrusions looked more like flames or shallots.
"It's totally reversible," she said. "It's fun. It's something ephemeral. But it's too bad that the building has been painted."
Invited by the owner, Urs Jakob, to devise a way to distinguish the hotel, designed by William H. Birkmire and completed in 1905, Mr. Lindfors came up with flames. "This hotel is always on fire," he wrote.
By and by, the landmarks commission may hear from the Gershwin. "The work is not finished yet," said Andrea Mitsoulis, the reservations and sales manager, "because the flames will go all the way up."
The commission will not be reviewing the transformation of the former A.S.P.C.A. headquarters, designed by Renwick, Aspinwall & Owen and completed in 1896, which the "AIA Guide to New York City" described as a "proper London club in delicately tooled limestone."
Samson Management, owned by Arnold Goldstein and his son, Michael, could have simply demolished the old building and replaced it, Mr. Kershner said. Instead, he said, they chose "to preserve whatever is preservable" and blend the new and old.
Platt Byard Dovell Architects have designed the transition and addition. It will involve removing the fourth-floor exterior and cornice, which is visible from the street, and the fifth floor penthouse, which is not, and adding 20,000 square feet to create nine full-floor apartments, one of them a duplex. Work is to begin in about six months.
"We determined, after a lot of anguish, that the only way to marry these was to work the base over and create a classical base, shaft and modern cornice," said the architect Charles A. Platt.
Although planning for the project began in early 2000, the application for an alteration permit was not filed until April 12. It was granted the next day under the Buildings Department's self-certification program, then audited and accepted by the agency on May 17, only 12 days before the landmarks hearing, effectively taking the matter out of the commission's hands.
UNABLE to regulate the property meaningfully, the commission painstakingly drew the district boundary around it, creating a one-building notch in the 26th Street corner.
"It's a shame," Ms. Paulsen said, as she walked by. "This is a gorgeous building."
Asked why the commission did not include the building anyway, given that much of the facade was being retained, Ms. Paulsen said: "If it's within the historic district, it looks like something we approved. It's confusing to applicants to see new work and assume that's the kind of work they can do."
Inside, some fascinating architectural features survive, said Valerie K. Angeli, the director of public information and special projects at the A.S.P.C.A., which moved out of the building in 1950. These include a wood fireplace mantel inscribed "Blessed Are the Merciful" and a stairwell skylight with the letters A.S.P.C.A. in a decorative oval.
Ms. Angeli asked the developers to donate these to the A.S.P.C.A. or allow the society "first dibs." No decision has been made yet, but a lawyer for Samson, Marvin B. Mitzner of Fischbein Badillo Wagner Harding, said, "To the extent that we can, we'll try to accommodate her wishes in terms of salvaging certain artifacts."
The exclusion of 50 Madison Avenue dismayed groups like the Historic Districts Council and the Drive to Protect the Ladies' Mile District, although both welcomed the new district, as did Danny Meyer, the proprietor of the restaurants Tabla and 11 Madison Park in the Credit Suisse First Boston building. "It is important that the cherished architecture and history of this area be preserved," he told the commission.
Madison Square evolved over time from a residential enclave into an entertainment district liberally sprinkled with luxury hotels and then into a business precinct. Roger Lang of the New York Landmarks Conservancy called the new district an "intact casebook of commercial architectural styles." Some of the chapters are:
*A Greco-Roman temple -- "a little Parnassus in the sky," Ms. Paulsen said -- atop the Baudouine Building, 1181 Broadway, at 28th Street (Alfred Zucker, 1896).
*A sculpturally lavish Renaissance Revival tower called the St. James Building, 1133 Broadway, at 26th Street (Bruce Price, 1897) that was once an architects' colony. Price had his office there, as did Daniel H. Burnham, Aymar Embury, Henry C. Pelton and John Russell Pope.
*Broad window bays recalling the Chicago school of architecture, in the rebuilt Coleman House hotel, 1161 Broadway, at 27th Street (Maynicke & Franke, 1907).
*The deceptively sweet-looking Queen Anne cottage at 21 West 26th Street (Thomas Stent, 1881) from which the Astors ran their immense real estate empire.
*The altered but recognizable facade of one of the earliest "French flat" apartment houses for the middle class, 251 Fifth Avenue, at 28th Street (George B. Post, 1874).
Private preservationists wished that the district boundaries had been stretched to take in a number of already designated individual landmarks, but that would have diminished the ability of the owners to transfer their development rights.
One of three landlords who formally objected to designation was the owner of a 16,000-square-foot parking lot at 7 to 11 West 28th Street, which reaches through the block and is across 29th Street from the freshly restored Marble Collegiate Church.
The owner, identified in public records as Harvey Drucker, has received a special permit to build a below-grade parking garage. What he might build over that is not known. Robert S. Cook Jr. of De Forest & Duer, who testified on his behalf before the commission, would not comment.
Ms. Paulsen said the commission included the south half of the site in part to ensure that whatever happened, there would be continuity in the building line, instead of the 75-foot gap that now exists.
Another objection at the public hearing in May came from the Gift Building, 225 Fifth Avenue, between 26th and 27th Streets, with 150 gift, tabletop, stationery, home textile, accessory and Christmas ornament showrooms. It was designed by Francis H. Kimball and Harry E. Donnell and completed in 1907 as the Brunswick Building.
The executive director, Jon R. Hendel, said the objection has since been withdrawn. "Once we realized we were integral to landmarking," he said, "we wanted to support it 100 percent." He said the management is working on a master plan for storefront and window replacement, adding that there were no plans to convert the ground-level bays from showcase to retail space.
Two buildings now under renovation in the district are 245 Fifth Avenue, at 28th Street (George F. Pelham, 1927) and 261 Fifth Avenue, at 29th Street (Ely Jacques Kahn of Buchman & Kahn, 1929). They were formerly owned by Harry B. Helmsley and Irving Schneider through Investment Properties Associates and were purchased last year for $135 million by a fund controlled by Koll Bren Schreiber Realty Advisors.
The owners were neutral about the inclusion of their buildings within the new district, said Charles A. Valentino, senior vice president of Koll Bren Schreiber. "On the negative side, it can impact improvements," he said. "On the plus side, when an area is designated it highlights the area and the historical importance of it."
Ms. Paulsen was clearly pleased on her tour to see the effort going into the restoration of the lobbies in both buildings.
"We looked at ripping out the lobbies but our recommendation was, 'Let's take advantage of what we have,' " said Mitchell L. Konsker, an executive director of Cushman & Wakefield, the leasing agent.
Following an archaeologist's hunch, the architect Josephine Sokolski of J. C. S. Design Associates poked through the hung ceiling at No. 245 and found the original groined vaults above. These are being restored. So is the exuberant lobby at No. 261, which was compromised in the years of Helmsley ownership. For instance, the gold-leaf ceiling had been slathered with several different kinds of gold paint, said Matthew R. Astrachan, senior director of Cushman & Wakefield. Gold leaf will be reapplied.
Another little-known space awaiting rediscovery is the ballroom of the Prince George Hotel (Howard Greenley, 1905), a 48-by-100-foot hall with 18-foot coffered ceilings. Its columns are encrusted with plump cherubim, ripe fruit garlands and faces with leafy walrus mustaches.
The ballroom was a dining hall, social service office and basketball court in the 1980's when the Prince George housed 1,700 people -- four times the current population -- in notorious squalor and danger.
Today, it is closed off from the rest of the lobby, whose ornate features were restored as part of a $25 million renovation by Common Ground Community, a nonprofit organization that acquired the property in 1996. The architects were Beyer Blinder Belle.
Common Ground Community is looking for a restaurateur who would employ its residents but would like even more to see the ballroom become an event space for nonprofit organizations. "We're sitting on a treasure," said Rosanne Haggerty, the executive director of Common Ground. "But we house the homeless. We don't renovate ballrooms with the money we raise."
The apartments are rented to single adults, working tenants with incomes between $15,000 and $30,000 and the formerly homeless. What made the lobby renovation possible was the sale of $6.5 million in historic rehabilitation tax credits.
Tax credits were also used by MetLife in its renovation of 11 Madison Avenue, now occupied by Credit Suisse First Boston, and the current work on 1 Madison Avenue, which is scheduled to be finished later this year. That building will also be substantially occupied by Credit Suisse First Boston, though MetLife will keep its headquarters there, with 32 floors in the tower. The tower stonework is being cleaned and repaired, the clock is being relighted and 1,100 windows are being replaced.
"Federal incentives can inspire owners of historic properties to do the right thing," said Raymond M. Pepi, president of Building Conservation Associates, the restoration consultants on the project. "The building benefits and the city benefits."
Through his restoration contracting company, Archa Technology, Mr. Pepi is also involved with the renovation of the courthouse of the Appellate Division, First Department, of State Supreme Court.
So are Platt Byard Dovell Architects. In fact, the project has closed a three-generation circle in the Platt family, since the model for "Wisdom," an allegorical mural in the courtroom, was Eleanor Hardy Platt, Charles Platt's grandmother.
The muralist, Henry O. Walker, introduced Mr. Platt's grandparents to each other and spent time with them at an artists' colony in Cornish, N.H.
In 1968, Charles Platt's uncle, Geoffrey, found himself in the Appellate Division courtroom. As chairman of the landmarks commission, he was the defendant in a serious challenge to the new landmarks law by the trustees of Sailors' Snug Harbor on Staten Island. He happened to look around during the hearing, Charles Platt recalled, to find a very familiar face staring at him from the courtroom wall. "He said, 'My God, there was mother and I knew everything would be all right.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Following the restoration of the Appellate Division courtroom, the exterior of the courthouse at Madison Avenue and 25th Street is under repair. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times); Fiberglass canopies and sconces at the Gershwin Hotel; a column detail in the Prince George Hotel lobby. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times, left)(pg. 1); Historic district includes the Baudouine Building, 1181 Broadway. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); "Wisdom," an allegorical mural in the Appellate Division courtroom. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times); The former A.S.P.C.A. headquarters (below) is to be transformed into an 11-story condominium (left) overlooking Madison Square Park. (Platt Byard Dovell Architects); (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 6) Chart: "In and Around the New Historic District" 1.Marble Collegiate Church2. Parking lot, 7-11 West 28th St3. 261 Fifth Ave.4. Former "French flats," 251 Fifth Ave.5. Baudouine Building, 1181 Broadway6. Former Coleman House, 1161 Broadway7. 245 Fifth Ave.8. Gershwin Hotel, 7 East 27th St.9. Prince George, 14 East 28th St.10. Former Astor office, 21 West 26th St.11. St. James Building, 1133 Broadway12. Gift Building, 225 Fifth Ave.13. Former A.S.P.C.A., 50 Madison Ave.14. New York Life, 51 Madison Ave.15. Appellate Division courthouse16. Credit Suisse First Boston, 11 Madison Ave.17. Metropolitan Life, 1 Madison Ave. Map of Manhattan highlighting area surrounding Madison Square North Historic District. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (92%); HISTORIC SITES (92%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); ZONING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); BUDGETS (69%) HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; HOUSING; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

ORGANIZATION: LANDMARKS PRESERVATION COMMISSION 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; MADISON SQUARE PARK (NYC); MADISON SQUARE NORTH HISTORIC DISTRICT (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



363 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: MONEY & MEDICINE; 
When Doctors Feel Disposable

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Jennifer Steinhauer covers health care for The Times. Her column on the economics of health care appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: jestei@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE doctor on the line is very angry. What they don't understand, she says, is how hard she works, how many lives she has saved and how much it costs her to run an office. If they did, she said, her voice shaking with anger, they would never make the choices they do.
 The subject of her wrath might be managed care companies -- and certainly she hates them -- but actually, it is you. 
 For almost a decade now, doctors' anger toward managed care companies has been well documented. But more recently, it seems, some of that anger has turned toward patients.
The patients, not known to be fans of insurance companies themselves, have nonetheless adapted to the companies' dominance by taking on some of their worst qualities, doctors say. The physicians are particularly annoyed with patients who, after their employer makes a change in a health plan, drop them with seemingly little reservation just because they can no longer participate in that plan.
Dr. Bradley A. Radwaner, a cardiologist in Manhattan, described this in a letter he wrote to Eliot L. Spitzer, the New York attorney general, complaining about what he believes are unfair payment practices of managed care companies.
"Since the vast majority of patients cannot distinguish a quality, experienced and well-trained physician from one who is simply personable," Dr. Radwaner wrote, "decisions are made based on $10 co-pays versus paying full fees. Patients want referrals only to 'participating' physicians so they have to pay as little as possible."
Citing low reimbursement rates, Dr. Radwaner is winnowing away the number of managed care contracts he will accept.
Many patients would love not to switch doctors. But many do not have the income to pay the full rate, or even a large part of it, and so they must go with doctors who operate within their employers' plan. 
Dr. Radwaner argued that many of his patients are lawyers or other high-income professionals who can well afford to pay his fees. "A lot of my patients come in," he said, "pay me $10 and then go down the block and have their teeth done and write a check for $1,200."
Many other doctors share his point of view. Dr. Emile M. Heisiger, a pain specialist at New York University Medical Center, who accepts no managed care plans, feels that patients need to realize that he is worth the full fee. (He once told me that a patient with chronic back pain should forgo "that vacation to Mount Rushmore" and pay him for care rather than going to a less-skilled doctor who happens to be in an insurance plan.)
As Dr. Radwaner put it, "Patients have to realize that they can't get something for nothing." In other words, no first-class flight for the price of coach. Fair enough. But once you apply this market logic to health care, then how do doctors plan to woo and retain customers? Do they offer something akin to frequent-flier miles -- one free procedure for every 10 paid at full price? Do they improve customer service, offer to make house calls in a pinch or put lemon slices in the water cooler? 
"I HAVE not seen doctors do a lot of market-driven promotion to retain their patients," said Edward Kaplan, a vice president at the Segal Company, a benefits consulting firm in New York. "Not all patients can afford to pay whatever doctors want to charge. And doctors don't reduce their fees for volume. So if you really value your doctor's relationship, those who can afford it will pay the price to stay with them and those who can't don't."
Sometimes, it is the other way around, with doctors sensing that patients associate them with the worst insurance practices. Dr. Mary Yoder, an anesthesiologist in Albuquerque, said she has found that patients have become more suspicious of doctors in recent years, assuming that they subordinate good care to keeping insurance companies happy.
Because patients are told that the priority of H.M.O.'s is to save money, Dr. Yoder said, "they come into the health care environment believing that the providers are not on their side because they have incentive to provide less care."
"That adversarial attitude on the part of the patients is reflected in how they relate to doctors," she added. "There are multiple questions aimed at you, like 'Are you really doing this for me?' " This was among many factors that led her to stop clinical practice; she now reviews disability cases.
The future does not look bright. "There is no doubt about it," Mr. Kaplan said. "Physicians think managed care companies have ruined the relationship between them and patients."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mary Ann Smith) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INSURANCE (74%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (74%); CARDIOLOGY (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DOCTORS; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (54%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



364 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: DOWN THE SHORE; 
The Water's Fine, but the Rental Costs Leave People Cold

BYLINE:  By ROBERT STRAUSS 

DATELINE: WILDWOOD 

 BODY:
The rich get richer and the poorer go to Wildwood.
 Unfair? Probably. But Jack Morey isn't complaining. After all, Mr. Morey's family owns several amusement piers on the Boardwalk, and one of the newest items in his portfolio is the Starlux Motel, the latest addition to the Doo-Wop architectural collection of motels and shops here. 
 "I don't know how other resorts are doing, but we're having a good year," Mr. Morey said of the Starlux's first full summer in operation. "We're the working family's resort here, though, and prices are probably much more reasonable than in fancier places. So maybe a downturn in the economy wouldn't hit us as hard." 
Sure enough, the Starlux's booming summer is looking retro as well. While real estate agents don't give the summer a complete thumbs down, it seems that they expected to do better.
"Overall, I'd say rentals are down by about 15 percent this year in dollar volume," said Margaret Guber-Nulty, the manager at Prudential Fox and Roach Realty in Margate, just south of Atlantic City. "Ironically enough, it's the high end here that is holding up. We had a slowdown in mid-range properties."
But since sales are up, maybe people who were spending $16,000 for a seasonal rental in Margate and Longport finally decided to buy, Ms. Guber-Nulty said.
For instance, she said that $16,000 this summer could have rented a three-bedroom, two-bath condominium or cottage -- nothing fancy -- about two blocks from the beach.
"If you wanted a beach-block place of the same size, you'd have to spend $25,000 and up," she said. "That is a really good down payment on a house. I think that finally rents have gotten up high enough for people to think of that instead.
The story is not much different in Cape May.
"May and June were off by 5 percent from last year, but we are an established business, renting for 25 years," said Richard Samuelson, owner of Poor Richard's a bed and breakfast in Cape May. "The new people feeding off the overflow must be eating humble pie."
Mr. Samuelson noted that he "had a vacancy on July 4th weekend and I didn't sell it until Saturday, which is unprecedented."
What's more, he said the parking lot at a popular restaurant, 410 Bank Street, was not filled last week "and in most years, they're parking on the edge of the wetlands just to get into town."
" Are people being more careful with money? he asked. "I have to think so."
Farther north, on Long Beach Island, it has been a so-so season, at least compared with the boom times of the past three or four years.
"We started out slow in the spring," said Don Diorio, a broker with HCH Real Estate in Harvey Cedars. "The weather was bad and it seemed there were a lot of reports that there was nothing left on the island, which just wasn't true. Then people stayed away. Rents are up, but I think that is because sales prices have been so high that new owners feel they need to raise rents to justify those sales."
For now, Mr. Diorio said there were still plenty of rentals available for the week of Aug. 25 through Labor Day.
"Schools all over seem to be starting earlier, before Labor Day," he said. "And that is such a wonderful time at the shore, too. If you can get down here that week, you will have a lot to choose from."
The beaches in the northern end of the state seem to be doing a bit better this summer, perhaps because of an influx of New Yorkers who are tired of the high prices at and agonizingly slow drive drive to the beaches on the eastern end of Long Island.
"We have definitely seen a lot more New Yorkers," said Kathy McHugh of Hayes Realty in Point Pleasant Beach. "From high-priced areas like Mantoloking and Spring Lake on down to lower-priced areas like Lavalette, people from New York think we're a bargain now."
"In Point Pleasant," Ms. McHugh went on, "a four-bedroom place with air-conditioning and a small backyard runs about $2,000 to $2,500 a week this season, which really isn't too bad if you are splitting it a couple of ways."
She added, "We're even getting more Philadelphia people up this way who say prices have gotten too high in Long Beach Island and some other places in the south."
Still, a latecomer can still find a place to rent in the coming weeks.
"The thing is, it really was slow in the spring, so not everything got rented," Ms. McHugh said. "I think people just wanted to wait and see how the economy was for them before they dove in. Besides, there is so much to rent, there is always something if you are a bit flexible."
Or if you have the money.
"I have something in Loveladies for about $27,000 a week, beachfront of course," said Mr. Diorio. "I think Ray Romano and Vanessa Williams rented it in the past."
And then he added -- as if it was necessary: "But I guess that's not everyone's low price range, huh?

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Point Pleasant, a four-bedroom house is renting for $2,000 to $2,500 a week. (Jill C. Becker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); SALES FIGURES (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); BEACHES (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); WETLANDS (50%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (50%) HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL FOX & ROACH INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%)

PERSON: STRAUSS, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



365 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: THE CITIES; 
A Rich Past, Imperiled by an Affluent Present

BYLINE:  By STEVE STRUNSKY 

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
It could hardly be likened to the destruction of the giant Buddhas carved into the cliff faces in Afghanistan by the fanatical Taliban. But to historic preservationists here, removal of the brick facade of an 1840 row house was sacrilege enough.
 The news spread quickly among members of the nonprofit Jersey City Landmarks Conservancy last month when the old red bricks that composed the front wall were found piled at the foot of the house, whose gutted first and second floors were left wide open to the street. 
 The building was one of the four Gregory Row Houses built by Mayor Dudley S. Gregory, this city's first mayor, and the vigilant preservationists feared that yet another link to the city's rich past had been broken by a contractor eager to cash in on its increasingly affluent present. 
Money -- not religion as in Afghanistan -- is the main reason historic buildings are razed or ruined here. After nearly a decade of construction, job growth and soaring real estate values along the city's booming waterfront and trendy downtown, pressure has been building to maximize the return on what seems like every square inch of property, historic or otherwise.
The conservancy has put together a list of historic sites in Jersey City that have already been cleared away, altered or are threatened by development pressures. 
There is the Sugar House, a waterfront warehouse designed in 1860 by Detlief Leinau, where most of the brick outer walls have been replaced by windows to provide spectacular views of Manhattan and the Statue of Liberty from condominiums selling for as much as $1.2 million. 
And the Powerhouse -- a huge brick structure built in 1906 just blocks from the waterfront that burned coal to generate power for trains beneath the Hudson River -- is looking more and more like an alluring target for redevelopment enthusiasts. The city and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which jointly own the building -- designed by John Oakman of Carrere and Hastings, the same firm that designed the New York Public Library -- have been thinking of taking it down, in part because some see it as an eyesore that could discourage further development of the area.
The Pennsylvania Railroad Sixth Street Embankment, built from 1901 to 1905, whose huge stone walls run for blocks through the city's downtown, became a rallying point for preservationists two years ago when former Mayor Bret D. Schundler proposed demolishing it to make way for housing.
And there is yet another railroad ruin here, the Bergen Arches, a man-made canyon 90 feet deep and nearly a mile long cut through the solid rock of the Palisades. Preservationists have been alarmed by preliminary discussions among state transportation officials about retooling the unused rail cut -- completed in 1861 -- as a roadway to ease traffic congestion.
Other structures of local historic significance like the Gregory Cottages, a row of three decaying wooden houses dating to 1830 just around the corner from the Gregory Row Houses, are not directly threatened, but are vulnerable to neglect or the whims of property owners, said John Gomez, president of the conservancy. 
Jersey City, like most older communities, has a historic preservation commission. But the body is chiefly concerned with enforcing standards for exterior details of new or restored structures, and can do little to prevent the demolition of structures not designated landmarks. 
"We've yet to see what the full effect of development is," Mr. Gomez said. "We're still fighting for the powerhouse, we're still fighting for the embankment, we're still fighting for the Bergen Arches."
"It's a bad time for historic places" in general, said Pat Peek, administrator of the Historic Preservation Certificate Program at Drew University in Madison, developed in 1998 in response to a demand for preservation training. "There's so much development going on, and of course, when you have an economic upturn, when everybody's doing well, so are the developers. And there's always a housing shortage in New Jersey. And so there's pressure to get in there and build on these historic sites."
Michael Mills, a Princeton-based preservation architect who has been chairman of the Endangered Sites Committee of Preservation New Jersey, said nominations to be named among the state's 10 most endangered historic sites each year have grown by 15 to 20 percent a year, to 60 this year, since the list was created in 1995. Much of the increase can be attributed to growing awareness of the list, Mr. Mills said, but some of it is simply the result of growth. 
And yet, good times and rising property values can also assist in historic preservation and restoration.
In downtown Jersey City, the historic Van Vorst, Hamilton Park, Harsimus Cove and Paulus Hook neighborhoods are alive with restoration projects that strip paint, siding and brick face off century-old town houses as savvy home buyers recognize the market value of historic buildings.
"It's a selling point," said Michael Del Forno of Del Forno Realty. "It gives the people the reason to go in and spend this kind of money, because they know they'll reap the benefit of living there as well as the financial benefit of knowing renters will pay top dollar to live in restored homes. And it's bringing back the old style neighborhood living."
Even the Gregory Row House will be rebuilt to its original specifications, said its new owner, Luigi Marrocco, a Staten Island resident who bought the house with his son, Vincent. The city's planning director, Bob Cotter, also gave his assurance that the restoration would be closely scrutinized.
Mr. Marrocco, 55, an electrician, was eager not to be viewed as a villain. He said he and his son bought the house for $200,000 and would spend another $160,000 on its restoration, including re-laying the original facade bricks with new mortar, and using blue stone to recreate the original window sills. 
"We're not contractors there just looking to make a buck; my son plans to live there," said Mr. Marrocco, who recounted shoveling sewage and dead rats out of the house's basement and scraping mold off the walls. "I think it's great that we're going to own a landmark. The value of this is going to be better than before."

GRAPHIC: Photos: There have been talks about retooling the Bergen Arches, left, as a roadway; it was cut through the Palisades for rail travel. The Sugar House, designed in 1860, has been converted to condominiums. (Photographs by Don Standing for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); RELIGION (72%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); PORT AUTHORITIES (62%) HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (64%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (64%)

PERSON: STRUNSKY, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (90%) JERSEY CITY (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



366 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS; 
Unemployment Continues To Decline in Hudson Valley

BYLINE:  By John Swansburg 

 BODY:
Unemployment in the Hudson Valley region continues to decline, according to a recently released report from the Marist College Bureau of Economic Research. The average unemployment level in the region during the first quarter of 2001 was 3.3 percent, below the New York City, New York State and national rates. 
 As unemployment dropped, hourly wages for production workers rose during the quarter, an increase that the bureau's director, Dr. Ann E. Davis, described as long overdue. Not all of the report's economic indicators were so positive. 
 There was a sharp increase in the number of personal bankruptcies in the Hudson Valley -- 26.5 percent more than the first quarter of last year. Dr. Davis said the rise in bankruptcies came after declining numbers in previous quarters. While bankruptcies became more common throughout the state, the report noted, the Hudson Valley increase was larger than other regions. John Swansburg

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); FACTORY WORKERS (70%); PERSONAL DEBT (67%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; BANKRUPTCIES 

ORGANIZATION: MARIST COLLEGE (91%) MARIST COLLEGE 

PERSON: SWANSBURG, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) HUDSON RIVER VALLEY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



367 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 95 words

HEADLINE: Transportation for 2020: A Plan Bound to Fail 

 BODY:
 A more realistic approach to our traffic problems is to to build a tunnel under Long Island Sound similar to the Chunnel between England and France and to immediatly begin construction of a high-speed light-rail system to deliver people to the major airports, shopping centers, sports stadiums and to key points in Manhattan, where they will have access to the subway system. Unless government implements these two plans, the economy of Long Island will eventually lead to the same dead end that traffic comes to when it reaches Montauk Point.

ROY W. GUTTMAN
Greenlawn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (91%); TUNNEL CONSTRUCTION (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (88%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (88%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (88%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (87%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (87%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (84%); AIRPORTS (84%); RETAILERS (54%) TRANSPORTATION; COMMUTING; HIGH-SPEED RAIL PROJECTS; RAILROADS; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS 

PERSON: GUTTMAN, ROY W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (90%); FRANCE (71%) LONG ISLAND (NY); LONG ISLAND SOUND

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



368 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2780 words

HEADLINE: The Senior Guy 

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE O'DONNELL 

 BODY:
IT was a party for Frank Corino and three others who were celebrating their 10th anniversaries with the Fire Department. Firefighters who weren't on duty stopped by the East Harlem firehouse of Engine 53 and Ladder 43 at Third Avenue and 102nd Street to offer congratulations. The smoke of cigarettes and cigars hung in the air. Men told jokes and stories, and their voices echoed off the cement walls. 
 A tall man strolled in with the confident gait of a quarterback. 
 "Hey!" Voices rose in greeting. "Kirk! How was Bermuda?" 
"Never got off the runway," Mr. Lester replied. "I don't want to talk about it."
"Did you wear Bermuda shorts every day?" someone asked. "How's the beach?"
"Hey," Mr. Corino said from his perch on the counter. "Nice tan."
Kirk Lester, a 27-year veteran, rolled his eyes.
Within the ebb and flow of the firefighter's life exists a hierarchical world, much like the military: neophyte firefighters fresh out of the academy at the bottom; captains and lieutenants who head each company at the top. In between are those with less seniority, the junior and middle firefighters. Just below the officers on the top of this pyramid is another rank of firefighters whose expertise and experience can surpass that of the officers, and who are often the most respected people in the house. It is an unofficial rank, but one that firefighters take seriously: the senior guy.
Kirk Lester is one of Ladder 43's senior guys. He became a senior guy the way any firefighter does: through proven ability and years on the job.
The East Harlem firehouse has a number of senior firefighters who have worked for decades in the neighborhood of tenements, bodegas and housing projects. (The house is all male. Women make up less than 1 percent of city firefighters.) Senior guys set the tone with their seen-it-all attitudes, their link to the past, when there were so many fires in Harlem and the South Bronx. They are mentors, teaching by example, not only how to fight fire but also how to be a firefighter. 
And though their experience often makes them seem larger than life, senior guys are not invincible, as was shown by the death last month of the 27-year-veteran firefighter Harry Ford, in Astoria, Queens.
But in the past decade firefighting has changed from the job that the senior guys knew. The hours are different: firefighters usually work 24-hour shifts, not split shifts the way they used to, when they would finish a tour of duty and spend the afternoon fishing or going to a movie together before returning to work another tour. They were so close back then, old-timers lament. Now firefighters go home after work or straight to their second job. The gear is different, too. When the heavy, flame-resistant pants and coats known as bunker gear became mandatory, a lot of older guys quit. They couldn't feel the heat the way they used to, which was how they gauged a fire's intensity.
Most important, there are fewer fires than in the days when landlords set fire to their buildings to collect insurance money, as did tenants who wanted to move into public housing. Twenty, 30 years ago, firefighters always went home from a busy house smelling of smoke. Alex Hagan, the captain of Ladder 43, who has been a firefighter for 27 years, recalls the early days of his career when he would step out of the shower at his home in Bayside, Queens, after work and the odor of smoke from the Bronx would linger in the steam. All his sheets and towels reeked of fires.
No one expects to see that level of duty again, Captain Hagan said. He estimated it would take a young firefighter 60 years of fighting fires to have the same level of expertise as firefighters did back then. "And that probably won't happen unless they let us stay on til we're 80," he added. 
Fires are how firefighters develop their expertise. A safer city may be good for civilians, but it is bad for those who need fires to practice the craft of putting them out safely and efficiently. 
All this makes the legacy of the remaining senior guys much harder to maintain. What will the senior guys be like in 30 years, some people wonder. Will they have the same knowledge of fire as today's senior guys, veterans of the conflagrations of the early 1970's? Some firefighters worry that the job is actually becoming more dangerous partly because firefighters are exposed to fewer blazes than in the old days. The nature of the "red devil," as old-timers call fire, eludes many of the younger men. 
Yet for all the keening about the way things were, the job continues to morph. As it does, some of the senior guys of 53-43, those who anchor the 60-member firehouse with their experience and expertise, are changing, too. Some wonder how much longer to stick around. They love the job and their colleagues like family. Even for those in no hurry to retire -- the adrenaline-driven pace of the job is addictive -- time moves on relentlessly. The middle and junior firefighters are waiting to shoulder them aside.

Making Two Tools One: An Invention
Inside the kitchen, an engine man, Ralph Corsini, was explaining to his colleagues his new invention: a way to marry the ax and the Halligan, the tools that they use to open locked doors. Mr. Corsini had welded a loop (patent pending) into the handle of the ax to hold the pointed pick of the Halligan, which has blunted teeth like the back of a giant hammer, to keep the tools from slipping apart when a firefighter is running into a fire. He then wiggled them apart before his captive but critical audience of ladder men.
"They're joined, anyway," said Johnny Colon, one of the senior guys on the truck. He stood to try out the device, but he fumbled.
"Turn it around the other way," Mr. Corsini suggested. "Use your left hand."
The tools separated, but it had taken a few seconds longer than Mr. Colon was used to.
"Yeah, but with smoke conditions and people screaming, that's what you got to think about, Ralph," Mr. Colon said.
"You got to drill," Mr. Corsini said. "You got to do it a couple hundred times before it feels comfortable."
"Ralph," Mr. Colon said, with a forceful note in his voice. "All you need is a piece of Velcro. You just get a big piece of Velcro, wrap it around the handles, and bingo."
Mr. Corsini was quiet for a moment. "Yeah, but who's going to save a piece of Velcro when you're running up the stairs in a fire," he said finally.
"It's Velcro," Mr. Colon said. "You get more."
Capt. Kerry Hollywood, the veteran engine officer, sat at the kitchen table, glancing alternately at a hockey game on television and the tools exhibit. His expression suggested that he was highly amused by his men. A few minutes later, he strolled out to the garage. High overhead in the rafters dangled bunker gear that looked brand-new. Helmet, boots, pants, coat, mask, gloves, all roped to a pipe. It was the new kid's stuff. He was a probationary firefighter, one of those 14-week fellows fresh out of the academy who was rotating through the house. He kept leaving his gear on the truck after his tours of duty, and another firefighter had to put it away for him.
It annoyed some younger firefighters that the kid, who had the chance to work in one of the city's best firehouses, kept slipping up. It was a troubling reminder that their lives might depend on someone with little experience on the job. 
"Dear Probie," the note attached read. "Treat your gear with a little more respect. It just might save your hide someday."

How Firefighters Are Made: A Theory
The kitchen fire in the Fifth Avenue apartment near 86th Street wasn't big, but it had whetted Ladder 43's appetite for adventure. After half an hour, they tramped outside, past the doorman, past well-dressed residents clutching small pets. They were punchy with victory and smelled like smoke.
The firefighters swung themselves up onto the rig with the sign "El Barrio's Bravest" on top. George Hear -- Big George, as his colleagues called him -- stood in the street, stepping out of his bunker gear so he could drive. Carefully, he removed his boots and slipped his bare feet into black lace-up shoes. 
"Wow, will you take a look at that!" Captain Hagan said as Mr. Hear climbed into the driver's seat. The driver's gaze followed a petite blonde in sunglasses and high heels.
"Nice," Mr. Hear said as he rounded a corner. Like Captain Hagan, Mr. Hear was married, but looking was manly and thus part of being a firefighter.
"Let's get Lotto tickets," the captain suggested. He always felt lucky after a fire. "And, hey, we have to get a copy of Savage Tattoo. Guess who's in it?"
"Who?" Mr. Hear asked.
"Melissa."
"No kidding," Mr. Hear replied. Melissa was a heavily tattooed friend of the firefighters.
"Yeah, I ran into her in Penn Station," Captain Hagan said.
He was the type of person who could read Savage Tattoo and The Economist with equal relish. He would have been unusual in any walk of life: a thinker in a doer's body. He had graduated from college at 19, went to work as a steamfitter, and became a firefighter a few years later. He was full of theories, on firefighting, poverty, the economy, everything.
One theory had to do with the seductiveness of firefighting -- not sexually, he always added quickly, so as not to make his men uncomfortable -- but psychologically. It went something like this: Every firefighter wants to be a senior guy. Senior guys are the Chuck Yeagers of the firehouse, the jocks who everybody likes, the capable guys who don't lose their heads in a crisis. A probie, or probationary firefighter, is struck by the senior guys' aura and ease: making jokes, telling stories, deconstructing a fire, commanding respect, all in stark contrast to the probie's grunt life of doing chores and not being allowed in the TV room the first year on the job.
Then it happens: a fire. The probie's first. He is nervous, maybe afraid, definitely excited, but it's all so much more real than the fire academy. He stands in front of a burning building that is maybe 1,500 degrees. He can't imagine going inside. But on his lucky day, a senior guy beckons him over and says, this is how you do it. And the senior guy gets down on his knees and crawls in. The kid follows. They move in, slithering on their bellies where the smoke and flames are lowest, 100 pounds of equipment weighing them down, feeling their way along a wall in complete blackness, into the searing heat.
That, Captain Hagan concluded, is how firefighting is taught.

Brat Packs to Cronies to Middle Guys
Back at the firehouse, George Hear kneaded a giant mound of ground beef in a bowl. On a tray, he formed two long loafs of pinkish meat that resembled the engine and ladder parked out in the garage.
Engine 53 was the shorter of the two rigs, with a pump on top and over a half-mile of hose neatly folded in the back. The engine firefighters put water on a blaze and responded to medical emergencies. Ladder 43 was longer, to accommodate the aerial ladder on top. It was "the truck," the company that ventilated a fire by tearing down roofs, punching out windows and roaming burning buildings searching for victims. Over the years, as the buildings on its watch, many of them public housing, sank into decay, the ladder company increasingly added to its duties the mundane task of opening stuck elevators.
Mr. Hear, the most senior firefighter of the truck and the house, sometimes treated the others to a house favorite, IML's, or individual meatloaves, which meant everybody got an end piece, but tonight it would be traditional meatloaf. Mr. Hear was a meat-and-potatoes kind of guy, and when he cooked, it was either meatloaf or pork loin -- "pork lion," he called it -- which was just fine with the house. 
He was mustachioed and good-looking like a weathered Richard Gere, eyebrows like parentheses, but much more strapping and just plain big. At 55, he was also the oldest firefighter in the house, but had no plans to retire. Divorced, he had been single for years, and his long bachelorhood had only enhanced his image, though just a few months ago, he had married his long-time girlfriend, Joy. As he cooked, he thought of her. She was pregnant. For the first time in his life, Mr. Hear was going to be a father. 
After dinner, a chief came by the house to talk about a job in Coney Island at which eight firefighters had been badly burned. Everyone gathered around him in the kitchen. When the firefighters had forced the door of the burning high-rise apartment, the visitor said, a gust of wind from an open window had blown flames onto them. Helmets were blown off, heads and ears were scorched. One firefighter lost his gloves, and all the skin on his hands was burned off. A kid just weeks out of the academy was burned, as was a lieutenant. Fire knew no rank.
And yet in the house, seniority mattered, especially for those in the middle, on their way to becoming senior guys. A few years ago the eager-beaver attitudes of two junior firefighters, Matt Long and Pat Ginty, earned them the nickname the Brat Pack. The two used to bustle around the house doing chores and trying to make a good impression. 
But their real intention was to make themselves look good by showing up the middle guys. Mr. Long had Brat Pack T-shirts made and gave them to the senior guys. On house watch, he would switch the radio to intercom so the whole house could hear him call the chief of the 10th Battalion: "Brat Pack to one-oh." The chief would respond, "One-oh," driving the middle guys crazy.
Other junior firefighters drifted into the group, and they were called Mr. Long's cronies. Mr. Long, a former accountant from East New York, Brooklyn, was charismatic and had a way of laughing at himself that was infectious. He seized upon the name. Cronies they were.
Now about half the Cronies were married or engaged, and about half had rotated out of the house. Mr. Ginty was now a lieutenant in the Bronx. (When he left, the house held a ceremony to burn the last remaining Brat Pack shirt.) And then there were all the new firefighters at 53-43 who only knew the Cronies as middle guys.
At fires, Mr. Long sometimes looked around and realized that his eight years as a firefighter made him the most senior guy there. Not that he minded that. But there were little things that he did mind. A junior firefighter with his feet up on the desk at house watch, watching television. "Hey, what are you doing, taking a little nap there?" Mr. Long asked. The junior firefighter laughed and kept his feet up.

Something New: The Baby Shower
For weeks, the house had been planning Awards Night, an annual event when the house presents prizes to its members for everything from cooking (the Best Meal Award) to slowness (the Turtle Award). This year there was a little surprise: the men of Engine 53 and Ladder 43 were giving their first baby shower.
After the prizes were handed out, Mr. Lester stood up. Over the years, Mr. Lester said, Big George gave everything to being a firefighter. But now he had found the right woman and was ready to settle down. The firefighters cheered. Then they brought out gifts: diapers, wipes and clothes. They included something just for Mr. Hear: earplugs, adult diapers and a T-shirt inscribed, "Ladder 43 Best Truck Dad."
Mr. Hear came forward, embarrassed but pleased. Later, he laughed, shaking his head at the thought of him, Big George, having a baby shower. "Thirty years on the job down the drain," he said.
And so time slipped away. Two senior guys prepared to retire. The probies got ready to transfer. And the neighborhood fires, stuck elevators and water leaks continued.
One night, a call came in for a brush fire on Park Avenue. After it was out, Captain Hollywood stood in the smoky air, verifying the code for brush fire with Captain Hagan, who took the opportunity to rattle off all the codes for structural, vehicular, gas, brush and food-on-the-stove fires.
Captain Hollywood grinned. "My," he said as he pondered what he could recite offhand. "I could tell you Loco's horse, I mean, Pancho's horse was Loco."
"You have a great capacity for recalling useless information," Captain Hagan said. .
"Cis-co, the Cisco Kid," Captain Hollywood sang, and Captain Hagan joined in.
Driving back, Captain Hagan noticed the full moon. "Ah-hooo!" he howled out the window. His driver, Jimmy Sears, would retire in just a few weeks. Between Captain Hagan and Mr. Sears, half a century of firefighting experience filled the cab of the truck. Like veterans who had once engaged in trench warfare, there would never be another generation of firefighters like them, ones who learned the job by fighting two and three fires a night. Seniors guys would never be quite the same.
"But we keep makin' 'em," Captain Hagan said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: LINK TO THE PAST -- George Hear -- Big George to his colleagues -- is a veteran of Ladder 43 in East Harlem. Is his breed becoming extinct? (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 1); AT EASE -- Engine 53 and Ladder 43 at home in East Harlem, left, and John Condon, an engine man with a flair for the comic. The nature of the "red devil," as old-timers call fire, may elude many of the younger men.; FACES OF A FIREHOUSE -- Alex Hagan, top, captain of Ladder 43, holding his bunker gear; the spice rack over the firehouse stove, above, with a warning to the house's most notorious cook; Ralph Corsini, below, wearing a breathing mask and a snap-on protective hood (he patented the snaps); and, inset, Kerry Hollywood, captain of Engine 53. Some firefighters worry that the job is becoming more dangerous because firefighters are exposed to fewer blazes than in the old days. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); SMOKING (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%) FIRES AND FIREMEN 

PERSON: O'DONNELL, MICHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



369 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: GRASS-ROOTS BUSINESS; 
Hold the Homogeneity. Hot Dogs Stay Local.

BYLINE:  By GLENN COLLINS 

DATELINE: COOPERSTOWN, N.Y. 

 BODY:
AS yet, the food-manufacturing behemoths of America have been unable to take over the $1.7 billion supermarket hot-dog market, and the reason was abundantly clear here on a recent day. Not far from the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum, during high season for the great American pastime, more than 1,100 frankfurter worshipers queued up enthusiastically under a party tent at the Farmers' Museum to sample 11 brands of regional wieners.
 "I just love the intense flavor of these local brands, which are so far from being identical," said Don Feinberg, co-owner of Brewery Ommegang in Cooperstown. Even as his company introduced a beer just for this celebration of the American hot dog, which drew a roster of wiener experts, Mr. Feinberg reflected, "it's enough to inspire a brewer to go into the frankfurter business." 
 He would have plenty of company. This summer, with National Hot Dog Day looming on Wednesday, American frankfurter lovers continue to defy the march of industrial consolidation. Despite huge marketing campaigns, vast economies of production, national distribution and clever supply-chain management, giants like Kraft Foods (Oscar Mayer, Louis Rich), Sara Lee (Ball Park, Kahn's) and ConAgra (Armour Star, Eckrich) yield close to 40 percent of the market to hot-dog brands produced by dozens of regional makers, John McMillin, a food analyst at Prudential Securities, said. 
"There are different tastes and different preferences locally," he added, "so making hot dogs still has strength as a regional business."
Dr. Gilbert T. Vincent, president of the Farmers' Museum, which was a host for this event with Slow Food USA, a traditional-food movement, agreed. Local producers thrive, he said, because Americans don't forget the taste of their youth: "To them, that is the essence of the hot dog -- which is the all-American food, given its myth, and our memories."
Frankly speaking, of course, the major companies predominate. Sara Lee leads the market with 25 percent, followed by Kraft with 21 percent and ConAgra with 12 percent, according to Mr. McMillin's analysis of supermarket sales data from Information Resources in Chicago.
Business is good. In retail stores, hot-dog sales are up 4.7 percent over last year, Mr. McMillin said, but because volumes are relatively flat, the increase may reflect price increases. Nevertheless, he said, "compared to other mundane kinds of foods, hot dogs are doing a lot better." (The love affair with hot dogs goes way beyond the stadium and the backyard grill. According to a recent online poll conducted by the National Hot Dog and Sausage Council, 23 percent of 804 respondents said they would serve hot dogs at their wedding receptions.)
As visitors wandered among 16 booths here, they consumed such delights as chubby Angus-beef hot dogs from Fred Usinger Inc. in Milwaukee (served with two-alarm mustard) and Thumann's franks (with sauerkraut).
"Customers will pay more for our taste, our lean meats and our better ingredient quality," bragged Kenneth Reitz, the Cooperstown distributor for Thumann, whose hot dogs are made in Carlstadt, N.J., and sold primarily on the East Coast to supermarkets and delicatessens.
Like Usinger and Thumann, many other hot dog manufacturers are family businesses, rich in history. Usinger dates to 1880, Thumann to 1949. Among their many cousins, in spirit at least, count the Cloverdale Foods Company of Mandan, N.D.; Farmer John Hot Dogs from the Clougherty Packing Company of Los Angeles; Sahlen's Smokehouse Hot Dogs from the Sahlen Packing Company of Buffalo; Vienna Beef frankfurters from the Vienna Sausage Manufacturing Company of Chicago; and Zweigle's White Hots from Zweigle's Inc. of Rochester.
Most of them, it is fair to say, promote their hot dogs as "the best" or "one of a kind" or both; indeed, many make much of their secret recipes. These include not only exotic heirloom spicing formulas but also the origin and "snapability" of the casings, the proportion of meat constituents used, whether the franks are truly smoked or smoke-seasoned with "liquid smoke" -- even the kind of smoking wood (often hickory).
Dr. Vincent of the Farmers' Museum said a growing number of farmers of pasture-raised beef, pork, lamb and veal are enthusiastic about the hot dog, too. Many regional companies buy those kind of meat products to get a distinctive taste. 
Miller's hot dogs, made by the family-owned Miller Packing Company of Oakland, Calif., fit the classic profile. The company has a proprietary formula and, said Ron Fager, the sales manager, "the secret recipes for our spices have been locked up in a safe since 1910." 
Miller Packing, which has occupied the same site in Oakland since 1910, keeps its recipe a profound mystery -- but it can be revealed that the beef hot dogs are made from lean shank meat and are smoked with hickory chips. For years, Miller's hot dogs were sold only by butchers, vendors, restaurant and food-service outlets. Then, in 1994, the company introduced a line of supermarket hot dogs -- "starting off at zero and now managing to sell 2.5 million pounds of hot dogs and sausage per year," Mr. Fager said. They are distributed in California, Nevada and Hawaii. (By contrast, Sara Lee sold about 170 million pounds of hot dogs in supermarkets in the 52 weeks through June 3, InfoScan showed.)
The Internet has expanded the horizons of many of these companies, including Miller Packing. "People who have left the Bay Area say they can't find a decent hot dog, so they've created quite a Web business for us," Mr. Fager said.
Other local brands have attained the status of super-regionals, shipping hot dogs around the country and, indeed, the world. "Now you can take a regional product and send it anywhere," said Tom Weinman, vice president for administration at the Bar-S Foods Company in Phoenix.
Begun 20 years ago in a leveraged buyout of the assets of an old-line meat packer, the Cudahy Company, Bar-S now manufactures 120 million pounds of hot dogs in three plants in Oklahoma. Focusing on supermarkets, it ships hot dogs to all 50 states and 19 countries around the world. Bar-S hot dogs sell for about 25 percent less than that of many competitors. "We can be the value leader because we don't engage in high-cost marketing campaigns," Mr. Weinman said.
Bar-S had revenue of $365 million in fiscal 2000, up 22 percent over the previous year, according to the latest available estimates. 
Though these family companies guard their profits as closely as their recipes, many are highly profitable, given the markup that customers will pay for taste and brand heritage. 
But the hot-dog business isn't all beer and celebrations. On the down side, sales are seasonal, and raw-materials pricing can vary as the supply of available animals ebbs and flows. Hot-dog sales can also be susceptible to listeria and E. coli outbreaks.
A few years ago, there was a heart-healthy boomlet in hot dogs made with chicken and turkey. But last year, sales of low-fat hot dogs decreased 37 percent, according to the hot dog council, a trade organization that sponsors National Hot Dog Day (and month, namely July).
IF the regional companies' vigor is the legacy of tradition, the specifics of that tradition are a bit iffy. Scholars are still wrangling over the 19th-century origin of the hot dog in the United States. "No one knows who first took a bite of bread with the sausage," said Rick Sebak, producer of the 1999 documentary, "A Hot Dog Program," shown on PBS.
In an address here, however, he pointed out that in 1915 the Carnegie Mellon Research Institute in Pittsburgh pioneered the procedure for making skinless wieners, which now dominate the market. As a result, many regional companies differentiate themselves by selling hot dogs in natural casings -- which give them "that snap when you bite in," Mr. Sebak said.
Besides taste preferences, the large companies must contend with localized variation in cooking hot dogs. They can be steamed, boiled, broiled, grilled, fried and microwaved. Color differs, too: Red hot dogs in some areas of the South and Midwest are tinted with red dye, while Rochester has its legendary "white hots," pork franks that are decidedly pale.
There is also the edge that regional manufacturers get from America's pastime. Miller's, for example, are sold to fans of the Oakland Athletics baseball team, the Oakland Raiders football team, the Golden State Warriors basketball team and the San Jose Sharks hockey team. This indoctrinates new young customers. 
"Every baseball fan identifies with their local announcer, their local beer and their local hot dog," said Dale A. Petroskey, president of the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum -- helping to keep the regional companies in the game. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Miller Packing in Oakland, Calif., a maker of hot dogs since 1910, Dennis Witschel loaded smoking racks. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BREWERIES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BASEBALL (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); BEER & ALE (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (69%); RETAILERS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (52%) MEAT; FRANKFURTERS 

COMPANY: MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (55%)

TICKER: MDLZ (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



370 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MORNINGSIDE HEIGHTS; 
A 26-Year Dispute Over a Tower, With No End in Sight

BYLINE:  By KELLY CROW 

 BODY:
The Cathedral Parkway Towers loom over Morningside Drive and dwarf Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine across the street, but they are not much to look at these days. The two splotchy brown towers at 424 West 110th Street, built in 1975 with 309 low-income apartments, are rimmed now with red scaffolding because bricks keep falling off. 
 But the builder, tenants and two state agencies have been fighting over the towers for 26 years, and they are all in court again this month seeking ownership or owed money. On Wednesday, Civil Court Judge Marilyn Shafer asked the parties not to speak to the press. 
 "This project was supposed to be a shining star," said Aury B. Stollow, the tenants' lawyer, on Tuesday, "but now we're all still looking for light at the end of the tunnel."
In 1973, the builder, Maurice Paprin, received a $15 million loan from the state to build the towers in exchange for tax breaks on other projects. Once the towers were completed, the New York State Urban Development Corporation, now the Empire State Development Corporation, selected a landlord to run them. Mr. Paprin objected, saying he owned the property and should run it.
But his title to the property has never been determined.
In 1976, he went to court to have the landlord removed. Tenants went on an eight-month rent strike in protest and formed the United Tenants Association of Cathedral Parkway Towers. Mr. Paprin and the tenants signed a confidential 21-year agreement, after which the towers' ownership was to be settled.
But the agreement lapsed in 1998, with both sides claiming the property deed. In addition, according to Maura Gallucci, a spokeswoman for Empire, the state says that Mr. Paprin has paid only interest, not principal, on the loan.
On Monday, Mr. Paprin said he was owed $1.5 million by the state and the tenants.
"I have all the liabilities and none of the benefits of ownership," he said. "In 26 years, I didn't get a dime off the project."
The tenants' lawyer, Mr. Stollow, said the housing was never intended to make a profit.
"The tenants have effectively managed the property over the years," Mr. Stollow said. "We don't owe him any money."
The Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the state agency that oversees low-income housing, is also involved in the dispute. It is negotiating a settlement with Mr. Paprin, said Dan Gilbert, a spokesman, who would not comment further.
Ms. Gallucci said she could not comment in more detail until the case was over. She added, "It's been messy from the get-go."
 KELLY CROW

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cathedral Parkway Towers is at the heart of a legal wrangle. (Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (77%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); JUDGES (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); STRIKES (69%); CITIES (52%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%) HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (68%)

PERSON: PAPRIN, MAURICE; CROW, KELLY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



371 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
As Rules Ease, More Citizens Choose to Fly 2 Flags

BYLINE:  By AMY CORTESE 

 BODY:
ORAZIO GIGLI was a teenager in 1972, when he and his family left behind the orange-scented hills of his native Capaci, outside Palermo, Sicily, in search of greater economic opportunity in the United States. When he became an American citizen five years later, he had to renounce his Italian citizenship, but he never let go of his memories of playing street soccer with a ball made of rags or of the close-knit community of family and neighbors that shared his life.
 "In my heart, I will always be an Italian," said Mr. Gigli, 45, a labor union executive who now lives in White Plains with his wife, Marina, 48, and his grown daughters, Michelle and Felicia. 
 And now, because of a change in the laws in Italy, he will always be an Italian. In 1992, the government there began allowing dual citizenship, enabling Mr. Gigli to reclaim his Italian nationality. 
The United States has long been a beacon of welcome for immigrants. In the last five years alone, nearly four million foreigners became American citizens, but an inverse trend is taking hold. A growing number of Americans, either born in this country or naturalized citizens like Mr. Gigli, are taking advantage of more liberal policies in other countries and in the United States to become dual citizens.
The reasons for doing so are as diverse as the people seeking the dual status. But several factors are fueling the trend, including a growing interest in genealogy and a desire to connect with family roots, the changing meaning of national boundaries, as in the European Union and the former Soviet Union, and the forging of trade alliances like the North American Free Trade Agreement. (Of course, it can also be a status symbol for the upwardly mobile businessman or businesswoman.)
"E.U. citizenship is a big deal," said Matthew Shultz, an immigration lawyer at the law firm Baker & McKenzie. Someone who is a citizen of one European Union country, he added, can live or work in any of the others.
Many foreign countries are putting out the welcome mat for various reasons -- to stem a talent brain drain, for example, or to attract the tax revenue of cash-flush retirees looking for places to spend their golden years. Under its Economic Citizenship Program, intended to reward individuals who contribute to its economy, the tiny Caribbean nation of Belize allows anyone willing to pay $50,000 in fees to become a citizen. The new Belizeans are allowed to retain their native citizenship and may take advantage of Belize's lenient tax laws, which include no capital gains or estate taxes and no tax on income earned outside Belize.
DOZENS of countries have smoothed the way for people, with or without ancestral ties, to have their feet firmly planted in two or more lands. And in many of those countries, citizenship can be passed on to children. The United States has also steadily relaxed its policies over the last two decades, thanks in part to the end of the cold war and a 1967 Supreme Court ruling that the United States could not strip away American citizenship because of a person's attachments to another nation.
T. Alexander Aleinikoff, a law professor at Georgetown University and director of the Comparative Citizenship Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, sees the dual-citizenship trend continuing because of the more liberal laws and policies and the fact that 10 percent of the American population is foreign-born.
While some critics call dual citizenship "political polygamy," contending that multiple allegiances cheapen the notion of citizenship, others see many benefits in an emerging global economy. For starters, dual citizenship allows someone to live and work more freely in another country or, in the case of the European Union, any of the 15 member nations. In some countries, like Mexico, dual citizens living abroad can even vote in elections. Citizenship can also make it easier to own property and businesses.
Many dual citizens born in the United States also cite the benefits of traveling without a United States passport, which can mean shorter lines at overseas customs and avoiding anti-American sentiment in some parts of the world.
There can be pitfalls, too. Unless they research the rules in advance, dual citizens may be surprised to learn that they may have to serve in the second country's military, or be subject to its taxes. Foreign consulates in the United States can answer most questions about citizenship requirements and eligibility.
Although the rules and procedures vary by country, getting dual citizenship can be a long, complicated process. And the processing fees can total $200 or so.
Generally, Americans become eligible for citizenship in another country in one of two ways: by a direct bloodline (called ius sanguinis in Latin, or right of blood), for those with a parent or grandparent who was born in the second country, or through naturalization for others, including those who marry nationals.
Many American citizens whose parents or grandparents were immigrants are finding that they may be eligible for citizenship in their ancestral homelands. In some countries, like Ireland, simply having a parent or grandparent who was born in the country may be enough. But elsewhere the rules are often much more complicated: In Italy, for example, you may be eligible if at least one of your parents was an Italian citizen at the time of your birth, even if he or she lived in the United States. But that applies only if you were born after 1948, and if neither you nor, in certain cases, your parent renounced Italian citizenship. 
In most cases, you will have to produce some proof -- birth, death, marriage and immigration documents of family and ancestors -- and fill out plenty of paperwork. Finding those documents may require a visit to the ancestral homeland.
Many dual citizens say they were helped in their searches by their friends or family overseas. The Internet can ease the process, too. Ellisislandrecords.org, for example, can help track down information on the more than 22 million immigrants who passed through New York's Ellis Island from 1892 to 1924.
Once all the paperwork is in, the wait for citizenship can be anywhere from a year to up to 10 years -- as in more restrictive countries like Japan and Germany.
Daniel Kealy, 33, a furniture maker in New York, figures that he spent 15 to 20 hours to apply for Irish citizenship, which was granted within a year. Mr. Kealy was eligible because his maternal grandfather, Daniel O'Keefe, was born in Ireland. 
Growing up, he was part of the Irish-American community in New York City, where that grandfather was a police officer and his paternal grandfather, William Kealy, a second-generation Irish immigrant, was a firefighter. Mr. Kealy and his mother, Ellen Mary Kealy, 58, both applied for Irish citizenship in 1995 after Mr. Kealy's aunt, Nancy O'Keefe, had successfully done so.
Mr. Kealy said he did not have the same identification with his Irish heritage as his grandparents did, but that he and his wife, Alexandra, 35, a pet-store owner, might someday like to live in Ireland or elsewhere in the European Union. Mr. Kealy also figures that it may become harder to get an Irish passport as the country's economic situation improves.
MR. GIGLI, meanwhile, has done his best to keep Italian traditions alive in his family. For the younger generation, he said, the Italian way of life "is slipping away."
So Mr. Gigli sings in an Italian-American dinner band and serves as vice president of the local Italian-American soccer league. And he has taken his daughters to Italy several times over the last few years. 
The next time they visit, they, too, will go as Italian citizens, because Mr. Gigli's dual citizenship extended to his children.

GRAPHIC: Photo: When Orazio Gigli became a naturalized American, he gave up his Italian citizenship. A 1992 change in Italian law let him reclaim it. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIZENSHIP (92%); IMMIGRATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); NATURALIZATION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (74%); GENEALOGY (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); LAWYERS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); LIBERALISM (68%); REFUGEES (68%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (67%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (65%); INCOME TAX (65%); ESTATE TAX (62%); LABOR UNIONS (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; CITIZENSHIP 

COMPANY: BAKER & MCKENZIE LLP (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (53%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: CORTESE, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); BELIZE (94%); EUROPE (92%); ITALY (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



372 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/David A. Katz; 
Matrix Advisors Value Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
DAVID A. KATZ, who runs the $42 million Matrix Advisors Value fund, finds bargains everywhere, even in technology.
 He began building his position in tech stocks in the fall of 2000, adding a heaping helping after the sector plummeted early this year. The fund's technology stake is now more than 30 percent of assets, compared with 20 percent late last year. 
 "Other value investors are comfortable analyzing a company's production of computers or shampoo," Mr. Katz said from his office in Midtown Manhattan. "If we can analyze a company's earnings or cash-flow prospects, we're as comfortable buying that as anything else." 
His purchases have benefited shareholders. The fund returned 13.4 percent a year, on average, for the three years ended Thursday, compared with 7.7 percent for its mid-cap value group and 2.5 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to Morningstar Inc. In the 12 months ended on Thursday, the fund had a gain of 4 percent, compared with a gain of 14.9 percent for its group and a loss of 18.1 percent for the index.
Mr. Katz, 39, is chief investment officer at Matrix Asset Advisors, the fund's adviser, which also manages about $750 million in value investments for institutions and individuals.
To choose stocks for the fund, he starts by screening 8,000 companies, most of them in the United States, with market capitalizations ranging from $1 billion to $100 billion. He looks for companies with above-average earnings growth that have below-market price-to-earnings ratios. He also calculates an intrinsic value for each company, based on its long-term earnings growth rate and projected earnings over the next three years or so, and aims to buy companies selling for at least a 33 percent discount to that value. 
Over all, companies in the portfolio have projected earnings growth of 12 percent over the next three to five years. On average, they sell for 16.6 times estimated 2001 earnings, compared with a multiple of 22 for the index.
"When we buy companies for well below the market and their own historic valuation parameters, we have a margin of safety built into the price," Mr. Katz said.
To find companies with shareholder-friendly management, he pores over five years of company annual reports, proxies and other financial statements. Mr. Katz looks for companies with short-term economic, operating, regulatory or other problems -- actual or perceived -- then decides how likely they are to be resolved successfully.
He likes companies with debt-to-capitalization ratios of 45 percent or less. "If they have strong balance sheets, they may be able to muddle through their problems," he said.
TO control risk, he limits purchases of any one stock to 4 percent of total assets and trims a holding as its value approaches 6 percent of the portfolio. Turnover is 40 percent, compared with more than 100 percent for stock funds in general.
He believes that his investment in "high-quality technology companies at bargain-basement prices has positioned the portfolio for very favorable returns in the upcoming 6 to 12 months as the economy recovers and technology spending returns to more normal levels."
In the computer sector, Mr. Katz bought shares of Hewlett-Packard in May at an average price of $27.95. 
"It's a blue-chip company that dominates the printer industry and is a strong player in other areas," he said. "We were able to buy stock at a significant discount when they got caught up in the technology sell-off." 
He expects improvement in the company's stock price over the next 6 to 12 months. "We think they have a great brand name and they're in a good industry," he said. The stock now trades at $27.98; his 12-month target price is $48. 
Falling interest rates prompted Mr. Katz to buy shares of J. P. Morgan Chase in June, at an average price of $43.62. "We think the financial group will be the beneficiary of aggressive easing by the Federal Reserve," he said. "Their outlook over the next 6 to 12 months will be aided by improving equity markets." 
The stock fell from a high of $56 in January of this year, he said, after the bank significantly wrote down its venture capital portfolio. His target price for the stock is $65; it now trades at $42.55.
Mr. Katz bought shares of Schering-Plough, the pharmaceuticals company, in February, after prices tumbled to $41.47 from a high of $60 at the end of 2000. 
"Schering-Plough has always sold at a premium to the market and to the drug group," he said. Shares sold for a significant discount, however, after the company warned on Feb. 15 that the Food and Drug Administration had found problems in production processes. "The problem is serious," he said, "but management has been aggressively pursuing it."
The shares closed at $36.89 on Friday; his target price is $58.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The fund manager David A. Katz in the produce aisle with his wife, Michelle, and son, Adam. In shopping for the Matrix Advisors Value fund, Mr. Katz seeks companies that can solve their problems -- real or perceived. (Janet Durrans for The New York Times) Chart: "Matrix Advisors Value" Category: Mid-cap valueNet assets: $42 millionInception: September 1983Manager: David A. Katz since July 1996Minimum purchase: $1,000 ($500 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 40%3-year annualized return through Thursday: 13.4%Category average: 7.7% Sector breakdown Technology: 33%Other: 11%Drugs/medical: 21%Finance: 17%Telecommunications/utilities: 9%Services: 9% Fees Front-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 0.99% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); CASH FLOW (76%); BONDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); MATRIX ASSET ADVISORS INC (55%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; KATZ, DAVID A 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



373 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Two Faces Of a Bond That Beats Inflation

BYLINE:  By BETH KOBLINER 

 BODY:
A TYPE of Treasury bond intended to protect investors from inflation has prompted a turf war involving some of Wall Street's most prominent firms. 
 At issue is whether Treasury inflation-protected securities, commonly known as TIPS, are too good a deal for investors. Opponents say the government has been losing money on them. Defenders question that accounting, and say that because the securities offer investors an inflation-proof way to diversify their portfolios, they should be preserved. 
 "For the long-term investor, these are the closest thing to a risk-free asset," said William Lloyd, director of research at Barclays Capital, a leading dealer of the bonds. "With TIPS, the Treasury is attracting people who may have never bought Treasuries before, and by expanding the market in the long run they actually lower the overall cost of funding for the government."
A Treasury advisory committee recommended in May that sales of the bonds stop. The panel comprises representatives of 20 bond dealers and institutional investors, including Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch and Salomon Smith Barney, a division of Citigroup. "The majority of the committee has been opposed to TIPS for a number of years, but the Treasury doesn't always listen to us," said Woody Jay, managing director of Lehman Government Securities and vice chairman of the panel.
TIPS supporters met privately with Treasury officials in June. The meeting included representatives from Barclays Capital, the State of Florida, TIAA-CREF, Bridgewater Associates, the Vanguard Group and the Pacific Investment Management Company, known as Pimco.
"There was a feeling among us and some other large investors that the Treasury was only hearing the voice of the Wall Street dealers," said Dan Bernstein, director of research at Bridgewater, which manages $4.5 billion in inflation-indexed bonds. (Barclays and Pimco are members of the Treasury advisory committee. A Pimco spokesperson said the firm disagreed with the committee's recommendation; a spokesman for Barclays would not comment.)
Introduced in 1997 under Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, at the urging of Lawrence H. Summers, who would be his successor in the Clinton administration, the bonds are intended to protect investors' purchasing power.
As of Wednesday, the date of the most recent auction, TIPS provided a base return of 3.5 percent for a 10-year issue maturing in January 2011. In addition, the principal is adjusted to reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index; when inflation rises, the principal rises with it. Interest is paid twice a year, based on the adjusted principal. 
Traditional Treasury issues are not guaranteed to keep up with inflation. A traditional 10-year Treasury bought for $10,000 is cashed in at maturity for $10,000; it pays interest twice a year. A 10-year note maturing in February 2011 yielded 5.28 percent on Wednesday. 
An important question for investors is whether inflation will rise enough to make up for the difference between the base return of TIPS and the yield on traditional Treasuries. This difference, or implied inflation rate, was 1.78 percent as of Wednesday. If inflation over the life of the bond is less than 1.78 percent, on average, then the regular Treasury bond will turn out to be a better deal. If inflation is higher than 1.78 percent, TIPS will be the better option.
(TIPS' cousins, Series I savings bonds, are also adjusted for inflation. They tend to have slightly lower rates than TIPS bonds but grow tax-deferred, and many analysts consider them even more attractive for small investors.)
Issued three times a year, TIPS can be bought directly from the Treasury in denominations starting at $1,000. On Wednesday, $5 billion of TIPS were auctioned. The next sale is scheduled for October. They can also be bought or sold, for a fee, through brokers. Another option is mutual funds, which may be more economical for smaller investments. "I like funds, especially if you're investing less than $10,000," said Lew Altfest, a money manager in New York.
TIPS have sometimes underperformed traditional Treasuries. Since early 1997, when first issued, 10-year TIPS had a cumulative return of 29.5 percent through June 2001. That compares with 36.2 percent for traditional 10-year Treasuries over that period, according to calculations by Vanguard.
But most of the gain for traditional Treasuries, occurred from February 1997 through September 1998, when inflation was falling faster than expected. Traditional Treasuries outperformed TIPS by 19.5 percentage points over that period. But from October 1998 through June 2001, TIPS had a total return of 21.3 percent, versus 7.9 percent for traditional Treasuries.
Investors seeking stability have begun to turn to TIPS mutual funds, holding bonds of varying maturities. Vanguard Inflation-Protected Securities, for example, started in June 2000, has grown to $360 million in assets. Pimco Real Return Bond has taken in $500 million in the last six months and now has more than $1.2 billion.
Chip Plumb, 44, of Evanston, Ill., transferred all of his wife's and his own I.R.A. money into the Vanguard fund in January. "The TIPS provide inflation insurance," he said. "If inflation goes up, the equities in my portfolio will get hurt, but the inflation-protected bonds would do well."
The State of Florida has 11 percent of its $1.3 billion endowment fund from its 1998 tobacco settlement invested in inflation-indexed securities. "TIPS are less volatile than traditional bonds," said Coleman Stipanovich, deputy executive director of the Florida State Board of Administration.
But opponents of the bonds say they are a bad deal for the federal government. According to the May report of the advisory committee, the government paid $1.5 billion more in coupon payments since the inception of the TIPS program than it would have with traditional bonds. 
In recent years, the Treasury has cut back on bond sales, and the advisory panel contends that TIPS should be next on the chopping block. They now represent about 8 percent of Treasury notes and bonds.
Critics of the advisory committee say the extra cost of TIPS was a temporary phenomenon stemming from the collapse of the Russian debt markets in 1998, when worldwide deflation fears sharply decreased demand for inflation-protected securities. "Two auctions in a global crisis do not make a representative sample to judge a program on," a report from Barclays said.
TIPS proponents also say many dealers oppose the bonds because they are intended for the buy-and-hold investor, not for traders. "Dealers make their money from volume and TIPS don't turn over very much," Mr. Bernstein said.
MR. JAY of Lehman disagreed: "There are dealers who are pro-TIPS and investors who are anti-TIPS."
Defenders of TIPS contend that they give the government a market barometer of inflation. "Every country I know of that has issued inflation-indexed bonds since 1950 has subsequently seen a drop in its inflation rates," said John Brynjolfsson, a portfolio manager at Pimco. "Inflation-fighting credibility is the No. 1 way for a country to minimize the cost of its debt."
The Bush administration has given no indication of its position. Tony Fratto, a Treasury spokesman, declined to comment, but the department has said that the program would continue until further notice.
Mr. Jay said: "This is a product developed by Rubin and Summers. Obviously you have new players now, and we don't know how they feel."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chip Plumb packing for a recent trip with his wife, Mary Kay Canlon. He regards inflation-indexed bonds, which they hold in a mutual fund, as investment insurance. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times) Chart: "Price Protection"Treasury inflation-protected securities, or TIPS, offer a safeguard against inflation. TIPS sold at auction on Wednesday will give the same total return as traditional 10-year Treasuries when annual inflation is 1.78 percent. When inflation is higher, TIPS will outperform Treasuries; when inflation is lower, they will underperform. Graph shows total return of 10-year TIPS (Same return as traditional Treasury bond). (Source: The Vanguard Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%) STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (66%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (54%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (56%) KOBLINER, BETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



374 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
An American Directs Mexico City's Cinema Revival

BYLINE:  By GRAHAM GORI 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
EIGHT years ago, without knowing a word of Spanish, a ponytailed Harvard Business School student named Matthew D. Heyman came here to seek his fortune. He surveyed the city's aging movie theaters and gave himself five years to become a millionaire.
 He returned to Harvard and, with help from two Mexican classmates who became his business partners, wrote a 105-page plan on how to revitalize Mexico City's movie theater industry. That plan became the blueprint for Cinemex, one of the fastest-growing cinema chain start-ups. 
 Mr. Heyman and his partners, Miguel Angel Davila and Adolfo Fastlicht, opened their first theaters in 1995. Since then, Cinemex has grown to dominate the huge Mexico City market, showing a mix of Mexican films like "Y Tu Mama Tambien" ("And Your Mother Too") and mainstream Hollywood fare like "Pearl Harbor" and "Shrek." Mr. Heyman said that by year-end he expected to control 51 percent of the cinemas in Mexico City, where 20 million people live. 
With 317 screens, Cinemex is small by international standards. But entertainment industry executives say Cinemex has revived Mexico City as an important international market. "In only five years, they have gone from nothing to becoming the biggest theater circuit in the biggest city in the world," said Eduardo Echeverria, director general of 20th Century Fox in Mexico.
Mr. Heyman, 39, a native of Studio City, Calif., is considered by his partners to be obsessive about theaters. His office is decorated with a wall-to-wall carpet from one of his favorite cinemas, and he can identify most cities in the United States and Canada by their most famous movie theater. At the age of 29, after working as a vice president at Cineplex Odeon, an international theater chain based in Toronto, Mr. Heyman quit to get his master's degree. The only reason, he said, was to run his own theater chain.
At Harvard, he asked classmates what theaters were like in their hometowns. When Mr. Fastlicht said Mexico's theaters were in ruins, Mr. Heyman was heartened.
"They were destroyed; they were the worst," Mr. Heyman said of Mexico City theaters when he first saw them in 1993. "They were old decrepit buildings that would never operate in the United States."
MOST Mexican theaters were built as one-screen auditoriums. Cursed with poor sound and shoddy design, many deteriorated.
For decades, the government insisted that all Mexicans, now matter how poor, should be able to afford the movies. So the government decreed that, along with tortillas, beans and bread, tickets would be subject to price controls. Theaters could charge no more than 4 pesos, or roughly 40 cents at current exchange rates.
Unable to turn a profit, much less build new theaters, owners introduced 15-minute intermissions to lure patrons to the concessions, but that could not put an end to the slow decline. By the early 90's Mexicans basically stopped going to the movies.
Then, in 1992, the government lifted price controls on tickets. As international theater companies like AMC and Loews prepared to build modern, multiplex theaters on the rubble, the three Harvard graduate students saw an opportunity. All they had to do was raise $22 million.
In April 1993, Mr. Heyman approached some contacts from his former job, who told him that the venture was too risky. One refusal followed another, and after six months, down to their last $100,000 in savings, the partners held a banquet here for some J.P. Morgan investors who had shown initial interest.
Then Cinemex received some good news. J.P. Morgan agreed to put up $8 million in return for a 40 percent stake in the company. Other investors, encouraged by J.P. Morgan's lead, jumped aboard quickly. 
In January 1994, Cinemex had $21.5 million, making it the largest venture capital start-up in Mexican history at that time, said Holly A. Johnson, senior editor of Latin American Private Equity Analyst, a monthly newsletter based in Wellesley, Mass.
But the good news was not to last. Midway through construction of the first two theaters, the peso's value collapsed and Mexico entered a demoralizing economic crisis. The building contractor had no money, and Mr. Heyman's salary, in pesos, was effectively halved. If not for the investors' determination, he said, he would have gone home.
As it turned out, that is exactly what Cinemex's competitors did. The economic crisis soured AMC and Loews on Mexico, and they left. Suddenly, real estate in Mexico City turned inexpensive. "At that point we took Mexico," Mr. Heyman said. "We had everything lined up."
In the next year, Cinemex built 65 screens, in five buildings. The company installed stadium seating with much bigger screens than the competition.
Early on, Mr. Heyman said, he realized that the company needed to tap Mexico City's largest market: the working poor. In wealthier neighborhoods, Cinemex charged the equivalent of $3.35 a ticket, about 40 percent higher than the competition and roughly the same as Mexico's daily minimum wage. Mr. Heyman worried that the company might fail outside wealthy areas. But he decided to build expensive theaters in working class neighborhoods anyway. He charged about half as much for tickets as he did in wealthier areas, betting that the poor would pay.
When the Los Reyes theater, Cinemex's first in a working-class district, opened in 1996, locals were skeptical. "All that neon and all that stuff," Mr. Heyman recalled. "It looked like Disneyland. But we delivered first-world service, and it took them 8 to 12 months to figure out that, 'Hey, this isn't a scam; they really built it for us.' "
Cinemex has outdistanced its major competitors, the Cinepolis chain of Mexico and Cinemark USA Inc., a privately held company based in Plano, Tex., that operates theaters throughout Latin America. 
Also privately held, Cinemex does not disclose detailed financial data, but Mr. Heyman says it is profitable. He expects operating income of about $40 million this year on revenue of $140 million. The company's average attendance per screen, a barometer of economic performance, is 90,000 viewers a year, one of the highest levels in the Americas.
But as the company matures, so has Mr. Heyman's desire to leave the empire he helped build and to return to the United States. "I've achieved all I can achieve," he said. "I can't look any better than I look." The only problem is that no one wants to buy the company. In recent years, the theater industry in the United States has collapsed, primarily because of overbuilding. Some large companies, like Loews Cineplex Entertainment of New York, have sought bankruptcy protection. Allen Karp, chief executive of Mr. Heyman's old employer Cineplex Odeon, a subsidiary of Loews Cineplex, said the industry was "very quickly and very painfully struck by adverse economic lightning."
Under other circumstances, Mr. Karp said, Cinemex would be attractive to buyers. "But nobody is out there buying theaters today," he said. 
Cinemex's success, Mr. Heyman said, has been overshadowed by the industry's trouble everywhere else.
"We're like the shining star in the middle of a disaster," he said. "You can see us here, you know where we are, but it's like, who wants to go in and get us?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Matthew Heyman, an American who has helped revitalize Mexico City's antiquated network of movie houses, at one of his theaters, above. His company, Cinemex, has attracted customers by making its theaters relatively luxurious. (Photographs by Wesley Bocxe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE THEATERS (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); EXCHANGE RATES (60%) MOTION PICTURES; THEATERS (BUILDINGS) 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CINEMEX 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (67%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (67%)

PERSON: GORI, GRAHAM; HEYMAN, MATTHEW D 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (53%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) MEXICO CITY (MEX); MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



375 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3528 words

HEADLINE: Against All Odds, A Telecom Rebirth 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON and RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
BY the time Theodore B. Olson walked into a Washington courtroom on a cloudy morning in March, it would have taken close to a miracle to save his client, NextWave Telecom, from ruin.
 Founded by a former top executive at Qualcomm, Allen B. Salmasi, and financed by a group of veterans of Drexel Burnham Lambert, the defunct investment banking firm, and a coterie of hedge funds, NextWave had been stuck in bankruptcy since 1998; the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia was its last hope. 
 The company had incurred the wrath of regulators, faced a formidable lobbying campaign by the wireless telephone industry and suffered two devastating setbacks in the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in Manhattan. Unable to pay its debts, it had been stripped of its most vital asset, radio spectrum licenses it won in two auctions five years ago. Over the company's protests, they were resold in January, in the largest government auction ever, to some of the nation's most powerful telecommunications companies. 
But three weeks ago, Mr. Olson won his biggest appeal since the Supreme Court agreed with his argument that George W. Bush was entitled to become president. Ruling that the government had confiscated NextWave's licenses improperly, the appellate court in Washington sent regulators and the rest of the industry reeling. The company says it is now poised to return from the brink with some prized assets -- the licenses that it won with bids of $4.74 billion in 1996 but that were valued at this year's auction at nearly $16 billion.
Regulators and rivals still stand in the way, though, as do some federal policy makers, who fear that NextWave's victory could blow a hole in the budget that would force Congress and the White House to violate their pledge not to dip into Medicare and Social Security. The company must also find new backers on Wall Street, no small task at a time when telecommunications investors are suffering large losses.
The outcome of the tortured battle involving NextWave, the rest of the industry and the regulators is impossible to call. Already, it has prompted charges and countercharges of greed and duplicity and limitless finger-pointing. And it shows the consequences of mixing the worlds of government and finance, a combination that resulted from a well-intentioned attempt by Congress and regulators to award cellular licenses to small entrepreneurs. 
With that policy, the government essentially socialized the financial risks and privatized potential gains. When NextWave could not, as it had planned, raise more money by going public -- because the financial markets had grown wary -- it could not pay the Treasury. The government, in turn, reclaimed the licenses and tried to reissue them to better-financed companies. Now that policy appears in tatters.
And despite bitter differences, all sides agree that the main victims have been consumers. Clamoring for better cell phone service as the airwaves have become more crowded, they increasingly find calls dropped or not completed, a problem that could have been greatly alleviated years ago had the licenses at stake here been put to use by now.

A Vision and a 5-Year Fight
Mr. Salmasi, 47, the central figure at NextWave, is an Iranian emigre and a former NASA engineer who with his family once owned nearly half of Qualcomm. Hailed by his Wall Street backers as a visionary and pilloried by rivals and regulators as a reckless speculator, he has come to embody both the promises and perils of entrepreneurship in one of the economy's hottest sectors.
After helping Qualcomm develop a powerful code for cell phone transmissions, Mr. Salmasi started NextWave in 1995 to fulfill his vision of a nationwide network that would sell airwave space to wireless carriers. 
Through his salesmanship and an unusual federal program meant to encourage small entrepreneurs to enter telecommunications, NextWave attracted hundreds of millions of dollars in financing. Ultimately, it pledged to buy 63 licenses for $4.74 billion, paying just 10 percent up front, with the government financing the remainder.
Mr. Salmasi then began what has turned into a five-year battle with the Federal Communications Commission. Waging a bare-knuckles lobbying and legal campaign, he and his allies on Wall Street, many of whom have held on for more than five years, have spent millions of dollars to counter what they contend is an attempt by regulators and larger wireless companies to restrict competition by confiscating their licenses. 
NextWave's moves included an audacious effort to use the bankruptcy proceeding to blunt the F.C.C.'s authority, as well as personal pleas by executives and investors to President Bill Clinton to intervene on the company's behalf. 
So rancorous are the relations between NextWave and the F.C.C. that some current and former government officials say they have been told that the company hired private investigators to delve into their lives, an accusation that Mr. Salmasi denies.
The commission has battled accusations by NextWave's supporters and legal experts that it flouted federal bankruptcy law and tried to use its regulatory role to improve its standing in the bankruptcy proceedings. Agreeing with those critics, the appeals court in Washington admonished the commission last month. 
"Applying the fundamental principle that federal agencies must obey all federal laws, not just those they administer, we conclude that the commission violated the provision of the bankruptcy code that prohibits governmental entities from revoking debtors' licenses solely for failure to pay debts dischargeable in bankruptcy," the court wrote. 
The bitterness over the appeals court decision was palpable, and could be felt in the unusual statement issued by William E. Kennard, who stepped down as F.C.C. chairman earlier this year. One of the strongest critics of the company, Mr. Kennard called for a litigation cease-fire in light of the appeals court decision, but added, "The tragedy here is that by welshing on its promise to pay the U.S. government, NextWave could walk away with billions."
NextWave's executives and investors bristled at that. "In the United States, trying to settle your debt through the bankruptcy process does not make you a welsher," said Douglas P. Teitelbaum, one of NextWave's largest investors and a managing principal of Bay Harbour Management, an investment firm specializing in distressed securities.

Elbow Room in the Airwaves
The licenses at issue have become the holy grail of the information age. Seeking to expand to new domestic markets, wireless companies want to roll out the promising technology that they say lets consumers browse the Internet and retrieve e-mail at high speeds from cell phones or hand-held computers.
But the carriers came up against Mr. Salmasi's vision, which was financed by a group of speculative investors. The Drexel veterans in the investor group had gone this route before. In the 1980's, they had bankrolled entrepreneurs like Ted Turner in the entertainment industry and Craig McCaw, the cellular telephone innovator.
Bankers at the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, known as CIBC, where several Drexel veterans worked, teamed up with ING Barings to raise around $370 million for NextWave in 1996.
"I was just captivated by Allen," said Leon Wagner, then a top executive at the high-yield bond department at CIBC and now chairman of GoldenTree Asset Management, an investment firm. 
Mr. Wagner and his colleagues at CIBC attracted a group of speculators to back NextWave. Amazingly, five years later, most of them have stuck with it, and some have even added to their stakes. The investors included Cerberus Capital Management, a New York firm that is one of the largest investors in troubled companies in the United States. Another investor was the Loews Corporation, the hotel, insurance and tobacco conglomerate controlled by the Tisch family. 
In the auction six months ago, the licenses NextWave had won attracted many big bidders. The biggest winner was Verizon Wireless, which bid nearly $9 billion; other victors included VoiceStream Wireless and business partners of AT&T and Cingular Wireless (the joint venture of SBC Communications and BellSouth). All that stood in the way of getting those licenses was the resolution of the lawsuit filed by Mr. Olson.
He was part of a large team of lawyers and lobbyists hired by NextWave and its creditors to counter the even larger team assembled by its rivals. The largest of those was AT&T, which has had a long tradition of influence in Washington.
The company has become the nation's largest corporate political donor in recent years, and its lobbying operations are headed by James Cicconi, a former top aide to the first President Bush. It employs a huge group of inside lobbyists, outside lobbying firms and lawyers. Others opposing NextWave, like Verizon, Cingular, VoiceStream and Nextel Communications, have soaked up much of the remaining legal and lobbying talent in Washington.
Industry lobbyists include a firm run by Anthony Podesta, brother of John D. Podesta, the former chief of staff for Mr. Clinton, and the firm formerly headed by Nicholas E. Calio, President Bush's top assistant for legislative affairs. A large number of former government officials now work for NextWave's competitors.

Strength Against Strength
NextWave and its allies also flexed political muscle. Their team includes Haley Barbour, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee, and Robert L. Livingston, the Congressman who was elected House speaker but resigned before taking the post when it was revealed that he had had an extramarital affair. The company and its allies, prodigious political fund-raisers, persuaded two Democratic Senators, Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey and Charles E. Schumer of New York, to join three House members in filing a brief in the Washington appeal supporting the company.
Its Washington effort has been helped greatly by Mr. Teitelbaum. After investing $20 million in the company over the years, he has spent around $2 million of his firm's money in legal and lobbying efforts.
Ultimately, the recruit to NextWave's legal team who made the difference was Mr. Olson. At the outset, though, he ran into trouble. He was blocked from appearing on the company's behalf at its appeals court argument in Manhattan after two appeals judges suggested that he had been retained to create a conflict of interest that would have prevented a former law partner who had been elevated to the bench from hearing the case. NextWave has denied the suggestion.
The F.C.C. had successfully argued before the appeals court in Manhattan that under the Telecommunications Act of 1996, it had virtually unlimited power to award and rescind licenses. But Mr. Olson argued that under a provision of the bankruptcy code that appeared to be in conflict with that act, the government could not rescind any licenses of a debtor in the midst of Chapter 11 proceedings.
Last month, when the panel unanimously agreed with Mr. Olson and issued its order, breathing new life into NextWave and delivering a stunning blow to the F.C.C., Mr. Salmasi said he shrieked for joy.
For Mr. Olson's current client, the ruling was decidedly less opportune. He went on to become the United States solicitor general, the administration's top lawyer, and his victory now threatens to cut into the federal budget just as the government is being forced to acknowledge a sharp decline in the projected surplus.
For F.C.C. officials and the large wireless companies, the case is not over. They have begun to consider how to retain the licenses. 
Reed E. Hundt, the former F.C.C. chairman who oversaw the NextWave auction in 1996, now describes the legal and political battle in Dickensian terms.
"The courts have tied up valuable licenses in litigation that is the telecom equivalent of Jarndyce v. Jarndyce," he said in a recent interview, referring to the interminably foggy legal fight in the novel "Bleak House," in which the estate is consumed by decades of court wrangling.
Mr. Hundt and some current F.C.C. officials blame the courts, saying they have tied up spectrum and caused a delay that could cost the economy many billions of dollars as the licenses lie fallow. 
The recent appeals court decision instead criticizes the regulators as ignoring bankruptcy rules and creating a poorly structured auction. Other critics who blame the regulators point out that two other companies have gone into bankruptcy after winning licenses in 1996. 
NextWave's rivals accuse Mr. Salmasi and his backers of being spectrum speculators who want only to flip the licenses to some other company, reaping huge profits. To many in Washington, the company is seen not as a telecommunications business but as a lobbying and litigation machine.
Mr. Salmasi responds that he is genuine in his commitment to a nationwide wireless company. "Our intentions have always been to build out the network," Mr. Salmasi said. By February 1997, he said, the company had 700 employees and 22 offices around the country and had put in place close to half the infrastructure needed to begin its operations.

From Tehran to Qualcomm
Mr. Salmasi is no stranger to adversity.
He was raised in comfortable circumstances in Tehran. His father and uncle owned a construction company that built many military projects and refineries. The company was nationalized after the Iranian revolution in 1979. "They came to this country with whatever liquid assets they had offshore," Mr. Salmasi said, describing how his family fled from Iran. That money was enough to help finance his early entrepreneurial efforts.
Arriving in 1971, a few years ahead of the rest of his family, Mr. Salmasi obtained a bachelor's degree, with two majors, one in electrical engineering and the other in management economics, from Purdue University in 1977. (He later earned a master's in electrical engineering.)
He spent the late 1970's and early 1980's developing satellite communications for NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. After the government urged that some agency technology be privatized, Mr. Salmasi used $5 million of his family's wealth to start Omninet, a satellite system he marketed to companies eager to monitor the locations of their trucks. After struggling for four years to expand, Mr. Salmasi merged his business with another small telecommunications start-up into a new venture that ultimately became Qualcomm.
Mr. Salmasi and his family, along with some other Omninet investors, received nearly half of Qualcomm's stock, a stake that was reduced to 30 percent after Qualcomm's initial public offering in 1991. The fortune that Mr. Salmasi made on Qualcomm provided him with the financial cushion, his allies say, that has enabled him to be patient in his battle with the government. While at Qualcomm, Mr. Salmasi began developing a new technology for transmitting cell phone signals known as C.D.M.A., for code division multiple access. 
Brainstorming with friends, he decided in 1995 to enter the auction and start a new business. His original investors included Qualcomm, Sony, PECO Energy and Pohang Iron and Steel of South Korea, which contributed to the down payment in the 1996 auctions. 

Dividing the Spectrum
The groundwork for the 1996 auctions was laid three years earlier, when Congress gave the F.C.C. authority to conduct bidding for spectrum licenses. The agency was ordered to reserve portions of the spectrum for small companies.
Over the objections of some senior F.C.C. officials, the agency under Mr. Hundt adopted rules that enabled small companies to pay for their winning bids by putting down 10 percent and then paying the remainder over 10 years.
The conflict began shortly after NextWave won its licenses. It faced a complaint from some losing bidders, accusing it of violating the law by having too many foreign investors. NextWave protested mightily and was finally awarded the licenses in January 1997. But by then, bad blood had already developed with the F.C.C.
At the same time, the company was also stymied on Wall Street. Regulators said NextWave had difficulty finding new financing because it had overbid for the licenses. The company blames regulators for its problems, saying its licenses were devalued by additional auctions, making it difficult for Mr. Salmasi to raise additional money. 
In March 1997, the commission suspended interest payments as it debated whether to restructure the obligations. The F.C.C. requested public comment, prompting many of NextWave's rivals to challenge the company. 
It was at this point, some NextWave executives say, that government bias developed against the company. "It became a situation that was very politically charged," recalled Frank A. Cassou, NextWave's general counsel. 
Agency officials deny that they were biased in favor of the established wireless companies and say they had only two goals: preserving the integrity of the auction process by getting payments on schedule, and moving the licenses into the market as quickly as possible.

The Plunge Into Bankruptcy
In October, the commission issued an order giving NextWave and the other financially distressed winning bidders a variety of options that let them surrender some or all of their licenses for full or partial forgiveness of their debts. None of the options permitted the companies to keep any of their licenses for less than their full bid price.
The commission concluded that it would be against the public interest to forgive a portion of the obligations, as the companies had sought, because such a deal would have permitted the bidders to keep their licenses at a significantly reduced price, which would have been unfair to the auction losers. The fear, officials said, was that a price reduction would set a dreadful precedent and that no bidders would take the rules of auctions seriously in the future.
In June 1998, after it failed to raise new capital, and appeals to overturn the order were unsuccessful, NextWave filed for protection in Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. Despite a series of legal setbacks, by the end of the next year it managed to line up investors willing to commit $1.6 billion for new equity. The group included Global Crossing, a telecommunications company, and the Pacific Capital Group, a Los Angeles firm founded by Gary Winnick, one of Global Crossing's original backers. Mr. Winnick, a billionaire, had been a Drexel junk-bond salesman. The investor group also included Liberty Media, the cable television concern, and the Texas Pacific Group, a private equity firm.
In January 2000, NextWave proposed emerging from bankruptcy by immediately paying the equivalent of the present value of the notes held by the government. The agency responded the next day by announcing its intention to re-auction the licenses. When the appellate court in Manhattan granted the F.C.C.'s request to exert exclusive control over the licenses, NextWave's reorganization plan collapsed.

A Battle Renewed
With little time to savor NextWave's recent resurrection, Mr. Salmasi is courting Wall Street investors anew to raise more financing. While he says his company is ripe for profitability, the market has again turned sour and his timing may again be against him. So far this year, the prices of junk bonds issued by telecommunications companies are down 24 percent, according to an index published by Banc of America Securities. Investors are skittish.
"This happens to be NextWave's cross to bear," Mr. Wagner said. "Every time we had the spectrum, it's been impossible to raise financing. And whenever we've been stuck in litigation, the market has been skyrocketing."
Still, Mr. Wagner, Mr. Salmasi and the rest of the NextWave team believe that they can raise the money. "We've got $16 billion in collateral," Mr. Salmasi said.
Some investors are clearly hopeful. NextWave's privately held shares, which traded as low as 20 cents in 1998, have risen from $3 just before the court ruling to $8.63. 
For their part, government officials continue to consider whether to bring further legal appeals. Officials said last week that the agency's new chairman, Michael K. Powell, had not decided how to proceed, although he met recently with a NextWave representative. Regulatory challenges remain that may still block the company from obtaining the licenses, and many on the agency's staff are still deeply distrustful of Mr. Salmasi.
The rest of the industry continues to press the government to award the licenses to the companies that won this year's auction. A few months ago, Verizon Wireless put a $1 billion deposit in a government account that is not earning any interest. The company will suffer a humiliating business setback and lose a considerable amount of money if it fails to get the licenses.
But Mr. Salmasi says the new leadership in Washington presents his best chances of prevailing.
"This is a good time and opportunity for the new regime to put all this behind us," he said. "They are an independent agency, and at the end of the day should be able to make independent decisions, especially since we are all in a fishbowl."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At an unused NextWave office and communications installation near Baltimore, computers, monitors and chairs are kept in storage in mostly empty rooms. (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times); (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 12); Allen Salmasi, chief executive of NextWave Telecom, is described by friends as a visionary and by enemies as a speculator. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "Second Time Around"When NextWave won its licenses in 1996, it bid $4.74 billion. The same licenses fetched nearly $16 billion at auction in January. Major bidders and total bid for what had been NextWave's licenses Verizon Comm.: $8,547 millionAlaska Native Wireless (1): 2,724Salmon PCS (2): 2,081DCC PCS (3): 537Cook Inlet (4): 412VoiceStream Wireless: 365Leap Wireless Int'l. (5): 350SVC BidCo (6): 282Black Crow Wireless (7): 280Lafayette Comm.: 137Northcoast Comm.: 973DL Wireless: 16Others: 24TOTAL BID: $15,852 million (1) AT&T owns 39.9 percent(2) Cingular Wireless, a joint venture of SBC Communications and BellSouth, owns 85 percent(3) Owned by Dobson Communications, AT&T has a stake in Dobson(4) VoiceStream owns 49.9 percent(5) Backed by Qualcomm(6) Sprint owns 80 percent(7) Backed by U.S. Cellular (Sources: Federal Communications Commission; Communications Daily) Chart: "NextWave vs. the F.C.C." 1993 -- Congress clears the way for the Federal Communications Commission to auction licenses in the two-gigahertz wavelength. It orders the F.C.C. to make these cellular licenses available to smaller businesses by offering an option to finance winning bids. 1995 -- Allen B. Salmasi, once a top executive at Qualcomm, decides to form NextWave and to raise financing to compete for licenses. He has $550 million in time for the auction. 1996 -- NextWave secures 63 licenses for $4.74 billion, paying 10 percent at the auction's close. Some losing bidders assert that NextWave violated rules by having too many foreign investors. 1997 -- NextWave is awarded its licenses after agreeing to a financial restructuring, but tight capital markets make it difficult to find enough investors to back the plan. The F.C.C. suspends interest obligations while it debates a new plan for payments by bidders. 1998 -- The F.C.C. makes new payment options available. Winners can return some or all of their licenses for forgiveness of debt. The commission does not allow for any reduction in winning bids. NextWave files for bankruptcy and makes no more payments. 1999 -- A bankruptcy court reduces NextWave's debt by $3.72 billion, saying that the licenses were not worth the full original bids by the time the F.C.C. delivered them. The F.C.C. appeals the decision and loses. The F.C.C. takes its case to the United States Court of Appeals, which reverses the previous two rulings on the grounds that the bankruptcy court did not have the proper jurisdiction. 2000 -- NextWave proposes to settle its $4.3 billion debt in full, but the F.C.C. objects. The F.C.C. asserts that by missing its payment deadline in 1998, NextWave lost its claim to the licenses. At the same time, the commission announces that it will hold a new auction for what were NextWave's licenses. JANUARY -- The F.C.C. concludes the auction. Big, established companies like AT&T and Verizon bid a total of nearly $16 billion. JUNE -- The Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, ruling in NextWave's favor, concludes that the F.C.C. violated bankruptcy laws and did not have the right to revoke NextWave's licenses. Chart: "Up in the Air"The radio spectrum licenses that NextWave, its competitors and the F.C.C. are fighting for are spread across the United States. The outcome of the battle remains uncertain. Map of the United States.(Source: Federal Communications Commission)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); LOBBYING (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); WIRELESS REGULATION (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); BUDGETS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); LICENSES & PERMITS (68%); MEDICARE (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; BANKRUPTCIES; AUCTIONS; RADIO 

COMPANY: QUALCOMM INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION; NEXTWAVE TELECOM INC 

TICKER: QCOM (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%) SIC4812 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%) LABATON, STEPHEN; ATLAS, RIVA D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (57%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



376 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Jobless Rates Don't Convey A Key Aspect: Does It Last?

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
FOR the last six months, American companies have been laying off tens of thousands of workers, while their counterparts in Europe have been adding to their payrolls. Yet unemployment in the United States -- 4.5 percent in June -- remains lower than it is across the Atlantic.
 In Britain, the rate is 5.1 percent. In Germany, it is 7.8 percent, and in both France and Italy it is above 8 percent. 
 The gap is not new, and it contributes to a widely held perception that the condition of being without a job is different in Europe than in the United States. There, unemployment is supposed to be more pervasive, because the economies are less efficient, but also less unpleasant because the governments provide relatively generous benefits.
There is certainly some truth to this. A greater portion of Europeans are looking for jobs right now, and these unemployed workers do receive bigger checks and better health benefits from their governments than they would in the United States. But the conventional wisdom also misses an important difference between the world's two largest economies -- a difference worth considering because most economists are predicting that joblessness will rise in both places over the next year.
Employment statistics essentially break down a population into three categories: those with jobs; those without jobs but actively looking; and those without jobs who have not tried in the previous four weeks to find work. To create the unemployment rate, government data collectors exclude the third group and add the first two together, calling them the labor force. They then divide the number of those looking for work by the number in the labor force.
The resulting statistic is a snapshot. It describes people's present situation, but it says nothing about which category they were in previously. As a result, two societies with similar unemployment rates can have quite different labor markets.
Imagine two countries -- one called Flexia, the other Status. Each has a labor force of one million people, and 40,000 of them are out of work. So the unemployment rate of each is 4 percent.
In Flexia, job cuts are common. Companies can fire people almost at will, but they often hire new workers at the same time. In a typical year, some 160,000 members of Flexia's labor force are out of work at some point, but the average unemployed worker needs only three months to find a new job.
In Status, the government has passed laws that make it difficult and expensive for companies to cut jobs. As a result, executives cannot make mass layoffs easily. They are also more reluctant to hire new employees, knowing that their salaries will probably be on the company's income statement for years to come. In a typical year, only 40,000 members of the Status labor force are without jobs, but they need about a year to find work.
To think of it another way, being unemployed in Status is worse than it is in Flexia -- because it lasts longer -- but it is also less common, despite the similar jobless rates.
AS it happens, each of these make-believe nations resembles an actual country, according to a study by two researchers, Olivier Blanchard and Pedro Portugal, published in the American Economic Review in March. (They bear no responsibility for the fictional names.) Flexia is a miniature version of the United States, and Status is similar to Portugal. 
The economists chose the two countries because they have had similar unemployment rates -- between 3.9 and 5 percent -- in recent years. As the researchers dug deeper, however, they found great variation between the labor markets. 
"In Portugal, the probability of being unemployed is low, but once you're unemployed, you're likely to remain unemployed for a year," said Mr. Blanchard, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "In the U.S., you're much more likely to be unemployed. But you'll be unemployed for only a few weeks or months."
This is where the conventional wisdom about Europe and the United States is only half right. On any given day, being unemployed in Europe is better than being unemployed in the United States, because of the difference in benefits. But in neither place is it pleasant to be unable to find work. And in Europe -- where, like Portugal, most countries have strong job-protection laws -- unemployment tends to last for many months.
In any given year, in other words, being unemployed in Europe may be worse than it is in the United States.
Is that cause for another cheer on behalf of the American economy? Yes, but it should be a subdued one. The pervasiveness of layoffs here is one reason that American workers have had a harder time winning raises over the last two decades.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows unemployment rates for Europe and the United States for the year. (Source: Economy.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (74%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



377 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
A Latin Tragedy

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
In the 1990's Argentina staged a dramatic recovery from decades of economic mismanagement, and in the process became an icon of the new world order. But last week the Argentine government found that it could roll over short-term debt only by offering a 14 percent interest rate, five points higher than a month earlier. And the buzz on Wall Street is that the question about an eventual Argentine debt default is no longer whether, but when.
 Both the markets and the Argentine government are treating the issue as mainly one of deficit spending. Indeed, in a desperate effort to regain market confidence, President Fernando de la Rua has called for draconian spending cuts. 
 But Argentina's fundamental problem isn't fiscal; it's monetary. Ten years ago Economy Minister Domingo Cavallo, the nation's economic hero, introduced a muchacclaimed monetary system, the nation's "currency board." Now he finds his handiwork threatened by that system's tragic flaw.
First, a word about the dire budget numbers you may have heard. Argentina, we are told, has a public debt equal to 45 percent of its G.D.P.; it has a budget deficit of more than 2 percent of G.D.P. Gee -- the budget numbers are almost as bad as they were in the United States when the elder George Bush was president!
Why does a level of debt and deficits that caused only tut-tutting here create panic in Argentina? To some extent it's a vicious circle: because investors believe default is likely, they demand usurious interest rates that may well push the country into default. But the main answer is that behind a mildly troubled budget lies a deeply troubled economy.
Argentina's economy surged between 1990 and 1998, but it has been steadily contracting ever since. Unemployment, which stayed high even during the good years, has risen above 16 percent. This dismal performance contributes to the budget problem in at least three ways. A depressed economy means low tax receipts; it's hard to slash spending or raise taxes when the populace is already feeling a lot of economic pain; and it's hard to convince lenders that you will grow out of your problems when your economy is, in fact, shrinking. It's easy to criticize Argentina's political leadership for its inability to eliminate the budget deficit. But when did you last see our own leaders raise taxes and cut spending in the face of a nasty recession?
So why is Argentina's economy depressed? Basically it comes down to the currency board, which pegs the value of the peso at one dollar and ensures (technicalities aside) that each peso in circulation is backed by a dollar in reserves. When it was introduced this system offered a welcome guarantee that hyperinflation would not return, and contributed to a stunning economic recovery. Now, however, the system's fatal flaw has become obvious. Argentina's international competitiveness has been undermined by devaluation in neighboring Brazil and by the weakness of the euro; domestic demand has fallen as consumers and companies lose confidence; but because the currency board allows no flexibility in monetary policy, policy makers cannot respond, Greenspan-style, by opening the monetary spigots. 
Mr. Cavallo, whom I know and admire (though I can't claim to have a sense of his soul) understands this very well. Yet he is understandably unwilling to abandon his creation. It would be a humiliating blow to his and his government's credibility. Also, because much of the debt of Argentina's private sector is in dollars, any devaluation of the peso would risk major financial disruption.
Yet if the latest desperate round of belt-tightening does not succeed, something will have to give. 
Some Wall Street analysts believe that the Argentine government will default but try to keep the peso pegged at one dollar. Maybe -- but that would be a bizarre strategy, choosing the worse of two evils. Advanced countries -- the status to which Argentina aspires -- regard default on debt as a mortal sin, but a sliding currency as at most a mild embarrassment. And default without devaluation, while easing Argentina's budget pressures, would do nothing to help its economy.
Meanwhile, the opposite strategy worked for Argentina's biggest neighbor. Two years ago Brazil was forced into a devaluation that many predicted would lead to economic ruin. It didn't. 
I hate to suggest that Argentina should emulate Brazil; indeed, I have been reluctant to say anything that would make Mr. Cavallo's job harder. But he and his country are rapidly running out of options. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); TRENDS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



378 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Oregon's Water War 

 BODY:
In spirit, the Endangered Species Act is the noblest of the landmark environmental statutes passed during the Nixon era. In practice, it has been by far the most controversial. It is the act right-wing property-rights advocates love to hate, and once again it is under fire for allegedly protecting animals at the expense of human economic needs -- this time in Oregon's Klamath Basin, where the federal Bureau of Reclamation has shut off irrigation water in order to save the endangered suckerfish and the threatened coho salmon. The action, coming on top of the worst drought the Pacific Northwest has seen in many years, has left 1,400 farmers without water, ruined crops on about 200,000 acres and inspired isolated acts of civil disobedience in which angry farmers have tried to reopen headgates blocking the water. It has also become the latest rallying cry for opponents of the Endangered Species Act. 
 But this is not, as right-wing critics would have us believe, a simple case of farmers vs. fish. Nor is the Endangered Species Act to blame. The fundamental problem in that the Klamath Basin is an overstressed ecosystem in which there are too many claimants for too little water -- farmers, fish, other wildlife, towns, downstream salmon fishermen whose business has long been declining and Indian tribes whose water claims predate those of the farmers. Had the system been managed in a balanced fashion in the first place, the act might never have been brought into play. Indeed, hard as it may be for the act's critics to admit, intelligent application of the law may in fact save the region by forcing the various stakeholders to devise new living arrangements aimed at ensuring the future of both people and wildlife. 
 The Bureau of Reclamation, which oversees federal water projects, acted on the basis of biological opinions from the two federal agencies that keep tabs on most of the 573 animal species listed as threatened or endangered under the Endangered Species Act. In one opinion, the Interior Department's Fish and Wildlife Service determined that the suckerfish, a bottom-feeder placed on the endangered list in 1988, would be jeopardized by further declines in water levels in Upper Klamath Lake, the source of the irrigation water. In the other opinion, the Commerce Department's National Marine Fisheries Service determined that continued irrigation would curtail the water flows necessary to coho salmon runs in the lower Klamath River.
Not surprisingly, critics have questioned the agencies' science, although it is hard to see how the suckerfish would not be harmed by declining water levels. As for the coho, there is a well-established correlation between robust water flows that push young salmon out to sea and healthy "returns" of mature salmon in later years. This year's healthy salmon runs are due partly to high water in earlier years. But as Gov. John Kitzhaber of Oregon has suggested, the debate here should not be about the government's response but about the fact that drastic steps were required in the first place. The current crisis has been in the making for at least 100 years, he observes, ever since the federal government decided to create a farming economy where none naturally belonged. From that perspective, the crisis is simply further affirmation of natural resources "stretched beyond their limits." 
Are there solutions? There are, but they do not lie in legislative maneuvers like the failed effort last week of Senator Gordon Smith of Oregon to overturn the biological opinions and allow drawdowns in Upper Klamath Lake. In the short term, as Interior Secretary Gale Norton suggested even as she denied a local petition to reverse the bureau's order, Washington must provide farmers with emergency financial help. Longer term, it should think more creatively, perhaps buying farmland from willing sellers in order to reduce agricultural demand for water and ensure reliable supplies for everyone.
There are notable precedents for such action. Early in his tenure, President Bill Clinton provided substantial help to loggers in the Pacific Northwest whose jobs began to disappear when timber sales were blocked to preserve habitat for the endangered spotted owl. The aid helped ease the region's transition from a dying timber industry to a more broadly based economy. In similar fashion, the administration and Congress could help the Klamath Basin's already shaky farming economy downsize to a more sustainable level. That would be a far greater gift to the region than continued grumbling about the Endangered Species Act. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDANGERED SPECIES (94%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (92%); WATER RIGHTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FISHES (90%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); BIOLOGY (89%); IRRIGATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (89%); ANIMALS (89%); FISHERIES (89%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); LAND RECLAMATION (78%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (78%); FLOOD CONTROL (76%); ZOOLOGY (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DROUGHT (75%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (54%) WATER; EDITORIALS; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; AGRICULTURE; SALMON; SUCKERFISH; IRRIGATION 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF RECLAMATION (83%) BUREAU OF RECLAMATION 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) OREGON; KLAMATH BASIN

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



379 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
Virtual Revenge and the Decline of the Dot-Coms

BYLINE:  By AMY HARMON 

 BODY:
THE hooting and jeering began the moment Webvan, the online grocer that was once a Wall Street darling, shut its doors last week, laying off its 2,000 employees and saying it would seek bankruptcy protection.
 First, there was the predictable crowing from terrestrial competitors who had been threatened by Webvan, which had symbolized the power of the Internet to transform even the most mundane industries. 
 "The supermarket landscape is littered with the skeletons of online grocers that tried to create a viable business model and failed," one news report quoted a spokesman for the grocery store chain Kroger as saying last week. "But our C.E.O. has said all along that we are not going to invest a large sum of money in a business that isn't profitable." 
Then came the haiku. Contributors to a Web site whose name refers to doomed dot-coms with an adjective that cannot be printed here, submitted approximately 400 poems, most along the lines of:
One hundred million
Could not keep us in business.
Jeez do we look dumb.
Actually, Webvan burned through something like $1.2 billion, which helps explain a certain enthusiasm for kicking the Internet bubble generation while they and their share prices are down. There are plenty of forums eager to catalog the fate of the folks who seduced investors and employees with visions of sure riches, including the dot-com graveyard, (www.upside.com /texis/mvm/graveyard/index), the dot-com deathwatch list (www.hoovers.com) and the flop tracker, which pegs the total dot-com flops at 245 (www.thestandard.com/trackers/flop/).
In any case, it's high season for schadenfreude. On Internet message boards, in media reports, at cocktail parties, almost anyone with a steady job in the old economy seems to be partaking of a new cultural pastime: gloating over the latest dot-com demise. "You can tell when you read between the lines that people are happy you are forced to go back to work," said Fred Levenson, who recently returned to the Palo Alto law firm that he had left for a job at Alta Vista, an Internet search engine company. "People are very happy that a lot of young people did not make a fortune in a very short period of time." 
The endless Internet ideas once categorized under the acronyms B2C (business to consumer) and B2B (business to business) are now being retrofitted with new definitions that satirize the entrepreneurs who hawked them. B2B now means "back to banking," B2C has morphed into "back to consulting," and, for the most ignominious failures, B2M means "back to Mom's."
EVEN The Onion, a humor publication that gained national attention through its Internet site, recently ran an article suggesting that laid-off dot-com workers receive unemployment benefits in the form of stock options in their former start-ups, accompanied by a photograph of an unemployment line of people sporting fancy messenger bags, Palm Pilots and cell phones.
Carol Kolb, The Onion's managing editor, suggests that the former Internet evangelists, notorious for their lavish parties and Aeron chairs, deserve such treatment for the excesses they committed during their glory days. "I guess it seems O.K. to be mean to them because they themselves were all too ready to jump on the bandwagon and get excited about this golden future that was going to skyrocket them to fame and fortune," she said.
Andrew Giangola, a spokesman for McKinsey & Co., a major consulting firm, simply notes that the shift in interest among top business school graduates away from start-ups over the last year speaks for itself. "I don't want to sound arrogant here but a lot of students are now realizing a career at a top consulting firm can offer interesting work in a progressive yet stable environment," he said. "Accent on the stable."
But if the hubris and high living of the would-be Internet conquerors has been widely derided, the smug satisfaction of those now enjoying their fall may suffer the same fate. Hypocrisy, after all, is not the most attractive of traits, and many of the lawyers, journalists and employees of "bricks and mortar" companies now sniggering over the latest "Ten Signs Your Dot-Com Is on the Skids" list making the rounds (via e-mail, naturally) were not long ago enviously watching the Internet gravy train pass them by.
And the Internet economy, which is a real and enormous fact, not just a business-plan fantasy, may yet emerge to take its revenge. "It's like they're relieved because it validates the position that their prudent, conservative approach was the right course," said Josh Harris, the founder of Pseudo.com, a Web-based entertainment company that shut down last fall. "But the pooh-poohers never took the chance, they never knew what it was like when there was a charge in the air, and they probably never will."
What most irks Tim Cavanaugh, the former editor of Suck, an online magazine that stopped publishing last month, is the sense that all that is good and successful about the Internet is being wrapped into the collective repudiation of it. Still, Mr. Cavanaugh admits that, but for his insistence on not mocking failing Internet companies, Suck might still be around. "There's definitely a huge market for it," he said.
Mr. Levenson, the lawyer, said he doesn't mind the ribbing he takes from colleagues and clients, because he himself has had to learn to laugh at seeing his shares in Alta Vista's parent company, CMGI, shoot from $42 to over $300 in 1999, only to plummet by 90 percent in the summer of 2000.
"But I was close," he said. "I could be sitting on a boat in Florida right now -- gloating."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (90%); TRENDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); RETAILERS (70%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (69%); SEARCH ENGINES (64%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

PERSON: HARMON, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



380 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
A Rally Before the Checks Arrive

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Despite uncertainty about whether the American economy has managed to halt its decline, the stock market rallied at the end of last week. The surge began with positive sales reports from Microsoft and Motorola and came after the Dow Jones industrial average nearly slipped below 10,000 and the Nasdaq composite closed below 2,000 for the first time in four weeks. 
 An increase of 0.2 percent in retail sales in June, a gain in consumer confidence and the prospect of tax-cut checks arriving in the mail made some investors think that consumer spending would hold up well enough to keep the economy out of a recession. 
 Still, many analysts think that the Federal Reserve will have to push down its benchmark short-term interest rate, now 3.75 percent, to 3 percent or even lower to ensure that the economy turns around.
 The Nasdaq index closed at 2,084.79, up 80.63 points or 4 percent. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed at 1,215.68, up 25.09 or 2.1 percent. The Dow Jones industrials finished at 10,539.06, up 286.38 or 2.8 percent.
 In the bond market, the financial turmoil in Argentina helped push interest rates lower. The yield on the 10-year note fell to 5.22 percent from 5.36 percent the previous week. JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS" ComcastNNM: CMCSKThe cable television company made an unsolicited $44.5 billion offer to acquire AT&T's cable operations. But AT&T is not expected to sell the business.Friday's Close: $37.74Week's Change: -10.74%EST. '01 P/E: -- AutodeskNNM: ADSKThe maker of design software said it is on track to meet financial expectations for the second quarter and plans to reacquire Buzzsaw.com, an Internet business it spun off less than two years ago.Friday's Close: $37.48Week's Change: +10.89%EST. '01 P/E: 17.38 Triton EnergyNYSE: OILAmerada Hess struck a deal to buy the oil and natural-gas producer for $2.6 billion in cash. Energy industry analysts said Amerada Hess was attracted by Triton's leases to wells off the coast of West Africa.Friday's Close: $44.43Week's Change: +40.16%EST. '01 P/E: 22.34 Cisco SystemsNNM: CSCOThe maker of Internet computer equipment made its first corporate acquisition this year, agreeing to buy the closely held silicon chip maker AuroraNetics.Friday's Close: $18.74Week's Change: +11.61%EST. '01 P/E: 45.60 YahooNNM: YHOOOnce one of the few money-making Internet companies, Yahoo said it lost $48.5 million in the second quarter, but still modestly exceeded its diminished financial goals.Friday's Close: $18.25Week's Change: +2.07%EST. '01 P/E: 388.30 Harley-DavidsonNYSE: HDISecond-quarter profit exceeded Wall Street expectations, reflecting the resilience of customer demand for the company's distinctive motorcycles in the face of a softening economy.Friday's Close: $51.80Week's Change: +13.55%EST. '01 P/E: 38.17 MotorolaNYSE: MOTThe maker of wireless communications and semiconductors reported an operating loss of $232 million in the second quarter, its second consecutive quarterly loss after 15 years of profitability.Friday's Close: $17.59Week's Change: +14.44%EST. '01 P/E: -- General ElectricNYSE: GEDespite its first quarterly decline in revenue in 13 years, G.E. reported a 15 percent increase in second-quarter profit, in line with expectations. Investors shrugged off G.E.'s failed attempt to acquire Honeywell.Friday's Close: $47.45Week's Change: +1.19%EST. '01 P/E: 32.28

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); BONDS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BOND MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ACQUISITIONS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); RETAIL SALES (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); INTEREST RATES (68%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (58%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (58%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



381 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK; 
Bonds Receives Support From Mr. October

BYLINE:  By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
When Barry Bonds hit 39 home runs before the All-Star Game, he surpassed Reggie Jackson and Mark McGwire as the player who hit the most home runs at that juncture of the season. Now Jackson is pulling for Bonds to pass McGwire as the player who hits the most home runs in an entire season.
 "I'm rooting for him; I'm sure he'll be fine," Jackson said before Bonds began the rest of the season with home run No. 40. 
 Jackson was reacting to the home run drought Bonds endured leading up to the break. After hitting 21 home runs in San Francisco's previous 28 games, Bonds played in 13 of the Giants' next 14 games without adding to his total of 39. Jackson saw nothing unusual about that apparent slump. 
"You don't realize that if a guy hit a home run every other day like he was, he'd hit 120," Jackson said. "Nobody's going to hit 120. I had 563 home runs and I went to bat 10,000 times. There are a lot of days when you don't hit any. So he's going to have times when he's going to slow down."
Jackson knows whereof he speaks. In 1969, he hit 37 home runs before the All-Star Game, then slowed way down, connecting for only 10 more the rest of the season and finishing with 47, behind Harmon Killebrew's 49 and Frank Howard's 48.
"I was a bust-out, but I was in the hospital for three weeks in September," Jackson recalled. "I ate some bad food. I had hives in my throat, all over my body."
Jackson actually missed nine games in September, not three weeks' worth, and he had missed hitting home runs in many more games.
"I was a little too young," he said. "I was 23. I didn't know how to handle it. If I had been a little bit older, if I had been through my New York stint, or Oakland, or had a couple of Mr. October years in me, I would have known how to handle it. I would have understood what was going on."
Throughout the rest of his career Jackson learned. He learned, for one thing, that home runs were more important than any other hits.
"I would say to Barry, I would say to McGwire, 'If you hit .220, hit 71,' " Jackson said. " 'If your average starts to suffer, hit the ball out of the ballpark.' "
He recalled saying to Griffey one time: "You said, 'My average is struggling.' If you're hitting .240, hit 50 home runs and people will say you hit 50, not that you hit .240."
Players and the news media place much more emphasis on statistics today than when he played, Jackson said.
"Numbers do mean more today," he said. "I don't know why. The media has made a big deal out of it. Then those numbers over the years have started to stand for something: Hall of Fame, greatness, that sort of thing.
"When I retired, I knew I had 563 home runs. I didn't know my lifetime average, I didn't know how many games I played, I didn't know how many hits I had. I have 2,580-some hits. I didn't know I had 400-some doubles.
"Right now Rickey Henderson is hanging on. It's unbelievable. He's hit .220 for three years. He's going to get 3,000 hits. Well, what's that? You know Rickey is going to be in the Hall of Fame. You're going to be in the Hall of Fame, Rickey, and nobody's going to vote for you. You're still going to get in; you don't need 3,000 hits. You want 3,000 hits for yourself. Well, I guess it's O.K."
Jackson also had something to say about the inflationary offense and how small parks and maybe artificial means are contributing to it: "Three, four guys on pace for 160 ribbies; seven, eight guys on pace for 50 homers, three, four guys on pace for 60. You're going to tell me the game has changed that much?"
Told that he was in danger of sounding like an oldtimer complaining about today's players, Jackson said: "I'm not whining about it. I'm telling you the truth. No matter what anybody does here, you got a long way to go before you do what I did."
"All this 63 and 24, that's real nice," he said, referring to the Seattle Mariners' won-lost record. "It counts in October, my friend. That's when it counts. The season starts Aug. 20. We all know that."

Nightmare in Denver
Ever since he signed a $121 million contract with the Colorado Rockies last December, Mike Hampton has been the target of some criticism for saying his decision wasn't based on the money but on the good schools in the Denver area. He also made another claim at the time: The Rockies would win.
"The basis of our decision was family and the chance to win," Hampton said. "The Rockies have a clear vision."
General Manager Dan O'Dowd had that vision, the pitcher said. "He convinced me that ownership is prepared to put a winner on the field," he said. "I did a lot of homework on this thing. I was up late at night. I'd go position by position. I know their team backward and forward. This team can win. I firmly believe that. We're going to be a winner. I have no doubt about that."
In Hampton's defense, he never specified this year, did he?
At last look, the Rockies were in last place in the National League West, 13 games out of first, and they had lost 18 of their last 21 games.
"Everything that could go wrong has," O'Dowd said. "Injuries, guys not playing well, a lack of confidence. It's steamrolling of one thing after another. Winning is contagious and losing is contagious. We have to change course and figure out how to get better. The important thing is gaining some confidence and going in the right direction. As for turning it around and becoming a playoff team, I'm not sure we have enough time for that."
Hampton hasn't won a game since June 10, his record falling to 9-6 and his earned run average rising to 4.32. By signing Hampton and Denny Neagle (for $51 million), the Rockies thought they would make a huge improvement in their pitching staff. But the staff E.R.A., at 5.43, is running higher than last season's 5.26.

A Ruthian Pace
First Roger Maris took away his season home run record. Then Hank Aaron took his career home run record. But for 80 years, no one has supplanted Babe Ruth as the record holder for total bases in a season. His mark of 457 in 1921 has withstood the challenge of such great hitters as Rogers Hornsby, Lou Gehrig, Jimmie Foxx, Stan Musial, Joe DiMaggio, and more recently Sammy Sosa, Larry Walker and Jim Rice.
Now comes Luis Gonzalez of Arizona, whose most productive seasons had been the past two. He amassed 336 total bases last year and 337 the year before. He entered last night's game with 254 total bases this season, an average of 2.85 a game. If he could maintain that average the rest of the season, which is not very likely, Gonzalez would finish with 462. Roger Maris, Hank Aaron and Luis Gonzalez?

A Subdued Realism
He uttered it plaintively but with so much meaning. "Everybody wants to be a superstar," Paul Wilson said earlier in the year. "I just want to be an old ballplayer."
Plucked by the Mets as the first player selected in the 1994 draft, Wilson spoke as a player who hoped that his physical distress was behind him forever. Shoulder and elbow injuries and operations had played enough havoc with his career.
"I don't look at it as snakebit," the 28-year-old pitcher said. "It's a hard game. It's a strange game. Things happen. I guess how you deal with them is what kind of person you are. I just thought of it as another challenge. I could get through it or I could say I've had enough. I decided it's what I want to do.
"I want to be a big league baseball player and I want to be successful. That's the reason I did all this, so I can be successful. I think real good things are going to happen."
Wilson began the season as the Tampa Bay Devil Rays' No. 2 starter. On May 31 he made his 12th and what is for now his last start, suffering his seventh loss in nine decisions. He has since pitched in relief, making 10 appearances but doing nothing to earn his way back into the starting rotation.
Wilson said he never considered quitting, even when his injuries kept him sidelined or in the minors. "I've always thought it was worth it," he said. "Even when I was hurt, I felt I had a good position in life. A lot of people are worse off than me."
But he'll have to begin pitching more effectively if he hopes to become that old ballplayer he dreams of being.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Reggie Jackson, above, hit 37 homers before the All-Star Game in 1969. He and Mark McGwire shared that record until Barry Bonds, left, broke it this season. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%) BASEBALL 

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (56%)

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; BONDS, BARRY; JACKSON, REGGIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (76%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



382 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL: NOTEBOOK; 
Cash Advances Are Under Scrutiny

BYLINE:  By MIKE FREEMAN 

 BODY:
After the police said that the Giants' rookie cornerback Will Allen had been robbed of more than $150,000 worth of jewelry, almost everyone in the Giants' organization had the same two thoughts. 
 The first was, thankfully, he's O.K. 
 The second was more blunt. How can a 22-year-old first-round draft pick, who has yet to sign an N.F.L. contract, afford a 51-carat platinum and diamond bracelet valued at $120,000, a 13-carat bracelet worth $11,000, a gold Rolex watch worth $9,000 and two diamond earrings worth $10,000? Not to mention a new Mercedes-Benz, the keys of which were also taken? 
Allen, who was robbed at gunpoint last Sunday in Syracuse, could not be reached for comment. His agent, Tom Condon, did not return a phone call. Allen has said in subsequent published reports that the amount of jewelry he was wearing was worth some $75,000, not $150,000.
Allen is not saying how he could afford such luxurious items so quickly, but there is one way rookies who have yet to sign a contract can afford a 51-carat diamond bracelet and an expensive car. It stems from a process being used increasingly by agents and financial planners, to the annoyance of some team officials.
According to agents, union officials and team officials, an agent or financial planner will advance the player a line of credit, as much as $500,000 for some first-round draft picks, that is to be paid back when the player signs with a team. Some rookies use that advance cash to purchase goodies.
In the case of a financial planner, the loan has a catch: once the player signs an N.F.L. contract, he must use the planner for investments.
There is nothing illegal about such a relationship, but officials with N.F.L. teams question these kinds of deals. 
That is because some in the league believe agents or financial planners, afraid of alienating their clients, do not caution them about using their money wisely before advancing the money.
One American Football Conference general manager said: "An agent doesn't say: 'Here's an advance, but remember you don't need three Rolex watches or four cars. Be smart.' The agent just hands over the money and the player smiles."
League officials say they have also discovered instances when players were unknowingly charged high interest rates on such loans. So, in effect, some players have paid agents and financial planners to get their own money, when they could have waited to sign their contract and gotten their cash without an interest-bearing loan.
"A small number of players come into the league with very little financial sophistication," the general manager said. "They just want the cash as fast as possible. They don't care about the fine print."
No one knows exactly what type of arrangement Allen has with an agent or financial planner, if any, except Allen and the people close to him. What is clear is that Allen is not unsophisticated. An economics major at Syracuse University, he is, according to Giants officials, considered highly intelligent. 
The robbery has brought attention to a clash of ideals. Wearing expensive jewelry and driving flashy cars is the trend among young and wealthy athletes and entertainers. At the rookie symposium in late June, one player lost a $10,000 platinum chain, just one of many pieces of jewelry he was wearing.
Rookie players defend themselves, saying they have worked hard their entire lives to make it to the N.F.L., so what is wrong with spending money on a few gifts for themselves?
But this thinking is contrary to what the N.F.L. has constantly preached in recent years to its rookies. Spend money wisely, they are told, because many N.F.L. players do not and end their careers penniless.
"You don't need six houses," the former San Francisco offensive lineman Harris Barton recently told a group of N.F.L. rookies. "You don't need 14 cars. Take care of what you get, because the rest of America gets by on far less than what you're going to get by on."
Gene Upshaw, executive director of the N.F.L. Players Association, said in an interview that his organization routinely monitored agents to make sure players were not being taken advantage of. 
Upshaw added that the N.F.L.P.A. was creating a program that would provide players a list of approved financial planners.
One of Allen's agents, Kendall Kremer, is expected to meet this week with General Manager Ernie Accorsi to open contract negotiations.

Tending to the Future
This week the N.F.L. will announce another chapter in one of its favorite initiatives, a passion of Commissioner Paul Tagliabue, Gene Upshaw and hundreds of players, and it has nothing to do with crime, drugs or the latest sports scandal. It has to do with kids.
The N.F.L. and the Pro Football Hall of Fame will hold a celebration honoring youth and high school football, which will take place during the Hall of Fame induction weekend, Aug. 2-5 in Canton, Ohio.
Usually, this type of event would be low on the radar screen of players and others in football. August is the beginning of training camps and the league is focused on the coming season. But large numbers of coaches, players and others associated with the N.F.L. have volunteered for this event, which is basically a salute to high school players and coaches, and a continuation of the league's investment in high school football activities. "We think this is one of the most important programs the league does," Upshaw said.
The reasons are both altruistic and selfish. Upshaw explained the latter.
"What we started to see happen a few years ago was that kids were getting away from football and started going to baseball or basketball," he said. "We wanted to stop that and we think some of our high school initiatives have helped."
The event at the Hall of Fame will feature dozens of current and former N.F.L. players, who will join a number of high school players and coaches. Some of those scheduled to attend include the former Pittsburgh Steeler Lynn Swann, the former Los Angeles Ram Jack Youngblood, the former Buffalo Coach Marv Levy and the former Bills tight end Pete Metzelaars.
Joining them will be coaches who have produced recent N.F.L. players, representatives from the nation's largest youth organizations, and high school football coaches from Japan, Mexico, Canada and Europe.
The event will also feature two female high school coaches, including Carol Frost, the mother of Jets defensive back Scott Frost, whom she coached in high school.

Labor Talks Ahead
Talks to extend the collective bargaining agreement could be wrapped up sooner rather than later. Gene Upshaw and other union officials are scheduled to meet with N.F.L. officials in New York tomorrow, according to a union official. The league and players are close to extending the agreement to 2006.
It is believed that only 12 to 16 minor differences, down from four or five times as many a few months ago, remain to be worked out. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINE JEWELRY (90%); ROBBERY (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) FOOTBALL; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%) NEW YORK GIANTS 

PERSON: FREEMAN, MIKE; ALLEN, WILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) SYRACUSE (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



383 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: Belt Tightening Is Called Threat To the Economy 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
Like many other American consumers, Steven Saint-George has suddenly gone from being a source of the economy's strength to a reason to fret about its future.
 After having bought his first home, purchased a new sport-utility vehicle and taken four weekend trips to California in the last year, Mr. Saint-George was laid off two weeks ago from his $75,000-a-year job at an online real-estate company. Now he and his wife are considering selling their new truck, delaying some landscaping work on their home and trying to pay off their credit-card debt. 
 "We haven't made changes yet, but we will," said Mr. Saint-George, who is 35 and lives in the mountains north of Phoenix. "The idea is to spend a little more wisely, to be a little more frugal." 
Whether it is a lost job, a shrunken retirement account or a debt level that has reached its limit, consumers are now finding new reasons to consider cutting back on their spending. As a result, while many experts still expect the American economy to pick up a bit of speed, they say the recovery may be limited -- and that the risk of a recession remains significant.
"I'm worried about the consumer -- not putting away their wallets but using them a little less," said Alan S. Blinder, an economics professor at Princeton and a former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve. "It wouldn't take much downward movement in consumer spending to cause a recession."
There are many reasons why consumers may not be able to keep up the spending spree. For starters, they are poorer: the net worth of Americans fell last year for the first time since the government began keeping statistics in 1945. In the first quarter of this year, it fell an additional 4 percent.
The best labor market in 30 years has also soured. From April through June, 300,000 jobs disappeared, and companies like Corning and Motorola have announced more cuts this month. Growth in personal income, adjusted for inflation, has dropped below a 2 percent annual rate for the first time since January 1996.
Until now, Americans have kept up their standard of living by increasing mortgage and credit-card debt at the same time. But history suggests that both are unlikely to continue rising in tandem.
"Consumers have held the economy afloat this past year, and we can't count on that to continue," said Mark Zandi, chief economist of Economy.com, a consulting firm in West Chester, Pa. "A number of the supports of consumer spending are wavering."
Most analysts are still guardedly optimistic about the economy's prospects this summer, largely because the coming tax rebate, falling energy prices and lowered interest rates should effectively put more money in Americans' pockets. But many say the forces that have underpinned rising consumer spending so far may not be sustainable. 
Consumer spending is so important because it amounts to more than two-thirds of gross domestic product in the United States. In the last nine months, consumer spending has risen at about a 3 percent rate on an inflation-adjusted basis.
This has allowed the economy to grow about 1 percent in that span -- even though business spending on equipment and software, which had been advancing almost 15 percent a year in the late 1990's, suddenly fell.
In other recent economic slowdowns, consumers reined in their spending before the corporate sector -- often in response to higher interest rates engineered by the Federal Reserve. Businesses then followed, reacting to a drop in revenue, and the slowdown ended only when interest rates fell and the pent-up demand of consumers caused them to increase buying.
In this economic cycle, however, the strong dollar, the glut of products in many industries and the collapse of the dot-com stock-market bubble meant companies were the first to pull back. As a result, the economy is facing an unusual period of uncertainty, with many analysts saying they do not know whether consumer spending will remain strong -- or even accelerate -- or whether it will soon follow the path of corporate spending.
"For the first time in memory, the business sector is driving this," said Allen Sinai of Decision Economics in New York. "The consumer won't be out of the woods until the business sector turns around." 
In effect, there is now a tug-of-war between the downward pull of a deteriorating job market and the government's effort to lift the economy by cutting interest rates and income taxes. 
If people who keep their jobs continue buying enough goods and services to maintain consumer-spending growth of close to 3 percent, Mr. Blinder said, the economy will reach "a safe haven" toward the end of this year, when companies should be stronger. But if consumer spending drops, businesses may have to make even more job cuts, further weakening people's ability to afford new items.
So far, consumers have kept the economy growing, if only slightly, by continuing to take on more debt. In 1998 and 1999, consumer-credit debt was increasing about 5.5 percent a year. By the end of 2000, with people needing new sources of money, the growth rate surged to 12 percent and remained there early this year, according to Economy.com.
At the same time, a fall in interest rates at the start of the year caused the number of people applying to refinance their mortgages each month to more than triple. On average, Americans hold mortgages worth about 45 percent of the value of their homes, compared with 35 percent at the end of the 1980's, according to the Fed.
The simultaneous rise of the two types of debt was atypical because people usually refinance their mortgage in part to pay off other debts. This time, it appears that many of them used the money for consumption.
"To me, that's a sign of distress, and I don't think it's sustainable," Mr. Zandi said. In fact, the growth of both kinds of debt has slowed in recent weeks.
By itself, debt rarely forces people to change their spending habits, economists say. But, in the event of a layoff or a loss of overtime hours, it can cause people to cut their expenses more significantly than they otherwise would.
Mr. Saint-George, for example, said that when he was making a good salary, he and his wife could comfortably make the monthly payments on their large auto loan and $9,000 in consumer debt. Now that he is unemployed, though, they expect to sell their Infiniti truck and replace it with a car that has lower monthly payments and gets better mileage. They are not planning any more trips to California to visit friends.
And while he expects to find a new job within a month or so, he said he would not be surprised if he had to take a pay cut of as much as $10,000 a year. All the uncertainty makes him want to pay off their loans even when he does find new work.
"You just kind of pare down all around because you don't have the same level of income," Mr. Saint-George said.
Economists agree that wages and employment are the most important factors determining consumer spending. While unemployment remains lower than it was at almost any point in the last 30 years, it is expected to continue rising for the rest of the year.
Last week, the government reported that the number of Americans filing new jobless insurance claims rose to 445,000 in early July, its highest level in nine years.
Besides adding to the ranks of those without steady incomes, the continuing layoffs also affect those already looking for new work. Since losing his job as a recruiter of engineers in April, Mark P. Weiss has applied for about 200 jobs over the Internet and received only two responses, both negative.
"A lot of the companies I've called are cutting back," said Mr. Weiss, 31, who lives in Dallas. He and his wife no longer eat out or cook steak at home and try to buy brands of food that are on sale. He has also begun to look for work outside of his field.
"The pay in retail is a whole lot less," Mr. Weiss said. "But financially, I'll get to the point where some income is better than no income."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven Saint-George spent freely over the last year, but now that he has lost his job, he says he and his wife are prepared to be more frugal. (Randy Reid for The New York Times)(pg. 20) Chart: "Will Consumers Keep Spending?"Despite a sharp retrenchment by American businesses this year, healthy consumer spending has kept the economy growing slowly. While some factors might help perpetuate that trend, others might encourage consumers to retrench. Graph showing the decline in prime rates and federal funds target rates. Graph showing the decline for near-month crude oil price Graph showing the the rise in the unemployment rate. Graph showing the decline of net household worth.(Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets; Bureau of Labor Statistics; Federal Reserve Board)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); STATISTICS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%)

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



384 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Your Data, Yourself; 
A Protective Path Paved in Granola

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
TO understand the state of play for privacy in the digital age, it helps to look at environmentalism as it was taking shape in the late 1960's. 
 At the time, there was a growing concern about the environment. The politics were reactive and grass-roots, led initially by activist groups rather than traditional politicians. The economic tradeoffs were difficult to measure and a subject of much debate. Individual cases of serious pollution caused alarm, but the environmental issue also mattered in a broader sense, affecting "quality of life." 
 Today, privacy seems to be on a similar trajectory. Polls show that people are increasingly worried about it. The main focus of public anxiety is the use of personal information that can be collected and tracked over the Internet. But there are also qualms about new tools of surveillance -- digital video cameras and special software -- that the police are using to scan crowds for criminals, as was done at the Super Bowl in January and began in Tampa a few weeks ago. 
It remains unclear whether privacy will become an issue with anything like the political resonance and momentum of the environment. It has no oil-covered birds or dying seals to fire public passions. There are worrying episodes, like the accidental distribution of the e-mail addresses of 600 Prozac users by Eli Lilly recently. But most of the anxiety is anticipatory, about what use might be made of vast databases being assembled online or the identifying numbers in Microsoft's software or Intel's microchips. Thoughtful, often disturbing, books have been written on privacy, but none have approached the impact of Rachel Carson's "Silent Spring" in 1962.
Still, there are enough similarities to make some comparisons illuminating. The core concept in each case has evolved over time, though the environment is much further along. As a policy issue, the environment became synonymous with health and safety. But privacy is still an elastic term that means very different things to different people. Jeffrey Rosen, the author of "The Unwanted Gaze: The Destruction of Privacy in America" (Random House, 2000), notes that privacy is an "amorphous concept" that can mean anonymity, secrecy, personal control, security, inaccessibility, even reticence. 
AND like the environment, there is a social side to privacy that extends beyond the cost-benefit analysis of economics. The widespread use of digital video surveillance, Mr. Rosen warns, is an example. "You transform the character of public spaces by putting cameras everywhere," he said.
Then there is the problem of assessing tradeoffs, a tricky reckoning in both cases. But with the environment, the variables at least are apparent and concrete -- wealth and production, health and safety. Figuring the tradeoffs surrounding privacy is more subtle: the free flow of some personal information means lower marketing costs, lower prices and more consumer choice. And the point of much new technology is convenience. Who wants to spend an extra 20 seconds to encrypt a message? 
Like the environmental activists of decades ago, privacy groups are pushing for legislation to establish basic national standards and practices, including at Senate hearings last week, just as environmental groups helped prod Congress into enacting the Clean Air Act of 1970. They even pluck their metaphors from the environment, warning of the danger of a potential "privacy Chernobyl" or "privacy oil spills." 
But as with the environment, legislation will probably come only after there is broad grass-roots support, legitimate leadership and agreement on what should be done.
"Various entities are competing for institutional competence and legitimacy," observed Andrew L. Shapiro, the author of "The Control Revolution" (Public Affairs, 1999), which examines the Internet's social impact. And there is no real consensus, he says, on how to protect privacy.
Science and technology helped bring environmental dangers to light, as biological research detailed the health effects of pollution. Some analysts say the Internet has cast light on the lax information-handling practices of the past.
Merchants have been selling credit-card data for years. The sure evidence of that is the annoying arrival of junk mail every day. Technology accelerates the practice and also makes it more visible. What was unknown in the past now seems to be exploitation.
COMPUTER technology is making information and images easy and inexpensive to collect, sift and transmit. In a study released last week, the Privacy Foundation, an educational and research organization, found that 14 million employees -- over a third of the nation's workers who use the Internet on the job -- have their Web use and e-mail under constant surveillance. 
The companies that use the surveillance software say they are monitoring productivity, checking for objectionable communications like racist or sexist e-mails and guarding against the loss of trade secrets. All those considerations, notes Andrew Schulman, a researcher at the Privacy Foundation, could apply to telephone communications as well. Such surveillance, however, would be too cumbersome and expensive. But the software for computer surveillance costs companies and some government agencies $5 to $10 a year per worker. 
Not only is it easier to collect personal information; it's also easier to sell it. An online merchant can track a visitor's every mouse click, using "cookies." Those clicks can reveal a person's interests and buying habits. And there is a brisk business in selling that information to other marketers. 
"There is already a market in information on you," observed Hal R. Varian, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley. "The trouble is, you aren't a participant in that market."
Economists analyze privacy through the same prism as the environment, trying to weigh a discrete economic benefit to a marketer (like the polluting producer) against the more elusive cost of an individual's loss of privacy (a person breathing dirtier air). The sale of personal data to third parties, in economic terms, is an "externality." That is, the seller can ignore the costs, because they are born by someone else -- the individual whose information is sold.
Externalities are a big part of environmental economics. And just as there have been efforts to develop markets in pollution rights, Kenneth C. Laudon, a professor at New York University's Stern school of business, has proposed a "national information market," intended to give individuals "fair compensation for the use of information about themselves."
Its contours may resemble the environment, but the privacy issue will likely elicit a much milder policy response. Eventually, laws curbing junk e-mail and setting basic standards for collecting and using online data are a good bet. But sweeping, environmental-style regulation is doubtful. The issue is different, and so are the times.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Jaime Valdez/Herald and News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (88%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (69%); COMPUTER CHIPS (64%); WRITERS (64%) PRIVACY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); ELI LILLY & CO (54%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (82%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); LLY (SWX) (54%); LLY (NYSE) (54%); LEL (LSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%)

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



385 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
An Online Auctioneer That Helps Cut Costs

BYLINE:  By ERLE NORTON 

 BODY:
FREEMARKETS INC. is doing its best impression of Lance Armstrong cycling in the Pyrenees.
 While many business-to-business companies have been warning investors that they are not meeting their revenue targets, FreeMarkets is pulling away from the competition by running online auctions that help its own customers cut costs. 
 Like many of its competitors, FreeMarkets is losing money, but it has attracted attention on Wall Street by enabling old-line industrial businesses like Deere & Company to rapidly obtain bids from suppliers, reducing costs substantially.
George Santana, an analyst at Wedbush Morgan Securities, was so impressed that his research reports place FreeMarkets in a new category he calls "Saving Companies Money," a move from the business-to-business sector that is now unfashionable with investors. Mr. Santana said that FreeMarkets offers "a tremendous value proposition" for customers. 
The stock fell sharply in the dot-com crash, but since its early April low it has risen by 188 percent, and now trades at $18.56. This month, Derek Brown, an analyst at W. R. Hambrecht, upgraded the stock to "strong buy" and said he expected it to reach $30 within 12 months. 
Dan Chung, technology portfolio manager at Fred Alger Management, which manages the Enterprise Internet fund, said he has been buying the stock. And Michael Gaffney, who manages the Pimco Opportunity fund, said, "The reasons for why we bought it still exist."
Founded in 1995, FreeMarkets, based in Pittsburgh, went public in late 1999 at an offering price of $48; it ended its first day at $280 and traded as high as $370 on Jan. 3, 2000. Then came spring 2000 and the plunge in Internet stocks, when FreeMarkets lost almost 79 percent of its value from March 1 to June 1.
All the while, FreeMarkets kept at its basic business, signing up customers like Raytheon, Schering-Plough and Texas Instruments. Analysts say customers like FreeMarkets' service, which includes analyzing spending, deciding which products are best for an auction and coming up with qualified suppliers.
The FreeMarkets online auction can accomplish in a day what once could take 30 days of negotiations, said Larry D. Ingram, vice president for procurement and services at Diebold, a North Canton, Ohio, maker of automated teller machines and vaults. The auction forces "that market price down very quickly," said Mr. Ingram, who put Diebold's savings from the process at around 15 percent. FreeMarkets says its customers save 15 to 17 percent of supply costs through its auctions.
FreeMarkets "is one that's beginning to execute against the potential they laid out originally," said Mitch Rubin, who manages the Baron iOpportunity fund, a FreeMarkets shareholder.
Competitors, meanwhile, have stumbled. Commerce One, E.piphany and i2 Technologies warned in the last couple of weeks about disappointments in the second quarter. Covisint, which was set up by automakers to buy parts online, is off to a slow start.
FreeMarkets is hardly home free. It is tied to the manufacturing sector, whose strength is being hurt by the economic slowdown in the United States and the strong dollar abroad. Analysts also wonder if the company is adding customers fast enough.
The stock had a big run recently, nearly tripling from its April 3 low of $6.44 and prompting some money managers to get out. And FreeMarkets still loses money. In the first quarter, the company posted a loss, excluding certain items, of $9.3 million, or 24 cents a share. Including those items -- stock-based expense and noncash acquisition-related costs -- the loss was $43.7 million, or $1.13 a share.
For the second quarter, analysts expect a loss of 22 cents a share on revenue of $36.8 million, according to Thomson Financial/First Call. FreeMarkets concurs with the per-share loss estimate and forecasts revenue of $36 million to $38 million. It is expected to report results on July 30.
FreeMarkets has said full-year revenue will climb to $150 million, from $91.3 million in 2000. It also sees a loss of 73 cents a share for the year. But it expects to break even on an operational basis in the first quarter of 2002 and post a profit, excluding certain items, in the second quarter. Still, the company has not said when it expects to surmount one of the tallest mountains confronting an Internet company, and actually show a net profit.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Turning Point?" shows that after a big fall, FreeMarket's stock has started to climb. Figures from 1999-2001. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); CYCLING (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); COMPUTER PERIPHERAL MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%) COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: FREEMARKETS INC (93%); DEERE & CO (72%); WEDBUSH MORGAN SECURITIES INC (57%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (55%); FRED ALGER MANAGEMENT INC (55%); RAYTHEON CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FREEMARKETS INC 

TICKER: DE (NYSE) (72%); TXN (NASDAQ) (55%); RTN (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (93%); NAICS333112 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTOR & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3524 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTORS & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT (72%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (55%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%) SIC7375 ON-LINE INFORMATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (73%) NORTON, ERLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYRENEES (88%); OHIO, USA (77%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



386 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-10

Pakistani Leader Arrives In India for 3-Day Summit
On the first day of a three-day summit meeting with Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee of India, Pakistan's self-appointed president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, arrived in New Delhi, paid homage to that paragon of nonviolence, Mohandas K. Gandhi, and made a nostalgic pilgrimage to his own childhood home. But the two men did not talk serious business. 3

Fighting Harassment in Japan
Moeko Tanaka, a former campaign worker who successfully sued a governor for sexually molesting her, remains a heroine without a face. Even after winning a court settlement against the politician, she has still not revealed her true name in a society where male power and privilege have deep roots. 1

China Expels Professor
A day after winning its bid to host the 2008 summer Olympics, China convicted an American business professor of spying for Taiwan and ordered him expelled from the country. The decision resolved the first of several cases that have complicated relations with the United States. 10

Elder Bush Reassures Saudis
Former President Bush telephoned Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, who has complained about the current Bush administration's handling of the Middle East conflict, to reassure him that his son's "heart" is in the right place. 6

Ulster Talks End in Impasse
Peace talks led by Prime Minister Tony Blair and his Irish counterpart Bertie Ahern aimed at rescuing the Northern Ireland peace accord ended without a breakthrough in the impasse over Irish Republican Army weapons. 8

NATIONAL 12-22

How Bush Took Florida: Mining the Absentee Vote
In the days after the Florida vote was being contested, Republicans mounted a legal and public relations campaign with a simple goal: to persuade canvassing boards to count the maximum number of overseas ballots in counties won by Mr. Bush, while seeking to disqualify overseas ballots in counties won by former Vice President Al Gore. A six-month investigation shows that the effort had a decided impact. 1

A turning point for the Democrats came when Senator Joseph I. Lieberman disavowed the party's strategy of seeking the disqualification of flawed overseas ballots. 16

Plan on Mexican Immigrants
President Bush's immigration advisers are weighing a plan to grant legal residency to the more than three million Mexicans living illegally in the United States. 1

Youth Camps Are Faulted
The death of a 14-year-old in the Arizona desert is increasing calls for stronger regulation of outdoor camps for troubled youths. 1

Concerns Over Spending
Consumers are now finding new reasons to cut back on their spending. As a result, many experts worry that the recovery of the economy will be limited -- and that the risk of a recession remains significant. 1

Missile Test Called A Success
The first attempt by the Pentagon in a year to shoot down an intercontinental missile succeeded when a prototype interceptor crashed into a mock warhead 140 miles above the Pacific, providing a political lift to the costly missile defense program, the Pentagon said. 12

NEW YORK/REGION 25-29

Dream Becomes Tragedy For Yemeni Jews in New York
The story of a devoutly Jewish couple from Yemen whose daughter died recently -- three years after she slipped into a coma -- provides a rare window into the plight of the 100 or so Yemeni Jews who have been brought to Jewish enclaves in New York in the last decade or so, often with tragic results. Preliminary autopsy results suggested the child was a victim of shaken baby syndrome, but no criminal charges have been filed. 25

Small Island, Big Fight
Vieques, a small island off the coast of Puerto Rico, has captured the national, if not global, stage and provoked a surprising degree of activism. 25

Fresh Air Fund 30

OBITUARIES 23

Maria Chabot
The creator of the Indian markets on the Plaza in Santa Fe, N.M., was 87. 23

Chess 30
Sunday Q & A 14
Cong Vote 29
Weather 31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (79%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (75%); SEX OFFENSES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (65%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (60%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (55%); OLYMPICS (53%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (53%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); TONY BLAIR (57%); AL GORE (57%); JOE LIEBERMAN (57%); BERTIE AHERN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (91%) INDIA (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRELAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



387 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Hotels; 
Offering Business Travelers Less-Fancy Quarters

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
HARRY GROSS thinks that ballrooms, fancy restaurants and room service are unnecessary frills in the business of lodging business travelers. What executives traveling to the nation's core cities really need, he says, are the equivalent of a bed-and-breakfast with high-tech connections to keep them in contact with the rest of the world.
 Mr. Gross, a relative newcomer to the hotel scene in New York, has chosen the Marriott Corporation's Courtyard brand as his chosen instrument, so far. In December 1998 he opened a 244-room Courtyard on 40th Street between Broadway and the Avenue of the Americas. Last month he opened the first new hotel at John F. Kennedy Airport in 15 years, a 166-room Courtyard. 
 A site on the northwest corner of Broadway and 54th Street has been assembled for yet another Courtyard. Construction for the 380-room hotel is scheduled to begin late next year with occupancy planned for early in 2004. 
Mr. Gross said the development at 54th Street will include parking, retail space and full-time residential units in addition to the hotel.
Although highly themed hotels have recently opened in New York, including the Bryant Park, Dylan and the Library, Mr. Gross said he believes there are people who will happily give up the architectural distinction and special services of such properties in return for technically sophisticated rooms and half the price.
Room rates at some boutique hotels can soar past $400 a night. Mr. Gross said his price range is less than $200 a night.
"The concept is for a limited-service hotel in a downtown location, without a lot of public spaces or restaurants," Mr. Gross said in his office on 39th Street in the heart of the Garment District, where he has operated a variety of trading business and is now chief executive of Britannica Home Fashions. "We give people a great room and breakfast and don't charge them for the ballrooms they are not using." 
Unlike hotels outside cities, where finding a place to eat lunch and dinner may be difficult, central business districts are restaurant-rich environments. Doing away with food service, except for the simple breakfast, simplifies the operation of a hotel and eliminates a potential source of financial losses. Many hotel food and beverage operations lose money or barely break even, Mr. Gross said.
Although Kennedy Airport is not a downtown location, Mr. Gross said the Courtyard there was built to take advantage of the investments being made at the airport and the expected increase in passenger traffic.
Mr. Gross is betting that a certain percentage of business travelers are not interested in fighting traffic on the roads leading away from the airport to reach a hotel downtown. Many prefer to fly in, hold business meetings outside Manhattan, spend the night near the airport and fly out in the morning.
"The hotel at J.F.K. is tied to the development of the airport," Mr. Gross said. Among other things, a $1.2 billion international terminal recently opened, and work is proceeding on a $1.5 billion light rail system to connect Kennedy with existing rail and subway lines in Jamaica, Queens.
The Courtyard, Mr. Gross noted, will be the only Marriott product at the airport. Most other major airports in the country have multiple Marriott brands located nearby, with the individual hotel varying in price and services.
The Courtyard concept, Mr. Gross argues, is the urban expression of the rural bed-and-breakfast inn, with one important difference. All the rooms are equipped with two-line telephones and high-speed Internet access, so travelers can be online with their portable computers and on a voice line at the same time.
The current uncertain economic outlook, which is forcing businesses to reduce costs, will drive business travelers away from boutique hotels to places like Courtyards, Mr. Gross said. 
"I want to serve the businessman who is on a budget and does not want to pay for things he does not use," he said. "That's why we have a great gym, rather than a luxury restaurant that nobody would patronize."
IN addition to the Courtyards, Mr. Gross is bringing another Marriott hotel concept to Manhattan: the Residence Inn, for extended stays. Residence Inns are for people expecting to stay in a location for four nights to a few weeks. (It is not to be confused with ExecuStay, another Marriott product, which offers apartments for people planning to stay weeks or months.)
"We are aiming at customers who are not presently being catered to by a branded hotel chain," Mr. Gross said. A Residence Inn is to be built on Avenue of the Americas near 39th Street, where a parking garage now stands. Demolition of that garage is expected to begin this November, and the hotel is expected to open 24 months later, Mr. Gross said.
The Residence Inn will contain 414 suites, which have sleeping, living and working areas with small kitchenettes. Mr. Gross's company, the G Holdings Corporation, is also converting a historic building near City Hall in Philadelphia into a 270-suite Residence Inn.
Mr. Gross said his relationship with Marriott is complex and varies with different projects. In some cases, Marriott is simply a franchiser, lending its brand and operation standards, with G Holdings as the developer and a third company as the operator of the hotel, as is the case with the Kennedy Airport property.
In other cases, Marriott is both the franchiser and the operator of the property, which is the plan for the Residence Inn in Philadelphia. In Manhattan, the company will be a franchiser and a co-investor in the Residence Inn project, Mr. Gross said.
G Holdings is a development and ownership company that does not get involved in the day-to-day operations of its hotels.
Mr. Gross is moving ahead with his projects despite the uneasy national economy and the growing evidence of a decline in travel.
But the declines are from extraordinary occupancy peaks and room rates, and the hospitality business remains strong in New York, observed John A. Fox, a senior vice president of PKF Consulting, which specializes in lodging. "In 2000, we had 250 nights when the city was sold out, and we ended the year with an 85 percent occupancy rate," he said. "That is an unheard-of level for a major metropolitan area."
Year-to-year comparisons are indeed down, but it is important to remember that are down a little from full, he said. "We may only have 150 sold-out nights this year, and the occupancy rate for the first five months of the year is about 75 percent. But this is a very healthy industry, and it will remain so."
Mr. Gross cites statistics he says show that New York does not have enough hotel rooms and that there is money to be made building them. "You look at the statistics, and then you remember stories about people having to stay 20 or 30 miles away because there are no rooms in the city," he said.
According to Smith Travel Research, New York ranks seventh in the nation with about 71,000 rooms in operation. This trails such tourism leaders as Las Vegas, which has 126,000 rooms, and Orlando, with 105,000. New York even lags Atlanta, which has 82,000 rooms, and the Washington, D.C. area, which has 74,000 rooms.
But the same research also found that New York leads the nation in hotel room revenues, with a total income of about $4 billion, compared with $3 billion for Las Vegas and $2.3 billion for Orlando, presumably because of the high price of rooms in the city. 
"When you see statistics like that, you realize that this is a market that is under-served," Mr. Gross said. In addition to the projects under way or in planning, Mr. Gross said his company had bought 4.5 acres of land near Newark Airport, close to the existing Sheraton Hotel.
"The plan is to develop it into a hotel sometime in the future," he said. "The specific brand has not yet been determined."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harry Gross at the new Courtyard by Marriott near Kennedy Airport. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); LODGING (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (73%) HOTELS AND MOTELS 

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (91%); HOST HOTELS & RESORTS INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: MARRIOTT HOTELS 

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (91%); HST (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (91%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (91%)

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN; GROSS, HARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



388 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 2046 words

HEADLINE: Posner v. Dershowitz 

BYLINE:  By Ethan Bronner; Ethan Bronner, education editor of The Times, covered the Supreme Court for The Boston Globe from 1986 to 1991 and is the author of "Battle for Justice: How the Bork Nomination Shook America."

 BODY:
 SUPREME INJUSTICE
How the High Court
Hijacked Election 2000.
By Alan M. Dershowitz.
275 pp. New York:
Oxford University Press. $25.

BREAKING THE DEADLOCK
The 2000 Election, the Constitution,
and the Courts.
By Richard A. Posner.
266 pp. Princeton, N.J.:
Princeton University Press. $24.95.
 Who can forget the scene of disarray outside the United States Supreme Court on the night of Dec. 12? Dozens of television lights and cameras were trained on the court's dark plaza as journalists and lawyers, fighting a stiff wind, flipped through the 65-page, six-opinion decision of Bush v. Gore, seeking the fate of the 2000 presidential election. 
Was the vote 7 to 2 or 5 to 4? Was the case remanded to Florida? It soon became clear that the Supreme Court, the one branch of government with no explicit constitutional role in elections, had selected the nation's next president. It had done so using an entirely novel and, for the five majority justices, entirely uncharacteristic equal protection argument from the 14th Amendment. And, contrary to the widely accepted role of such decisions, this one had no precedential value. The majority justices claimed to have sliced the nation's Gordian knot of a succession crisis. We were expected to be grateful. 
There is no doubt that many Americans were relieved that the court had put the country out of its 36-day misery. Most appear to have accepted the decision and the president. A January Gallup poll found that a majority viewed the Supreme Court with the same high measure of esteem as before. But those who make their living studying the court were generally shocked. Many have, in effect, remained on the harshly lighted court plaza, probing the decision, sifting through the constitutional chaos, assessing the damage they feel the court has brought on itself and the nation. 
These books, by two of the country's most productive legal minds, are among the first full-length treatments of Bush v. Gore. A slew of law journal articles and collections of essays are also just out or due out shortly (including the balanced and thoughtful collection "The Vote: Bush, Gore and the Supreme Court," edited by Cass R. Sunstein and Richard A. Epstein, to be published by the University of Chicago Press in October and currently available as an e-book on the Web site www.thevotebook.com). 
The overwhelming scholarly assessment is that the ruling in Bush v. Gore is a poor model of judicial reasoning. It is unsteadily grounded and hard to square with the justices' previous decisions, and it reduces confidence in the court. Most analysts simply find it impossible to swallow the idea of Justices Rehnquist, Scalia, O'Connor, Kennedy and Thomas, who have spent years fighting the liberal expansion of the equal protection clause, seizing upon it as a basis for stopping a voter recount. But on the decision's overall legitimacy and appropriateness, commentators are divided. Not evenly divided, to be sure, given the liberal bent of the legal academy, but the split is deep and troubling. It is well represented by these two books.+ 
Tocqueville commented more than a century and a half ago that "the president may slip without the state suffering" and "Congress may slip without the Union perishing," because the voters can replace both. But justices are appointed for life, he noted, and "if ever the Supreme Court came to be composed of rash or corrupt men, the confederation would be threatened by anarchy or civil war." 
In "Supreme Injustice," Alan M. Dershowitz charges that the court majority is, in fact, corrupt. Dershowitz, of course, has not built a reputation for understatement. And he played a role in this case, representing several thousand Palm Beach residents who inadvertently voted for Patrick Buchanan instead of Al Gore on the confusing "butterfly ballot." But here Dershowitz speaks for a large number of his colleagues, most of whom believe the court should have stayed out of this case and let the process take its course. Dershowitz goes so far as to place Bush v. Gore in a category beyond the court's most famous self-inflicted wounds: the Dred Scott decision, which in effect called black Americans property, and Plessy v. Ferguson, which legitimized segregation as "separate but equal." At least in those cases, Dershowitz says, the justices were acting consistently with their own warped judicial philosophies. But here, he charges, the majority acted out of personal political preference, and therefore Bush v. Gore "may be ranked as the single most corrupt decision in Supreme Court history." (That statement, it should be pointed out, is mild compared with the view of Vincent Bugliosi, a former Los Angeles deputy district attorney. In an article in The Nation that he has padded out into a book titled "The Betrayal of America: How the Supreme Court Undermined the Constitution and Chose Our President," published by Thunder's Mouth Press, he calls the justices in the majority "criminals in the very truest sense of the word." On comments by Clarence Thomas and William Rehnquist that politics played no part, he writes, "Well, at least we know they can lie as well as they can steal.") 
Richard A. Posner, a federal judge on the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, a senior lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School and the author of an extraordinary array of books on law and society, has written a powerful defense of the ruling in "Breaking the Deadlock," to be published in September and available this month as an e-book at Barnesandnoble.com and Amazon.com. Posner concedes that more Floridians probably meant to vote for Al Gore than for George W. Bush. He also concedes that the equal protection basis for the Supreme Court ruling was faulty (although he contends a better one was available). Yet he says the court ruled appropriately and honorably. It acted in the tradition of constitutional pragmatism, averting a looming national crisis that would have resulted from the dispute ending up in Congress, where partisan forces would most likely have run wild. On balance, Posner says, Bush v. Gore was therefore "a rather good" decision. 
That two such nimble and serious legal thinkers as Dershowitz and Posner can arrive at such opposing conclusions speaks to the distressingly subjective nature of the law. Some 50 court cases resulted from the Florida electoral tie, and every single one of the rulings is open to legitimate competing interpretation. Since the law is supposed to serve as an anchor under shifting political seas, this can be disconcerting to contemplate. It is especially upsetting in this case because if Gore had held the lead and Bush had sought the recount, it seems most unlikely that the justices and scholars would have taken the same positions. As Frank Michelman of Harvard Law School puts it in his contribution to the Sunstein-Epstein collection, one's view in this case seems to depend on whose Gore was getting oxed. 
To get a taste of the elasticity of judicial reasoning, it is helpful to venture, at least briefly, into the legal thicket that grew out of two conflicting Florida laws. One requires that when an election result is in doubt as a result of tabulation error, there be a hand recount (a long, laborious and subjective process); the other says that final results must be delivered within a week of Election Day. Florida's secretary of state, Katherine Harris, focused on the deadline (convenient since Bush was ahead and she had been active in Bush's campaign). The Florida Supreme Court extended the counting deadline (convenient since six of the seven justices there were appointed by Democrats). It said that to stop the counting violated the "pre-eminent" right to vote found in the state's constitution and that Harris was engaged in "hypertechnical reliance upon statutory provisions."+ 
The Florida court's action doesn't seem strange on its face. That is what state courts do -- interpret and reconcile statutes based on things like the state constitution. But Posner says the Florida court was woefully overreaching. The law permits a full hand recount if there is "an error in the vote tabulation which could affect the outcome of the election." (It also says that if the recounting goes beyond the seventh day, its results "may be ignored" by the secretary of state.) Posner says the Florida court and its defenders have confused tabulation error with voter error. Voters must fully punch through their ballot cards. If they fail to do so, the machines are programmed not to count them. That is what happened in Florida; no law was broken. As Posner puts it, "If you put a steel bar into a meat grinder and hamburger meat doesn't come out, do you call this an error by the meat grinder?" He says the Gore mantra of "count all the votes" was meaningless. All the ballots were counted, that is, tabulated twice by machine. Those ballots that had been spoiled by the voters, generally through failure to punch the hole through, were appropriately rejected. Once you allow such votes to be hand-counted, Posner says, you open the process up to unbearable subjectivity (hanging chads, dimpled chads). The Supreme Court rightly stepped in to correct the Florida court's errors. 
Agree or not, for devotees of public policy there are few pleasures as keen as reading Richard Posner. He is clever, original and tough-minded. For example, he dismisses those who argue that Bush's legitimacy is harmed by Gore's victory in the popular vote by comparing the election to a tennis match: if a player wins more sets while his opponent wins more games, no one disputes the outcome. Posner, a leader in the law and economics movement, is unsentimental about the nation's governing system: "American democracy," he writes, "is structured, formal, practical, realistic and both supportive of and supported by commercial values. It is not starry-eyed, carnivalesque or insurrectionary. It is not pure or participatory democracy, and it does not consider political chaos a price worth paying to actualize the popular will." His book is worth the price of admission just to watch him spin out a scenario whereby Lawrence Summers, then secretary of the treasury, would have become acting president -- and America's first Jewish president -- if the Supreme Court had not stepped in. 
DERSHOWITZ is at his best in his exposure of how Bush v. Gore is inconsistent with previous decisions of the majority justices. With ease, he hoists them by their own petards. Antonin Scalia, for instance, wrote in a 1996 case: "The Supreme Court of the United States does not sit to announce 'unique' dispositions. Its principal function is to establish precedent -- that is, to set forth principles of law that every court in America must follow." Yet this case was limited to the present circumstances. 
But for John Yoo, a Berkeley law professor who contributed to the Sunstein-Epstein collection, the limited nature of the decision actually increases its legitimacy. He contrasts Bush v. Gore with Roe v. Wade, the 1973 abortion decision that he and many other lawyers consider poorly grounded, saying that Roe has kept the court in the center of political controversy for years, whereas Bush will not. 
Whenever judges hand down far-reaching decisions, supporters applaud their courage while dissenters warn of the dangers of raw judicial power. In the 1930's, the left was livid at the Supreme Court's obstruction of the New Deal. In the 60's and 70's, the right was horrified at the court's expansion of the rights of privacy (read "women"), minority groups and criminal defendants. Now, with the courts again solidly in the hands of conservatives, the argument is shifting again. Dershowitz ends his book with a lament that liberals had foolishly considered the judicial system "ours" and had brought conservative judicial activism on themselves by promoting liberal judicial activism. In other words, Bush v. Gore is the payback for Roe v. Wade. The time has come, he warns, without apparent irony, to depoliticize the judiciary and seek nominees who are great rather than politically reliable. The problem, of course, is that legal greatness often shifts with the political context. Bush v. Gore simply unmasked the context in an unsettlingly partisan fashion.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Grossman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); EQUAL PROTECTION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LITERATURE (88%); WRITERS (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); WEB SITES (70%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (67%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (67%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; REVIEWS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (90%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%) ;SUPREME COURT (US) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); AL GORE (89%) BRONNER, ETHAN; DERSHOWITZ, ALAN M; POSNER, RICHARD A; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GORE, AL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%) ; FLORIDA

TITLE: SUPREME INJUSTICE (BOOK); BREAKING THE DEADLOCK (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001 



389 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Chance in the Mideast 

BYLINE:  By Geoffrey Wheatcroft; Geoffrey Wheatcroft's books include "The Controversy of Zion: Jewish Nationalism, the Jewish State, and the Unresolved Jewish Dilemma."

DATELINE: BATH, England 

 BODY:
On a range of issues from global warming to the small arms trade, the policy gulf between Europe and America is noticeably widening. But one potentially important area of divergence is among the least noticed: the Middle East conflict, where Europe and America have sharp differences and where, at the same time, Europe may be set to play an increasingly prominent part. 
 Many Israelis would be alarmed by this suggestion: Israeli governments have always been very wary about encouraging any European role. But the changing political landscape -- not least the Bush administration's uneasy attempt to stand back from the conflict -- could make one necessary. 
 At present, relations between Israel and European governments are not at all good. President Bush and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel may have agreed to differ, but Mr. Sharon's welcome in Washington was positively effusive compared with the reception he received in Europe. He was unable even to visit the European Union headquarters in Brussels because of a Belgian judge's threat to arrest him on human rights charges. Then came a glacial meeting with Prime Minister Lionel Jospin in Paris. Afterward, Mr. Sharon said grimly that the discussion was held "in a very clear manner" and "it is evident we do not agree at all points."
Not that the Israelis have ever agreed on all points with the Europeans. Quite apart from the terrible shadow of history, there is a rooted Israeli belief that most European governments lean toward the Palestinians. And many Israelis are convinced of a European media bias in coverage of the conflict. 
There is some evidence for that view. On the day after the horrific Tel Aviv disco bombing, a cartoon appeared on the front page of Le Monde. Captioned "Kamikazes," it showed two figures side by side, both with bundles tied in belts round their waists. One was a Palestinian suicide bomber with sticks of explosive, the other an Orthodox Jewish settler, whose bundles were buildings labeled "Colonies." This cartoon could scarcely have appeared in any mainstream American paper.
No doubt its implication of moral equivalence was unusually sharp. But there is a prevalent view in Europe, expressed much more often than in America, that Israeli settlements are one root of the problem and need to be addressed. Likewise, Paris, London and Berlin have been more blunt than Washington in condemning assassination of Palestinian militants and other repressions of the uprising. And virtually all Europeans, unlike many Israelis, think that Israel should stick with Yasir Arafat as a negotiating partner, if only for lack of a better alternative.
Given all of this, prospects for a European role in the Middle East may not look promising. And yet there is another side to the story. Israel is in many ways a European country, and relations with Europe are both intimate and fruitful. Israel is certainly closer to Europe than America, not just on a map but culturally and commercially. Israel bears many political marks of its origins under the British Mandate, and of the various European theorists who helped build the country.
Most Israeli universities, newspapers and orchestras were created by European emigrants. The latest fierce row in the country concerned Daniel Barenboim, an Israeli who has spent much of his career in Europe, conducting a European orchestra in a performance of the music of Richard Wagner, most definitely a European composer -- one whose music was adored not only by Hitler but by Theodor Herzl, founder of political Zionism. On a more popular level, Israeli teams compete in European soccer tournaments, if not with much recent success, alas.
What is at least as important (and may be unrecognized in America) is that Israel imports about twice as much from the E.U. as from the United States, and American tourists to Israel are outnumbered almost three to one by Europeans. Israel may resent European criticisms, but it can't live without European ties. 
If Europe is drawn more and more into the Middle East, it won't be for only economic reasons. Political nature abhors a vacuum, and one is being created by President Bush's dislike of intimate involvement in the conflict. There is also the undoubted fact that the whole process known as "Oslo" -- it could be called "Clinton" -- has faltered, and may be near death.
Indeed, throughout the Middle East American influence is palpably weakening. Maybe that was only a matter of time. Washington has long tried to perform an awkward juggling act, closely supporting Israel while doing its best to befriend Arab countries and to play the honest broker. It isn't very surprising if the Arabs at last reject the idea that America is an even-handed intermediary.
It could be that the relationship between Israel and America has had counterproductive consequences for Israel. And it might even be advantageous for Israel to negotiate with the Palestinians through an alternative intermediary that is considered genuinely neutral. 
There could be benefits for Europe also. The European Union may be an effective free trade area, but it does not, as yet, have an effective common foreign or defense policy. Henry Kissinger used to say that he would take "Europe" seriously when it had a telephone number he could call in a crisis. Might the bitter and intractable battle in the Holy Land provide the occasion for making Europe a real, working toll-free number? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BOMBINGS (86%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); ARRESTS (67%); MEDIA BIAS (64%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: WHEATCROFT, GEOFFREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); BELGIUM (92%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ENGLAND (79%) ISRAEL; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



390 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: The Coming AIDS Crisis in China 

BYLINE:  By Bates Gill and Sarah Palmer; Bates Gill is senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. Sarah Palmer is a virologist at the National Institutes of Health.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
At the United Nations summit on AIDS last month in New York, the Chinese minister of health, Zhang Wenkang, made an astonishing announcement: 600,000 people in China have AIDS or are infected with H.I.V., the virus that causes it. The Chinese government had never before admitted to large numbers of H.I.V. cases. And what this estimate shows -- given the conditions fostering the spread of H.I.V. in China -- is that a major explosion of H.I.V. and AIDS will happen there.
 The government does not really know how many of its citizens have H.I.V. Chinese journalists working in Henan estimate that between 500,000 and 700,000 people in that single province are carrying the virus. But even projections built on official Chinese statistics, which are probably low, indicate that more than 180,000 new cases will be added in 2002 alone. Even if China reduces the rate of its annual growth in H.I.V. cases, which it now reports as 30 percent, to 20 percent in five years, its caseload under these projections would expand to more than four million by 2010. 
 Like many countries before it, China has been slow in facing up to AIDS. Misconceptions, taboos and outright deceit have fostered denial among both officials and the broader population. This reluctance to be open and realistic is dangerous, as the experience of other countries shows.
In India, for example, deeply rooted cultural norms and taboos still thwart frank assessments and effective preventive measures, even though the United Nations estimates that if the disease is not checked, a mind-boggling 37 million people in India could be infected over the next 10 to 15 years. South Africa, where AIDS was barely acknowledged for years and whose president remains doubtful even now about its cause, today holds the dismal distinction of having the world's largest caseload of H.I.V. infection and AIDS, 4.5 million. And even in industrialized nations, like the United States, lingering social stigmas can still create substantial hurdles to combating the spread of H.I.V.
But it is possible to make headway against the disease. China should look to its neighbor Thailand, where initial denial was eventually overcome. Thailand has 800,000 cases of AIDS and H.I.V. infection, but aggressive public health campaigns are stemming the disease's spread.
China's one-party politics is a barrier to its facing up to AIDS. After long labeling the disease as a Western problem, the government will not easily switch to an attitude of openness about this epidemic. Confronting it would require acknowledging problems, like rural poverty, drug abuse, prostitution and unsanitary blood collection, that defensive local and national leaders would rather underplay or keep hidden.
The government's shortsighted attitude has often revealed itself. Because officials feared international attention, a prominent gynecologist and H.I.V. activist, Gao Yaojie, was denied permission to travel abroad this past spring to accept an award for her work from the United States-based Global Health Council. Politicians from Guangzhou Province proposed a national law this year making it a crime to pass H.I.V. to another person and establishing quarantine camps instead of taking a health-care approach. In many parts of the country, local officials obstruct access to villages with high incidences of AIDS.
Even if the will to fight AIDS realistically can be found, China won't have an easy job doing it. Social and economic change has caused new dislocations. People move around the country much more freely than they once did, making more rapid spread of the disease possible. Some 100 million itinerant laborers -- the floating population, as they are called -- have no permanent homes or jobs and lack any social safety net. And intravenous drug use, prostitution, premarital sex, and histories of multiple sex partners are all on the rise in China. Because about two-thirds of Chinese H.I.V. carriers are poor and poorly educated peasants and farmers, awareness of the disease is severely limited. Indeed, the epidemic was first widely spread in China when destitute farmers were lured by cash into a medically unsanitary and unethical blood collection scheme.
What is more, medical researchers have found eight different strains of the H.I.V.-1 virus in China, which would make treatment complicated even if drugs were readily available. The most widely available drugs on the market today are those that are most effective against H.I.V.-1 strains found predominantly in the United States and Western Europe.
Public health specialists from the United States Center for Disease Control and Prevention will travel to China later this month to help assess the H.I.V. problem. Secretary of State Colin Powell is expected to discuss it with officials in Beijing on his trip there at the end of this month. These are positive signs that the two governments recognize the importance of drawing attention to the issue.
But if China is to be saved from a grim future with many millions of cases, Beijing must quickly develop effective prevention and education strategies. And before that can happen, it must accept the necessity of candor.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Jorge Colombo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); EPIDEMICS (78%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (78%); VIRUSES (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%)

PERSON: GILL, BATES; PALMER, SARAH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HENAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (92%); THAILAND (87%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



391 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Mixing the offline stalwarts -- detergent, cereal, tissue -- with online marketing.

BYLINE:  By Bernard Stamler 

 BODY:
SURE, it lacks glamour. And in today's star-obsessed world, many people think of it as a dinosaur.
 But the consumer packaged goods industry -- responsible for the detergents, facial tissues, cereals and other everyday products we all use -- is more like the proverbial 800-pound gorilla than some extinct giant reptile. This hulking behemoth is a $460 billion business, say the Grocery Manufacturers of America, a trade group. And though it got there largely on traditional, tried and true marketing, there are those who think the application of a little cutting-edge technology wouldn't hurt. 
 Among them: Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., which concludes in a new report that consumers are way ahead of packaged goods companies when it comes to the Internet and that the companies ought to try and catch up, pronto.
Relying on its own research and on studies conducted by others, Forrester found that 44 percent of the people it surveyed used the Web as an integral part of their consumer goods shopping, whether as a source of information, offers or recipes. Nevertheless, many manufacturers still relegate their Web sites to "a footnote" in their marketing plans, the report says, with their Web site addresses hidden or absent in their non-Internet advertising. And the Web sites themselves frequently contain content that is of little appeal to consumers, like so-called lifestyle information, instead of access to free samples or to recipes.
Manufacturers have also not yet availed themselves much of online advertising, notably banners.
Of course, banner ads have fallen out of favor, largely because they do not seem effective in driving traffic to Web sites and in converting that traffic into online sales. And their cost has dropped precipitously as a result. According to Forrester, though, that is what makes them a good buy, especially if one is not necessarily looking to make a direct sale but instead to create an impression in a consumer's mind. That's much the same type of impression that results from channel surfing or flipping through a magazine.
The math is simple. According to the report, at least four exposures to a traditional print ad are generally deemed necessary for the ad to be effective. With a C.P.M., or cost per thousand of, say, $36 (Forrester says that magazines like Better Homes and Gardens charge that much), that means a print advertiser must spend more than 14 cents per individual to get the right frequency. That is a lot more expensive than online ads, where C.P.M.'s can be significantly lower, "in the single digits," and where seven to ten impressions can do an equivalent job, according to Jim Nail, the Forrester online marketing and advertising analyst who wrote the report.
But are mere impressions enough? Though Mr. Nail's conclusions are largely supported in findings made by Dynamic Logic, a New York research firm whose work was incorporated in Forrester's report, the degree to which Internet ads affect consumer perception was found to vary greatly, depending upon just what was being measured.
For example, in its own report issued in May, the company found that advertising on the Internet almost always gives packaged goods a "lift" among those who see it. But the increase was only 1 percent when it came to "brand favorability" and 5 percent with respect to "purchase intent," where the baseline figure was already high (57 percent of those surveyed already intended to buy before seeing any online ads).
The only double-digit lift for consumer packaged goods came with respect to "message association," defined as the extent to which respondents can match the message in an ad's copy to the brand being advertised. That went up by 19 percent. And it stands to reason; after all, repetition -- perhaps the single most significant characteristic of banner ads -- usually results in recall, whether or not the message is accepted or not.
What of content, which surely helps determine the effect of an ad, whether online or off? In a new report, to be released this week, Dynamic Logic gives high marks to ads that incorporate a number of common-sense features, like the use of interactive elements and the inclusion of some type of promotion. Successful ads also have limited clutter, contain a human face and present the advertiser's logo "100 percent of the time." For example, of those who saw ads with a logo, message association jumped by 37 percent over that registered by a control group who saw no ads at all; the jump was only 17 percent if there was no logo.
Still, other measures of consumer response did not change nearly so dramatically. The presence of a face barely budged the percentages when it came to brand awareness, favorability and purchase intent; and cluttered ads actually did better than uncluttered ads, albeit marginally, in these same categories.
Telling an advertiser to do things like include its logo in an online ad may seem like rather simplistic advice, whatever its effect. Still, it never hurts to restate the obvious, especially when it comes to promoting consumer packaged goods, said Joan Schneider, president of Schneider and Associates, a public relations firm in Boston.
Her firm has just released what it calls the Schneider/Boston University New Product Launch Report, produced in conjunction with that school's Communication Research Center. It does not deal specifically with Internet advertising; instead, its focus is on all the factors that can make or break a new product introduction. The report looks at actual launches, and Ms. Schneider and her colleagues have incorporated their findings into a computerized, predictive model.
And what does the model show? That consumer packaged goods companies should treat the launch of new products as a separate phase of product development. They should begin planning early, Ms. Schneider said, and not skimp on the budget. They should put brand or product managers in charge, not C.E.O.'s. And they should remember that new products are generally more successful than old, repackaged ones or mere "line extensions."
All this seems straightforward. But Ms. Schneider said that she was "constantly amazed" at how often otherwise sophisticated consumer goods companies do not follow these simple principles.
Of course, whether it involves ad effectiveness, product launches or most anything else, consumer goods research is hardly a science, however rigorous its practitioners attempt to be. There are too many variables, and their samples are usually too small. No amount of research can guarantee that what sounds like common sense is in fact sensible, or whether something that works for one product will work for another.
Human behavior is far too quirky for that. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); PACKAGED GOODS (90%); FAST MOVING CONSUMER GOODS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (87%); WEB SITES (87%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (75%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (71%); FOOD MFG (71%); MARKETING PLAN (70%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; RECIPES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RESEARCH 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GROCERY MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (57%) FORRESTER RESEARCH INC 

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

PERSON: STAMLER, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



392 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Compressed Data; 
For a Tiny Pacific Nation, Its Domain Is Its Treasure

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

 BODY:
The tiny South Pacific country of Tuvalu, despite being strung with so few phone lines that international callers hear busy signals more often than voices, has buttressed its economy with cash from the Internet. And to celebrate, Tuvalu (pronounced too-vah-LOO) is using a more traditional network: the postal service. 
 The Philatelic Bureau of Tuvalu announced last week that it would issue two stamps to commemorate its business partnership with an American company, the .tv Corporation. 
 The country, a chain of islands midway between Hawaii and Australia with only 10,600 people and 16 square miles of dry land, has received nearly $20 million from the .tv Corporation, an Internet company based in Los Angeles. And the nation is scheduled to receive at least $4 million a year -- half its gross domestic product -- for 12 years. In exchange, the .tv Corporation gains control over something that is unique to Tuvalu: its .tv Internet domain.
Every nation is assigned a country code domain extension -- the suffix that ends an Internet address. The United States has .us, for example. Tuvalu's is .tv, which the .tv Corporation says it has used to sell more than 200,000 Internet addresses. The Economist, for example, bought www.economist.tv to stream news video clips over the Web.
For Tuvalu, whose residents make their living mostly through fishing, the business partnership has provided a needed cash infusion. New generators brought electricity to the outer islands, work began to pave the country's dirt roads and extend its only airstrip, and the country applied for admission to the United Nations. Tuvalu became the U.N.'s 189th member last September.
The commemorative stamps blend Tuvalu's traditions with the technology that brought the country into the international community, according to Marica Seluka, marketing manager of the Philatelic Bureau. One features a smiling woman with a red flower in her hair, the other a man blowing into a sea shell. In each, a satellite dish rises behind a logo for the .tv Corporation.
Tuvalu's government paid $3 million last fall for a 20 percent stake in the .tv Corporation, which is privately held. But with the bursting of the Internet bubble, common-word domain names like drugs.com or drugstore.com no longer bring the six-figure prices they once did. Nevertheless, the company's chief executive, Lou Kerner, said he expected the .tv Corporation to have a positive flow as domain renewals increased.
With its highest peak only 15 feet above sea level, Tuvalu is vulnerable to flooding caused by global warming. But with its fortunes so tied to the .tv Corporation, the country may have as much to fear from the receding Internet tide. CHRIS GAITHER

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOMAIN NAMES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COIN & STAMP COLLECTING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); STREAMING MEDIA (77%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (77%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); FLOODS & FLOODING (68%); GLOBAL WARMING (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; STAMPS (POSTAL) 

ORGANIZATION: TV CORP 

PERSON: GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) TUVALU (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) TUVALU

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



393 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Business-to-Business Sites Find Strategies for Survival
The rate of mergers and failures among business-to-business marketplaces is picking up where the consumer sector left off. But just as some survivors have begun to emerge from the consumer e-commerce rubble, so, too, have some of the so-called B2B marketplaces started to show some staying power.
 These companies have managed to attract buyers and sellers by broadening their features beyond the typical marketplace site, which had focused mainly on buyers. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. Page C4. 

A report concludes that consumers are way ahead of packaged goods companies when it comes to Internet use and that the companies ought to try and catch up. Advertising. C9.

An Insider's View of Online News
In 1996, Dave Kansas left The Wall Street Journal to join TheStreet.com, a site devoted to financial news and investment advice. He stepped down as editor in chief last month after five years of a close-up view of the transformations wrought by the Internet. Despite the early concerns about quality and despite its sometimes raw nature, Mr. Kansas writes, the Internet has become a trusted medium for the delivery of news. New Economy. C4.

Start-Up to Obtain Music Licenses
FullAudio, a start-up based in Chicago, plans to announce today that it has signed a deal with a division of EMI of Britain for the right to sell about 40,000 songs for downloading. The transaction underscores the complexity of music companies' negotiations and may suggest one reason why the digital music market has been slow to develop. C2.

British Networks Face a Struggle
Britain's broadcasters are facing an onslaught of satellite and cable competitors in a market made all the more painful by sharply declining advertising revenue. At the same time, European rivals have gotten a jump on consolidation, raising the possibility that Britain may find itself at a permanent disadvantage. C8.

New Chapter in Brown-Evans Story
A new book about Tina Brown, the editor in chief of Talk magazine, and her husband, Harold Evans, the former editorial director of The Daily News of New York, excoriates the couple for their ambition. Among the accusations is that Mr. Evans used his job at the newspaper at least twice to influence coverage related to Talk and coverage of one of its parents. C8.

Background Check Missed Arrests
CBS said that the background of Justin Sebik, a 26-year-old bartender from Bayonne, N.J., who was removed from "Big Brother 2" last week for taking a knife to the throat of a female contestant, was thoroughly checked. But a brief effort last week found evidence from the Bayonne Municipal Court that a Justin Sebik, with the same Social Security number as the person on the show, had been arrested five times in the city, twice for minor robberies and three times for simple assault. The charges were dismissed in all cases. C8.

Internet Wave Laps at Russia
While much of the Western world jumped online in the 1990's, Russia missed the revolution. In the last two years, however, Russian Internet companies have grown rapidly, and the number of Internet users has increased more than 50 percent, to about four million. C5.

New Chief Executive at Jupiter
Jupiter Media Metrix, the Internet research firm, has hired Robert Becker as its chief executive. He had been the chief executive of Infosis, which sought to help periodicals and catalogs convert print images to Web pages. C4.

Freeze to Be Relaxed on Fund in India
The Unit Trust of India, the country's largest mutual fund group, said that it would partly lift the freeze on the sale and purchase of units of its flagship fund, US-64, permitting almost half of the plan's investors an exit. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 10,539.06 up 286.38Nasdaq composite -- 2,084.79 up 80.6310-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.22% down 0.14The euro -- $0.8540 up 0.0063The dollar -- 125.83 yen down 1.02

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); MERGERS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (79%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (77%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (74%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (74%); PACKAGED GOODS (72%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); RECORD REVENUES (70%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (70%); MUSIC (70%); RECORD INDUSTRY (70%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (69%); ARRESTS (64%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); THESTREET INC (56%)

TICKER: TST (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (74%) UNITED KINGDOM (86%); UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



394 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Jupiter Media Hires Chief From Infosis 

 BODY:
Jupiter Media Metrix, the Internet rating and research firm, has hired Robert Becker as its new chief executive, the company said on Friday.
 Mr. 
Becker, now 47 years old, had been the chief executive of Infosis, a company that aimed to help periodicals and catalogs convert print images to Web pages. It collapsed last September as its financial backers pulled out, and it was ultimately acquired by P2i, a small private company in Bethlehem, Pa. 
 Before that, Mr. Becker spent 13 years with the Thomson Corporation, the publishing and database conglomerate, most recently running its intellectual property and automotive group.
Tod Johnson, the previous chairman of Jupiter Media Metrix, will continue as its chairman. Gene De Rose, the former chief executive of Jupiter Communications, the research company that was bought by the former Media Metrix, will remain for now as president, focusing on marketing and strategy. 
Jupiter, whose clients include Internet companies, big businesses that want to expand online and online advertisers, has been hard hit by the shakeout in the Internet industry. Its sales are down and losses up. It has laid off 22 percent of its 1,000 employees this year. And its shares have declined from $69.88 in September 1999 to $1.23 last Friday.
Mr. Becker and Mr. Johnson both declined requests for interviews. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); MARKETING STRATEGY (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (55%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: THOMSON REUTERS CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: JUPITER MEDIA METRIX 

TICKER: TRI (TSX) (71%); TRI (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (71%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (71%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (71%) SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC; 

PERSON: BECKER, ROBERT; DEROSE, GENE 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



395 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Shanghai Journal; 
High-Priced High-Rises Displace the Proletariat

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, July 12 

 BODY:
China's Communist Party celebrated its 80th anniversary this month as the gap widens between its increasingly anachronistic pronouncements and the reality those words struggle to describe.
 Nowhere is that paradox more pointed than at the site of the party's founding meeting. In a few years, according to current development plans, the building in which Mao and 14 comrades plotted the eradication of capitalism will be part of a small gray-brick island surrounded by office towers bearing the names of some of the biggest multinational corporations. 
 Already the modest gray-brick house sits in the middle of a new upscale entertainment quarter designed by Ben Wood, one of the architects behind the restoration of Faneuil Hall in Boston, otherwise known as the Cradle of Liberty. One block behind the Communist Party site, a Starbucks serves frozen lattes, and one block in front, a McDonald's will soon be serving burgers. 
The few square blocks of the entertainment quarter, dubbed "New Heaven and Earth" by Vincent Lo, the Hong Kong property tycoon behind the project, is just one corner of his company's huge 129-acre redevelopment plan.
The project is transforming the heart of old Shanghai from a teeming proletarian residential neighborhood into a landscaped corporate park and luxury housing complex where private homes will sell for millions of dollars.
Henry Cheng, who oversees the project for Mr. Lo, said no one in the government had mentioned to him the obvious incongruity of the birthplace of Chinese Communism cradled in capitalism's mighty palm. 
But he said the city had gone to great lengths to ensure that none of the planned high-rises would be visible from the doorstep of the First Congress Meeting Hall, the current name of the building where the first Chinese Communists met. The view will be blocked by the second-story roof lines of the surrounding buildings, deliberately preserved to give the impression of an intact neighborhood.
The contradiction is not lost, though, on many of the local residents being forced to make way for the urban renewal.
Just one block from the founding meeting site, Song Houfu, a laid-off factory worker, sat in his shabby one-room apartment on the second floor of a half-demolished building and groused about how the party has changed.
"I'm a true Communist," Mr. Song said, combing his long, yellowed fingernails through his shoulder-length gray hair. "I've been trying to join the party for 20 years, but they say my opinions are too far from the party line."
Mr. Song, 55, lives with his wife and 20-year-old daughter in a 260-square-foot room. Clothes hang from a line above an old television set; the kitchen is a gas burner on the grease-coated landing outside his door. Inside the room, Mr. Song has built a sort of loft where his wife and daughter sleep each night. He sleeps on a worn sofa.
He said it is wrong to surround such an important party shrine with so much capitalism, though he did not oppose development in general. He concedes that his neighborhood could use some improvements.
"We still wash our chamber pots out on the street," he said. "That doesn't look very good when the leaders come to visit the First Congress site."
His real complaint is with the compensation the city is offering him to leave.
He wants to stay in the centrally located neighborhood rather than move to the outskirts of the city where the government is offering him an apartment. The government has offered him money instead, but it is far too little to buy a place in the same area once the development is done.
"They want to buy from me at planned-economy prices but sell to me at market-economy prices," he complained, smiling wryly.
In fact, Mr. Song has little choice but to accept the government's offer. Like most Chinese under the country's socialized housing scheme, he does not really own his room, which was provided by the state-run chemical factory where he used to work, but only the tenuous right to live there.
By the end of next year, a massive office tower will sit where Mr. Song sits now. He has seen truckloads of police officers arrive at the homes of other holdouts to supervise the packing of their meager belongings, which are carted off to distant apartment blocks.
The city has already moved scores of families to make way for the restaurants and shops that now stand around the party's birthplace. Most recently it relocated 3,800 families in just 43 days to raze 10 acres for a lake and a park that will some day divide the area's high-end offices from its high-end housing. 
The city wanted the lake finished before the party's birthday. It has not said how many families will have to move before the project is complete.
Mr. Lo's development company would have also torn down the old buildings immediately surrounding the party's first meeting place, had it not been not encouraged to preserve the integrity of the block so that the site would not look entirely abandoned.
Instead, the company dismantled nearly five acres of gray-brick buildings typical of the city's 1920's architecture, cleaned the bricks, dug foundations, installed septic tanks and rebuilt the buildings in their original style, though their interiors are now spacious and modern and house some of the city's trendiest shops.
Vidal Sassoon has opened a hair styling salon in the quarter, and Jackie Chan has opened a restaurant.
So while busloads of political pilgrims -- as many as 5,000 a day -- troop through the room where the Communist Party is said to have held its first meeting on July 23, 1921, and ogle such party memorabilia as a pair of Mao's white cotton swimming trunks (with an 80-inch seat), Chinese yuppies and Western expatriates get fancy haircuts and eat expensive overdesigned cuisine just one or two buildings away.
Few senior party leaders see any of this in action. When Jiang Zemin, China's president and Communist Party chief, visited in mid-June, the entertainment quarter was emptied and handpicked locals were sent to stroll through its streets to give the place a more proletarian feel.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Construction under way in Shanghai of an entertainment quarter, "New Heaven and Earth." (George Wu for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); LAYOFFS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (55%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; HOUSING; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

PERSON: SMITH, CRAIG S; MAO ZEDONG (1893-1976) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) EAST CHINA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) CHINA; SHANGHAI (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



396 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Paul Magloire, Former Haitian Ruler, 94 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, July 15 

 BODY:
The former military dictator Paul Magloire, who ruled Haiti from 1950 to 1956, has died, family members told local radio. He was 94. 
 Mr. Magloire, a longtime resident of New York, died late Thursday night at his suburban residence in Port-au-Prince, the Haitian capital, said his son, Raymond Magloire. 
 While serving as an army general, Mr. Magloire ousted President Dumarsais Estime in 1950.
The early years of his rule were what many consider Haiti's golden age -- when tourism was at its peak and when Haitian coffee exports drew high prices.
But a 1954 hurricane inflicted heavy damage on the economy, and Mr. Magloire was ousted by the military two years later. He went into exile in New York, returning to Haiti only after the 29-year father-and-son dynasty of the Duvaliers ended in 1986.
He served as an adviser to Lt. Gen. Henry Namphy, who ruled Haiti briefly in 1988. After that he kept a low profile, never making public comments and appearing seldom in public.
Mr. Magloire never published memoirs, and had gone blind in recent years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMIES (86%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); POLITICS (70%); COFFEE MARKETS (69%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (64%); COFFEE (54%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (54%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: MAGLOIRE, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (93%) HAITI

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



397 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1615 words

HEADLINE: Frustrated Europeans Set to Battle U.S. on Climate 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: ESCHWEILER, Germany, July 13 

 BODY:
This used to be a gritty and dirty little town, surrounded by coal mines and factories and overshadowed by a power plant that spewed soot everywhere. 
 But as representatives from more than 170 nations meet in Bonn Monday to begin last-ditch talks to save a treaty to combat global warming, this town provides one tiny slice of the anger and bewilderment that people across Europe now feel toward the United States, whose opposition has all but scuttled the accord. 
 Almost nobody here complains that environmental regulations are killing jobs. Instead, they point with relief to the elaborate filters that have cleaned up the power plant's exhaust. They hike beneath windmills that now provide the city with supplemental electricity. 
And like almost all Germans today, they meticulously sort their garbage for recycling: paper, glass, plastic packaging, aluminum cans and plastic bottles.
But when it comes to the United States, which produces 25 percent of the world's greenhouse gases, they express incomprehension.
"It seems to me that the only thing American politicians care about is money," said Heinz Kutschker, a retired electrician, as he hiked through the woods here. "You have one country that is telling everybody else what to do, without any concern for what it means for our grandchildren."
For up to two weeks beginning Monday, the United States and the European Union face off as the principal antagonists over the climate treaty, called the Kyoto Protocol. 
Saying it would place an unfair burden on the American economy and excuse developing countries from obligations, President Bush has flatly rejected the accord, which would require industrialized countries to sharply reduce their emissions of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases.
The European Union, in an unusual display of solidarity among its 15 members, insists that the treaty is crucial to preventing catastrophe. And in what increasingly looks like a doomed effort, they are trying to save it.
To do that, they must persuade Japan to ratify the treaty. But Japanese leaders have almost explicitly said they will not do so if the United States is not on board.
And the United States has repeated that it has no intention of changing its mind. "We very much appreciate that others are reaching out to the United States and are thinking of ways of engaging us, but we do truly believe the protocol is fundamentally flawed," said Paula J. Dobriansky, the under secretary of state for global affairs and leader of the American delegation heading to Bonn. "We will not be coming back to the protocol." 
European leaders are furious, charging that the United States has not only undermined the treaty by rejecting it but also tried to kill it by persuading others to back away.
"Why should we let the least ambitious countries define the pace and the content?" said Margot Wallstrom, the European Union's commissioner in charge of environmental issues. "It is important to show the public that we can reach an agreement, even without the United States."
That may be easier said than done. The treaty can come into force only if 55 countries ratify it, including a group responsible for at least 55 percent of the 1990 emissions from industrialized countries. But if the world's two biggest economies fail to ratify, the treaty is doomed.
For Europeans, that prospect has stoked frustration and anger in ordinary citizens as well as political leaders. 
At a time when Europeans increasingly embrace American notions of open markets and shareholder capitalism, attitudes on environmental issues and energy by political leaders and the public appear starkly different from those in the United States.
And not just in Germany. Denmark imposes a staggering minimum registration tax of 105 percent on new cars. Most countries impose heavy taxes on gasoline, which make it three times as expensive as in the United States. Intense recycling is now common in most countries.
"We have in the European community a consensus in favor of climate protection," said Jurgen Trittin, Germany's minister of the environment and a member of the Green Party. "It is not just a Green position," he added. "It goes across the political spectrum, from conservative to liberals."
Mr. Trittin has evidence to back him up. In a recent survey by Emnid, a polling company, 86 percent of Germans said that Chancellor Gerhard Schroder should demand that President Bush adhere to the support for the Kyoto accord pledged three years ago by President Clinton.
But even in the United States, there appears to be a broad gap between Mr. Bush's position and that of the public. A recent New York Times/CBS News Poll found that 72 percent of the public believed that it was necessary to take immediate steps to counter global warming, with more than half saying that the United States should abide by the Kyoto accord. 
But even as they are remarkably unified in their approach to fighting the United States, European leaders and industry groups are still wrestling among themselves over scores of internal issues. 
The European Union under the Kyoto accord has pledged to reduce its emissions to 8 percent below the levels in 1990. To meet that target, the 15 member countries have hammered out a plan that leaves countries with different burdens, and not everyone is happy about it. 
Germany, Europe's biggest economy by far, is expected to reduce its emissions by 21 percent. The Netherlands, by contrast, is supposed to cut its emissions by 6 percent. And Portugal, which is trying to catch up to its wealthier neighbors, is actually allowed to increase its emissions. 
This has left German industry leaders fuming that they have to shoulder too much of Europe's overall burden. They also argue that their burden is disproportionate because the plan does not rely heavily enough on reductions in automobile traffic or household-generated emissions.
"Our problem is not with the Kyoto Protocol," said Joachim Hein, the top environmental policy expert at the German Federation of Industry. "What bothers us is that, within the European Union, German industry is being held responsible for so much of the reduction."
Mr. Trittin worries about that as well. "One thing we want to avoid is that European countries harshly criticize the 'bad guys' on the other side of the Atlantic, the people in the White House, but then behind that criticism essentially behave the same way," he said. "That cannot be in Germany's interest, or in the interest of Great Britain."
There have also been fights within the European Union about the best way to accomplish reductions, like the use of "emissions trading" that would allow countries to acquire pollution credits from countries that have room to increase emissions. 
The disagreements are such that last month the European Commission was forced to shelve a plan to start emissions-trading because European manufacturers and power companies opposed a part of the plan that would have imposed absolute limits on total emissions.
There is also argument over how much credit should be given for forest lands that can serve as carbon-absorbing "sinks." In particular, Russia, which is not a European Union member, is hoping to cash in these sinks by selling emission credits to Western companies.
But those battles are mainly within Europe. For all the uncertainties, European leaders have shown little disagreement about how to confront the United States. 
In an interview at her office in Brussels last week, Ms. Wallstrom said Europe was ready to offer Japan sweeteners that would make its own targets easier to reach. She also suggested that the United States was trying to sabotage the treaty by persuading Japan not to sign it.
"They are putting pretty heavy pressure on their partners," Ms. Wallstrom said, but added that the United States had promised not to "obstruct" the Bonn negotiations.
Some European industrial companies are openly calling on the United States to support the Kyoto Protocol. Earlier this month, Germany's Federation of Chemical Industry, which includes conglomerates like BASF A.G. and Bayer A.G., urged the United States to rejoin the process.
Ms. Wallstrom, Europe's commissioner for the environment, who is Swedish, captured the difference between American and European attitudes toward tougher rules.
"Maybe it is too difficult for American politicians," she mused. "Is it possible for political leaders in the U.S. to say you can't have two or three cars or that you can't drive to the post office box?"
In Eschweiler, which is in the Ruhr Valley and the heart of heavy industry, Mayor Rudolf Bertram said he had seen a profound transformation during the past 20 years.
"Twenty years ago, this city didn't have anybody who dealt with environmental issues," he said. "Today, we have a whole department and they get involved in everything -- construction, industrial development, noise abatement."
Recycling is mandatory, and residents have to sort their waste into at least four categories. Indeed, Germany's "green dot" program for recycling paper and plastic packaging has become a $2 billion enterprise.
"But what has changed even more intensively is the attitudes of the people," Mr. Bertram said. "They want something done for environmental protection, and they know environmental protection doesn't stop at the border."
Peter Hullen, a retired coal-mine engineer, hardly considers himself a radical environmentalist. But as he hiked through the woods, he found it hard to hold back his bewilderment about the United States.
"How much do the Americans really know about climate problems?" he asked. "Do they know anything about these issues? Do they have any interest in them? What are they thinking?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: A wind power plant in Klettwitz, south of Berlin, began producing electricity last year for 30,000 households. (Associated Press) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Carbon Emissions"The U.S. emitted more carbon dioxide per capita than European countries in 1997. Metric tons of carbon per capita United States: 5.5Norway: 4.2Czech Republic: 3.3Netherlands: 2.8Belgium: 2.8Germany: 2.8Russia: 2.7Japan: 2.5Poland: 2.5Britain: 2.4Austria: 2.0Ukraine: 2.0Italy: 1.9Spain: 1.7France: 1.6Hungary: 1.6Switzerland: 1.5Sweden: 1.5Romania: 1.3(Source: Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); EMISSIONS (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); POLITICS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (73%); COAL MINING (73%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (70%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (51%) WEATHER; TREATIES; KYOTO PROTOCOL; GLOBAL WARMING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; GLOBAL WARMING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); JAPAN (93%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); HUNGARY (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ROMANIA (79%); NORWAY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); POLAND (79%); UKRAINE (78%); AUSTRIA (54%) JAPAN; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



398 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Hispanic Workers Die at Higher Rate 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Often hired for low-end jobs like construction labor and meatpacking, Hispanic immigrants in the United States die from workplace injuries at a far higher rate than other workers.
 In recent years the rate of on-the-job deaths for all Hispanics has been 20 percent higher than for whites or blacks, the Bureau of Labor Statistics has found. The death rate for Hispanics in construction, an industry that has hired many immigrants in recent years, is even higher, occupational experts say. 
 Job safety officials say that Hispanic immigrants, often unskilled and often here illegally, are hired disproportionately into many of the most dangerous jobs, like roofing, fruit picking and taxi driving. 
Recent occupational safety reports say Hispanic construction workers have died when they have slipped off wet roofs and when the trenches they have been digging have collapsed and buried them. These reports also detail numerous incidents in which migrant farm workers died when crowded vans crashed while their foremen were driving them to the fields.
Dana Loomis, a professor of epidemiology at the University of North Carolina who has studied racial disparities in occupational injuries, said, "There is a long history of discriminatory hiring in the United States involving immigrants, with the result that for many, many years, immigrants have done the dirtiest and most dangerous jobs." 
"In many parts of the country," Professor Loomis said, "recent Latino immigrants are being hired because they will accept lower wages and poorer working conditions than U.S.-born workers."
Authorities on occupational safety point to another factor behind the higher injury rate. Hispanic immigrants, partly because many do not speak English, often receive less job and safety training than American-born workers do. Safety experts say language barriers often contribute to the higher Hispanic injury rate, noting, for instance, that at many job sites, safety instructions and warnings appear only in English.
"If someone yells, 'Watch out,' you don't necessarily act as fast if it's not your native language," said James Platner, associate director of the Center to Protect Worker Rights, an educational arm of the Building Trades Department of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
A workplace injury last year in Colorado involved a 19-year-old Hispanic worker who slipped off a wet roof, broke his back and was paralyzed. His supervisor did not speak Spanish and said that made it difficult to tell the worker, who did not speak English, that the roof was dangerously slick. In Texas, job safety officials say, a Hispanic worker died from carbon monoxide poisoning because he was not able to read a warning telling workers not to use power cleaners in enclosed spaces.
Occupational safety experts say one of the most startling statistics is that the number of Hispanic construction workers who died in workplace accidents rose to 223 in 1999 from 133 three years earlier. That was a 68 percent jump; by contrast, the number of Hispanic construction workers rose by 20 to 30 percent in that three-year period, industry officials estimate.
"Part of it is that Hispanic workers, with their limited job prospects, are more likely than U.S.-born workers to do things that are more dangerous because they are more afraid about losing their job if they refuse to do it," said Tom O'Connor, executive director of the North Carolina Occupational Safety and Health Project, a nonprofit education group. "And part of it is these workers might be more afraid to speak up about dangerous things on the job. And part of it is they are more likely to be employed by fly-by-night contractors who are more likely to cut corners."
In its most recent Census of Fatal Occupational Injuries, the Bureau of Labor Statistics found that in 1999, Hispanic workers had a fatality rate of 5.2 per 100,000, compared with 4.4 for white workers and 4.1 for black workers. The rates were nearly identical for those groups in 1998. The bureau found that 725 of the 6,023 occupational deaths reported in 1999 involved Hispanic workers.
Rafael Moure-Eraso, a professor of work environment at the University of Massachusetts in Lowell, said the federal statistics probably underreported deaths and injuries to Hispanic workers because many employers are reluctant to report incidents involving illegal immigrants.
"Hispanics are overrepresented in two of the most dangerous industries: agriculture and construction," said Rosemary Sokas, associate director for science at the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, which is part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "People who have migrated for agricultural work often move into construction work, which is really high risk as well."
With the construction industry booming in recent years, many contractors have relied increasingly on day laborers picked up to fill job openings. 
"If you're a day laborer who gets picked up at a local 7-Eleven and paid cash for that day, there's no opportunity to learn about safety on the job," Mr. Platner said. "They're not going to spend a day teaching you about safety."
Hispanic immigrants are often funneled into the most dangerous construction jobs, like roofing, trench digging and carrying heavy materials. In 1999, the fatality rate for roofers was six times the average for all jobs, and for construction laborers, the least skilled building workers, it was eight times as high.
In a survey of 50 Hispanic construction workers by Mr. O'Connor's safety project, the workers said they were frequently given dangerous tasks that American workers did not want. The workers, who said they had little information about their right to safe conditions, said they believed that Hispanic employers were worse to work for than Americans because they were less caring about safety and working conditions.
Another reason for the high fatality rate, safety experts said, is that Hispanic immigrants are usually newer to their jobs than Americans. One Bureau of Labor Statistics study found that 12 percent of serious injuries occurred during a worker's first day at a job site. 
And part of the problem is cultural, some Hispanic workers say. "We are not really used to working in a very safe manner," said Dan Garcia, a roofer and safety instructor in Santa Clara, Calif. "On top of that we are often not well informed by the employers on safety precautions."
Carolyn Guglielmo, director of safety services for Associated General Contractors, an industry association representing more than 20,000 building contractors nationwide, said there was a big communication gap between Hispanic workers and many building contractors.
Ms. Guglielmo said that many companies were trying to teach their supervisors to speak Spanish and that her association was promoting Spanish videos to teach Hispanic workers how to take precautions at work and protect themselves. 
Dan Milinazzo, safety director for Associated General Contractors in Colorado, predicted that the death rate for Hispanics would decline as the immigrants moved into safer jobs higher up on the economic ladder and as more Hispanics moved into supervisory positions, enabling them to provide more bilingual training.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Hispanic Deaths On the Job"Hispanics have a high rate of fatal industrial injuries largely because they work so often in dangerous industries. Fatal industrial injuries per 100,000 workers, 1999. WHITE: 4.4BLACK: 4.1HISPANIC*: 5.2 Fatalities to Hispanic workers in the construction industry. Graph showing the number of deaths of Hispanic workers in the construction industry, from 1993 to 1999. *Hispanics may be of any race.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (90%); FARM LABOR (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POISONINGS (78%); PARALYSIS (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); DEATHS (77%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (73%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); CARBON MONOXIDE (60%) LABOR; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; ILLEGAL ALIENS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



399 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: Farmers Return to Roots of Cotton 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: SHAW, Miss., July 11 

 BODY:
For all the seasons of debt and drought, all the years when cotton betrayed them and their families, Mississippi farmers never forgot the fiber that bound them to the past. Even after the banks forced them to abandon low-priced cotton for the despised soybean in the 1960's and 70's, they waited, hoping that some unseen market force would one day provide the excuse they needed to go back.
 "God, I hated growing soybeans, hated it with a passion," said Bern Prewitt, who farms 3,000 acres of rich loam here in Mississippi's Delta region. "But I love growing cotton." 
 This year, the numbers finally clicked back into position. For the first time in 37 years, there are more acres of cotton planted in Mississippi than soybeans. Across the state, there are 30 percent more white bolls emerging than there were last year, and there are double-digit increases in planting in Arkansas, Louisiana and North Carolina. 
But there is little pride in farmers' voices as they explain why they collectively gave up on beans and sowed cotton this year. Even the news that Mississippi has overtaken Georgia and become the second-largest cotton producer (after Texas) fails to produce the usual chauvinistic grins. As much as they love growing cotton, farmers are almost ashamed to admit the real reason for their choice: soybean prices have plunged because of foreign competition, while cotton prices -- though just as low -- are being propped up by federal farm subsidies.
"I don't like it that I have to take all that government money to make a living growing cotton," said Stanley Jones, who has a small farm here next to the Prewitts'. "My grandfather made a crop of it, and he didn't have to think about soybeans or crop insurance. But the banks won't make you a loan now unless you take the government's cotton money."
Of course, they point out, technology has made growing cotton much more efficient than it was when Mr. Jones's ancestors began farming this land a century ago. A vast spraying program has all but wiped out the once-dreaded boll weevil in most Southern states, and genetically modified seeds have removed the budworm as a threat and reduced choking weeds and grasses. Cotton is harvested by machine and compressed into tight modules these days, reducing costs and eliminating the old bales and trailers that used to be common sights on Southern farm roads.
But even as the expenses have diminished, market prices remain so low that few planters could afford to grow cotton without subsidies, thanks to foreign imports that continue to undercut the domestic crop. Cotton prices, in fact, have sunk to a 15-year low of about 38 cents a pound, a bit more than half of what it costs to grow. All the new bolls now baking in the Delta sun could add to the global surplus and make things worse.
So cotton's supremacy in Mississippi is bittersweet and possibly fleeting, surging only because every other crop had fallen so low that farmers could once again indulge their old favorite.
"I always say that planting cotton is the second-greatest urge known to man," said Will McCarty, an agronomist who is the state's official cotton specialist, based at Mississippi State University. "If there's an economic reason to plant it, they'll plant it. But will it last? That all depends on the markets."
It would be wrong to say cotton has returned to the South; it has always been there on the big Delta plantations, running in endless flat rows east from the Mississippi River, and certainly it never left the imagination of a region it sustained through centuries of slavery and sharecropping. Though its role as the region's economic backbone died in the Depression, over the last decade cotton became Mississippi's second-biggest crop in dollars, after forestry.
But what is new this year are the many small and midsize farms that have been given over to cotton after abandoning it in the 1970's. Wide-set men with baked-on skin and hoarse laughs are suddenly the slightest bit excited again after years of prosaic bean farming, taking in their fields of deep green that will in a few weeks turn to brown and fluffy white. Even when they lived off beans, many kept a small patch of cotton near the house, just so they could say they were still cotton growers.
"You try not to be sentimental about it, because it's really the economics, but something was pulling me back to cotton," said Bill Hardin, a farmer about 30 miles up U.S. 61 in Duncan who this year took out all his soybeans and rice and planted his 2,400 acres with cotton. "After I quit cotton back in 1977, I watched all the improvements and I always thought it seemed to be getting easier to grow it. This year, it seemed to be the one crop that wouldn't lose us money."
And, he added, it was the crop of his elderly father, who uses a wheelchair but is happy to be driven this year through his old fields, past familiar leaves and buds. Longtime residents say the state just did not look right dressed in soybeans.
"The true cotton farmers never wanted to give it up, even though they had to," said Celeste Malatesta, who has managed the Columbus Gin Association here in Shaw for the last 41 years, separating white lint from seed and trash for the southern half of Bolivar County. "When you walk through the dirt when the cotton's just ready for picking -- well, there's just nothing like it."
But the rise of polyester and huge increases in production costs in the 1960's and 70's meant a sharp reduction in the number of true cotton farmers. Many lost their farms. Others, like Mr. Hardin and Mr. Prewitt, reluctantly switched to the more profitable beans and rice. One of the major reasons for cotton's decline was the huge expense of fighting the boll weevil, the long-snouted beetle that migrated north from Mexico in the 1890's and feasted on the South's staple crop. Over the century, the pest cost the cotton industry $15 billion in lost production and poisons.
Beginning in the late 1970's, the United States Department of Agriculture began a program to eradicate the weevil, sharing the cost with farmers who would vote on whether their region should participate. The aerial spraying of malathion began in Virginia and North Carolina and slowly spread south and west, reaching Mississippi only three years ago. It also used traps containing weevil pheromones, or sex odors, to attract straggling beetles and measure their presence. The fluorescent green traps, mounted on sticks every few yards around cotton fields, have since become a familiar presence throughout the South.
By almost all accounts, the weevil program has been a remarkable success. The government and the cotton industry say the weevil has disappeared in the Carolinas, Georgia, Florida, Alabama and parts of the Southwest, and further spraying is considered unnecessary. Farmers in those areas have sharply reduced their need for insecticide, lowering their costs and improving the environment by allowing the return of beneficial insects that were once killed by the malathion.
Now that the program has reached Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas, farmers here are beginning to enjoy the economic benefits as well. Kenneth Hood, a major cotton grower in the Delta, said he had been paying $200 an acre to control insects on his 10,000 acres near the river before the program began; now he is paying $22. Though some farmers, like Mr. Prewitt and Mr. Jones, grumble that they have to pay even though they never had serious weevil problems, all agree the eradication program is a major reason for the explosion in cotton planting this season.
"We're driving the weevil back down to Mexico, where he's from, and everybody benefits," said Dr. McCarty, the cotton expert. "Every farmer had to participate to make it work -- you couldn't have some fields that weren't treated. Now everybody's costs are going lower."
But no one seems to know whether the costs will be low enough to offset the rock-bottom price for cotton, caused mainly by a decline in global demand and a big surplus in China. 
Many farmers are still paying years of debt from the lean seasons. Some, like Mr. Jones and Mr. Hardin, talk about getting out if they must continue to rely on government programs, and wonder aloud whether Mississippi and for that matter the country can remain in agriculture.
"People come to the Delta, and they see the tractors plowing, and the water pumping, and the airplanes spraying, and they think, 'These guys must be thriving,' " Mr. Hardin said. "But we're not. We're just hanging on. Hanging on to a little piece of cotton."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Farmers in Mississippi like Stanley Jones are planting cotton because prices are propped up by subsidies. "I don't like it that I have to take all that government money to make a living growing cotton," he said. (Spencer Tirey for The New York Times) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Land of Cotton"Mississippi farmers are planting cotton again, more than last year. Acres of cotton planted, in thousands Mississippi2000: 1,3002001*: 1,700% CHANGE: 30.8% Louisiana2000: 7102001*: 910% CHANGE: 28.2 Arkansas2000: 9602001*: 1,170% CHANGE: 21.9 North Carolina2000: 9302001*: 1,060% CHANGE: 14.0 Kansas2000: 402001*: 44% CHANGE: 10.0 Tennessee2000: 5702001*: 610% CHANGE: 7.0 Georgia2000: 1,5002001*: 1,600% CHANGE: 6.7 New Mexico2000: 722001*: 75% CHANGE: 4.2 Alabama2000: 5902001*: 610% CHANGE: 3.4 South Carolina2000: 3002001*: 300% CHANGE: 0.0 Missouri2000: 4002001*: 400% CHANGE: 0.0 Arizona2000: 2802001*: 280% CHANGE: 0.0 Texas2000: 6,4002001*: 6,200% CHANGE: - 3.1 Virginia2000: 1102001*: 105% CHANGE: - 4.5 Florida2000: 1302001*: 120% CHANGE: - 7.7 Oklahoma2000: 2802001*: 250% CHANGE: - 10.7 California2000: 7752001*: 620% CHANGE: - 20.0 *2001 data are estimates(Source: Department of Agriculture) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COTTON & COTTONSEED (91%); COTTON FARMING (91%); COTTON MARKETS (89%); AGRICULTURE (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); SOYBEAN FARMING (78%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (73%); CROP INSURANCE (73%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (73%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) COTTON; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SOYBEANS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) MISSISSIPPI; GEORGIA; TEXAS

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 



400 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: The Town That Glass Built Hits a Bump, and 1,000 Lose Their Jobs 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

DATELINE: CORNING, N.Y., July 13 

 BODY:
A few months ago, this was a quaint and genteel boomtown.
 Houses were springing up on every available lot. Elementary classrooms were jammed. People from all over the country were arriving to work at Corning Inc., which, unlike most of New York State's old industrial companies, seemed to have transformed itself into a high-tech corporation with a bright future. 
 But this week, boom abruptly turned to bust in Corning. The company announced that one of its hot new businesses had gone sour, forcing it to take a $5.1 billion -- that's billion with a B -- charge. It has stopped paying dividends to shareholders for the first time since it went public in 1945. It has brought back a member of the Houghton family, the company's founders, to lend a hand through the tough times. 
And worst of all, for the people who live in this town of 11,000, Corning has laid off some 1,000 people here, about an eighth of its local work force. Today was the last day on the job for about half of them.
One of those people is Ellen I. Baker, a 33-year-old former teacher. She returned to her hometown a year and a half ago and found a job at Corning assembling gadgets that amplify the light pulses that zoom along fiber optic lines. Manufacturing equipment to keep fiber optic lines blazing, known as photonics, is the business that suddenly went south.
"All the way through December there was so much work and overtime -- how can it be the exact opposite now?" she asked. "It's hard to understand."
No one is suggesting that Corning's change of fortune is fatal; unlike many other companies that have made big bets on the wired world of telecommunications, it has plenty of money and other lines of business. But the sudden setback has come as a shock, to company executives and to investors (Corning shares have plunged to $14.54 today from more than $113 last September.)
Sharp swings in business have become common at high-speed, high-tech companies and the places they call home, like Silicon Valley in California. But this is the Chemung River Valley, an old-fashioned community of at most 35,000 people tucked between steep hills south of the Finger Lakes. 
This is where, in 1868, the first Amory Houghton (pronounced HOE-ton) moved his little glass company. Coal was plentiful, transportation by water was easy, and the city fathers made him a good offer.
This is where, a decade later, what had become Corning Glass Works made the first light bulbs for Thomas Edison. This is where Pyrex custard cups were born, where Steuben crystal decanters were blown, where television tubes were shaped and where Corelle plates were proven to be practically unbreakable. This is where scientists were involved in developing products like silicones and fiberglass. This is where what is today Corning Inc. became one of the country's leading corporations.
For about a century, most of the many things Corning Inc. made were made here. Its factories lined the Chemung River, and small bars lined Market Street to serve thousands of thirsty glass workers. They lived, for the most part, in the low-lying north side of town; executives and scientists and other leading citizens settled along the steep hill to the south of town.
In 1972, Hurricane Agnes sent floodwaters surging through the valley, knocking out factories and sweeping away homes. Corning Inc. basically took over the town until it could be rebuilt, and began a loving restoration of Market Street.
So while the Main Streets of many small upstate cities are gap-toothed and crumbling, Corning's main drag is a five-block stretch of trim brick buildings and wooden benches, hanging banners and geranium baskets, American flags and flower pots. A Corning foundation still works to make sure that the storefronts are filled with shops and restaurants and galleries.
After the flood, the fourth Amory Houghton to lead the company promised the community that Corning Inc. would stay put (unlike, say, Xerox, which in the 1970's moved its executives from Rochester to Stamford, Conn.). Today, Corning executives like to say that theirs is the biggest global corporation in the smallest town in the world. 
But at the same time, the company was expanding, across the country and around the world. Less and less manufacturing was done in Corning itself. Membership in the American Flint Glass Workers Union began to dwindle, from a high of 7,000, to 3,200 in the 1980's and 1,500 in the early 1990's. (Today it stands at 3,700 because of the photonics plant.) And the company began jettisoning its old businesses: lighting in 1989, medical testing in 1996, housewares in 1998. 
What it turned to was high-tech telecommunications, specifically fiber optics, the glass threads that are replacing copper telephone wires. Demand for optical fiber and the equipment that went with it seemed to be limitless; Corning's telecommunications sales surged by 38 percent in 1999, to $3 billion, and by 73 percent in 2000, to $5.1 billion, or 70 percent of the company's total revenues.
The company snapped up other manufacturers, and spent lavishly on research and development. Scientists were lured to Corning from from Boston and Austin, from Silicon Valley, of course, and from overseas. The company's work force in the area jumped to 8,200. About 1,700 of them worked at the new photonics plant just outside of town, according to the union.
And then came the brick wall. The telecommunications bubble burst, the national economic slowdown took root and Corning was one of the high-tech companies, like Lucent and Nortel, was a loser. 
Sales of photonics, which the company had predicted early this year would would grow by an additional 75 percent, will be down 35 percent compared with last year, said John W. Loose, the company's chief executive. Corning continues to sell a lot of fiber, he added, but it is not the high-profit premium kind that was so in demand last year.
Does he regret dumping those boring old businesses? "Gosh, no," Mr. Loose said. "I'm as enthused as ever about the future and the technological bets we're making."
The company realizes that few other jobs are available in and around Corning, and it taken steps to limit the damage here, Mr. Loose said. Many of the jobs cut by the company this year -- 5,900 out of a worldwide work force of 40,000 -- were in metropolitan areas where there are more employment opportunities.
But that's not a lot of comfort to the workers here who have lost their jobs.
"There's been a lot of tears, a lot of blowing off steam, some screaming and hollering," said Stephen A. Mandell Sr., president of Local 1000 of the glass workers' union. Even those who still work at Corning are upset, and some of them boycotted parties the company had at some plants today to celebrate its 150th anniversary.
Though the company has always laid off workers when orders were slow, the layoffs came in dribs and drabs. "Thirty this week, three months later another 50," Mr. Mandell said. "This has been up like a roller coaster and down the same damn hill."
Most people in this company town express confidence in Corning's management, and its future. "Corning Inc. has really picked a new path that I believe will take them through the 21st century," said Mayor Alan D. Lewis Sr., whose mother and brother both worked for the company for decades.
But behind the scenes, a lot of local people are rattled, said Bob Rolfe, a columnist for The Leader, the town's daily newspaper. The company "put an awful lot of eggs in one basket," he said. "That's what has some people upset."
There have been quiet suggestions in town that life would be better if a Houghton were still running the company. But James R. Houghton, a great-great-grandson of the founder, who retired as chairman in 1996, calls that "a big myth." "The minute I stepped down, people said things would go to hell in a hack, and they've been just fine," he said.
Nevertheless, in June, Mr. Houghton who is known as Jamie, agreed to return to the company as nonexecutive chairman. But, he stresses, he is not taking the reins, just helping in any way Mr. Loose asks, to free the chief executive to concentrate strictly on Corning's operations. Mr. Houghton has not moved back into the company headquarters from the office on Market Street he shares with his brother Amory -- Corning chairman's during the flood and the local congressman since 1986.
Family trusts still hold millions of shares of Corning Inc. stock, and the drop in the share price was a topic of conversation at a recent family reunion "with 150 of my closest cousins," Jamie Houghton said, to celebrate the company's anniversary. 
Both Jamie Houghton's son and a nephew have worked at Corning Inc., though neither does now. Would he like to see another Houghton at the helm someday? "If there's a capable Houghton, and I underline capable," Jamie Houghton said. "The last thing you'd want is a Houghton who's a dunce. We'll see."
Meanwhile, local businesses are bracing for a slowdown in spending. Corporate travel has already showed signs of a decline, as fewer Corning recruits come to town, said Marty Muggleton, president of the Greater Corning Area Chamber of Commerce. "And the real estate market will change," he said. "It has been extremely tight for a very long time." It is possible that some people who moved to Corning for jobs will leave to find work, but Mr. Mandell, the union president, thinks many will stick around in the hope of being called back.
That's what Ellen Baker, the furloughed photonics worker, plans to do. Both her father and her brother have been laid off by Corning in the past, "and with struggles both of them made it," she said. "But that doesn't make it any easier when it happens to you."

GRAPHIC: Map of New York shows the location of Corning: Not Silicon Valley, but New York's Chemung River Valley. (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); GLASS MFG (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRESSED & BLOWN GLASSWARE MFG (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); DIVIDENDS (74%); OVERTIME (74%); TRENDS (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); FIBER OPTICS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); LAKES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) GLASS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: CORNING INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNING INC 

TICKER: GLW (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335921 FIBER OPTIC CABLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (96%) SIC3229 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS; 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%) CORNING (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001 

 
